I address my question to the Minister for External Affairs. Ti relates to the island of Fiji. Having regard to Fiji's historic dependence economically upon Australia and the recent announcement that the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd may be withdrawing its interests and activities from Fiji after 1972, will the Government examine whether it should institute discussions with the Government of Fiji to ascertain whether there is any way in which any economic dislocation that may be caused by such a move of an Australian company can be reduced to a minimum by the actions of the Australian Government? 
We are continuing the debate on foreign affairs which was left off over a week ago, a debate which has already demonstrated the different policies between the Government and the Opposition in this Parliament. The Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  in his speech clearly showed how we must adapt our plans to the new situation which faces us in the 1970s, a situation influenced particularly by the statement of  President  Nixon to Congress on 18th February. In this statement the Minister has recognised the dangers which in the past led to over commitment, especially in Asia. The United States is now expecting her allies to bear a greater share of the burden of regional defence. Australia also must avoid the dangers of over commitment and making statements and policies which cannot be backed up by our resources. This means that in the 1970s it is certain that our area of influence is going to be much more confined than in the past, but that at the same time in that area we are going to have much greater responsibility for ensuring our own survival and protecting not only our present way of life but also that of the people living in the friendly nations close to our shores. 
Quite clearly our major areas of influence is to our north-west where we must maintain friendly relations with Malaysia and Singapore as well as with Indonesia. Our policy towards those nations has already been spelt out by the Minister in his statement, and other speakers have referred to it in this debate. But I believe that there is another area over which we should be prepared to assume greater responsibility. That is to our north and to the east. As I have already stated in this House, we have only to remember 1942 to realise the dangers to Australia when the islands of New Guinea and the South West Pacific are controlled by nations unfriendly to us. We must never allow this situation to occur again. Changes are already taking place in the South Pacific. Western Samoa, Tonga, Nauru and, to a certain extent, the Cook Islands are already independent nations. Fiji is likely to become independent before the end of this year. The Solomon Islands and the Gilbert and Ellice Islands will be likely to have internal self-government before the end of 1971. Clearly, therefore, British influence in the South Pacific is going to be very minimal within the next 2 years. It is equally certain that as British influence is withdrawn the peoples of these islands are going to look elsewhere both for economic and strategic security. Surely it is vital to our own future security that these people should turn towards Australia and to New Zealand for help and protection, rather than to any other nation. 
Now is the time for Australia and New Zealand to realise that they have an increasing responsibility for this part of the world. Already the new leaders of these emerging nations are asking themselves what sort of pattern is going to emerge. Where can they seek economic aid to improve the standard of living of their people? But more importantly, the question is being asked in many places: Can they survive as independent small nations or should they consider some form of loose federation? It is at this time of change that both Australia and New Zealand should be ready and willing to be available for advice and help. We do not seek domination or colonies, but we should be prepared to be good neighbours. There is no doubt that, in some respects, many of these islands are already dependent economically on Australia. They also look to New Zealand for help in many ways - as, for instance, the close relation between Fiji and Wellington, for assistance in education. There is therefore already a reserve of goodwill and friendship. 
But there are signs that in the past we have not always realised the importance of cementing that friendship. It is, I think, well known that Britain would have liked to have handed over responsibility for the Solomons to Australia over 10 years ago. By refusing the offer at that time we hoped to encourage the British to stay in this area for a longer period. But I believe that by so doing we threw away the chance of gaining more quickly the friendship of the people of those islands. Four years ago the Government of Fiji sought leave to raise a loan of about $8m in Australia. I think it was a pity that we turned down the request at that time. Our refusal was misinterpreted in Suva and created some bitter feeling towards Australia. Since then we have helped to mitigate this feeling by 2 loans of, I think, about Sim to enable Fiji to buy flour. But the original resentment still exists. 
More recently a quite unintentional action of our Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  was misinterpreted by Suva. When he was returning from the United States after his visit to  President  Nixon he stopped in Nadi for 48 hours. It was a private recreational visit and consequently he did not see any of the leaders of Fiji at that time or make a Press statement concerning the need for friendship between Australia and Fiji. However, subsequently, attacks were made on Australia by 'The Times of Suva' on 19th July 1969. These attacks have done much to damage relations between our two nations. I think it is also a pity that the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has in the past done much to inflame public opinion in the trade unions of Fiji and to damage relations between our 2 countries. But these are actions that lie in the past. We must now realise that we need a conscious and well thought out plan for the future. The costs surely are not great when compared with the cost of economic and defence aid for Malaysia and Singapore, but the rewards can be significant. lt is important, I. feel, that any moves that we may be prepared to make should be made in conjunction with and after consultation with the Government of New Zealand. One result of the departure of the British from this part of the world should be to make us realise our greater degree of defence nakedness, and should help to draw the two Anzac nations closer together. There should be more discussions not only between Ministers but also between individual members of the Parliaments of these 2 nations, lt is helpful that members of this Parliament can travel to New Zealand once every Parliament. To my mind it would be good if there could be similar movement in the reverse direction. 
My own view is that the ideal solution for the governmental structure of these islands of the South Pacific would be some form of loose federation. Before this could be achieved it would be necessary for it to be preceded by a period of working together in some form of common services agreement on lines similar to the East African community. From talks that 1 have had with members of Parliament in this area J believe that there are already people whose thoughts are moving in this direction. I would hope that this federation could include Papua and New Guinea, for it is not possible to think about the political viability of the islands in the South Pacific without considering the future of Papua and New Guinea. It is to be regretted that it is unlikely that the people of this Territory will be able to take over political responsibility for themselves at the same time as their neighbours in the South Pacific do so. 
There can be no doubt that the eventual aim for Papua and New Guinea must be political independence. This does not mean that the Territory will be economically viable any more than the other islands that I mentioned earlier in this speech. I feel certain that the Australian people will continue to be happy to provide grants in aid to Papua and New Guinea for many years to come on a scale comparable to our present efforts, but I do believe that it is in the interests of the people of Papua and New Guinea and the people of Australia that the moves towards, firstly, internal selfgovernment and, later, political independence should be accelerated. I am certain that there are no valid reasons today for Australia to remain in control of this Territory other than the need to ensure the wellbeing of those people for whom we are responsible. Our aim should be to hand over control to a nation that will seek to be on terms of warm friendship with us. My view is that the longer we stay in control the harder it will be to succeed in that aim, because stresses are likely to arise which could exacerbate relations between us and the present reserves of friendship and goodwill could evaporate. 1 believe that there are lessons to be learned from the history of those new nations in Africa and in the Caribbean that have become independent over the past 10 years. I cannot believe that our record of administration in Papua and New Guinea is so markedly different from the records of other administering powers that the future history of this nation will be so different from that of other new nations. In fact, I think we are fortunate in being able to watch the train of events elsewhere and possibly therefore able to learn some useful lessons. Ten years ago I made a speech in this House after returning from a visit to Africa. At that time, I remarked on the oft repeated slogan 'Good government is no substitute for self-government'. I found it hard to believe then that so many nations would risk the removal of good governmental structure before the self governmental structure was ready to take over. Yet that is exactly what happened in so many countries all over the continent. Tensions developed in so many countries of Africa which could only be controlled by the process of self government. This process just had to happen. 
Today, there may be some honourable members in this House who say that we ought not to hand over control to the indigenous people of Papua and New Guinea at present because they might make a mess of the situation. Of course mistakes will be made. But the same tensions are arising in Papua and New Guinea as we saw in Africa. I have learned the lesson that, in these circumstances, good government is no substitute for self-government. We must hand over responsibility for internal self-government before the tensions reach breaking point, and while the new leaders are happy to ask for us to be at their elbow and to provide help and advice. Political advancement is even more important at this time than economic growth, and if there should be a conflict of policy between these two aims, the former should have priority. My chief concern is the difficulty that the new leaders of Papua and New Guinea will experience in trying to weld together into one nation  2i  million people of vastly different tribal backgrounds. Recent history in other parts of the world would lead me to think that the task is too great at the present time. Instead, I would feel that there is a much greater chance of success if power could be decentralised as far as possible. A federation rather than a unified state should be our aim. 
If power were decentralised in the next few years from Port Moresby to the outer parts of the Territory, I think it is probable that the structure would hold together. If, on the other hand, the present trend towards greater centralisation continues, there could be dangers of secession. Australia would then be faced with a difficult choice, involving tremendous conflicts of interest. We would do well at this moment to pause to consider what those future problems might be. 
At this stage of my remarks 1 will tend to sum up what I have said. Is it too much of an ideal to contemplate ultimately a federal structure for all the English speaking islands of the South West Pacific? History shows that a federal structure imposed from above is unlikely to succeed. But a federal structure that emerges as a result of small independent nations coming together to help each other to meet common needs and possibly common external threats can become a practical possibility. This theme is well illustrated in the Caribbean. 
The first federation in the West Indies was imposed by the British Government when it handed over control. The strains were too great and the federation broke up. But there are now signs that a new federal structure could develop through the development of CARIFTA - the Caribbean Free Trade Area. I suggest that it is very much in Australia's interests that there should be common interests and common purposes throughout this area. Our immediate aim should be to formulate our own concept of what this future should be in consultation with the leaders of these newly emerging nations. We should help to provide facilities for the leaders to meet together to talk about these matters. One body that could help in this task is the South Pacific Commission which should be reorganised to take account of the changing situation. Another body is, of course, the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. At present, the South Pacific Commission is run by the metropolitan powers - Britain, the United States, France, Australia and New Zealand. These nations supply most of the funds for the work of the Commission, and, to a large extent, dictate its policy. 
As power is being handed over to these newly independent countries, so also should the leaders of these countries have a greater amount of authority to decide how the funds of the Commission are to  be  spent. The annual conference of the Commission is the one forum in this part of the world in which the leaders of these new nations can meet together. It would  be  useful if the work of the conference could  be  reorganised so as to enable these new leaders to consider matters which will be of common interest to them in the future. It would  be  certainly helpful if the conference were to  be  attended  by  Ministers from Australia and New Zealand in order to enable them to hear at first hand the problems which are likely to arise in this part of the world. The Commonwealth Parliamentary Association has also recognised the need to promote meetings of members of parliament of these countries and, as a result, a regional conference is to  be  held under its auspices in Wellington next February. 
One thing which is certain is that changes are taking place in the South Pacific and these changes are bound to effect change in Papua and New Guinea. Our policy towards Papua and New Guinea cannot  be  isolated from our general external affairs policy. At this moment history is being written in a region of the world which is vital to our security. In some ways this region could  be  considered as being as important to our interests as the region of South East Asia and Indonesia. Australia and New Zealand have a wonderful opportunity in the next few years to influence policy throughout this area. If  we  neglect this opportunity other nations may take over and assume leadership in our place.  Surely  this is not a risk that  we  can afford to take. 
My question to the Minister for Customs and Excise relates to the dumping of cheese in Australia, which is a matter of great concern to a number of my constituents. Did the Minister earlier this year present an anti-dumping notice on foreign cheese entering Australia? If so, has he been carrying out any investigations on the matter since then? Has he anything to tell the House? 
I ask the Minister for Social Services a question about the provision of assistance for child minding centres catering for the mentally retarded. 1 understand that his Department subsidises day training centres for mentally retarded children. It has been suggested that assistance to child minding centres is the next logical extension of a programme to help these unfortunate members of our community. Will the Minister give consideration to the provision of a subsidy to these centres? 
Has the Minister for External Affairs any information available concerning the situation in Cambodia at the present time? What consequences can be foreseen for the future as a result of the military moves that have taken place over the past few days? 
I move- 
That the petition be printed. 
In accordance with the requirements of standing order 132, I inform the House thatI intend to submit a notice of motion in connection with the petition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I give notice that on General Business Thursday No. 10 1 will move: 
That this House takes note of the petition from certain electors of the Commonwealth praying that the Australian Government take positive action as soon as possible to re-establish confidence in the Commonwealth arbitration system and to ensure that consideration of salaries and conditions for professional engineers be dealt with in an expeditious manner, which was presented to the House and ordered to be printed on 13th May 1970. 
We have spent most of the day debating an extremely important matter. I believe that at the time when the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  was Minister for National Development and was carrying out negotiations with the States, he gave a series of undertakings. I believe in his integrity and in everything that he has said to the House today. I believe also that subsequent to his ceasing to be Minister for National Development there was a change of policy by the Government and that that change of policy was not conveyed to the States at the time. As a result there occurred a lack of consultation and a failure of communication between the Commonwealth Government and the State governments. Flowing from that a lack of good relations may have grown up between the Commonwealth and the States. All of this has been rehearsed today on both sides of the House. 
I am firmly of the opinion that it is vitally important that good relations should exist between the Commonwealth Government and the State governments, and that the Commonwealth Government should be seen to act in good faith as well as acting in good faith. Further I believe that there should be negotiations which will see an amicable settlement and a firm agreement in this matter and which will help us all to find the best solution to the problems associated with the use of our great natural resources. 
Having said that, I believe that the time has come when I should move an amendment to the motion that is before us. My proposed amendment sets out the situation as I see it existing at this time. I move as an amendment: 
That all words after 'and' be deleted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: that this House does not believe that there has been any failure on the part of the Government to honour any commitments. The House acknowledges that when the Government decided to change its policy on off-shore authority by legislating to take control from the low water mark to continental shelf the Government did not, at that time, inform the States of this change in the policy which had been the subject of consultations between the Minister for National Development and State Ministers. It is of the opinion that it is this fact which has led to the honourable member for Farrer feeling justified in believing that an undertaking that there would be further consultations which he gave to the States has been dishonoured.' 
That the House take note of the paper. 
To which the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  moved: 
That the following words be added to the motion: 'and that the Prime Minister and his Cabinet lack the confidence of the House because they failed to honour a commitment made to the States by the previous Minister for National Development, acting for and on behalf of the Commonwealth Government, that there would be further consultation with the States before the Commonwealth Government introduced any legislation on the territorial sea and continental shelf. 
To this amendment, the honourable member for Casey has moved: 
That all words after 'and' be deleted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'and that this House does not believe that there has been any failure on the part of the Government to honour any commitments. The House acknowledges that when the Government decided to change its policy on off-shore authority by legislating to take control from the low water mark to continental shelf the Government did not, at that time, inform the States of this change in the policy which had been the subject of consultations between the Minister for National Development and State Ministers. It is of the opinion that it is this fact which has led to the honourable member for Farrer feeling justified in believing that an undertaking that there would be further consultations which he gave to the States has been dishonoured.' 
The question now is: That the amendment to the amendment be agreed to'. 
. the Prime Minister and his Cabinet lacked the confidence of the House because they failed to honour a commitment . . . 
If honourable gentlemen hold the view which the honourable member for Casey invites them by his amendment to express, they can express that view by voting against the amendment which the Opposition moved and circulated. The honourable member for Casey has moved a supplanting motion which is a direct negative of the amendment which the Opposition has moved. 
Debate interrupted. 
I support this amendment and I am very glad that the Government has seen fit to accept it. I hope that the other amendments that have been circulated by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  will receive similar treatment. At this stage 1 would like  to  speak to a certain extent generally on some of the clauses and to indicate that at a later stage I shall be supporting some of the amendments that have been circulated recently. In speaking generally to this Bill I think that we should ask ourselves 4 questions. We should ask ourselves first of all: Is this Corporation really needed? ls there a firm demand established by the Government for this Corporation and for the tasks that it is expected to perform? So far in the debate I do not believe that a full and sufficient case has been made out for this Corporation. 
The motion for the second reading having been agreed to, there are 3 other questions to which 1 think we should address ourselves. Firstly: Will the Corporation fit in generally with the Government's economic policy? Can it be restrained in time of inflation from adding to inflationary tendencies? One of the amendments that is to be moved to clause 8 will aim to make it clearer and more certain that the Corporation will be restrained accordingly. I feel we should then ask ourselves: Will this Corporation compete fairly with private enterprise and especially with those organisations, such as the Australian Resources Development Bank, that have already been set up by this Government for very similar purposes? 
I think that 2 questions should be asked. They are: Is the Corporation to be required to make profits similar to the profits that are being earned by its competitors? If not, will it be truly  a  lender of last resort? Two amendments that have been circulated by the honourable member for Lilley have that in mind. Either the third proposed amendment will set out that the Corporation is to be a lender of last resort, or the fifth proposed amendment will set out that it should be required to earn a profit. Obviously the Corporation cannot be expected to do both. It cannot be expected to be a true earner of profit and at the same time to be a lender of last resort. I believe that the Government should set out clearly which of those aims it expects the Corporation to fulfil, and therefore should accept one or other of those proposed amendments. 
I also wish to ask whether we can be certain that the creation of the Corporation will not lead to government control of companies and therefore to greater socialisation of industry. This is one of the fears expressed earlier, so clearly and ably, by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate). 
The fourth proposed amendment that has been circulated is aimed at bringing out that situation more clearly so that there can be spelt out in detail the certainty that if the proposed amendment is carried it will be very difficult for the Corporation to acquire complete or governing control by having a large share of equity. I am particularly worried by clause 8 (6), which I shall be dealing with later. I am very pleased that the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  proposes to move an amendment to that provision. The honourable member has circulated copies of his proposed amendment. I shall give it my full support. 
That is true, but I feci at the moment it is wise that the Committee should realise the general aim of all the proposed amendments being circulated so that they can be considered in the whole context rather than individually. Later I shall ask the Minister whether, if the Corporation is subject to taxation generally, it is to be specifically subject to withholding tax. I had hoped that the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair),  who is in charge of the Bill, would be able to take notice of the questions I plan to ask later in the Committee stage. I have given an indication of them now so that he may be ready to answer those questions later. However, it seems that he is occupied at the moment. 
I would like to know to what extent the Corporation will be subject to exchange control. I will also ask that question al the appropriate stage. I have given some general indication of the questions I shall ask as we proceed through the Committee stage. I want now specifically to congratulate the Government for accepting the important amendment moved by the honourable member for Lilley. I think it quite clearly sets out what should be the main aim of the Corporation; that is, specifically to secure an improvement in the balance of Australia's external trading operations. If the directors of this Corporation will see to it that the main task is to improve our export earnings then I believe that we can be fairly happy with what takes place. If, however, the functions are wider at the present time then I will have some of the fears that I expressed earlier in these remarks. 
I disagree with the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  I believe that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has been wise to seek acceptance of this amendment. He has put forward his reasons very succinctly. I welcome the remarks of the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  but I should like confirmation of some of the provisos he mentioned a few minutes ago when referring to the 
Reserve Bank. As I understand it, they were designed to ensure that not only must the Corporation conform generally with Reserve Bank policy as well as with Commonwealth monetary policy, but more than that, it must be seen to set an example to competitors in the same field. 
Even if it has to compete with merchant banks one must realise that the Corporation, although meant to be divorced from the Government, will be seen to be an agency of the Government, or at least of the Commonwealth. To that extent not only must it generally carry out its functions, but also it must be seen to give a lead. If restraint is being imposed on the economy at any time I think it should be clear that the Corporation will give a lead in its restraints. I hope that the Minister will confirm that that generally is what we have in mind and what he has in mind in accepting the amendment that is now before us. 
I am sad that the Government has not seen fit to accept either of these 2 amendments. The first one deals with the general question of the lender of last resort. The Australian Industry Development Association, which came out in support of this measure generally, stressed in one of its Press notices that above all this Australian Industry Development Corporation should be a lender of last resort. The Minister went out of his way to compliment the AIDA for what it said because he was so pleased with the support he was getting from that Association for this Corporation. The Association stated very strongly that it should be a firm condition that the Corporation be a lender of last resort and that its charter should preclude it from looking for business in any way whatever. Here we are endeavouring to set out in quite simple language what in fact so many people who have been generally supporting this Corporation from outside the Parliament have been insisting on. 
So far I am really not impressed with the argument that the Minister has been putting forward, if 1 had had any doubts whatsoever when I rose earlier to speak, they have been dispelled by the remarks of honourable members opposite who have made it quite clear that of course . they would not like these amendments because they are so contrary to their doctrine. On the other hand, in relation to the limitation on the funds that should be held in any one company, this is a provision which has been lifted roughly from legislation on other Government instrumentalities, lt is to be found in the Broadcasting and Television Act. If we have seen fit in the past to put in this clause in order to deal with this very matter, I cannot see why the Minister is not willing to accept it. Here it is hedged around with every proviso. It can hold up to 15%, whereas 10% would probably have been a more reasonable amount. Even so, there is a proviso dealing with bridging finance. As honourable members on this side of the chamber have seen fit to bring in amendments of this sort in the past and have them inserted in Acts, 1 would have thought that here was another occasion on which such an amendment should be accepted. 
Coming back to this question of lender of last resort, here we are using taxpayers' money and not asking the Corporation to earn any profit, lt is one thing to compete but to use a large amount  -  S25m this year - of taxpayers' funds, and not ask the Corporation to do anything - is a different matter. It can lend these funds out at any rate of interest. There is no provision for making a profit and no provision that it is to be a lender of last resort. I am really not impressed by the remarks of the Minister so far. if that is the best he can do he had better do a little more homework and come up with a more reasonable excuse than the ones he has put forward, because these are 2 reasonable amendments. So far anything we have heard from the Minister has, I think, really been a fair amount of nonsense. 
I agree with the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner).  I feel sure that very many people outside the House have been extremely concerned with the broad terms of interpretation that could have been read into the clause as it is presently drafted. I think it is useful that the purpose of this sub-clause has now been set out so clearly by the honourable member for Bradfield. There is a similar clause, I believe, in the provisions relating to the Export Payments Insurance Corporation, and there should be now no doubt as to what is the true interpretation of and reason for this sub-clause. I hope that the Government will agree to the amendment. 
I wish to ask the Minister whether the Corporation is subject to a withholding tax as well as other taxes? Is it also subject to exchange control!? I gave notice earlier that I would ask these questions. 
by leave- I present the report of the Australian Branch delegation to the 15th Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference held at PortofSpain, Trinidad and Tobago, during October 1969 and move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
In moving this motion I do so knowing that the task was originally to be performed by the late member for Chisholm,  Sir Wilfred  Kent Hughes. I take this opportunity of joining with other honourable members who spoke yesterday in a tribute to  Sir Wilfred  for the great work he has done for the Commonwealth of Nations. Over his lifetime he took a great interest in the Commonwealth and I know that he was glad to be present at the Trinidad conference last year. We remember also the way in which he took an interest in so many Commonwealth students who often stayed at his home in Melbourne when they had nowhere else to go. For that reason 1 pay a tribute to him. I wish that he were undertaking the task that I have been asked now to perform in his stead. 
The report deals with the conference that took place in Trinidad and Tobaga, the meetings of the General Council and the general meeting of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association in October last year. I am glad that the House has given us an opportunity once again to mention the activities of the Association, because this has been a model for so many other Parliaments which are now following the example that was first set by Australia in tabling these reports and debating them. As I have moved around other branches of the Association I have said how important it is that members who go overseas at the expense of the taxpayer should return to their countries and by making reports to their parliaments on what they have learned and of the value it has been to their countries, justify the expenditure that they have incurred. So I am glad that we are doing this on this occasion. I am pleased also that the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  who has taken such an interest in the Association over the years, is prepared to join in this debate, because it is something in which both sides of the House are tremendously interested. We hope that we will, by this means, get a greater involvement in the work of the Association by the 7,000 members who now comprise our membership in 88 separate branches throughout the Commonwealth. 
At the Conference in Trinidad and Tobago a number of interesting debates took place. These are summarised in the report. I should like, however, to quote from the opening speech of the Right Honourable Eric Williams, the Prime Minister of Trinidad and Tobago, who said: 
Your Association is performing a vital task - that of maintaining a continuing dialogue . . . between the elected representatives of countries comprising  a  significant proportion of the population of the globe  . . the opportunities presented by your Association for the sharing of ideas and experiences as between diverse peoples are no less valuable than the more publicised discussions which take place in more formal international bodies. It is for this reason that we in Trinidad and Tobago consider this to be one of the most important international gatherings that we have ever been privileged to host. 

 His words were echoed by the Governor-General a little later, during the opening ceremony. As always, the main debates were concerned with problems of the Commonwealth of Nations and world security. Here, of course, the Australian and Malaysian Government delegations spoke of the importance to the Commonwealth of the situation in Vietnam. There was also debate on whether Britain would maintain a force east of Suez. Other countries of the Commonwealth dealt with the importance of the Nigerian situation and particularly of Biafra. I think it is useful to remember that in the course of achieving independence many countries throughout the Commonwealth have each been split into a number of smaller countries. The dangers of Balkanisation are such that the whole world would suffer if this process went too far. This was one of the issues that we saw in the situation between the Federal Government of Nigeria and the attempted secession by Biafra. A similar situation is important in Kashmir. The issue of Kashmir to a great extent is whether parts of a country are to be allowed to secede at their own wish. If Kashmir seceded from India that might be the start of a process in which the whole of the present Indian nation would be split into a number of small countries. In the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association we have seen that the task is not to promote a splitting of countries but to try to see whether we cannot bring together in larger units some of the small countries that now exist as a result of independence movements that have taken place throughout the Commonwealth over the last 15 years. This was one of the main subjects that was debated in Trinidad. 
We heard also of the troubles between Guyana and its neighbour Venezuela, and between British Honduras and its neighbour Guatemala. On the subject of aid throughout the Commonwealth it was interesting to observe how much of the discussion related to the problems that developing countries are now facing with debt servicing. The amounts they have to pay in interest and in repayment of former debts almost cancel out the benefits of new aid provided in 1970 by developed nations. This is one of the matters that we must look at as an Association during the coming conference in Canberra. 
The new matters that had not been debated before in the Association dealt, first with the problem of race relations. During the debate that took place, of interest was not so much what was said as what was not said. For the first time Australia's immigration policies were not criticised at an international level. This has great interest for Australia because there is a gradual realisation that mass population pressures in some of the densely populated countries either in the Caribbean or in Asia, such as in India, are not going to be solved by mass migration movements - which might have been the idea current in the early  1950s.  Now, there is a realisation that population pressures must be controlled by family planning and birth control measures, and that if family planning is successful, the pressures on migration will become less and the Australian immigration programme, looking at it from our point of view, will be more widely understood. It is interesting to see what great achievements are being made already in places like Barbados, India and Fiji with family planning. Gradually, the elimination of population pressures, not in the immediate future, but over a 20 year period, will make a great deal of difference to some of the other major matters which affect those nations. 
We also had a debate on the whole issue of parliamentary democracy. So many nations, in Africa for instance, have faced the very real question whether parliamentary democracy would survive. Takeovers by dictatorships have occurred in places like Sierra Leone and Ghana. Those countries have suffered under dictatorships and have been able to re-achieve parliamentary democracy. Those nations realise how important it is to build up the parliamentary democratic system and they look to other nations like ourselves to help them. In the debates that take place at our meetings, we try to help them to look at the essentials of parliamentary democracy and to see what are the important tasks of a member of parliament. One of the reasons why a near-revolution occurred in Trinidad a few weeks ago has been said to be because there was a weak Opposition and because members of parliament were not making known to the executive the grievances of their constituents, so that the Prime Minister and his Ministers did not know the troubles that existed beneath the surface. When a country has a weak parliament and when weak members of that parliament are not doing their jobs properly, the democratic system cannot operate properly. This was one of the matters examined at the last conference. So many people said how important it was that private members should be allowed greater opportunities to take initiatives especially on issues arising between elections and on which no mandate has been given. 
Another vital debate took place on the subject of youth. We had a most interesting introduction by the honourable John Turner, Leader of the Canadian delegation. He called 1968 the 'Year of the Student' when a new phenomenon, the politics of confrontation, had been born in the universities. The root causes were the despair and crisis in values aroused in youth by the injustices which they saw in the established order. The politics of confrontation made them radical and communications media made the confrontation international. Confrontation and radicalism developed into the politics of demolition and gave rise to violence. 

 Mr Turner said that, approaching the 1970s, a new class was coming to birth, a counter-culture, which was youth in revolt. The distinctive features of the patterns of unrest could be characterised as, firstly, the influence of communications media in creating a generation consciousness; secondly, a crisis of legitimacy and a breakdown in the authority of any institution with which the youth generation disagreed; and thirdly, racial injustices and poverty. He said that it was essential, however, that the youth generation should feel that change was possible within the political process and by lawful means. The demand of the young was in particular for a political system that would create and preserve the individuality of man and the sense of community among men. What was seen at that meeting was the importance of involving youth in the affairs of society and the importance of seeing that parliament was able to incorporate the needs of youth without at the same time completely altering the parliamentary democratic system. These are matters which, I think, are important to all members of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and particularly to us in Australia. 
Reference is made in this report to the meeting of the General Council of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association at which the  President  of the Australian Senate.  Sir Alister  McMullin. was elected  Chairman  of the Association for 1969-70. Meetings of the Executive Committee, which 1 attended as its  chairman,  took place. I will refer to those meetings in a moment. The Association resolved to hold the 1970 annual conference of the CPA here in Canberra. Finally, this report gives very sincere thanks to the host branch, Trinidad and Tobago, and particularly to 

 Mr Rex Latour, the  Clerk  of the House of Representatives there, who provided such extremely good organisation for all the delegates who attended the meeting. 
Having dealt with the report, may I refer now for a moment to the forthcoming Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference to take place in this chamber commencing on 2nd October. As the House knows, after the Trinidad conference I visited Jersey to take the chair at the annual meeting of the Executive Committee of the CPA. The main thing that we did was to prepare the agenda for the Canberra conference. I wish to let honourable members know of some of the important matters that are to be debated here in a few weeks' time. 
First, on the international front, the situation in southern Africa will be considered and, in particular, the situation that has been developing as a result of Britain's decision to send maritime arms to South Africa. This will create a wide measure of debate amongst the nations of Africa as well as those outside the African continent. The delegates from Malta have asked us to put the situation in the Middle East on the agenda. It is interesting that the representatives of India no longer wish us to refer to that area as the Middle East but as West Asia. 1 think we are beginning to realise that the expression 'Middle East' is an odd term for us living in Australia. For us the area is, if anything, the Middle West. 
The second item for consideration is aid. The question of the effect on Commonwealth countries of Britain's entry into the European Economic Community is gaining in importance. Once again, we have asked New Zealand to lead off in the debate on that subject. We shall be dealing also in greater depth with the matters to which I have just referred as having been discussed in Trinidad; that is, the whole working of the parliamentary system and the role of members of parliament. As last year in Trinidad we saw the importance of youth in revolt and the effect that this will have on the workings of parliament, so now we must see to what extent members of parliament are able to withstand pressure groups, moratorium marches, television programmes, opinion polls and the like to make certain that we maintain the role of the ballot box as the reason why members of parliament are elected to enter parliament, and that the pressures from the ballot box are the chief pressures to which they should react. 
But, at the same time as we look at the way in which a member of parliament must be helped to withstand outside pressure groups, so also is it important to look at the whole structure of parliament and to see that parliament is moving with the times. We should not regard our Standing Orders always as so bound by tradition that they cannot be altered; we must see that we maintain in our Standing Orders and in our structure of parliament what is essential, while at the same time retaining the ability to move with the times. In this way, if moves come from outside for us to see whether we can improve the structure of our parliamentary system, we ourselves, as members of parliament, should examine that system. I think there is no better place for this to be examined than in the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association plenary conferences. India has asked us again to put on the agenda the question of population growth and the Caribbean has asked us to have another look at the problems of race relations, particularly the issue of Black Power in several countries of the Caribbean. This is certainly a matter of tremendous importance to them. I think the Canberra conference will be lively and topical and will be something that affects not only the 200 delegates that will be here but also most of the Australian members of the Association. 
In Jersey we looked at some new developments of the Association that are now taking place. They are developing as the result of needs that have been shown over the last 3 years. First of all, there has been the development of regional conferences in Africa and in the Caribbean and there will be one for the new Pacific nations to be held in Wellington in February next year. There we will see whether we cannot build up through regional association moves towards new federations through, for instance, CARIFTA- the Caribbean Free Trade Association - and the East African Community. As nations have been split through independence so there is a move now to make them realise that there are advantages in coming together again voluntarily in new forms of association and this could well be of importance to the new nations of the Pacific which are close to Australia's sphere of influence. 
We have through the work of regional representatives on the executive committee found ways in which we can bring together and involve many more members of the Association than has been possible in the past. We have developed also a new system of seminars. For some time the United Kingdom has carried out parliamentary courses for members of parliament in these new independent nations. Australia has been asked to do the same and I hope that in the next year or two the Australian branch will be carrying out similar courses for people near our shores. There have been requests from smaller nations such as Grenada to have seminars in their countries where they can be helped to learn something of how a member of parliament should do his job more effectively. In India now each year both the parliament at New Delhi and the State parliaments come together in a seminar instructing new members of parliament in the tasks that face them. More important than that, taking place in Nairobi this week is a seminar at which delegates from nearly all the African countries as well as experts - older members of parliament from the House of Commons in Britain and from India - are meeting to discuss the whole issue of the Westminster model and how it should be modified to meet local conditions, what is essential to be retained from the model and what can be done without. I think it is useful at times when new countries come to independence and inherit the Westminster model that we should as an Association ask ourselves what is important in this whole parliamentary system. It is important, for instance, that we should see how vital is the role of the private member of parliament in making known the grievances of his constituents. I have stressed already the danger when this did not occur in Trinidad. We should see that we make question time more effective. I have seen many different forms of standing orders for question time and I think it is useful that we should learn from the experiences of other countries also. 
Finally, in Jersey we looked at the work of this executive committee that has been operating for a period of 3 years. The committee was established as a result of moves by the Australian Branch and we should pay tribute to the Secretary of our Branch,  Mr Alan  Turner, for his wisdom in seeing the need for it. Now that it has been going for 3 years I should like to quote from the annual report which has just been published. It reads: 
Indeed ils size and balance of membership had developed within the Committee a strong corporate feeling which hud been a major factor in the efficiency with which it had worked and the broad imaginative approach which it had adopted in reviewing the activities of the Association. 
As Chairman, 1 have begun to realise that the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association has within its structure the seeds that Can be nurtured and, with imagination-, developed so that its international role can be truly significant. 1 have already referred to some of the developments that have taken place over these 3 years but in this period we have only gone part of the way towards making this Association a really effective force in world peace and security. 1 shall finish my term in October. I hope my successor will take this imaginative approach much further than it has been possible for me to do. 
As 1 conclude. 1 remember the words of  Mr Desai,  a man in India for whom I have tremendous respect, who said that an important phase of this Association has been during this period in which the Empire has been changed into the Commonwealth. As independence takes place a period of tension always develops between the new independent country and the former colonial power; but as one moves further away in time from that moment those tensions decrease and a new sense of understanding emerges. In the older nations of the Commonwealth the period of tension is obviously over. It is obviously over in India, Ceylon and Pakistan but still exists in some of the newer countries in Africa and the Caribbean. Our task as an Association is to try to hold the Commonwealth together during this period of change because we will emerge at the end of that period with an Association that will be of even greater importance in the international world than it has been in the past. Those of us who have been to these Association meetings realise what a great task is being performed. 
I address a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service concerning the decision to release  Mr J.  Ross from Sale on advice received from  Mr Justice  Smithers. 1 understand that this advice was obtained after  Mr Ross  had refused to comply with and recognise the National Service Act and that the information received by  Mr Justice  Smithers was obtained in substantially a form of private hearing with  Mr Ross.  In these circumstances will the Minister indicate whether he bad expected  Mr Justice  Smithers to undertake this form of procedure and whether such forms of procedure are likely to be repeated should further cases of a similar nature arise? 
I would like to ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport a question concerning his recent visit to Fiji when he led the Australian delegation to the South Pacific Conference. Can he tell the House whether there is, as a result of his visit, a greater realisation by Australia of the needs of the developing nations in the South West Pacific and whether there is a growing understanding by the leaders of those nations of the role being played by Australia in extending aid given to these people? 
My question to the Treasurer concerns the portability of pensions, a matter in which also the honourable member for Boothby takes a great deal of interest. I ask the Treasurer whether it is the intention of the Government to proceed with the Superannuation Bill - No. 16 on the notice paper at the present time - during this session. Has the Government any intention of introducing amendments to the Bill,  particularly with regard to a reduction of the period of eligibility from 20 years - a subject about which many of my constituents have asked me during the last few weeks? 
I should like to direct a question to the Minister for External Territories concerning the dam and power project in the upper Ramu Valley in Papua New Guinea. While 1 welcome the extension of electric power supply to these people in New Guinea, I ask the Minister what investigations have been carried out to ensure that the revenue from users of this power will be sufficient to service the 7 per cent interest on the loan and the repayment of the loan, a matter that has been referred to by several honourable members in this House and particularly by the Opposition. Will the charges for power be able to be kept at their present level and is there any risk that the Australian taxpayer will be called on to meet part of the guarantee that this House has given to the Administration for this loan? 
I am always interested to listen to the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  speak on this matter, about which he knows so much. I was interested also to hear him at the outset protest at the time he was being given to speak on the matter. I am sorry that he did not take up the offer of the Minister to talk for another 5 or 10 minutes, so that we would have the benefit of what he said, as he speaks so well on this matter. 
As the honourable member knows, there is extra time on this Bill. I wanted to say that at least there was that offer, which I had hoped the honourmember would accept in the spirit in which it was offered. As we are dealing with this Bill, I want to pay a tribute both to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who is about to take ever the responsibility for this Bill, and also to his predecessor, the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  While the honourable member for Hindmarsh spent a good deal of time' during his speech dealing with some of the defects as he considered them, in the Bill, 1 was sorry that he did not refer to some of the extremely important new provisions in the Bill, because this Bill, of all Bills that come before the Parliament, is one that reflects a continual updating from year to year of national views on this important subject of employees compensation. 
I thought that the honourable member for Hindmarsh might be interested to know that quite a lot of suggestions that he made in the debate in 1964, when we last had a major review of this Act, ' have been incorporated in the Bill we are now discussing. J think we should pay tribute to the views he expressed at that time; I am sorry he has not referred to them himself. I think he should agree that the Government has included in this Bill a number of new provisions that reflects its own ideas on updating in- this field. I must refer to the very important provisions relating to the appointment of a Commissioner for Compensation who will be independent of the Treasury. Therefore, he will be entirely responsible 'for examining claims for compensation.^ He can be regarded as being independent of employers and of employees, and therefore he will be able to give not only what will be but also what will appear to be an independent judgment. I think that this matter has concerned Commonwealth employees for a number of years and now, for the first time, we have this new development. 
Allied with that provision is the provision for appeals either to a county court or to an appeal tribunal. I think that the fact that the employee will have the opportunity to go either to a court or to a tribunal - whichever he chooses - is something which also will be of help to him. At times there may be value in going to a court. On the other hand, I think that the value of the new appeal tribunal will be such that the employee will be likely to get a much more rapid decision and a much more rapid review of his case, which is another aspect that has concerned employees in the past. So, compared with the last occasion on which we made a major Review of the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act, we have these quite significant changes which will be of great value to all our Commonwealth employees who suffer injury. I think that the honourable member for Hindmarsh will agree with me when I say that, whilst he has referred to a number of matters which he thinks require re-examination, it is also important that we keep generally in step with the workers compensation Acts in the States so that Commonwealth employees will be neither advantaged nor disadvantaged compared with their colleagues in comparable activities. I think that if one looks generally through the schedules one sees that there has been an attempt to -maintain this comparability. 
I should like to deal with one or- two matters raised by the honourable member for Hindmarsh. Firstly, he has raised a number of new points during this debate. I believe that he had an opportunity, which was provided by the Minister, to make these points known to the Minister earlier so that they could be examined by the interdepartmental committee. I am surprised that he has not availed himself of that opportunity earlier than today. But I am sure, as the Minister acknowledged by interjection during the speech of the honourable member for Hindmarsh, that these matters will go to the interdepartmental committee. I feel certain that one of the important .points is that the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act should be reviewed fairly frequently and that possibly every 2 to 3 years, at least, we should have a debate on this Act. We should regard it as a continual updating process. Today's debate is not the finite conclusion of the matter, but we have made significant advances since the last occasion on which we looked at the Act. As we examine the points that arise in this debate, we shall see that the important points that are worth while are incorporated in further amendments to the Act. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh raised the general subject of accident prevention and an examination being made of accidents that occur in industry. Whilst I agree entirely with his statement that our record in certain industries in Australia is not one about which we can be happy, I think that we should pay tribute to the work of the Department of Labour and National Service. Over the last 10  years  this department has done a great deal to encourage employers to become much more safety conscious, and the task  of  making an examination of accidents and recommendations for their prevention should be a  major  responsibility of that Department. 
The second matter which the honourable member for Hindmarsh raised referred to this question of the limits on the loss  of  income. I think he said that, there was a number of countries - he mentioned particularly the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics - in which compensation was paid on a no loss of income basis. I think those were his words. It is quite true that there is such a provision in the USSR, but I wonder whether he realises that it is subject to a maximum payment of 30 roubles a month. As one rouble is equivalent to approximately SUS1.11. it will- be seen that the total maximum payment is SUS33.30 per month. Therefore, I believe that the provision to which . the honourable member referred is not quite as good as he led the House to believe. Limits are imposed on payments in other countries which he mentioned, particularly the Argentine and Mexico. So I wonder whether he might have another look at these matters which he raises before making such an important point of them. I think that generally we can say that the provisions in our Act are well in step with the Acts applying not only in the States of Australia but also in comparable countries where similar Acts apply. 
I believe that the important thing to do during a debate of this sort is, firstly, to draw attention to the important new developments which have been made and also to listen to suggestions which the Government can examine when the Act next comes up for review. Because of the limitations which have been imposed on this debate, I do not want to take up time which otherwise would be available to  Other  honourable members who also want to advance some valuable ideas which I think can be considered in the months ahead. However, I want to congratulate the Minister for making a very important review of an important Act, and also, as always, to congratulate the honourable member for Hindmarsh for advancing some new ideas to which I always enjoy listening. 
It is interesting that these are the last 2 of the 17 Bills subject to the present guillotine which has been discussed so much this week. Each of those 17 Bills has been supported by the Opposition and in each case the Opposition has said how important it is that the Bill be passed because it would do so much good for the people of Australia. The Opposition is glad that the Government has got these Bills through quickly because it realises that the quicker they are passed the quicker they will benefit the mass of the people in Australia. Each one of these Bills has been in that category. While there may have been some importance in extending the time for debate in order to look at the ways in which these Acts could be amended in due time in the future to improve them, at least each Bill has been recognised as being of great importance and it has been acknowledged that it should be passed as soon as possible. 
This aspect is important in relation to the Bill we are now discussing. It is taking us into a new field of experimental legislation into which the Commonwealth has not entered before, and in which I think it is wise that we should move slowly and be certain that we are moving in the right direction. This is where I disagree with the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  I think it is much more important that we should bring this Bill in now, examine how it works and determine what difficulties we face as we enter this new field of legislation rather than defer it indefinitely and have another long period covered by a report by a joint parliamentary committee appointed to inquire into not only these proposals but also overseas practices and this vast area of a national superannuation scheme. 1 hope the honourable member realises what he is doing if this amendment is carried. What he is saying, in effect, is that these Bills will be deferred and because of that the advantages of this scheme will be delayed. This would involve the preservation of superannuation rights not only of each of the contributors covered by the Bills - some 250,000 people - but also of contributors in other Commonwealth schemes. These employees would need to be catered for whether or not the national superannuation scheme was adopted. 
I do not think it is desirable that Commonwealth employees be denied the advantages of the preservation of these rights pending consideration of a national superannuation scheme applying to the whole of the work force. The Government has promised already that the benefits of this legislation will be made available to its employees retrospective to 1st January 1970. Then there is the constitutional aspect - the question whether Commonwealth powers in this field of superannuation could apply. This would need to be examined. What I think is important is that we should enter this field now along the lines that the Government is suggesting and, as we see it develop, we can see whether the points made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports should be taken into consideration when we come to review this legislation in, say, 2 or 3 years time. 
Earlier this evening the honourable member for Melbourne Ports will remember that we were dicussing the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill. The great advantage of that legislation is that the House has looked at it once every 3 or 4 years. As our experience of it has developed, we have modified it, expanded it, and taken into account new concepts of the importance of various fields of compensation. I believe that we should look at this superannuation legislation in a similar light. We should get this scheme into operation and, as we see how it develops, so we should see whether we should imcorporate some of the other points that have been made to modify it in due course. I am sure that as a result of tonight's debate the Treasurer will take into account some of the many points that have been raised and, when we come to have a look at the measure again in 2 years' time, in the light of experience he could well take into account some of the ideas that have been put forward. I would hope that this is the sort of Bill to which honourable members on both sides can have a bipartisan approach, and that they can try to get the best of all worlds for our own Commonwealth Government employees and for other employees who contribute to State superannuation funds. 
Several matters have been brought to my notice by my constituents in the same way as some of his constituents have brought matters to the attention of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. I ask the Treasurer whether, either in winding up this second reading debate or in the Committee stages, he would be prepared to answer a few quick questions that I wish to put to him. Because of the timetable, I think the best course is for me to deal with the questions very quickly and briefly. It has been suggested that the extent to which this legislation enables real opportunities for persons to move freely from one employer to another will depend on the extent to which the Treasurer declares an outside scheme to be an eligible superannuation scheme. The reference to this in the Bill is proposed new section 119R. The question is being asked as to what are the criteria to be used in deciding whether a scheme is an eligible superannuation scheme for the purpose of this new section. As the Bill before the House is silent on this aspect, I should be grateful if the Treasurer could give us any help on this matter. Secondly, who will take the initiative in approaching other funds, either private or state, to see whether they will be eligible as superannuation schemes? Will the Commonwealth take the initiative in this field, or do other schemes have to take the initiative them selves? Many employees, when they are negotiating to move from Commonwealth employment to another employer, can be left in the dark about the operation of this legislation in future fields of employment. 
The next matter to which I wish to refer concerns section 101 of the existing Act which defines a State fund, and State Public Service regulation 11 sets out the current Public Service superannuation funds with which the Commonwealth fund has some form of transfer benefit. I ask the Treasurer to say how wide is the definition of 'public employment'. Does it embrace local government public utilities of the State, such as hospitals? ls it wide enough to embrace any private enterprise schemes? I should also like to ask the Treasurer whether it is his policy, or whether it will become his policy, that private enterprise schemes, such as those of banks, insurance companies, or large public companies may, can or will be embraced in due course. These are some of the matters that I think have been hinted at by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. Possibly in just dealing with this subject the Treasurer may be able to give us some clues on these matters. Finally, in dealing with these points I think it is tremendously important that, as soon as the Act has been proclaimed, there should be some mechanism whereby the news about this legislation can be made available fairly quickly to those people who may benefit from it. I wonder whether the Treasurer has some arrangement whereby details of this scheme will be brought to the notice of all persons interested in moving in or out of Commonwealth employment, and also whether possibly a memorandum might be produced for members of Parliament so that we, too, can answer questions brought to our notice by our constituents 
Then there is the matter, which has already been referred to by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports, of the time limit of 20 years before eligibility takes place. I know that this is a matter to which the Treasurer has given a great deal of consideration, and I know that at present he does not feel he can reduce the time of eligibility below 20 years. This Bill has been through a long period of gestation. What appeared to be right and proper in, say, 1966, when the first negotiations were taking place on this legislation, may be already somewhat out of date in 1971. Our views concerned with the portability of pensions have moved fairly quickly over the last few years. I think that in Australia we are changing our ideas considerably as to the desirability of a movement of employees from one field of employment to another, and that we want to encourage mobility of employment much more today than we wanted to encourage it even 5 or 6 years ago. 
Therefore, what was desirable - and 1 think essential - in 1966 is already moving towards a period of being possible a little too limited today. I believe that after we have had some experience of this Bill in operation we could suggest to the Treasurer that he might well feel that this period of 20 years is too long. After all, although I know that the situation in some other countries is rather different from the situation here, because they have more of this form of national insurance scheme than has been suggested here, in similar Acts overseas the period is much shorter. Belgium has 5 years, Canada has 10 years, Denmark has 5 years, and so on - I will not deal with them all. But certainly 20 years is on the high side. 
I do think that, while for the normal employee who goes into the Public Service at age 16 years, 20 years and so on 20 years is quite reasonable, there are certain categories of people in the Public Service, especially in, say, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, who have to get higher degrees such as doctorates of philosophy and so on and who cannot come into the scheme possibly until the age of 30 years. I think that to limit their transferability or portability until they are SO is on the high side. And I think that this is a matter well worthy of closer examination by the Treasurer. I hope he will say that he is prepared to have a look at it - in the wellknown phrase - and that when we next have a look at the legislation possibly he may feel that he can meet some of these important points which have been put forward not only by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports but also by a number of constituents to me and to the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  who has been particularly interested in this matter. 
I must conclude my remarks in order to allow other honourable members to take part in this debate. 1 ask the Treasurer whether, in the course of replying to this short debate, he could answer some of the questions that I have asked. This is an extremely important Bill. We have waited for it for quite a long time. It is entering an important new field. I believe that the House should give it every speed of enactment so that we can get into operation a Bill which will be of considerable advantage to a large number of people in Australia. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the. Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 271/4 pet cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is customs duty of up to 471/2 per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that thisis an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on tow incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duties be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the national health scheme pharmaceutical benefits list 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In recent years an increased awareness of air and water contamination by the heavy metals, mercury, cadmium and lead has developed, leading to the tightening of legislation in some countries. 
No single authority in Australia is charged with the responsibility for (a) regulating and controlling the release of these metals into the environment or (b) measuring their concentrations in food produce; however, with respect to (a) State and Commonwealth Departments of Health exercise a general supervisory role and with respect to (b) State Health Departments, the Department of Customs and Excise and other Laboratories perform this function. 
While no Commonwealth authority has set out to conduct specific investigations of the type the honourable member's question would seem to envisage, it is to be expected that some evidence of the level of concentration of these metals will be revealed in the 'market basket' survey being conducted under a grant from the National Health and Medical Research Council by Commonwealth and State Departments of Health in conjunction with the Customs laboratory. Tests are also conducted by the Commonwealth Analyst. 
If by 'systematic' the honourable member means 'unified and standard', the answer is no. However, State and Commonwealth Departments of Health and the Department of Customs and Excise check the quality of water, air and food. 
In view of the division of responsibilities between the various States and the Commonwealth in this field I am not in a position to answer this part of the honourable member's question. However, if there is a need for more resources no doubt appropriate consideration has been or will be given by the appropriate authorities. As the honourable member is aware, the Commonwealth and the States have agreed to discuss the establishment of a National Advisory Council on the Environment to advise on areas where co-ordination can properly be achieved. This area may be one of them. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My attention has been drawn to Bill H.S. 17255, an Act to amend the Clean Air Act to provide for a more effective programme to improve the quality of air in the United States of America. 
and (3) Except in relation to the Territories of the Commonwealth, the matter of air pollution control is, in general, a matter that falls within the province of the States. However, as the honourable member is aware, the Commonwealth and the States have agreed to discuss the establishment of a National Advisory Council on the Environment which will advise on areas where coordination can be properly achieved and this area may be one of them. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 am aware that a debate is taking place in many countries on a variety of issues related to conservation and pollution control; in varying degree such debate embraces the question of recycling of resources. The issue of whether economic and financial policy measures would be appropriate in this connection would depend on a variety of factors including an assessment of how far action would be warranted to promote additional recycling and, if action were considered to be warranted, an assessment of what types of policy measures would be most suitable. 
It is by no means clear that the introduction of a tax on virgin resources used in the production of such items as paper and aluminium would necessarily lead to a greater degree of recycling of resources. 
See answer to (2). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See answer to (1). 
None. 
and (5) These are matters within the sovereign responsibility of the New South Wales State Government. In a letter to the editor published in the June issue of 'Australian Quarterly' the New South Wales Minister for Decentralisation and Development wrote that the proposed plant will incorporate the very latest techniques in terms of production and pollution control and that ARMCO has been a pioneer in the development of pollution control measures in the United States of America.  Mr Fuller,  also mentioned that, in addition, the activities of the newly created State Pollution Control Commission, backed by the full weight of the Clean Air Bill and the Clean Waters Bill, will ensure that the plant would not interfere with the environment or detract from the recreational attractions of the area. 
See answer to (5). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) (b) (c) - Information provided by the Departments concerned is set out below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No grants or loans have been madefor this purpose. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Office of the Environment was established as a Division of the Prime Minister's Department on 24th December 1970. That Department has now been abolished and the Division has been relocated in the new Department of the Enrironment, Aborigines and the Arts. 
The establishment of the Office awaits final approval. 
The Office of the Environment is responsible for advising the Commonwealth and recommending action that should be taken to prevent or reduce pollution arising out of the activities of any Commonwealth Department or Authority. 
Insofar as any pollution of these rivers might result from the activities of any Commonwealth department or authority, the Office of the Environment will be responsible for advising the Commonwealth and recommending action that should be taken to prevent or reduce such pollution. Also, as the honourable member is aware, the Commonwealth and the States have agreed to discuss the establishment of a National Advisory Council on the Environment to advise on areas where co-ordination can properly be achieved. This area would appear to be one of them. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. It is, however, not accurate to describe  Dr Eggleston's  thesis as a 5-ycar survey.  Her  statistics refer mainly to the year 1965, and her field work, was carried out during 2 months in 1965 and in the year March 1966 to March 1967. 
and (3)  Dr Eggleston's  findings cannot, I believe, be said to indicate gross discrimination against Aborigines in law enforcement in Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia. Some instances of discrimination on the grounds of race are cited and 1 certainly see these are a matter for concern; but the study also indicates some aspect in which Aborigines find themselves in a favoured position.  Dr Eggleston's  general conclusion is that many Aborigines, in common with other people of low social and economic status, are in various ways severely disadvantaged in dealings with the legal and judicial system. One example may indicate the complexity of the question. Statistics from Western Australia in 1965 showed that the Aboriginal population was disproportionately, represented in prisons.  Dr Eggleston  however offers various reasons which could account for this such as: 
The fact that the most common charge against Aborigines was drunkenness, whereas traffic offences represent more than half the charges against non-Aborigines, and that prison sentences  are  more often imposed for drunkenness than for traffic offences; 
that the bail system favours the wealthy and bail sometimes constitutes a fine as an alternative to imprisonment; 
that in country areas where most of the Aboriginal population lives lower courts tend to deal with most Aboriginal offences and tend to impose harsher sentences than higher courts. 
and (5) The Office of Aboriginal Affairs has been able to advise on police training courses in relation to Aborigines and officers have given talks at police colleges to develop a greater understanding of the special problems of Aboriginal people in relation to the law. The Office has provided information to Aboriginal organisations about the available booklets of advice on citizens' rights and police powers and I understand that the Victorian Ministry of Aboriginal Affairs is planning the distribution of a special booklet of this kind for Aboriginal people. A grant was recently provided for the establishment of an Aboriginal Legal Service by an organisation in New South Wales. This Service has a strong educational emphasis as well as providing legal aid. If it proves effective, the encouragement of similar services in other States will be considered. 
I know of the great interest that the honourable member for Herbert and, 1 believe, the honourable member for Gellibrand, have shown in the Great Barrier Reef. Copies of the report referred to are at the moment in short supply due to a dock strike in the United States of America but I shall arrange for a copy to be placed in the Parliamentary Library at an early date for honourable members to examine. Further copies will be available at the office of the Australian Tourist Commission and also the Queensland Tourist Bureau at a cost of $25 each - they are fairly bulky documents. 1 hope that all honourable members will take this opportunity of studing this report which shows what tremendous tourist potential is available if the Great Barrier Reef is developed in an imaginative and orderly manner while still preserving the ecological environment which is so important. The report also shows for those private developers who could be interested cost benefit analyses of possible avenues' of development which will be of value to all people interested in one of Australia's great potential tourist attractions. 
Just to get my title correct, I am also Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities. The Leader of the Opposition referred to 2 matters. The first report by  Dr Lancaster  Jones was prepared at the. request of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs in order to advise it on the possible rate of growth of the Aboriginal population. The report has been received by the Council. It has not been suppressed. The only thing that my predecessor said was that in his opinion it was not worth publishing. The figures would not have caused a furore. In fact the Minister thought that the estimates were on the low side, not on the high side. Therefore he felt that the basis for some of the figures suggested needed revision. If the Leader of the Opposition would like to look at the report I will make it available to him. Because of those facts I do not think it is worth wide publication. 
As for the second matter, there was a report in one of the Perth newspapers of a speech given by  Mr Dexter.  The report, as written, indicated that what  Mr Dexter  said conflicted with Government policy. I asked him whether this was the case and he told me that he had been misreported. I told him that in future I wished him to let me have an indication of what he proposed to say at any meeting before he said it so that I could see that it conformed with Government policy. That is the right of every Minister. If the Leader of the Opposition looks at the report from which he quoted and which appeared on page 2 of the 'Canberra Times', he will see that the person who wrote the article regards it as the perfect right and duty of a Minister to tell members of the Public Service that they are "to clear with the Minister concerned what they propose to say before they say it in public. That is a right which I shall continue to assert. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Impairment of the environment is caused by a complex inter-relationship of factors changing according to local situations. In some instances population pressure is an important factor. 
There is no uniformity of opinion among experts in various fields regarding the total population which the earth could sustain indefinitely. Forecasts of the size of the world's population by the end of this century also vary. Recent forecasts may need to be reviewed as governments implement programmes designed to reduce the rate of natural increase. 
(a) Nothing Australia does in regard to its population will significantly affect the world population situation. As far as Australia's own policies are concerned, the Governments has initiated far reaching population studies into desirable levels for Australia. This work, which is being financed by the Department of Immigration, is being carried out at the Australian National University under the supervision of Professor W. D. Borrie, Director of the Research School of Social Sciences and a demographer of international standing. 
(b) Australia has, at the United Nations and elsewhere, supported the provision by international agencies of advice and assistance to national programmes of population control at the request of governments. However, no direct financial or technical assistance has been given except for a small programme in Papua and New Guinea. The question of Australia's giving more direct support to population control programmes is under consideration. 
(c) Australia is a substantia] supplier of food to other countries, both on a commercial and on aid basis. It would be technically possible for Australia to use its food production capacity to produce additional food for other countries but such production would be necessarily limited by commercial demand and by the available aid resources. Since 1966 the value of Australia's food aid to developing countries has averaged around $13m annually. A balance must bc maintained in the aid programme between food aid, project aid, the provision of experts and the training of students. The present balance is considered to be a reasonable one. 
The ANU population study is designed to assist in determining Australia's 'long-term population interests', in the meantime there is no data by which it can be judged whether the present rate of sales tax on birth control devices is either prejudicial or beneficial to those interests, or whether it discriminates against lower income groups any more than the rates of sales tax on other goods or other indirect taxes. 
See answer to (4), 
I understand that the Leader of the Opposition is referring to the report dealing with the Great Barrier Reef? 
The object of the report which was prepared by the Australian- 
Yes. The object of the report which was prepared at the request of the Australian Tourist Commission was to acquaint all interested bodies, not only the Commonwealth but also private enterprise, with the potential that was available if the reef was developed in an orderly and imaginative manner. The report was to provide room for opportunity for all these bodies to examine the problem, and it was not prepared for governments to act immediately on its recommendations. The purpose now is for all the bodies concerned to examine that report in greater detail. I am hoping that they will do that, as I said in my answers last week to the honourable members for Herbert and Gellibrand. 
The main role of the Commonwealth Government in the field of tourist activities is to promote the value of attracting overseas tourists to Australia, and this has been the main task of the Australian Tourist Commission. The task of looking after these tourists when they get to Australia is mainly a matter for State governments. I congratulate the State governments on the work they have done over the last few years and particularly on the work that they have done towards developing this regional approach to the promotion of tourism. I was gratified to see the approach that was being made in the honourable member's electorate of Paterson when I visited it with him a few weeks ago. To go beyond that and to ask the Commonwealth to enter into a matter that is already being handled so well by the State governments is asking us to do something which at the moment is not our task. I hope that the State governments will continue to do the work that they have been carrying out so well in the past. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have read President Nixon's environmental message to the Congress of 8th February 1971. 
, (3) and (4) Under the Constitution the States cannot validly impose duties of customs and excise. Whether the States would however, thus be prevented from levying the kind of taxes which the honourable member apparently has in mind would depend on the precise nature and form of the tax. Further the honourable member will appreciate that the levying of 'pollution taxes' is not the only or the most direct and effective way in which to control pollution. The questions of the imposition of new Commonwealth taxes and the introduction of new Commonweath grants to the States are matters of policy which it is not the practice to discuss in answer to parliamentary questions. 
It would not be possible to compile a complete list of chemical elements and compounds known to be environmentally destructive as many substances are environmentally destructive only if misused. The Preparatory Committee of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment to be held in Stockholm in 1972 is considering the establishment of an International Registry of Chemical Compounds as a means towards understanding the effects of environmental contaminants on human health and biological systems. 
The Office of the Environment has been established within my Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 1 have been informed by the National Librarian that: 
lt has been the policy of the National Library to lend films directly to agencies of the Commonwealth, to organisations in Commonwealth Territories, to universities, to other tertiary educational institutions, and, in order to supplement their own film resources, to State film centres and to State education departments. 
This practice was established more than 20 years ago as a result of an agreement between State and Commonwealth film centres. It was reaffirmed as satisfactory and desirable at the Conference of Commonwealth and State film representatives held at Lindfield, New South Wales, on 21st and 22nd November 1966. 
National Library films are available to State government schools through the State Education Departments. Other borrowers in the States have access to National Library films through the State film centres. 
No. 
The present film lending system was introduced to make the most efficient use of the nation's film resources. The National Library does not have the resources of staff or films to serve the thousands of schools in Australia directly. 
I know of the great interest of the honourable members for Macarthur and Bradfield and many other honourable members in the work that this Government is doing in the field of the environment. In reply to the first part of the question, I have been able to arrange with the State Ministers concerned a meeting to be held in Canberra on 17th September in order to find ways and means of co-ordinating our activities. It is true that a meeting had to be postponed until some States were able to set up their own departments and get them in working order. This has now been done. 
Referring to the last part of the question I am certain that as a result of increased activity, not only on the Federal scene but also in the States, a larger number of companies have been taking much greater care to prevent damage which might otherwise have been occasioned to the environment as a result of their activities. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
I am aware of the keen interest of the honourable member for 
Henty in the work of  Dr Kalokerinos  in the field of the welfare of Aboriginal children, particularly in parts of the central north west of New South Wales, and of his views on the importance of vitamin C.  Dr Kalokerinos  has recently been in parts of the Northern Territory and has been examining what are in his view the causes of infant mortality there, particularly in Alice Springs. The views that he has put forward expose a method of therapy for Aboriginal children different from the therapy usually employed in the Northern Territory at the present time. This means that there is a degree of difference in approach between medical specialists. 
I have asked my colleague, the Minister for Health, to see whether the views of  Dr Kalokerinos  can be placed before an expert panel of medical officers. If  Dr Kalokerinos  will submit his proposals as soon as possible to my colleague 1 am assured that that will be done. I have no means, as Minister for the Aborigines, of taking the matter any further, but should a research project be necessary as a result of this examination it might be possible to provide, through the Council for Aboriginal Affairs, funds for a research programme. But that would have to go first to the Minister for Health. 
It is expected that the opening season of the Sydney Opera House will be one of the greatest cultural activities in Australia's history. It is expected that this will take place some time in 1973. In order that the season shall be of world standard, the Australian Council for the Arts has asked me to see what can be done to build up the standards of the Australian Opera Company and its associated orchestras. The Government has received this request and has decided that the grant to the Australian Opera Company and the associated orchestras, in this financial year, will rise from $895,000 to $1,295,000, an increase of 45 per cent. 
We expect that this aid will be continually built up so that by 1973 we shall have in Australia an opera company which is of world class. I believe that when the Opera House in Sydney is operating it shall be a mecca for people who wish to see our cultural achievements. I would think that not only will there be an increase in aid from the Government to help in the work of the Australian Opera Company, but also will there be a comparable increase in subscriptions from those other bodies which are well wishers in respect of the work of this Company which has already had such a marked effect on our cultural achievements over the last few years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Legislation in the Northern Territory provides for the grant of leases to corporate Aboriginal groups or to individuals and a number of applications by groups of Aborigines for leases or substantial areas of Aboriginal reserves are now awaiting consideration by a special Land Board. 
On 6th May the Prime Minister announced the establishment of a Ministerial Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. Full details of its function, especially as regards land in the Northern Territory are contained in the Press Release of that date. Aspects pertaining to land in the Northern Territory which will be considered, arc: 
protection of lands reserved for the use and benefit of Aborigines and within such lands: 
ensuring continuing groups of Aborigines the use of land for ceremonial, religious or recreational purposes 
making available on appropriate tenure to individual Aborigines and groups of Aborigines land necessary for the conduct of commercial enterprises 
setting up an Aboriginal Land Fund to acquire land coming on the market in the Northern Territory which can be made available on appropriate tenure to Aboriginal groups for commercial enterprises and other purposes 
ensuring that subject to the requirements of national development Aborigines on lands reserved for their use and benefit will be given 
reasonable preference in mineral prospecting and exploration and 
the opportunity to participate effectively in mining and related developments. 
supporting commercial enterprises which have reasonable prospects of success on land held by Aboriginal communities (particularly where they are isolated and without alternative opportunities) by grants from the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account as well as by loans from the Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises. 
and (4) The Commonwealth Government has not promised the Presbyterian Church that it would educate and train the Aboriginal people for employment in industries at Weipa, but is cooperating with the State Government which, of course, has the primary responsibility in these fields. Discussions have been taking place with the representatives of the Aboriginal community at Weipa, the mining company and the Queensland Government on the development of programs to improve the situation of the Aborigines at Weipa and to ensure that the Aboriginal community derives increasing benefit from the development of the mining enterprises. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Considering the market prospects for agricultural products on both the domestic and world markets in the foreseeable future, very careful consideration would- need to be given to any stimulation of regional development projects involving the large scale clearing of virgin land. In many cases, however, the economic viability of a property may increasingly depend upon the improvement of production efficiency which may involve the clearing of land. ' 
Current taxation provisions in relation to land clearing are designed to enlarge the scale of individual farm operations and improve' efficiency and net farm income. The provisions, of course, apply to both virgin land and to developed .properties and even so-called developed property may be found to stand in need of further development to bring about greater productivity and a lowering of farm costs. Under existing marketing conditions for many commodities, primary producers' plans to clear land are likely to be based much more on estimated net returns from the outlay than on the existence of taxation concessions. Insofar as land is cleared for forestry operations the cost of clearing the land is in allowable deduction when arriving at assessable income for taxation purposes. 
The preservation of virgin areas for national parks or for development of hardwood forests can be achieved more effectively by legislative action on land use rather than by removal of concessions which improve production efficiency on properties in the rural sector. 
Decisions by landholders to use their land for timber production depends on the relative economics of whatever alternative forms of production are available. Existing taxation concessions apply to development, for timber as well as to other forms of primary production. 
The Minister for the Interior has advised as follows: 
Land use planning in the Australian Capital Territory has advanced to the point where most proposed plantations can be accommodated with benefit on previously cleared land. Various alternatives for all . A.C.T. lands have been examined and no .forested lands suitable for parks or hardwood forests are included in the plantation land programme. "In the Northern Territory Commonwealth clearing of Crown land is carried out on experimental farms for research into pasture improvement and agronomic practices and on forest reserves for the establishment of more productive forest stands. As a review of the best use of land is generally made at the time of its allocation for a Commonwealth purpose, it is not considered necessary to cease further clearing of Commonwealth-owned Crown Land.' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information provided by the Departments and authorities concerned is set out below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Some Aboriginal children attend ordinary pre-schools and generally figures of Aboriginal enrolments are not available. No figures are available for enrolments in New South Wales and Victoria. The Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs states that in Queensland approximately 500 Aboriginal and Islander children attended community pre-school centres in 1969. Complete figures were not available for South Australia, but the Department of Social Welfare and Aboriginal Affairs reports that 94 Aboriginal children are known to have attended pre-schools in 1969. As at 30th June 1969, 342' children were known to the Commissioner of Native Welfare to be attending pre-schools in Western Australia. 
In 1969, 540 Aboriginal children were attending Administration (Welfare Branch) pre-schools in the Northern Territory; 150 were attending mission pre-schools and 79 were attending community pre-schools operated by the Department of Education and Science - a total of 769 children. There were 13 Aboriginal children enrolled at the Wreck Bay pre-school in the Australian Capital Territory. 
In Queensland a total of 5 scholarships were granted during 1969 for the training of preschool teachers for service in Aboriginal and Island communities. 
In Western Australia during 1969, 3 Aboriginal students were receiving training as pre-school teachers but they may, however, not be restricted to Aboriginal communities in their appointments. 
Approximately 20 scholarships are awarded each year by the Department of Education and Science for the training of pre-school teachers for  the Northern Territory, but none of these is offered specifically for service in Aboriginal communities. From the group who completed their training at the end of 1969, 2 elected to serve Administration pre-schools in Aboriginal communities. In 1969 new arrangements were introduced for the training of teachers for Administration pre-schools in Aboriginal communities and 10 traineeships were provided in 1970. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At the present time no specific survey into the health problems of Aborigines either on an Australiawide basis or in Aboriginal communities and fringe settlements is under consideration by the Department of Health and Office of Aboriginal Affairs. 
Much of the current thought on future planning stems from the many recommendations made at a Workshop on Health and Nutrition in Aboriginal Children held in Sydney in December 1969 and which was .attended by representatives of Universities, Public Health Departments and workers from welfare and social organisations. 
Commonwealth interest in this matter involves the funding of a number of research studies approved by the National Health and Medical Research Council and conducted by medically trained research workers. It is expected that these and similar future projects will substantially increase existing knowledge of problems associated with Aboriginal health and will also be of early and direct benefit to the Aborigines themselves. 
 The more  localised health problems of Aborigines are of course matters for the individual States and Territories. The Commonwealth provides funds each year to assist States to further their programmes for Aboriginal health through the Grants to the States for Aboriginal advancement. Although there is at present no proposal for a wide-ranging survey, the Commonwealth Department of Health advises the Office of Aboriginal Affairs on matters relating to Aboriginal health and wherever possible implementation is advocated of the recommendations of the 1969 Workshop. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The 13th Annual Conference of the Tourist Ministers Council was held on 5th and 6th July 1971 in Port Moresby. 
(2) 
New South Wales- The  Hon.  E. A. Willis, M.L.A., Chief Secretary and Minister for Tourism and Sport 
Victoria- The  Hon.  V.O. Dickie, M.L.C., Minister of State Development and Minister for Tourism 
Queensland- The  Hon.  J. D. Herbert, M.L.A., Minister for Labour and Tourism 
South Australia - The  Hon.  D. A. Dunstan, Q.C., L.L.B., M.H.A., Premier, Treasurer, and Minister for Development and Mines 
Western Australia - The  Hon.  T. D. Evans, M.L.A., Treasurer and Minister for Forests and Tourism 
Tasmania - The  Hon.  K. O. Lyons, M.H.A.,  Deputy  Premier and Chief Secretary 
Papua New Guinea - The  Hon.  A. Bilas, Ministerial Member for Trade and Industry 
Commonwealth - The  Hon.  P. Howson, Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts and Minister assisting the Minister for Trade and Industry, in Tourist Activities. 
Proceedings of the Tourist Ministers Council are confidential. Press statements were issued covering the major items discussed and copies will be forwarded to the honourable member. 
I think honourable members will recall the announcement made in 1969 that the Government had established an Interim Council to investigate and report on a proposal for the form and location of a national film television training school. Whilst the Council's enthusiasm for this project is fully apparent, the continuing economic stringencies and the substantial cost of its proposals - estimated to be over $7m during the next 5 years - have led to consideration of the proposals being deferred for 12 months. The proposals may then be considered in the light of what I hope will be more propitious economic circumstances. By that stage we shall also know more of the progress of the Australian Film Development Corporation, the success of which is so important to ensure a viable industry, usefully employing graduates from a training school. 
by leave - Honourable members will recall the announcement in 1969 that the Government had established an Interim Council to investigate and report on the form and location of a national film and television training school. Whilst the Council's enthusiasm for this project is fully apparent from its reports, the continuing economic stringencies and the substantial cost which is estimated to be over $7m during the next 5 years have lead to consideration of its proposals being deferred for 12 months. The proposals may then be considered in the light of what I hope will be more propitious economic circumstances. At that stage, we shall also know more of the progress of the Australian Film Development Corporation, the success of which is. so important to ensuring a viable industry, capable of usefully employing graduates from the proposed school. 
However, as honourable members may be aware, the Government also has been providing financial assistance for training in the film industry over the last 3 years. Through the Australian Council for the Arts, the Government has provided a number of travelling scholarships to enable promising young students to study overseas various aspects of the film industry. The Government also has provided grants to the experimental film fund which have enabled those with talent to try their hand at film making. I believe that these 2 matters are closely associated with the objectives of the proposed school and therefore should be the responsibility of the Interim Council. After discussion with the  Chairman  of the Australian Council for the Arts,  Dr Coombs,  and the  Chairman  of the Interim Council,  Mr Peter  Coleman, I have arranged that the Interim Council will be responsible for these continuing forms of assistance over the next 12 months and so enable the Interim Council to play its part in the development of the Australian film industry. The chairmen of the 2 councils will be discussing in the immediate future the measures necessary to implement these new administrative arrangements. 
The facts set out by the Leader of the Opposition are substantially correct. These advertisements have been put out and those interested are being asked to submit applications so that we can consider them in order to get the best service for the Commonwealth in this important field. The previous arrangements were for a 5-year period, I understand, and that is why applications are being called for another 5-year programme. I have not heard it said as yet by any of the people interested that they want an extension of time. If the Leader of the Opposition has knowledge of cases where people have felt that the period is not long enough, would he let me know of them because certainly I have not had any applications to me for an extension of time? Most of the people Who I have heard are interested have been able to meet the deadline, but if the Leader of the Opposition has knowledge of a particular instance where this was not possible would he let me know of it and I will look into it? 
The honourable member for Griffith has always expressed a great interest in the tourist industry and has encouraged the Government to do everything it can to help it- Any decision that is taken by the Government to encourage charter flights to Australia will of course increase the number of tourists who come to Australia and therefore will help the tourist industry. The imposition by the Victorian Government of a tax on hotels to help that Government with its present financial problems is a matter for the Victorian State Parliament. All I will say on this is that similar taxes have been imposed in other nations. Usually this action has been taken in order to provide extra money to help the tourist industry, and if any portion of the increased tax levied in Victoria can be used to assist the tourist industry that will be welcomed by us all, and particularly by the Commonwealth Government. 
In the first place the Leader of the Opposition might know, if he studied the statement that I made in this House and which he had asked for but did not listen to when I made it - 
I am glad that the honourable gentleman listened to it outside the chamber if not in it, the second time, because the second part of it indicated some of the reasons why the Government decided, for the time being, not to go ahead with this school. If one compares the original undertaking concerning the school with the present position one will see that the original recommendation which came from the Film Committee of the Australian Council for the Arts indicated that the capital cost of the school, excluding land and buildings, would be $400,000 and the annual running costs $200,000. When we received the report of the Interim Council it was found that the capital cost, excluding land and buildings, was not $400,000 but $1.6m and the annual running costs were increased from $200,000 to over $400,000 at the end of 5 years. The costs were considerably in excess of the original recommendations and, therefore, the original decision to go ahead with this proposal had to be reconsidered because it was based on optimistic premises given by the Australian Council for the Arts. I believe it was quite right that the Government should reconsider the proposal in the light of the full report it received. That is the reason why the decision for deferment was made. 
If the Leader of the Opposition studies my report to the House he will see tha t it indicated that in the meantime the Government will do quite a lot to help the film industry. Not only is the Film Development Corporation doing much to help viable films on a commercial basis but the Government also is helping through the Experimental Film Fund and the training scheme to provide talented young men and women in this field with training opportunities. I believe that a great deal will be done to honour our promises in the film industry until such time as the Government has extra funds available for the school. If the Leader of the Opposition studies my report he will see that the Government has provided opportunities for many talented people and that the film industry is developing quite well. I believe that the Government has made the right decisions for the time being. 
I think that there is a fair chance we may not get the professor to whom the honourable gentleman referred because he is probably going to London. However the report indicates that other people have been considered and if, in due course, we have a school, we shall take the opportunity to get the best possible available people to staff it. In the meantime we are getting graduates. Instead of training them all here we are sending some of the best of them overseas and others are given opportunities through the experimental fund. I believe that for the amount of money available a great deal is being done. To spend $7m to provide 12 graduates a year is rather expensive at the moment. 
I must admit that it did cause me some embarrassment when I found that one of the departments for which I am responsible is one of the chief polluters of the atmosphere of Canberra.  1  understand that the incinerator is used for a total of only about 20 hours a week. It is unfortunate that these 20 hours seem to coincide with the times when the honourable member for Wentworth is looking out the window of his flat. Of those 20 hours only 5 hours are used on behalf of the Government Printing Office to burn rubbish. The remainder of the time is used by other government departments. So to an extent the Government Printing Office incinerator is acting as a receptacle for a lot of Canberra's unwanted material. 
It would be an expensive job to change this. The incinerator has been there for 8 years. It is fitted with a spark arrestor, but to fit arrestors for smoke would be unduly expensive. I think it would really be too expensive, for the time being, to burn all the rubbish from the Canberra tip also. This is typical of the sorts of problems that arise at the moment. In the old days, people were not as concerned about smoke as they are now. I am glad that the honourable member has drawn my attention to this matter because it is important. On Friday there will be a meeting of all Ministers concerned with environmental problems. I am sure this is one of the matters which will be raised then. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
and (4) In the course of their meeting in Brisbane on 8th April 1971 the Prime Minister and the Premier of Queensland considered questions relating to: 
Freedom of movement off Reserves; 
Control, through Reserve Councils, of access to Reserves; 
Control of property - freedom of choice will be allowed but with provision for consultation with the Council and/or the Administration as a safeguard against exploitation; 
Control of transactions - arrangements as in the case of control of property; 
Liquor Canteen System - freedom of choice to Reserve residents to decide whether or not liquor will be permitted on a particular reserve; 
Torres Strait Islanders - a separate Act of Parliament; 
Vagrancy Laws: Paragraph (ii) of Section 4 (1)  of  the Vagrants, Gaming and Other Offences Act will be repealed; 
Wage Rates - special consideration will be given to inexperienced, slow or retarded Aboriginal workers; 
Reserve Councils - Aboriginal and Islander representation will be reviewed. 
It was recognised that the existing Queensland legislation was designed to assist in protecting persons who, without guidance and assistance, could be subject to exploitation and that it was not, therefore, to be seen as discrimination against Aborigines. 
The Queensland Government has announced that it hopes to introduce in the next session of the Parliament Bills for 2 new Acts relating to Aboriginal and Island communities on the content of new legislation. 
Yes. 
The Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs has estimated about 15,000. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies Act 1964- 1966, I present the report of the Council of the Institute for the year ended 30th June 1971 together with the Institute's financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
I am well aware of the question that has been on notice since, I think, 20th October last year. The discussions on this matter are still taking place. I am sorry that I am not yet in a position to inform the honourable member of the results of those discussions but I am trying to accelerate the matter and I hope within a reasonably short time to be able to give him the information he requires. The question of taxation is usually a matter for the Treasurer and not for the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. 
The answer to the honourable member's question has been provided by the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs: 
No. 
Wages and working conditions applicable to the pearling industry in the Torres Strait are determined at an annual conference presided over by the Stipendiary Magistrate, Thursday Island. 
The conference is attended by employers, employees, and/or their representatives. The Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs is also represented, acting on behalf of and with assisted Torres Strait Islanders and Aborigines. 
The 1970 Diving agreement covers relative share allocation for Skipper, other Divers, First Tender and other Tenders. 
In elaboration, as with most other fishing industries remuneration is on the basis of an 'incentive to earn' method of assessment. However, the Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs insists on a guaranteed minimum basic rate being available to provide an allotment of funds to dependants of the employee and immediate personal moneys, but this amount is not to be taken as maximum rate of 'wages'. It is a guaranteed minimum basic rate. 
General procedures of application are that each employee in the Pearling Industry is engaged through the Shipping Master at Thursday Island under shipping Articles which embody the Diving Agreement, and the full entitlement of each individual is based on a 'lay' and bonus assessment of the full proceeds due each individual vessel. 
Advances are made from time to time against the guaranteed minimum rate and anticipated further income based on production. On discharge nett balance due is paid each individual before the Shipping Master, and the Shipping Master does not authorise discharge of the seaman until he is satisfied that any liability attachable to the vessel is effectively discharged over the season's employment. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Honourable W. C. Wentworth, Com monwealth Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs; the Honourable R. J. Hunt, Minister for the Interior; the Honourable J. L. Waddy, Minister for Child Welfare and Social Welfare, New South Wales; the Honourable E. R. Meagher. Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, Victoria; the Honourable N. T. E. Hewitt, Minister for Conservation, Marine and Aboriginal Affairs, Queensland; the Honourable L. J. King, Minister for Social Welfare and Aboriginal Affairs, South Australia; the Honourable W. F. Willesee, Minister for Community Welfare, Western Australia; and the  Hon  ourabls D. F. Clark, Minister for Housing, Industrial Development and Sea Fisheries, Tasmania. 
The proceedings of the ministerial conferences of the Australian Aboriginal Affairs Council are treated as confidential. The meeting of the Council at Cairns on 23rd April 1971, like previous conferences, provided an occasion for the exchange of information and opinions on recent and projected developments and on current problems and needs in the field of Aboriginal affairs. 
Ministers discussed a range of matters including the general organisation of the administration of Aboriginal affairs; arrangements for consultation of Aboriginal opinion; recent legislative and administrative action in relation to Aboriginal reserves; problems and needs in the fields of health, housing, education and employment; and progress in combating discrimination. The Council, however, made no specific suggestions or recommendations. 
No. 
No. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is the Government's responsibility to promote Australia overseas as a tourist destination and to encourage overseas visitors to travel within Australia. This it does through the Australian Tourist Commission. 
The Queensland Minister for Labour and Tourism has advised that the Queensland Government has assisted in the development of Carnarvon Gorge National Park by making nearby land available to Carnarvon Development Co. Pty Ltd for the construction of tourist accommodation; by providing a bank guarantee to assist in financing this construction and by, providing camping and other facilities in the Park itself. 
No. (4)I raised this matter with the PostmasterGeneral who has advised me that some years ago, the Carnarvon Development Co. Pty Ltd approached the Post Office for communication facilities at Carnarvon Gorge. Various alternatives were offered, but apparently the Company was not in a position at that time to proceed with the proposals. However, the Company was licensed to operate as an outpost station on the Royal Flying Doctor Service. The matter is again being reviewed and the Director, Posts and Tele- graphs, Queensland, will contact the Company when the further review is completed to discuss means of meeting its communications requirements. 
The development of specific tourist areas is primary the responsibility of State Governments. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In his report 'Australia at Expo '70' submitted to the Prime Minister on 31st October 1970, the Commissioner-General said: 
Before concluding this review a brief look into the future would not be out of place. Firstly there is the question of Australia again becoming a member of the Bureau of International Exhibitions- Having, now participated in two major international exhibitions. Montreal in 1967 and Osaka in 1970, it would seem difficult for Australia not to play her part in similar exhibitions in the future. Membership of the BIE would allow us a full part in decisions as to when, where and under what conditions such future exhibitions should be held.' 
The question of again acceding to the Convention and Protocol will be considered by the Government. 
I do not have the exact figures at my fingertips but I recall some figures that I gave to the Leader of the Opposition last week. The 7m was split up as follows: Capital costs, 1 think, were of the order of $5.1m and the balance, as to running costs, were to be in the first year of the order of $150,000 and rising at the end of the fifth year to about $400,000. In regard to capital costs, capital other than land and buildings amounted to $1.6m and the cost of land and buildings was made up of the difference between that sum and $5.1m. Honourable members can do the arithmetic to calculate that amount. But these figures are given off the cuff and 1 will let the right honourable member have the details. 
I received 2 reports from the Interim Council, one delivered in November and the second in March. Having received the second report and having seen the costs for this proposal, I asked the Interim Council whether it could find a slightly less expensive form of producing the result. I received this report but the costs were still of a high order. It was on that basis that I recommended to the Government that the decision should be deferred for 12 months. 
Dealing with the other more general matters about the importance of the film industry to Australia and the costs to Australia of importing films, I say yes, I am aware of these costs. However, I also would like to draw the attention of the right honourable member to the fact that already we are making other contributions to the film industry through the Film Development Corporation. 
Yes. I congratulate the right honourable member for the incentive that he has given to the film industry over the years. 
I was just about to tell the honourable member for Sydney that I am going to do it my way and how it will be done. 
I am pleased that the honourable member has asked me this question. He will recall my statement made last week to the effect that the Government has for the time being deferred a decision on this matter for at least 12 months. In the meantime, while the overall report is still being examined, I am also taking steps to find out whether the film industry can be assisted in any other way to obtain the same result but at a cheaper cost. It was in order to give the House some insight into my thinking at the present time and the investigations that I am carrying out that I added those words in my earlier statement. I am at present examining a number of proposals as I believe that the film industry must be encouraged but from the reports I have so far received there are other ways of assisting the industry which are worthy of examination and these will be examined before I again put this matter before the Government. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Australian Tourist Commission Act 1967 I present the fourth annual report of the Australian Tourist Commission for the year ended 30th June 1971 together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 do not know. 2 and 3. The Tasmanian Minister for Tourism and Immigration has advised me that he is replying to representations concerning Lake Pedder as follows: 
While 1 appreciate the sincerity ot your views I find it surprising that this issue has been raised again at this late stage, particularly when the planned raising of the water level is virtually imminent. 
I can only emphasize that many proposed layouts were considered by the Hydro-Electric Commission's engineers prior to the submission of the recommended scheme of development to Parliament in 1967. 
No practicable scheme could be devised to save' Lake Pedder at an economic cost acceptable to the State. The by-pass scheme which is being revived was considered before the present scheme was approved. Estimates of cost for this arrangement were submitted to the Select Committee of the Legislative Council set up to examine the Cordon River and Thermal Power ; Station Development proposals in 1967. It was the opinion of the Select Committee that the considerable extra expenses involved could not ; . be justified by the partial preservation of the area resulting from the proposal. 
Revised estimates, taking into account various factors too involved to detail here, together  ' with the escalation of costs since 1967, showed that the by-pass flume arrangement to 'save' Lake Pedder would cost approximately $25 million more than the scheme which was approved by Parliament. 
You will appreciate that a decision by Parliament can only be reversed or modified by Parliament itself and the Government has no intention  tion of recommending to Parliament that the  j  Gordon Power scheme should be modified.  1  I repeat that the scheme is the most econom ical of various proposals which have been considered and it is not proposed to burden the State economy by introducing costly changes  which are beyond our financial resources.* 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answer to Question No. 4101. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Tourist Commission will continue to furnish its annual report to the Minister for Trade and Industry who is the Commonwealth Minister responsible for tourism. 
In accordance with the Australian Tourist Commission Act 1967 the Minister will table the Report in each House of Parliament. 
In the course of my reply to a question without notice from the right honourable member for Higgins about the proposed national film and television training school, I undertook to provide details of the estimated costs of land and buildings, capital cost excluding land and buildings, and annual running expenses over the first 5 years. The details, as provided by the Interim Council, National Film and Television Training School, are as follows: 
If the honourable member has had his attention drawn to this matter by some people in his electorate, I presume that they have ..seen the application form that is now available. The honourable member will see from that form that one of the main' conditions is that applicants must be able to provide the required facilities in all State capital cities. That is the major requirement. However; an application by a consortium of separate advertising agencies will : be acceptable in accordance with the conditions laid down. As I informed the Leader of the Opposition a few days ago, if people who have not yet tendered wish to make late applications, I will consider those applications. However, I have been informed that,1 according to the -last figures available, which are for the year ended 30th June 1970, approximately 80 per cent of the dis- .bursements from the pool in commissions distributed by the Commonwealth advertising agencies went to Australian owned agencies and there is no different policy today from that in the past. All that the Government wants to ensure is that it gets the very best service that is available for the Commonwealth. 
I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read  a  second time. 
In presenting this legislation I think I should at the same time give honourable members a further brief account of Commonwealth policy in the field of Aboriginal advancement during the past year, in continuation of the accounts given by my predecessor in his second reading speeches in previous years, First, however, I will outline the provisions of the present Bill. The legislation provides for a 31 per cent increase in the grants to the States, amounting to $9.2m for 1971-72 compared with $7m for 1970-71, $5.41m in 1969-70 and $3.65m in 1968-69. As in the past, the Government proposes to allocate the $9.2m as between the States taking account of their percentage of the total Aboriginal population as revealed by the 1966 census and of their relative needs. A table has been prepared - which, with the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard - setting out the allocation proposed as between the States for 1971-72 by comparison with the grants for each of the previous 3 years. 

<graphic href="074131197109303_20_0.jpg"></graphic>

The legislation provides also that of the amount of $9. 2m, the greater proportion be devoted to housing.. Work commenced in other fields will, of course, also continue. I envisage the following allocation as between the various purposes for which the grants are made to the States: 

<graphic href="074131197109303_20_1.jpg"></graphic>

Experience over the past 3 years has shown that as the financial year proceeds individual States are sometimes obliged to seek variations in the allocations between these headings though within the overall grant to the State; but any such variation will be relatively minor and designed to enable States to adapt their programmes to meet unexpected contingencies which might arise during the year. It is the Government's intention that the amounts available for each of these six purposes be divided between the States as shown in a further table which, with the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard. 

<graphic href="074131197109303_20_2.jpg"></graphic>

What do all these figures mean in practical terms? A precise statement of the use made by the States of the 1970-71 grant will help honourable members to obtain some impression of the impressive contribution made by the Commonwealth grants in a variety of fields during . that year. Again, with the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard, a statement of the actual expenditure by the States of the grants made in 1970-71. 

<graphic href="074131197109303_21_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="074131197109303_22_6.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="074131197109303_23_7.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="074131197109303_24_8.jpg"></graphic>

Taken along with similar statements provided by my predecessor in his second reading speeches in 1970 and 1969, this provides a running account of the Commonwealth's endeavour, together with the States, over the 3 years of its activity since the referendum. 1 am sure honourable members will consider it, as I do, a good example of constructive Federalism, in which my Council and Office have collaborated very productively with State departments. 
In addition to the amounts which it is intended to apply to housing, health, education, employment and vocational training and similar purposes through the States grants, it is proposed to apply $3,850,000 to the continuation by the Department of Education and Science of the study and secondary grants schemes and $173,000 to smaller projects, particularly in health and education, through Commonwealth departments. Thus of the total budgetary provision in the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account for 1971-72 of $14.35m, no less than $13,223,000 will be devoted primarily to efforts in the fields of housing, health, education, and employment and vocational training. Expenditure of this order in these fields represents a useful stimulus to Aboriginal advancement where it is most needed. 
Funds provided for housing through the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account over the past 3 years have resulted in the construction or purchase of about 1,000 additional houses, and the funds which I propose for 1971-72 will result in the acquisition of some 500 further homes. In addition some $ 1.76m has been expended over the past 3 years from the Trust Account by way of the States grants or by direct grants on the acquisition, extension, improvement and in some cases operation of hostel accommodation, particularly for employment and educational purposes; and I envisage a further expenditure of at least $856,000 in 1971-72. In order to relieve some of the demand for housing I have asked my officers to investigate whether more can usefully be done in the short term by way of the provision of hostel accommodation. 
Funds for health work provided through the Trust Account are making possible an improvement of rural health services in areas of Aboriginal population. The development of programmes of health education and preventive medicine by professional and sub-professional people should reduce progressively the pressure on the curative services provided in hospitals in the major centres. In addition much necessary expenditure on capital construction and equipment is made possible by the funds from the Trust Account. In the Northern Territory the Department of Health will, on the basis of funds provided from the Trust Account, establish mobile health facilities for the substantial Aboriginal communities in the Borroloola and Timber Creek areas; and, by agreement with the Western Australian authorities, will provide health and medical services for the Aboriginal community at the small mining camp at Wingellina in Central Australia. I also believe that simplified application procedures being arranged by my colleague, the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  will make the benefits of the subsidised medical scheme more readily available to 
Aborigines, particularly in Western Australia. Notwithstanding past and present efforts the health status of Aborigines remains a cause for concern particularly in respect of infant mortality and malnutrition. The problems will not easily be overcome, for they require the improvement of living conditions and the extension of medical and health knowledge and understanding amongst Aboriginal parents including increased voluntary use of family planning techniques. However, it can be said that we now comprehend the problems better perhaps than at any earlier time and that our programmes will have increasing effect over a period. 
Funds provided for education through the Trust Account are ensuring to Aboriginal Australians more and better educational facilities by way of buildings, equipment, libraries and so on, and are helping the States to ensure that children at school below the statutory school leaving age will receive necessary assistance with clothing, textbooks, travel, tutorial assistance and homework supervision. Beyond the statutory school leaving age, we are very encouraged by the response to the secondary and study grants schemes, which, as honourable members will bc aware, help make it possible for young Aborigines to pursue their studies as far as they are capable of proceeding with substantial benefit to themselves. In the first year, 1970, 2,379 were assisted under the secondary grants scheme, and in 1971, 3,800, while in 1972 it is estimated that the scheme will provide for some 5,700. I am satisfied that very many more young Aborigines are now staying on in secondary school and that there has been generally a marked improvement in the attitudes and application of the children and in their level of attainment. 
In regard to study grants, which provide for study in the upper secondary and tertiary level, 114 were assisted in the first year, 1969, 305 in 1970 and some 500 in 1971 and it is estimated that some 600 will receive assistance in 1972. Of even more significance is the growing programme of assistance through the Trust Account at the other end of schooling - through preschooling. In the first 3 years oha Commonwealth has expended  mon  than $500,000 from the Trust Account  addi tional pre-schooling for Aboriginal children. This is only a beginning and we hope to expend the scheme in the years to come. 
I mention these matters as indicators of progress. There are many others to which I could refer - for instance, to the encouraging results achieved by the regional projects we are developing with some States on the basis of funds provided through the Trust Account. These projects involve effort by the whole local community as well as by Commonwealth, State and local government authorities. An example is the purchase, removal and re-erection of Snowy Mountains Authority houses by the Shoalhaven Shire with financial assistance from the Trust Account. 
I have mentioned the manner in which about $13.2m of the $14.35m sought for the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account this financial year is being applied. Honourable members will also be interested to know something of the application of the remaining $1.127m. This will be used for grants to non-governmental organisations for a wide range of purposes - for welfare work, adult education, the provision and running of hostels, support of the arts, crafts and cultural activities, support of youth and sporting activities, Aboriginal housing societies and for pre-schooling provided by private organisations. 1 have had prepared a summary statement of grants for these purposes made over the past 3 years, and with the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate it in Hansard. 

<graphic href="074131197109303_25_9.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="074131197109303_26_10.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="074131197109303_27_11.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="074131197109303_28_12.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="074131197109303_29_0.jpg"></graphic>

It is important to realise that the$ 14.35m which I have been discussing is in no sense the total provision for direct expenditure on Aboriginal advancement. In addition the Commonwealth is seeking in the Budget$16.33m for direct expenditure, mainly by the Department of the Interior, on Aboriginal advancement in the Northern Territory. It has also provided amounts in the votes of other Commonwealth departments, such as the $154,000 in the votes of the Department of Labour and National Service for the continuation of the employment training scheme conducted by that Department - which is, I believe, already having an important effect in increasing permanent employment of young Aborigines. Apart from this the States themselves will, I expect, provide of the order of $13m from their own resources for direct expenditure on Aboriginal advancement during 1971-72, pursuant to the undertaking they entered into with my predecessor to maintain and increase expenditure from their own resources. Total direct national expenditure on Aboriginal advancement for 1971-72 will therefore be of the order of $44m for an estimated Aboriginal population of 140,000. 
It is important to realise that the amount expended is increasing substantially each year. This year's likely expenditure of some $44m compares, for instance, with an expenditure in 1967-68 which is the year before the Commonwealth assumed its new post-referendum responsibility, of some $20m. I have had my officers prepare an approximate table of major direct expenditure over this period, which points up the overall increases. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate the table in Hansard. At this stage the details, particularly of expenditure by the States, are, as I say, approximate only; but the Commonwealth Statistician is preparing more precise tables which should be available later in the year. 

<graphic href="074131197109303_29_1.jpg"></graphic>

Another point worthy of mention is that, because of the nature of the programmes to which these  finances are  devoted, most of the funds are applied to the advancement of the younger generation of Aboriginal Australians. I believe that it is here that the greatest opportunities exist though I also wish to alleviate the very difficult circumstances in which numbers of older Aboriginal Australians live. 
While expenditure on Aboriginal advancement has been rising, and I am sure will rise further, such expenditure is not intended to be a permanent aspect of Australian society. By investing sufficient money in the right areas over the years immediately ahead we will be making it possible for increasing numbers of Aborigines to become independent of the special assistance now being provided through the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account and in other ways, and, where they need assistance, to be progressively cared for by the general provisions made for the community as a whole. In urban communities Aboriginal Australians seem likely to find effective and respected places in our society living and working among their white fellow citizens, although we hope and believe that they will continue to take pride in their Aboriginal identity and culture. In more isolated areas where many communities will be largely or predominantly Aboriginal developments are likely for some time to have a more corporate or group character and to retain many significant elements of Aboriginal tradition. It is our firm conviction that the choice open to Aboriginal Australians in this way is the surest means of developing the diversity in our one Australian society. This will ensure an honoured place for Aboriginal citizens who will be making a significant contribution to our development and culture. 
A recent survey shows that the Aboriginal population may reach 400.000 or more by the end of the century, of which some three-quarters may be persons of mixed descent. Our plan; should be based on this expectation. Notwithstanding the rapid rate of increase, we can hope that special assistance directed towards Aboriginal Australians as such will be necessary for a smaller and declining proportion of them. The Council for Aboriginal Affairs has indicated that for this goal to be achieved increasing emphasis must be given to measures to promote the greater economic independence of Aboriginal Australians as individuals and as groups - especially in the north and centre as communities - and to strengthen their capacity to manage their own affairs. The effectiveness of these policies will be measured by the rate at which progress over the coming years justifies the elimination of measures of social welfare assistance directed at Aboriginal Australians as such, by the increasing contribution to the national product by Aboriginal Australians, and also by the increasing contribution to the varied pattern of Australian social life made by their traditions and culture. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Beazley)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 27 of the National Library Act 1960-1967 I present the eleventh annual report of the Council of the National Library of Australia for the year ended 30th June 1971 together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
Pursuant to section 23 of the Australian War Memorial Act 1962-1966, I present the annua] report of the Board of Trustees of the Australian War Memorial for the year ended 30th June 1971, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following press statement was issued at the conclusion of the meeting: 
Commonwealth and State Ministers, with responsibility for environmental matters, met for the first time today in Canberra. 
Those present were - 
Commonwealth - The Honourable Peter Howson, M.P., Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, 
New South Wales- The Honourable J. G. Beale, M.L.A., Minister for Environmental Control, 
Victoria - The Honourable V.O. Dickie, M.L.C., Minister for State Development, 
Queensland - The Honourable J. BjelkePetersen, M.L.A., Premier and Minister for State Development, 
South Australia - The Honourable G. R. Broomhill, M.H.A., Minister for Conservation, 
Western Australia - The Honourable J. T. Tonkin, M.L.A., Premier and Minister for Environmental Protection, 
Tasmania - The Honourable K. O. Lyons, M.H.A.,  Deputy  Premier and Chief Secretary. 
At today's meeting, Ministers exchanged information on existing legislation and gave their views on the problems of the environment in their areas and the steps that they are formulating to protect it. It was recognised that the State Governments have already been active in a wide range of fields, including national parks, wildlife, water, soil and forest conservation; and control of water and sewerage systems and air, water, oil and noise pollution. 
However, it was agreed that there was a continuing need to combat pollution and to improve the quality of the environment. Ministers discussed the means of continuing Federal and State consultation and the degree to which uniformity of approach was desirable. 
The Ministers decided to meet again as soon as possible and, they hope, before the end of the year. Tentatively, they have arranged to meet on 26th November in Perth at the invitation of the Premier of Western Australia. In preparation for that meeting, Commonwealth and State officers will draw up an agenda for their consideration and, in the meantime, details of legislation and administrative practice will be exchanged. 
The announcement by the Minister for the Interior dealt mainly with a national park in Arnhem Land. However, I am happy to inform the House that the land use advisory authority mentioned in the Press statement is now to be used in all cases in which there is a need to reconcile conservation and economic development interests. The Government proposes to refer to this body matters arising not only in the Northern Territory, which was the subject of the Minister's statement, but also all other cases relating to Commonwealth land within Australia. 
The Commonwealth proposes that the authority will be headed by an independent chairman, with some officials, and also representatives of both conservation and industry organisations. We hope that by so doing we will be setting an example in environmental matters of this nature because I am certain that in the months to come these conflicts of interest between conservation and economic development interests will be of growing importance to the nation. We believe we should set an example in reconciling these conflicting interests. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) As stated by the Prime Minister on 6th May, a Ministerial Committee on Aboriginal affairs has been set up to consider among other matters, whether changes in or developments of policy are desirable in relation to land for the use of Aborigines in the Northern Territory. The requests submitted to the Prime Minister by representatives of the Yirrkala community have also been referred to that Committee. The Committee met for the first time on 3rd August. The issues before it aTe important and complex and it is not possible to say when decisions will be made. 
I announced at the end of last week that Professor Blainey had accepted appointment as Chairman of the Advisory Board of the Commonwealth Literary Fund. At the same time I announced that in a very short time I shall be announcing the names of other people to fill some of the vacancies which exist at the present time on the Board. I think that answers all the immediate questions. 
As I think I indicated some weeks ago in answer to a question by the Leader of the Opposition, the original report of the film committee of the Australian Council for the Arts indicated figures somewhat similar to those quoted by the honourable member. That was the report on which the original decision to set up an Interim Council for a film and television training school was based. The Interim Council then prepared a report, the details of which have also been given to the House by me. In doing so I indicated the difference between the original estimate and the actual estimate after the Interim Council had considered the matter in greater detail. It was on those figures that the Government considered the whole proposal and decided that, for the time being, the proposal be deferred because of the financial stringency at present Last week the Prime Minister asked me to get together as quickly as possible all the facts about the proposal so that they can be re-examined by the Government at a time when the financial stringency is not as great as it is at the present time. In regard to the last part of the honourable member's question, I have not yet received a report, but if one does come to me I shall be interested to learn about it. 1 shall also consider it along the lines of all the other matters I am getting together at the present time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This question has been referred to the New South Wales Commissioner of Police. Obviously investigation into the matters mentioned will take some lime. My Office of Aboriginal Affairs has been informed that information will be forthcoming, and I shall forward it to the honourable member as soon as possible. 
Steelworks at Jervis Bay (Question No. 3773) 
 1  want to say first of all how interested I have been in listening to so many speakers address the House on this first time that the estimates of my Department have been the subject of debate here. It has been a most interesting time to see that all the facets of the Department - environment, Aborigines and the Arts - have come under scrutiny. I assure honourable members that I will take note of all the things that have been said. However, I have been asked to try to confine my remarks to a few minutes, so it will not be possible for me to deal with all the matters that have been raised. For instance, I will take note of the remarks of the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh).  I am well aware of the matter he raised. There will be an opportunity to discuss some of these matters at greater length in the debate on the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill which is on the notice paper. I would prefer to save my remarks on the future of Aboriginal welfare until that later debate.  1  turn now to the matters raised on the subject of the environment. Let me deal first of all with those matters which were raised by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  I feel that I should dwell for a short time on the role as I see it of the Commonwealth in our environmental affairs. I have had an opportunity to study the way in which Federal and State systems relating to environmental matters have been adopted in places throughout the world, but I have not studied it in great depth because the time has not been available. In all the systems that I have looked at I have seen that, however the relationship of division of powers between the Federal government and the State government has been arranged, it has been found that there has to be co-ordination between State and Federal governments. In no case have I found it possible for the Federal Government to lay down policy and expect the States to carry it out unless there is co-operation. The remarks of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  on the matter of soil conservation illustrate this point. 
Wherever there is a federal system there has to be a policy department of the environment and these have to be administrative departments that carry out individual environmental procedures. As I have indicated to the House before and as the honourable member for Reid mentioned, there are seven or eight Commonwealth departments that administer various facets of environmental policy. Therefore, I believe that in environmental matters the role of the Commonwealth - exclusively; of its own responsibility - should be firstly to set an example within its own territories. What we have been doing, for instance, in establishing a land use advisory authority is an example of this. Secondly, it should see that the administrative departments carry out the task and realise how important environmental matters are at this time. In fact it should prod them into activity where that activity possibly needs to be accelerated. Thirdly, the Department of the Environment should co-ordinate the policies of the various administrative departments and generally see that the whole matter is co-ordinated at Common*wealth level. 
We must also remember that at State level there remains the same need for coordination. For instance, I believe that in one State the Minister for the Environment has to co-ordinate 14 other administrative departments. To my mind it is therefore not possible to achieve complete coordination at both State and Federal levels until a similar organisation has been set up at State level to that set up at Commonwealth level. This is what we found at the first meeting of Ministers in September when we addressed ourselves to the problem. However, I have raised these matters with the State Ministers and they will be the subject of further discussion when we meet, again at the end of November. I have also raised with them the need for a national advisory council and as to whether the council should advise the Commonwealth only or whether it should advise the State Ministers as well. Some of the States have asked that they should have time to consider this before I proceed to establish a national advisory council. These are matters that again they have asked for further time to consider, and I think it is right in the light of these important - matters that they should be further considered by the States before we come to a final decision. 
I have also asked them to advise me at the next meeting of Ministers on the attitude they want to take towards the Stockholm conference, a matter also raised by the honourable member for Reid. As I have only a few minutes left I want to turn quickly to the remarks made on the subject of the arts. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  has drawn attention to the form of the estimates and I will take this up with the  Chairman  of the Australian Council for the Arts and see that next year they conform more to the recommendations of the honourable member. I would agree generally with his views that my task should be to enhance Australian cultural development, and in a statement that will be made later today by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  1 think that the honourable member will see what steps are being taken in that regard. Therefore 1 will not go into greater detail tonight on the subject of our general policy on the Arts. 
During the course of this debate some matters have been raised concerning estimates and figures relating to the proposed film school. After answering a question from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the Prime Minister has agreed to take this matter under notice himself and 1 will therefore not comment on it at this moment. However, on the subject of the film industry I want to make it clear that we believe that the film industry should be an efficient industry and an expanding industry but it should be a viable industry. Particularly in the way in which the Film Development Corporation is operating its procedures, it is out to see that films that are helped by the Corporation are viable and profitable. Some of these matters will be referred to in its annual report which 1 hope will be tabled within the next 2 to 3 weeks. On the subject of the school, let me say that the Government has made it clear that because of financial stringencies the decision to establish it had to be deferred. But during that period of deferral I have had a number of important recommendations and suggestions from the industry. 
The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  asked me whether I had heard from the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations. At the time when he was speaking to these estimates I had not, but since then I have received a letter from the Federation and I will be conveying its suggestions to the Interim Council for the Film and Television Training School so that it can take them into account because I believe that important above all things in the film industry is that there should be complete co-operation between the Film Development Corporation the Interim Council and the industry itself. If there are indications that there are ways in which that co-operation can be improved then I think that it is wise that we should take them into account at this stage and that I hope will be done quickly and effectively during the next few weeks. 
Progress reported. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
As the Prime Minister has informed the House, he referred these matters to the Council of Ministers and the Council is still examining it. When the Ministers finish their examination and the Prime Minister has received their report he will make the due announcement to the House. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes - in that growth retardation was established and rate of growth as an index of proteincalorie malnutrition is accepted practice. June 1969. 
YesAustralian Paediatric Journal, June 1969, pp. 71-88 
American Journal of Child Nutrition, June 1969, pp. 716-724 
Medical Journal of Australia, 21st February 1970, pp. 349-356 
The Institute's 1971 Annual Report says that the results of a survey in March-May 1971  of all children on the Mitchell River and Edward River communities on Cape York Peninsula indicate a high rate of mortality and morbidity among Aboriginal children in those two communities. 
The answer  to  the hon  ourable  member's question is as follows: 
The report of the International Parliamentary Conference on the Environment held in Bonn in June 1971 has been brought to the attention of the Government and also to the Preparatory Committee for the United Nations Conference on Human Environment. Many of the issues raised in the report will be discussed at the Stockholm Conference or are being discussed in the Intergovernmental Working Groups on Soils, Marine Pollution. Conservation and Monitoring. Australia is represented on these Working Groups. Regard will be paid to the report of the International Parliamentary Conference in the preparation of Australia's brief for the Stockholm meeting. 
I am well aware of the interest of the honourable member for Ballaarat in the arts, particularly in what he is trying to do to help the display of ballet in his city. I am sorry to hear that apparently there has been some reduction in the amount of money available for the ballet company to perform in Ballarat. I do not know the details but I will certainly get in touch with the  Chairman  of the Australian Council for the Arts and ask him for a full account of the situation. 1 will let the honourable member have a report as soon as possible. 
I think the honourable member is referring to some letters which came to me only over the weekend. I do not know whether he has the dates of those letters which he is referring to I had no knowledge of them until the  Chairman  of the Interim Council informed me that there was some additional information. I will certainly , have a look at the additional information that came in over the weekend and I will ask the Prime Minister or the Acting Prime Minister whether he would wish to table it. 
This material was not available because it had not come in at the time when the Leader of the Opposition asked for the material. If the honourable member remembers, the Leader of the Opposition asked for all the material that was available to me at the time when he asked the question. 
He asked the Prime Minister for all the material available at the time. Everything that was available at the time when the Leader of the Opposition asked his question has been tabled. Since then the  Chairman  of the Interim Council has sent me additional information, and I will be happy to have a look at it and table it if it will help. But first I would like to ask the Prime Minister for his views because, after all, he was dealing with the matter, not I, and I think it is right that I should ask him for his views. Is that not fair enough? 
Yes, I will be delighted to publish that material. As the honourable member for Bradfield will recall, when I summed up in the debate on the estimates of my Department, I said that next year I would ensure that the  Chairman  of the Council for the Arts conveyed the material to me in such a form that it would be readily available in the Budget papers. 
However, in respect of this year's expenditure, I will certainly get the information and have it published as soon as possible. 
Yes, already there are allocations in this year's Budget for helping the crafts. The aim of this committee that has been set up is to consider further ways in which the crafts can be assisted in Australia. That is the main object of the committee. 
What I said yesterday was that this matter has not been concluded by the Committee of Ministers. When it has been concluded the advice will be tendered to the Prime Minister and he will, as he has promised, make a statement to the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am not as familiar with the breeding habits of ibis as is the honourable member for Mallee who knows his electorate so well, but I am sure this is important. I think he would also appreciate that I will have to consult my colleague the Minister for Conservation in Victoria who also would like to take an interest in this matter. I shall have a word with him and together we might see if we could find an appropriate time to visit such a pleastant part of Victoria. 
The honourable member raised similar questions with me a few weeks ago, as to whether the Australian Tourist Commission was prepared to approve funds for regional development. I think I explained at the time that this was a matter that had to come through the State governments concerned. This position still applies and in this instance the matter would have to be one first for the State Government of New South Wales. If that Government approaches me in regard to this matter then the Commonwealth might have a look at it, but at the moment the Government of New South Wales prefers to handle such matters itself. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
25th July 1969. 
Yes. 
The Prime Minister announced in a statement to the House on 26th October 1971 that die Government proposes to appoint  Mr James  Mollison to the post. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wiledrness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament Assembled. The petition of the undersigned elector of the State of Victoria respectfully sheweth: 
That Charles Martin, a 24-year-old graduate in Building Technology, and Geoffrey Mullen, a 24- year-old graduate in Political Science, are serving a two year gaol sentence for failure to comply with the National Service Act, an Act which offends the conscience of many electors who are not directly touched by its provisions. 
That their failure to comply with the Act was done as a matter of conscience, and that their imprisonment must therefore cause concern to all electors who oppose the National Service Act, and the decision to send conscripted troops to Vietnam. 
Your petitioner therefore humbly prays 
That the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will repeal the National Service Act, remove from the record all convictions made under it, and cause Charles Martin and Geoffrey Mullen, and all others imprisoned under it, to be released and cease all further prosecutions under it. 
And your petitioner as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees . to at least 10 million dollars immediately even if this entails reducing spending in other areas 
Encourage and sponsor teams of volunteers with needed skills and medical supplies 
Maintain all this aid for as long as the crisis persists. 
Your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I think that as there is a wide range of questions here I should ask the Leader of the Opposition to place this matter on the notice paper, as  Mr Speaker  has recommended be done in such circumstances. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information has been supplied by the States, the Department of the Interior and the Department of External Territories. 
No. This information is not readily available but the Australian embassies in Ottawa and Washington have been asked to seek it. 
(a) Areas of land have been reserved for the use and benefit of Aborigines in all States and Territories but there has been no statutory recognition of any Aboriginal title in land. 
The Aboriginal Lands Trust Act of 1966 in South Australia established a Trust consisting of three Aboriginal members to which the Aboriginal reserves may, under certain conditions, be entrusted. To date the Trust has taken charge of a number of reserves which are not occupied by Aborigines and one Aboriginal community, at the Point Pearce Reserve, has applied to have the Trust assume responsibility for that reserve. In Victoria the Aboriginal Lands Act 1970 provided for the grant of the two reserves in that State to two Trusts formed of the residents of the reserves. 
Cb) and (c) Since 1949 the Territory of Papua and the Territory of New Guinea have been governed in an administrative union to the extent and in the manner provided by or in pursuance of the Papua and New Guinea Act. 
Approximately 97 per cent of the land area in Papua New Guinea is held by the indigenous persons oi communities by virtue of rights of a proprietary or possessory kind which belong to individuals or communities and arise from and are regulated by native custom. 
These customary rights to land are protected in the laws of the Territory. 
The most important provision in the land legislation protecting these rights provides that only the Administration can purchase or lease land from the native people. The landowners must be willing to dispose of their land and the land must be judged as not required for the present or foreseeable needs of the owners. 
The legislation has been pursued in Papua since 1888 shortly after it became a British Protectorate and was extended to New Guinea when the Australian Administration commenced in 1921 under the League of Nations Mandate. 
(a) Actions by the Commonwealth Government to increase or decrease the size of Aboriginal Reserves - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 13th October an interim answer to the above question appeared stating that the matters raised in the question were under investigation by the New South Wales Commissioner of Police. His report has now come to hand. 
There is no evidence to indicate that Aborigines are subject to discrimination by licensees of hotels or clubs. (2 There are no clubs or hotels known to have policies or rules designed to preclude persons of Aboriginal descent from patronage of premises on grounds of race. 
No club or hotel licensee has been convicted of selling liquor to an intoxicated Aboriginal person. 
The figures required are set out in the table below. 
There is no knowledge of any difficulty being experienced by persons of Aboriginal descent in seeking legal assistance for minor Court appearances. 
The assistance of the Public Solicitor is available to Aborigines charged with more serious types of offences. Legal assistance can also be obtained through the Chamber Magistrate, the Foundation for Aboriginal Affairs, the Bega Valley Aboriginal Advancement Society and the Aboriginal Legal Service. 
I have nothing to add to my answer to the Leader of the Opposition's question last week. When I have some more information it will be conveyed to the Prime Minister who will announce it to the House. 
As the honourable member knows, the information contained in my answer to a previous question was obtained from the Police Commissioner in New South Wales. I have discussed the matter with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs in that State. We have obviously drawn the attention of the authorities in New South Wales to the problem. We are also pleased to see that free legal advice is now being made available and we have helped with the various forms of legal assistance to Aboriginals in New South Wales in regard to some of these problems. We shall continue to do so. But generally the responsibility is a New South Wales matter and we hope that the authorities concerned will be aware of the information that has been made available as a result of this question. 
I seek leave to make a statement on matters which were the subject of a question by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  to me. 
The Government is doing a great deal in the major task it has in the tourist field, namely, to encourage tourists to come to Australia. At the moment, it is spending over $2.5m this year for that purpose. Over the last 2 or 3 years the increase each year in the number of tourists coming to Australia has been of the order of IS per cent per annum, so that on the major task df bringing tourists to Australia, we feel that already the Australian Tourist Commission is doing a great deal. When the tourists get to this great country, the task is to co-operate with the States to ensure that the tourists see the best parts of Australia and the resorts that we feel are worthy of their seeing. One of things we hope to do, in association with the States, is to promote the organising of package tours both with the State Tourist Bureaus and with private operators. This promotion is going fairly well. 
The major task for this year in connection with bringing tourists here was done at the American Society of Travel Agents conference which took place last week in Sydney. As a result of this conference we have already heard that the number of tourists coming to Australia from the United States over the next 12 months will probably increase by at least 20 per cent. What we have learned from that conference is that we should be looking at getting tourists out of the big cities into the countryside and making use of our rural attractions, not only the major attractions like the Great Barrier Reef and the Centre of Australia but also places in the rural areas of the States. The results of the ASTA conference are now being evaluated and I hope that, with my colleague, the Acting Prime Minister, we shall in due time - I trust not before too long - be able to take some new recommendations to the Government part of which will be the result of the lessons we learned last week, because what we have also found is that we need to tie in not only with people who come here but also with people who are doing tours of the South Pacific. The tours which will be promulgated in Australia also will be related to other tours that tourists are making of the South Pacific region as a whole. Some of these lessons, I think, will be very valuable, and I hope that over the next few months my COl.league and I will be able to make great use of this extra information. 
I presume the rest of the question will come next week. I have noticed some of the criticisms by  Mr 6.--.  the former owner of South Molle Island. I think most of his criticism has been directed towards the Queensland  Government.  I think that the only criticism  he  made of our' own activities related to  (he  Bureau of Meteorology and the  cyclone  warning system which was  a  matter that I took up with my colleague the Minister for  the  Interior some time ago. 
As I understand it, most of the problems that were raised at that time have been satisfactorily negotiated. If there are still matters outstanding I will be happy to look at them with the honourable member. What I have noted, however, is that the person who has purchased South Molle Island has stated that be is going to spend between $2m and $3m in developing the island and bringing it up to international standards. I am grateful to see that this is taking place as a result of the activities of both the Queensland Tourist Bureau and the Australian Tourist Commission which have produced a report on the Great Barrier Reef, some of the recommendations of which are now being taken up along the lines adopted by the new owner of South Molle Island. This shows that through cooperation with private operators we are getting an increasing number of tourists, particularly on the Barrier Reef, and I am pleased to see it. 
The answer to the hon ourable member's question is as follows: (1) to (5) See Hansard, page 3229. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During 1970-71 344 works were acquired for the National Collection at a cost of $256,277. 
The following Commonwealth building projects have allowed for works of art: 
Weston Creek 'B' High School 
Macgregor Primary School 
Flynn Primary School 
Belconnen 24 Primary School 
Belconnen, Western Offices 
Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport 
Melbourne (Tullamarine) Airport. 
The question of establishing an Australian National Gallery Trust Fund has been considered but further action has been deferred pending the establishment of the Australian National Gallery Council. The Prime Minister announced on 26th 
October, during the course of his statement on the arts in Australia, that it is the Government's intention now to legislate for a permanent council as a statutory body to administer the Gallery. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows. State authorities and the Department of the 
Interior have provided information so that the answer could be compiled: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) The vendors have agreed to a ceiling price, subject to an inspection of the properly. 
As soon as practicable. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Whent he details referred to come to hand, they will be incorporated in Hansard. 
Pursuant to section 13 of the Aboriginal 
Enterprises (Assistance) Act 1968, I present the third annual report by the Office of Aboriginal Affairs on the administration and operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: - that only  a  quick settlement of the PakistanBanglaDesh issue will make it possible to avert the death of many millions. - that the danger of major warfare, which could come to involve the superpowers, will not pass until there is such a settlement. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representativesin Parliament assembled should: - urge that the Government of Australia cease all aid to the West Pakistan Government, either directly or through SEATO where this may be used for military purposes that such aid be applied for the relief of the refugees. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Official statistics do not show the information in the form requested. Details of cruise passengers are. included in the tables below which have been compiled from statistics published by the Commonwealth Statistician. 
Passengers Visiting Australia by Sea 
The numbers of direct 'transit passengers visiting Australia by sea, including those on regular ships' voyages as well as passengers on cruise from overseas were as follows - 
 in reply - 1 agree with the remarks of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  as to the importance of the Bill that we arc now discussing. Among the many task that 1 have as a Minister, at the present time there is nothing more important than the welfare of the Aboriginal people. 1 want to speak to the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  which deals with the Government's responsibilities accorded to it at the referendum of May 1967. The record is quite clear that since 1967 the Government has to a very great extent shouldered the responsibilities that were handed to it by the people of Australia. Let rn: deal first of all with the matter of financial support. This is not the only aspect that is important, but it is one which needs to be highlighted. When the Government took over these responsibilities in 1967-68 the amount of money which the States were then spending on Aboriginal affairs was $1 Im; the Commonwealth in its Territories was spending $8.9m. This is a total of just under $20m being spent on the Aboriginal people in that year. This year the States have raised their expenditure from Slim to ?13m while the Commonwealth has raised its expenditure in its Territories from $8.9m to $ 16.33m. It has increased its allocation to the Office of Aboriginal Affairs to nearly $15m. So this year a total of over $44m is being spent on 140,000 Aboriginal people. I do not say that this is anything like the amount that is needed to shoulder all the tasks that need to be done. There has been a tremendous increase in activity and welfare devoted towards Aboriginal people throughout the whole of Australia, and I believe that this Government has taken a tremendous interest in these problems. My predecessor has done so much over the years to improve the welfare of these people, for whom we must have great care. 
 I have already said that, and made it quite clear. The matter must be seen in perspective, and honourable members must remember what has been done, what is being done and how this effort is being increased year after year. 
The second thing that has been mentioned during this debate is the role of the States. I want to remind the House again of what the former Prime Minister, the Right 
Honourable Harold Holt, said immediately after the referendum had taken place: 
I  would stress at this point that, while the 
Commonwealth Parliament is now in a position to make laws and to prevail should a conflict arise with the States, the Commonwealth does not seek to intrude unnecessarily in this field, or into areas of activity currently being dealt with by the States. There is a big variation in circumstances and the needs of Aboriginals in (he different Stales, as all honourable members who have made a study of this matter will readily agree. For this reason, administration has to be on u regional - or State - basis if it is to bo effective, litis is the only practical way of ensuring that Aboriginals receive direct attention and assistance. 
This matter was also referred to by my predecessor, the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  in a speech that he made in this House in 1969. 1 want to ask honourable members opposite this question: In this year in which a total amount of over $44m is being spent on behalf of the Aboriginal people, would (his amount be used more effectively if it was administered entirely by the Com,monwealth or if it was administered, as we propose, partly by the State governments and partly by the Commonwealth? I believe that a co-operative effort between the Slates and the Commonwealth in the long run produces a more effective way of administering these funds than if we tried to lake all this matter over and run it ourselves, lt is for these reasons that I refute the implication that the Commonwealth has not assumed and honoured its responsibilities. 
A number of very useful points have  bs-m  raised during the course of this debate. I would like to deal with some of them. 1 agree with the honourable member for Fremantle on the importance o!' housing. Over the last 4 years we have aided the States to the tune of over Sl 5m. This assistance has not only been in the field of housing. The Commonwealth also has given some importance to the need lor hostels for students, apprentices, trainees and workers. In the first 3 years the Commonwealth provided, in addition, 1,000 houses. This year, we hope, at. least another 500 houses will be built. We must remember that these houses will be completely in addition to what is being done by the States. 
We arc trying to arrange this year, in conjunction with the Royal Australian 
Institute of Architects, a seminar  which will deal with the design of low-cost, selfhelp housing in central- and northern Australia. We think that we should encourage Aboriginals to take part in the building of their own homes. Also we hope to encourage the formation of housing societies which, again, is a development which is most important. 
The honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  raised the question of housing mobility. He pointed to the fact that Aboriginals were moving from one place to another apparently due to employment prospects and to the general pull of Aboriginal people towards the big cities. This is a problem with which we are contending all of the lime. However, we face a problem in that whereas last year one might have carried out a survey as to where houses were required, in the next year the needs might be completely different. Some form of temporary or mobile housing may be necessary as well as the provision of hostels  to which  I have already referred. I talked to the honourable member for Brisbase  (Mr Cross)  about the question of hostels ' for people coming into the cities from country areas. This is one of the matters to which I am giving a great deal of attention and I think that the honourable member knows this. 
I would now like to deal with education. I believe that, again, there has been an increase in the number of study grants awarded in 1971. Secondary grants for school leavers and people beyond school leaving age have increased from 2,379 in 1970 to an expected 5,700 in 1972. Therefore, the Commonwealth is doing much more than has been done before to encourage Aboriginal children to stay at school much longer than they have in the past. Of importance also is the question of pie-schooling, which was raised by the honourable member for Fremantle. By direct grants and grants to the States a total of S.5m for Aboriginal pre-schooling, including capital funds for new buildings and extensions and for special equipment has been made available this year. I wonder whether I could seek permission to include in Hansard a table showing how this aspect was dealt with? 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
to (7) The National Library of Australia has provided the following answers: 
Yes, including a restricted service point at Mawson. 
Yes, if the Mobile Library is included. 
Yes. The range of the Mobile Library la not restricted to Canberra itself. In addition to providing services to residents in developing surburbs and areas not within easy reach of branches, stops are made at Hall, Uriarra, Mt Stromlo andthe Cotter Pumping Station. Special stops are also made at the War Veterans' Home, Lyneham and Goodwin Centre, Ainslie. 
The tablebelow gives book stock figures as at 30th September 1971. A detailed breakdown of children's book stock is not available. 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Australian Film Development Corporation Act 1970, I present the first annual report of the Australian Film Development Corporation for the year ended 30th June 1971., together with financial statements and the AuditorGeneral's report on those statements. 
The Australian Film Development Corporation and the Australian Council for the Arts did provide some funds to help in the production of the film 'Stockade', which was intended to portray a memorable episode in Australia's history. I have not seen the film. I was unable to be at its premiere in Ballarat last Friday. The honourable member for Ballarat and his wife, who is a prominent member of the Council for the Arts and who knows some of the background to this matter, attended that premiere. I am disturbed to hear the matters raised by the honourable member. I do know that the film has been given a 'M' rating by the censor which means that children if accompanied by their parents will be able to see it. In view of the matters raised by the honourable member, I certainly will convey his comments to the  Chairman  of the Australian Council for the Arts and the  Chairman  of the Australian Film Development Corporation. As soon as I receive a report from them, I shall convey it to the honourable member. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this matter. Before the debate is resumed on this order of the day I would like to suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this order of the day and the next order of the day as they are associated with the same subject. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 2 orders of the day to be discussed in this debate. 
I will have pleasure in talking to the Minister for Education and Science about this matter. There are a number of flies in the House. Possibly we can deal with them straight away - the others may take longer because there are even more flies in Western Australia than there are in Canberra. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is a,* follows: 
to (3) Advertising by Commonwealth departments is handled through an association of advertising agencies known as the Commonwealth Advertising Council. With few exceptions fixed period contracts between a department and a particular agency have net been involved. 
Placing/charging work is passed through four agencies each of which is appointed for a 5 year period to cover a particular media category (Press Display, Press Classified), Radio/Television and Miscellaneous). 
For planning/production of advertising material, individual agencies are selected by the Commonwealth Advertising Branch of the Australian Gov.ernment Publishing Service to handle specific requirements rather than being engaged on a period contract basis. 
During the year ended 30th June 1971 the Branch used the services of 46 advertising agencies. Of these agencies 33 arc understood to be substantially Australian-owned and 13 to be substantially foreign-owned. 
and (5) 1 am not in possession of full details of United States policies in regard to government advertising. I am having enquiries made and will provide the information obtained as soon as possible. 
I am having enquiries made and will provide the information obtained as soon as possible. 
and (8) The basic aim of Commonwealth purchasing policy in advertising, as in oilier fields, is to obtain the best value for money spent. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no evidence available at present to indicate that mercury pollution is becoming a danger to the Australian fishing industry or to people who eat significant quantities of fish caught in Australian waters. 
Mercury occurs naturally in the ocean by the erosion of mercury bearing rocks. In addition, other industries besides caustic soda and chlorine plants also contribute to the volume of mercury entering the sea as industrial waste. 
Caustic soda and chlorine are produced in some plants by a process which does not use mercury. Where mercury is used in the production process and effluent is discharged into estuarine and coastal waters, mercury could enter marine food chains. One company which has undertaken research in waters surrounding the discharge points for treated effluent from its chlorine/caustic soda plants has reported that the maximum concentrations of mercury in fish are well below the minimum safety levels set by the United States Food and Drug Administration and the recently recommended standards of the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
The matter is generally the responsibility of the States except in the Commonwealth's own territories. 
1 am aware of a proposal to set up a caustic soda-chlorine plant near the Great Barrier Reef but I understand that the proposed plant is for a diaphragm process which does not use mercury. 
My answer to the relevant part of the question was: 'If by "systematic'" the honourable member means "unified and standard", the answer is no. However. State and Commonwealth Departments of Health and the Department of Customs and Excise check the quality of water, air and food'. 
I will refer the general question of mercury pollution in Australian waters to the Australian Environment Council. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the honourable member will appreciate, there is a very great number of statutes which impinge on environmental control and pollution. For example, Appendix 3 of the Report from the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution in Australia lists 162 Commonwealth and State statutes dealing with water pollution and these, the Committer notes, are 'illustrative only of the multiplicity . . . involved and should not be taken as inclusive of all that may be concerned'. However, 1 shall discuss with my colleagues on the Australian Environment Council the question of assembling the data which the honourable member has sought. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) In general, the questions would be more appropriately addressed to the New South Wales State Government. However, I would be prepared to seek information concerning any particular Commonwealth work in the Botany Bay area in which the honourable member may be interested. 
A study of the marine ecology of Botany Buy would be the responsibility of the relevatnt State authority. If the New South Wales Government were to seek assistance from the Commonwealth in such a study, the matter would be considered in the light of the facts presented. 
On 9th December 1971 the Attorney-General in his reply to question upon notice No. 4742 stated that I had been asked to supply the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  with a written answer to part (5) of the question. The answer is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Literary Fund assists authors both directly and indirectly. Direct assistance is provided by way of fellowships and research grants to writers engaged or wishing to engage in literary projects. Indirect assistance is provided through assistance to publishers for the publication of manuscripts of literary, merit. The Fund also helps Australian writers and writing through lecture programmes, writers' workshops and seminars, and by way of support for literary magazines. It also operates a scheme of pensions for Australian writers of national stature. The appropriations for Commonwealth Literary Fund activities for each of the last 5 years have been as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
These questions would be more appropriately addressed to the Queensland Minister for State Development. 1 am however making enquiries of the Minister and will advise the honourable member in due course. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
These questions would be more appropriately addressed to the Queensland Minister for State Development. I am however making enquiries of the Minister and will advise the honourable member in due course. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
These questions would be more appropriately addressed to the Queensland Minister for State Development. I am however making enquiries of the Minister and will advise the honourable member in due course. 
by leave - As the honourable members of this House are aware, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  issued a comprehensive statement on Australia Day when the House was in recess. In that statement, the Prime Minister dealt with the Government's overall policy for Australian Aborigines and its specific policy on land and gave a summary of the Commonwealth's achievements in that area.  Mr Speaker,  I now table that important document. Copies of this statement are now available for circulation to those honourable members who want them. 
Now I would like to inform the House of the Government's intentions for the advancement of the Aborigines and explain the implications of our present policy. Fundamentally, the Government's aim is to have one Australian society in which all Australians - including Aboriginal Australians - will have equal rights, responsibilities and opportunities. We seek in this that Aborigines will achieve effective and respected places in a single Australian society. But at the same time they will be encouraged to preserve and develop their own culture, languages, traditions and arts, which will become living elements in the diverse culture of our society. The Government recognises that individual Aborigines have a right to decide for themselves at what pace and to what extent they come to Identify themselves with that society. We believe that they will do this more readily and more happily when they are drawn to it voluntarily and when their membership of it encourages them to maintain and take pride in their identity, their traditions and their culture. The thought of separate development of Aborigines as a long-term aim is completely alien to the Government's objectives. In line with this policy, certain new decisions have been taken. Mainly, these decisions are concerned with Aborigines in the Northern Territory, because it is a vast area of Australia in which the Commonwealth has direct responsibility for the development of the 22,000 Aboriginal Australians there. 
Let me deal firstly with the decisions that have been made for those Aborigines who wish to continue substantially to follow their traditional way of life. If they are living on reserves in the Northern Territory, they have been able to hunt and forage throughout the land. However, some questions have been raised as to whether existing legislation properly covers this situation. So that there shall be no doubt whatsoever, the Government has decided to provide explicitly in legislation for Aborigines to have effective access for hunting and foraging on reserves. Aborigines already enjoy, by law, these rights on lands covered by pastoral leases off reserves. It is important also that the lands used by Aboriginal communities for religious and ceremonial purposes be protected. The Government has decided to complete, as expeditiously as possible, programmes to delineate and protect for years to come areas of land both within and outside reserves for Aboriginal religious and ceremonial purposes. 
Thirdly, the Government has decided that there shall be a new mining code so that mining development will not interfere with the present Aboriginal way of life. To this end. the Government is going to consult with any Aboriginal communities which might be affected by such mining activities so that their welfare will be taken into account when applications for exploration and mining development rights are being considered. Exploration rights will be granted on the basis that the granting of development rights will be deferred if, in the Government's view, they would be detrimental to the interests and well-being of an Aboriginal community in the area. Finally, the Government wishes to make clear that the present reserves cannot be alienated for other purposes without an effective opportunity for a review of such proposals both by the Legislative Council of the Northern Territory and also by both Houses of the Commonwealth Parliament. 
In the opinion of the Government, these 4 new decisions make it clear that everything is being done to allow Aborigines who wish to continue their present way of life to do so. However, there are many indications today that a large proportion of present Aboriginal communities are wishing to move towards a new way of life and to make alternative uses of land. It is for this reason that the Government has decided to introduce new legislation to provide for what we have called a general purpose lease'. This new form of lease, which may be obtained by Aboriginal communities or groups on reserves in the Northern Territory, represents an imaginative attempt to adapt Australian legal forms to fit in with Aboriginal ideas in relation to land. Those who know Aboriginal thinking about their relation to land with which they are associated, or those who have read the judgment by  Mr Justice  Blackburn in the Gove land case, will know that the traditional Aboriginal relationship to land does not fit in .with what is known in the Australian system as 'freehold'. 'Freehold', in the Australian legal system, represents a holding from the Crown, tantamount to exclusive ownership of the land, entailing a right to use and dispose of the land as the titleholder wishes. This notion, we believe, is alien to Aboriginal thought and custom. A lease under Australian law also differs from Aboriginal ideas, but it is capable of greater adaptation and, in the proposals advanced by the Government, an imaginative attempt has been made to adapt it to Aboriginal ideas and aspirations. 
It is possible under these proposals for a community or group of Aborigines to obtain a 50-year lease of land at a nominal rent for a variety of purposes. These include economic and social purposes and, in this context, social includes Aboriginal educational, recreational, cultural and religious activities. Fifty years need not be a limiting factor in practice. It is consistent with the usual long-term pastoral leases given in the Territory and it provides a period at the end of which review will be appropriate. It does not mean that if the community still has the same needs it cannot obtain a further 50-year lease. However, great changes have taken place over the past 50 years in both Aboriginal communities and European communities. It is likely that within the next 50 years further changes are going to take place, and the generation that is now young or as yet unborn may have very different ideas of land use from their parents now living. The idea of a lease provides flexibility in regard to future generations which we believe to be wise. On the other hand, the granting of a freehold title to a community provides a degree of inflexibility which may not be in the best interests of future generations. It is interesting that, in an interview that  Mr Roy  Marika and other members of the Yirrkala community had with the Prime Minister a few days ago, they intimated that they were contemplating applying for a general purpose lease in the Gove area. This shows that already there are Aboriginal communities that are prepared to endorse this new policy and participate in it. 
We believe that the Government has made far-sighted decisions which should be welcomed by the Aboriginal people and we hope that many communities will be applying for general purpose leases in the months to come. Several government agencies will foe available to applicants to give professional advice is planning the effective use of the land and funds will be available from various sources to help to develop these plans. The Government has recognised that there will be a number of Aboriginal communities living outside reserves which would also wish to obtain leases to develop land for similar purposes. The Government has decided, therefore, to establish a fund of S5m in the first year, with an extra $2m a year for the next 4 years, in order to purchase land which might become available outside reserves both in the Northern Territory and in the States. As I said in my second reading speech on the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill last October, governments throughout Australia are spending some $44m this year on behalf of 140,000 Aborigines and, in addition, as 
Australian citizens, they also receive social services and other similar benefits. This figure of $44m is now to be augmented by the $5m land fund to which I have just referred. Also, several reports are being prepared by expert committees on special problems which affect the Aborigines of the north and these reports will give valuable guidance to those concerned with Aboriginal development. One thing that impressed me greatly during my recent trip to the reserves in the western part of the Northern Territory was that there are no longer any nomadic Aborigines in that part of the Territory. In this area every Aboriginal has chosen to give up the old roaming and hunting existence. They have moved to communities on reserves where they have taken the first step towards acceptance of a. single Australian society. On the reserves they are learning useful skills in a training scheme which pays them a training allowance and they are benefiting from a better diet, health services and education for their children. At the Port Keats mission community I saw Aborigines engaged in making bricks, sawing timber and erecting their own homes - in fact, entering into this new way of life. They are doing so and choosing to effect this change voluntarily. At Yuendumu the Aborigines have made remarkable progress; they have their own modern community hall, a community store and various worthwhile enterprises. In fact, therefore, voluntary change is now taking place in many Aboriginal communities throughout the Northern Territory. The new steps that the Government has announced will help these changes to proceed, with Aboriginal communities freely involved in the process of working out their own future. We hope, therefore, that all communities, both Aboriginal and European, will work together to make the new policies effective. I present the following paper: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following Press statement was issued at the conclusion of the meeting: 
In Perth today, a meeting of Commonwealth and Slate Ministers with responsibility for the environment agreed to the formation of an Australian Environment Council. 
It is intended that, in this way, to achieve effective consultation and co-ordination between Commonwealth and State Governments on appropriate environment matters. One of the foremost topics discussed by Ministers was the need for measures to encourage enterprise and individuals to increase efforts to combat pollution and protect the environment. 
Ministers also agreed that there was a need to assess any other possible measures which could encourage installation of plant, equipment and buildings so as to yield definite benefits for the environment. 
The meeting discussed financial and technical problems associated with community and industrial waste together with ways and means of sharing costs between polluters and the community. 
The Australian Environment Council is to have prepared a statement of requirements for environment research in relation to national and State needs. 
It will also obtain a survey of current and proposed environment research programmes and an assessment of where there may be any substantial deficiencies. 
The Ministers are aware of the broad range of interests in the environment and they will discuss further with fellow Ministers as to the best method of co-ordination of the new Council with other existing bodies. 
The Ministers agreed to meet again in April, with Sydney as the proposed venue. Ministers attending were - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Two projects have received assistance through the Capital Fund in the last 12 months in South Australia: 
A bakery project at Ernabella. 
Expansion of a grading contracting project in Adelaide. 
The Ernabella project is in the electoral division of Grey. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The 1966 Census counted as Aborigines persons of half or more than half Aboriginal descent: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) None. 
Based on their housing requirements each year, the States apply for funds to finance the construction or purchase of a specified number of houses,, and the Commonwealth makes funds available under the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Act towards their housing programmes. 
Details of expenditure on housing by both State and Commonwealth Governments were provided in my reply to Question 2232 - see Hansard, page No. 3758, 25th November 1971. 
The honourable member for Ryan will know that the major task of the Australian Tourist Commission is to encourage overseas tourists to come to Australia. That is done in a number of ways in conjunction with ' the State tourist authorities and the airlines. As a result of the American Society of Travel Agents conference which took place in Sydney towards the end of last year there has been a tremendous wave of enthusiasm and interest in, particularly, the United States of America where many tourists wish to come here. A great deal of publicity is now being undertaken in that country through the contacts that we made during that conference. Many other markets are also being opened up and developed at this time in, particularly, Japan as well as our normal markets in New Zealand and, of course, Europe. Whether we should assist in developing special tourist attractions within Australia is a matter which has been suggested to me in recent weeks by the industry. This matter is now being examined. In due course I shall be submitting information on it to the Government. 
On 9th December 1971 the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin)  asked me in a question without notice whether the Australian Council for the Arts and the Australian Film Development Corporation had supervised or had any knowledge of the contents of the film Stockade' before or during its production. He also asked what steps, if any, could be taken by the Government to remove the film from circulation, because of what he considered to be its immoral content. 
The Australian Council's interest was to enable the work of an Australian playwright which had previously been produced at the Independent Theatre in Sydney with assistance from the Council to be taken a stage further into film production. The play had been seen by several members of the Council before this decision was taken. 
The Corporation's Executive Officer and others saw the play and reported to the Corporation on its content.I have been informed by the  Chairman  of the Corporation that no major changes were involved in transferring the play to the film medium. 
The film does not contravene any law of the Commonwealth and consequently there are no grounds on which the Government can insist on its withdrawal from circulation. 
Australian Broadcasting Commission Film: 'Like a Summer  Storm' (Question No. 4676) 
If the honourable member for Shortland will let me have the brochure and correspondence I will have a look at the matters he has raised. Generally this matter refers to the problem of licensing of travel agencies which has been looked at by the ministerial committee of both State and Federal Ministers for Tourism. It is proposed that we should examine a model Act which would need to be passed by both the State Parliaments and the Federal Parliament. This proposal was raised at the last meeting of Tourist Ministers, which was held in Port Moresby last year, and at the moment is being dealt with by the Victorian Minister for Tourism. When we have got further on this matter 1 shall have more news for this Parliament. 
As the honourable member for Ballaarat will know, I conveyed his views on these recently subsidised films to the  Chairman  of the Film Development Corporation. 1 think the House is already aware of the strong views that the honourable member for Ballarat has in this matter of pornography. I am sure that the  Chairman  of the Film Development Corporation will keep in mind the honourable member's views when any further applications are received for a subsidy of this nature. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  
to (3) For details of Commonwealth assistance for the years 1949-50 to 1967-68 I refer the honourable member to the then Prime Minister's answer on 22nd October 1968 to his earlier question on this subject. (Hansard, page 2219.) 
Details of expenditure on the Arts and Letters in subsequent years are set out in the table below. Also included are figures of expenditure for Commonwealth assistance to Arts and Letters in the Australian- Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, which have been provided by the Department of the Interior. Figures for the UNESCO committees have not been included because they would have to be estimates. 
As pointed out in the answer to the previous question, there are other avenues of Commonwealth support for the Arts and Letters, e.g., by way of taxation concessions and through the Australian Broadcasting Commission, colleges of advanced education, and universities. However, it is not practicable to measure the value of the assistance provided in this way. 
Because of the difficulty of determining the total amount of assistance given by the Commonwealth to the Arts and Letters. I am unable to show such expenditure as a percentage of the gross national product or of budget expenditure for the years concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Index to Departmental Activities: 1918, 1919 and 1920. 
by leave -  Mr Speaker,  honourable members will recall that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in his statement on the arts in Australia, delivered in this House on 26th October last, said a committee of inquiry would be established to examine the role of the crafts as art forms in their own right, as a widely spread experience of creative processes and as the foundation of good industrial design. He said the committee would include representatives of the Council for the Arts, the Commonwealth Art Advisory Board and the Industrial Design Council of Australia, who would jointly advise on the committee's terms of reference. At a meeting of chairmen of agencies which advise me on support for the arts, it was agreed that our programmes should have the following broad aims: 
The promotion of a standard of excellence over the whole field of the arts: 
The widening of access to and understanding and appreciation of the arts in the community generally, the expression of an Australian identity through the arts: and 
The presentation of Australia's cultural achievements abroad. 
These aims we have taken to apply equally to the crafts, and I am pleased to inform the House that a committee has now been established to undertake this inquiry into the state of the crafts in Australia. The committee comprises  Mr K.  Bonython  (Chairman), art dealer and member of the Australian Council for the Arts; Mr E. Westbrook, Director of the National Gallery of Victoria, representing the Industrial Design Council of Australia; Mr C. Last, sculptor and member of the Commonwealth Art Advisory Board; Mr J. Mollison, Director of the Australian National Gallery; and Mr F. McCarthy, Principal of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies. The crafts are taken to include, but are not confined to, furniture, jewellery, glass, metalwork, pottery and textile construction. 
I expect the committee to begin its inquiries immediately. It will gather evidence widely from people and organisations concerned with the crafts and, after evaluating the results, report to the Government on what it sees as the needs and requirements of the crafts in Australia today. The duration of the inquiry will depend to a large extent on what the committee's investigations reveal, but I hope to have some preliminary indication of its findings by September and a final report by the end of the year. One outcome of the inquiry could be to help Australian craftsmen to improve their work and to take greater pleasure and satisfaction in it. I expect also that Australians generally will be encouraged to appreciate the Australian crafts and take pride in them. 
Ultimately, I hope people in the world markets will see instinctively that the products of Australian craftsmanship, including also Aboriginal craftsmanship, are characteristically Australian, not because they are marked 'Made in Australia', but because of a high degree of artistry, skill and style enhanced by high standards of industrial design. In other words, the craft works of 
Australia will have an Australian image which will make them recognisable as Australian just as one can readily identify the craft works of other countries on display for sale in this country. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Archives Office of my Department already carries out such functions. I will look into the need as to whether legislative action is desirable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Understood to be substantially Australianowned - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Office of Aboriginal Affairs has already made grants for - 
the establishment of pre-schools in northern areas of South Australia where the Aboriginal language, Pitjantjatjara, is used as (he medium of instruction in the early years of pre-schooling and schooling; and 
the development of courses provided at the Western Teacher's College in Adealide where instruction in the language is provided for trainee teachers. 
Grants have been made to other bodies, including the Institute for Aboriginal Development in Alice Springs, where courses are now provided in Aboriginal languages and to the Summer Institute of Linguistics to assist the work of field workers in several Aboriginal communities who are providing literacy instruction for adults and others in the local Aboriginal languages. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have seen reports that pyroloysis (destructive distillation) techniques, initially developed at the United States Bureau of Mines to determine the yield and quality of the products from coal, are being translated to convert domestic and industrial refuse into potentially useful solids, liquids and gas. 
The Australian Environment Council has commenced an examination, of the financial and technical problems associated with community waste together with ways and means of sharing costs between polluters and the community. 
The answer to the last part of the question is no. As to the first part of the question, the reason why these people were selected to form this committee of inquiry into the crafts was that it was decided that they had general knowledge over the whole field of arts and crafts in Australia. The Crafts Council has made special representations concerning the membership of the committee. I have pointed out to the Council that people who have special vested interests in this field should not be appointed to the committee but should have full opportunity to present their views to the committee. I have told the Crafts Council that it will have every opportunity to present its views and that all those views will be taken fully into consideration by the committee during its deliberations. I hope the committee will start its hearings within the course of the next few days. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See (1) above. 
United States Defence Bases in Australia (Question No. 4733) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The planning of an Australia-wide study of Aboriginal health problems mentioned by my colleague, the then Minister in charge of Aboriginal Affairs, on 17th February 1971 referred to action being taken to implement the recommendations of the Workshop on the health and nutrition of Aboriginal children held in Sydney in December 1969. I also referred to these recommendations in my reply of 7th September last. Action was by way of assisting State and Northern Territory Directors of Health to develop and implement health programmes including an offer to them to consider providing funds for any surveys necessary. The Commonwealth Department of Health is co-ordinating the work of individual States and the Northern Territory and in addition has a continuing role as co-ordinator for the CommonwealthState Conferences on Aboriginal Health Services. It is not and has not been undertaking itself, in conjunction with the office of Aboriginal Affairs, an Australia-wide study in the sense that my colleague's answer of 17th February last year has apparently led the honourable member to believe. 
Health measures undertaken by the States partly with funds provided by the Commonwealth in the 1970-71 and 1971-72 financial years include the improvement of rural health services and facilities, the training and employment of Aboriginal health workers, health education programmes and research studies and surveys. Some current programmes which have important although indirect effects on Aboriginal health include increased expenditure on housing and education, both of which were considered by the Workshop to be necessary pre-requisites for change in the present health situation. 
A number of individual studies have been and are being supported by grants from the Office of Aboriginal Affairs on the recommendation of the National Health and Medical Research Council. Studies on aspects of child health are being under taken in various areas of Australia, some on a longitudinal basis. Other aspects of Aboriginal health, including family nutrition, ear disease and deafness and dental health are also being examined. 
Such studies will provide a basis for the development of existing programmes to further improve the health of Aboriginal Australians in all areas of Australia. 
A further seminar to review existing knowledge and propose the most effective health services for meeting the problems of Aboriginal health is being conducted by the Monash Centre for Research into Aboriginal Affairs in May with financial support from the Office of the Aboriginal Affairs as well as from the Victorian Government, the Myer Foundation and the Secondary Schools Aboriginal Affairs Fund, and the organisers hope that other organisations also will make financial contributions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since Australia joined the OECD in June 1971, there have been 2 meetings (Nos 3 and 4) of the Environment Committee held on 29th September to 1st October 1971 and 9th to 11th February 1972 respectively. The Australian delegation to Meeting No. 3 was led by our Ambassador to 
OECD and to meeting No. 4 by the First Assistant Secretary, Office of the Environment Division of my Department. Officers from the permanent delegation and from Australia have attended a variety of specialist sector and ad hoc group meetings set up under the aegis of the Environment Committee. The delegation and the departments concerned in Australia keep in close touch with the work of the Environment Directorate through its documentation. 
The Environment Committee of OECD has the following mandate - 
To investigate the problems of preserving or improving man's environment with particular reference to their economic and trade implications; 
To review and confront actions taken or proposed in Member countries in the field of environment together with their economic and trade implications; 
To propose solutions for environmental problems that would as far as possible take account of all relevant factors, including cost effectiveness; 
To ensure that the results of environmental investigations can be effectively utilised in the : wider framework of the Organisation's work on economic policy and social development. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At this stage I am not persuaded that legislation is either necessary or appropriate for (a) which concerns inter-departmental administration. However the need for archives legislation is being examined. As to (b), clearly it is not necessary for all officers of the Commonwealth Archives Office to be so trained. 
Approximately 3 months on average. 
I am not aware that this kind of research is being seriously impeded for such reasons. With a view, however, to overcoming current delays in making archives available to the public, the Commonwealth Archives Office has engaged a number of temporary employees and is pursuing the possibility of engaging more. In addition, proposals to increase its permanent staff are being examined by the Public Service Board. 
Clutha Development  (Question No. 4381)  Mr Uren  asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Did the Minister's predecessor say, in answer to question No. 2539 (Hansard, 6th May 1971, page 2869), that in connection with the proposed Clutha Development at Coalcliff in New South Wales, the powers of a State to authorise the building of a jetty out from shore, for loading coal mined inland, involved different questions of law and policy to those raised in the case of the inquiry into oil-drilling in the Great Barrier Reef area which do not provide a precedent. 
If so, is the Minister able to state the conditions under which the Commonwealth would provide financial support for a challenge by conservation organisations against the Government of New South Wales in the High Court. 
Will the proposed Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill, when enacted, have any legal bearing on the situation. 
 I have already answered a question on this matter from the honourable member for Sturt. The members of the committee have a wide knowledge of the arts in all its forms. The  chairman  is a member of the Council for the Arts. Another member is a member of the Art Advisory Board and another member has particular knowledge of Aboriginal arts and crafts. I have informed the Crafts Council of Australia already that I would expect its members to make representations to the committee and that they will have a full and open opportunity to put all their views to the committee. Therefore, they will have a wonderful opportunity to make representations on behalf of all their members throughout Australia. I believe that this is the best way in which to have a full hearing of the needs of these important people in the community. The first meeting of this committee will take place on 26th April. I believe that once the bearings are under way the members of the Crafts Council can be very well pleased with the hearing that they will receive. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question would be more appropriately addressed to the State Minister for Environmental Control. I have asked the New South Wales Minister if he will provide me with information on the matter raised in the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In November 1971 the Prime Minister had discussions in Washington with the  Chairman, Mr Russell  Train, and other members of the United States Council on Environmental Quality. 
We have continuing contact with the United States Authorities through our scientific liaison staff at the Embassy in Washington. In addition,  a  senior officer of my Department recently had discussions in Washington with officials of environment agencies. 
 Mr Speaker,  I present for the information of honourable members the Third Report of the Interim Council for a National Film and Television Training School, together with associated letters of 20th, 21st and 28th March from the  Chairman  of the Interim Council and a letter dated 2nd March from  Mr Hector  Crawford to the  Chairman  of the Interim Council. I seek leave to make a statement concerning this document. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
At its meeting on 7th April, the Australian Environment Council discussed the problems of non-returnable containers and packaging generally. It agreed that the problem of such containers was increasing and noted that the problem was being researched in a number of States. The Council has directed that a sub-committee carry out a review of the problem and possible solutions with the packaging and container industry. 
This matter has been the subject of discussion between the Film Development Corporation, which is a statutory body, and the Chief Secretary in New South Wales. I understand also that it is to be the subject of representations to the current Tariff Board inquiry. So for the time being, as this matter is being discussed in other quarters, I feel that il would be wiser for the whole matter to be aired before I take it up with the Ministers in the States. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In a letter of 6 January to the Secretary of the Griffith Aborigines Advancement Organization, written on behalf of the Prime Minister, I gave an assurance that it continues to be the Government's intention that all provisions discriminating against Aborigines should be eliminated from Commonwealth and State legislation. 
On 19th August 1970, in answer to Question No. 628 (Hansard page 248) the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affiairs listed all Commonwealth and State legislation regarded as discriminatory against Aborigines. The above legislation remains in force. Two Acts repealing and replacing the Queensland Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Acts of 1965-67 have been enacted by the Queensland Parliament and I am informed they will come into operation on a date to be proclaimed later this year. Bills for new legislation in Western Australia were introduced into the Western Australian Parliament late in 1971 and will be considered by the Parliament this year. 
The former Prime Minister in his election policy speech of 8th October 1969 stated that: 
In recent years, most discriminatory legislation against Aboriginals has been abolished. We intend to see that this process is completed in the life of the next Parliament upon both State and Federal Levels.' 
Most discriminatory legislation that remained on the Statute books at that date has now been repealed, and as indicated above, further legislative changes are contemplated this year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) My reply to Question No. 4796 by the honourable member provides information on a meering held in Perth on 3rd December 1971. The following Press statement was issued at the conclusion of the first meeting of the Australian Environment Council held in Sydney on 7th April 1972: 
The Australian Environment Council acknowledges that waste disposal is the most pressing environment problem facing Australia today and decided to study the problems of sharing the cost of waste disposal. 
The wider environmental problem facing Australia and other countries was the setting of criteria for chemical and other pollutants. The Council is undertaking studies on this question, particularly with the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment in mind. 
The Council held its first meeting in Sydney today. 
Council members attending were: 
Commonwealth 
The Honourable Peter Howson, M.P., Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. 
The Honourable Ralph Hunt, M.P., Minister for the Interior. 
New South Wales 
The Honourable J. G. Beale, M.L.A., Minister for Environment Control. 
Victoria 
The Honourable V. O. Dickie, M.L.C., Minister for State Development. 
Queensland 
The Honourable J. Bjelke-Petersen, M.L.A.. Premier and Minister for State Development. 
Western Australia 
The Honourable R. Davies, M.L.A., Minister for Environmental Protection. 
The Honourable G. R. Broomhill, M.H.A., of South Australia was represented by  Dr Inglis  and The Honourable E. M. Bingham, M.H.A., of Tasmania was represented by  Mr Pottinger. 
The meeting was chaired by the N.S.W. Minister for Environment Control, The Honourable J. B. Beale. 
The Council felt waste disposal was an area where the "polluter pays principle" could apply. 
It recognised that for an interim period a need ma)' exist for government financial assistance may be 'necessary to overcome a backlog of pollution problems. 
The Council discussed the problems of nonreturnable containers and packaging generally and it agreed that the problem of such containers was increasing and noted that the problem was being researched in a number of States. 
A Sub-committee of the Council has been directed to carry out a review of the problem and possible solutions with the packaging and container industry. 
The Council decided that a specialist committee would be set up to investigate and report to it on national emission standards and guidelines to protect the environment. 
The Council expressed its concern about the need for uniform monitoring of environmental conditions throughout Australia. It took steps to ensure that monitoring techniques should be based on a uniform approach. 
A sub-committee will assemble information on monitoring currently being undertaken by State Governments and the Commonwealth. It will investigate co-ordination methods of measurement and analysis. 
The Council was formally constituted after  Mr Howson  announced that the Prime Minister and all Premiers had agreed to its formation following the meeting of Ministers held in Perth last December. 
Iti indicating their agreement to the Council, New South Wales stated its constitutional responsibilities. 
It was recognised that the great majority of environmental problems come within the jurisdiction of the States. 
The Council resolved that individual States and the Commonwealth accept the merits of decentralisation as a means of environment improvement. 
It recommended that the States and Commonwealth, iri considering the Commonwealth-State Officials' Report on Decentralisation and action flowing from it give special consideration to environmental factors.'  j Railways: Melbourne-Albury-Junee  (Question No. 5536) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The approved staff establishment of the Office of the Environment Division is - 1 - First Assistant Secretary, Level 3 1 - Assistant Secretary, Level 1 1- Senior Executive Officer, Class 10 1- Executive Officer, Class 9 1- Clerk, Class 8 2- Clerk, Class 6 1- Clerk, Class 4 
Eight of these positions are at present occupied. In addition, the Public Service Board has now agreed to recommend the creation of 12 new positions. 
The Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts has a general responsibility to act for the Commonwealth in environmental matters including - 
Co-ordination of federal actions; 
Co-operation with the States - in particular, through the Australian Environment Council; International aspects. 
I propose to make a statement on the general environmental objectives of the Government in the near future. 
None. 
See answer to (3). 
The information provided by the honourable member for Bradfield in the first part of his question is new to me and I shall certainly have a look at the matters he has raised. However, I should say that this is a matter not only for the Commonwealth Government but also for the State governments. The question of hotel ownership and looking after tourists who come to Australia is principally the responsibility of State governments. I shall have the matter placed on the agenda for the annual meeting of the Tourist Ministers Council. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my statement to the House on 19th April 1972 (Hansard, page 1782). 
World War  II:  Japanese Plans (Question No. 5429) 
I have read the article and I have also been in contact with the  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Art Advisory Board,  Sir William  Dargie, and  Mr Fred  Williams has been in touch with mc. Both gentlemen have said that there is no truth whatsoever in the statements attributed by the Melbourne 'Herald* to  Mr Williams.  I have checked with them and I have checked also with officers of my Department. There is absolutely no truth in this statement and both  Mr Williams  and  Sir William  Dargie find the remarks attributed to  Mr Williams,  quite spuriously, offensive to them. I would like to say also 
14211/72- /I.  -  1861 
that I have always hoped that the members of the Commonwealth Art Advisory Board would give me and the public generally the best advice they possibly can on the whole of the Commonwealth's art programme. This has been a feature of the Commonwealth Art Advisory Board for many years, and this was one of the things that was known by  Mr Williams  when he agreed - from my point of view most gratefully - to come on the Board. He knew that he was coming on to do that. 
The reason why there was some reticence on the part of  Mr Williams  in his remarks to the Melbourne 'Herald' was that he did not want his association with the Board to be a matter for suggestion that he was using his official status for personal advantage. I feel that what was a very altruistic move by  Mr Williams  has been badly interpreted by the Melbourne 'Herald' on this occasion. That a newspaper with such a high reputation for accuracy should have slipped so badly on this occasion is cause for great regret. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Because of the limited information provided in the question, and the difficulty, recognised in Standing Orders, of answering questions which seek legal opinion, I regret I am unable to answer the question. If the honourable member would care to write to me providing more information I would be glad to have the problem examined. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The amount of $6,473,753 represented, for the most part, payments to the media and material production firms. It included special fees paid to advertising agencies totalling less than $3,000. The main remuneration for advertising agencies engaged on Commonwealth work is obtained from commissions allowed them by the media and material production firms. The Commonwealth Advertising Council receives these commissions and allocates them to the agencies concerned according to a formula it has established. 
The Council has informed me that it does not normally disclose details of its commission allocations to individual agencies which are regarded as confidential business information. 
The information sought has not yet been received. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This is an interesting question relating to the problem of trying to maintain the family environment in the Aboriginal community and at the same time increasing education standards. I think the honourable member is aware that since 1 969 an Aboriginal study grants scheme has been in operation. This scheme has helped a number of Aboriginal children to undertake a wide variety of post secondary school activities. Some students benefiting under this scheme live away from home. Also, since 1970 the Aboriginal secondary grants scheme has been in operation and has encouraged a large number of Aboriginal children to stay at school longer than they would have done otherwise. These schemes offer allowances for living away from home, the purchase of school books, clothing and so on. In the past year the amount allocated to these schemes was more than $3,500,000 which has been used to encourage over 3,500 students to gain education along the lines advocated by the honourable member. 
by leave - In recent years there has been an increasing public awareness of the threat to our environment in Australia and the need to do something about it. My purpose, therefore in addressing honourable members today, is to emphasise the Commonwealth Government's deep interest in the problems of the environment and our determination to do what we can, within our powers, to help solve those problems. 
In Australia today we live in an affluent, liberal society where we are seeking standards of excellence in all these things. Basic to this is a healthy environment in which we can develop a quality of life to satisfy our needs in all fields of human endeavour. It is essential, therefore, that we preserve the great gifts nature has given us and that we keep our environment as free from man-made contamination as human skills can devise. It is a fact of recent history that while the technological revolution of the sixties and the seventies has brought great benefits in material good living, in national progress and in economic well-being - it has also had by-products which are despoiling our land and polluting the air and the water around us. 
As Galbraith has said: 'The greater the wealth the greater will be the dirt.' 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information has been supplied by the State authorities responsible for Aboriginal Affairs and by Commonwealth Departments. The information refers only to expenditure on Aboriginal welfare as distinct from expenditure on benefits available to all Australians. Where per capita figures have been given these have been provided by the authorities concerned and have been based on estimated population figures. 
Total Expenditure 
States (See table below): 
Commonwealth n.a. - Not available 
This includes direct Commonwealth expenditure on programmes in both the Commonwealth Territories and the States, e.g. Study Grant Schemes and Grants to voluntary organisations. 
Australian Capital Territory only. Before 1965-66, costing in the Northern Territory - did not allow for a breakup of the figures. n.a. = Not available. 
Since June 1969 Aborigines in New South Wales have been the responsibility of the Directorate of Aboriginal Welfare in the Department of Child Welfare and Social Welfare and separate records are not maintained. (b) The reduced expenditure for the 1963-64 financial year was brought about by a decision of the Government to abolish the rebates system. Expenditure which was normally a charge against the Department of Native Welfare in respect to medical and education for Aborigines is now carried by the relevant Departments and not included in the above figures since 1962-63. 
Per Capita* n.a. - Not available 
<para pgwide="yes">* Figures where given apply solely to State expenditure and for Commonwealth expenditure in the North Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. 
The Commonwealth Statistician is currently engaged on developing statistics of Commonwealth and State outlays on programmes designed specifically to benefit Aborigines. These statistics will be on a basis consistent with other public authority financ statistics (such as those given in Section 1 of Public Authority Finance; Commonwealth Authorities, 1970-71'), and it is currently intended that a statement containing these figures will be published towards the end of August 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question has been given by the Minister for Defence in his replies to questions 5411 and 5412 (Hansard, 16th and 17th May, page 2635). 
Nation-wide Survey of Educational Needs (Question No. 5462) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">Information provided by our posts overseas is set out below. (However, it is not comparable because of differences in definition from country to country.): 
Great Britain - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Investigations are continuing. However, there has been no evidence so far of significant losses. In relation to the arts, the information available suggests that all Australian major works coming onto the market in recent times have been acquired by the Commonwealth for the National Collection or by one of the State Galleries, except where the artist concerned was already well represented in our public collections. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) My, statement of 24th May 1972 on the environment indicates the Commonwealth's response to the recommendations by the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) My statement of 24th May 1972 on the environment indicates the Commonwealth's response to the recommendations by the Senate Select Committees on Air Pollution and Water Pollution. 
I refer the honourable member to replies to his Questions 4047, 4796 and 5500. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following information has been supplied by the State authorities responsible for Aboriginal affairs and by the Department of the Interior. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1) 
Qld N.S.W. Vic Tas. S.A. W.A. NX 
(2) 
Und consider- 
Approved Declined ation Total 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that the promulgation of standards under the United States Clean Air legislation is proceeding. In some cases compliance with the standards could be expected to require industry to outlay funds. 
to (6)  I  invite the honourable member's attention to my answer to Question No. 2991 (Hansard of 18th August 1971, page 272). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Although 1 have seen press reports of a statement of this kind, I have not seen the text of the statement. 
-Negotiations with  Mr MacLachlan  are now in the process nf being completed; As I have informed the nation already, general agreement, in principle, has been reached between  Mr MacLachlan  and the Commonwealth. The details still are being worked, out and as soon as the final arrangements have been made I will inform the House. ' 
 It is a pity that the important issues of this debate which were set out by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  have been obscured by that hysterical outburst we have just witnessed from the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby).  The honourable member threw, across the floor of this House, a number of wild accusations which are completely irrelevant to the main issues which we should be discussing. I intend to deal with only one of them, namely, the accusation that the police of the Australian Capital Territory were sooled on by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt).  The honourable member should know quite well that the responsibility for administering the law in the Australian Capital Territory lies solely with the police. In this matter . the police were carrying out their duties and any thought that a Minister was sooling on the police I think needs to be scotched right at the start! This is an accusation that the honourable member should retract if he has any decency. 
I think there are 2 issues that need to be examined. They were raised by the. honourable member for Fremantle. The first concerns the use of the lawns in front of Parliament House and the second is the question of protest by Aboriginal  people  here and in other parts of Australia'. The first involves the responsibility of the Minister for the Interior and is the subject of this no confidence motion.'  AfteV  what we have heard from the Minister for the Interior I think that this House should have every confidence in him for ,the way in which, in a very difficult situation,, he has acted with full integrity and full, probity. He has from me and all members on this side of the House full confidence  in  what he has undertaken, namely, the maintaining of the law in respect of the use of the lawns of Parliament House. 
The other matter to which I think I should direct my attention concerns protests and the needs and aspirations of the Aboriginal people and the aid that this Commonwealth Government should be giving to them at this stage of our history. The honourable member for Fremantle knows full well that he, the hononourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti),  many other honourable members and I were present during the survey carried out in 1961 from which we saw that there is this socio-economic dilemma of ethnic minority groups as part of a world-wide phenomenon. It is not something for which any of us can prescribe easy solutions, but what we have clearly stated as a Commonwealth Government is that we have an objective towards which we are moving, namely, to create in Australia a single society while at the same time recognising the disparate history of ethnic, cultural and spiritual characteristics of the Australian community. But we do wish to move towards one single society. That is the aim of the Government and it is towards that aim that I think we should address ourselves. 
One thing that I have been endeavouring to do as Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts is to improve the dialogue between the Government and the Aboriginal people. For too long there have been various solutions and slogans, and socalled representatives of the Aboriginal people, both European and Aboriginal, putting forward their views. However, it has been difficult at any one time to assess what are the real needs of Aboriginal people in Australia at the present time and to determine how we will achieve a degree of integration into the general society in which we live? The needs and the problems are not uniform throughout Australia. The needs of people in the capital cities, the people who have moved out of their old Aboriginal situations into European situations in the cities, are obviously very different from the needs of people still in the tribal areas in the north. So, it has been for this purpose that for the last few months I have been endeavouring to call together a conference of as widely rep resentative groups of Aboriginal people as possible in order to start that dialogue between the Government and the Aborigines. It has not been easy. For some time I asked the Council for Aboriginal Affairs to seek the best available means of calling together that national conference. But we succeeded and last week this conference was held. I think it is known that that conference was free to ask advice, and to receive submissions, from any source it wished to consult. It was open to the Press and its deliberations received wide publicity. I have received from that conference a series of 39 resolutions and I think the House knows that I am in the process of considering them. I hope and believe that that conference is the embryo of a continuing process of dialogue and meaningful discussion between the Government and the Aboriginal people. That is something which has not existed in the past. 
Having stated how I believe we shall be able to understand these needs more closely, I now wish to inform the House of what has taken place while I have been Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. In spite of the slighting remarks of the honourable member for Fremantle, I believe a very great deal has been done over the past few months. 
Let me deal with my actions as a Minister. As these important matters have been raised let me refer to the important decisions we have made respecting land for Aborigines. Three important moves were announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 26th January. The first dealt with the creation of general purpose leases, leases to apply to land on reserves in the Northern Territory, and leases to be granted to Aboriginal communities which have the intention and ability to develop the land on which they are living for economic and social purposes, ensuring, at the same time, that those applications do not interfere with other groups which may be living close to them at that time. The important thing is that there has been no change of policy for those people living on reserves in the 
Northern Territory who wish to continue with the present use that they are making of their land. That new policy was announced for those who wish to make new uses of the land. Many groups already have applied for these leases and I believe, therefore, that this first policy is fulfilling a need felt by the Aboriginal people living on reserves at this time, particularly in the Northern Territory. 
Secondly, for those people living off reserves, the Government announced its policy of purchasing areas of land, pastoral properties, as they become available for the use of Aboriginal people. It is well known that I am in the process of negotiating for a number of these properties, both in the Northern Territory and in the States. We have appropriated $13m to underwrite this programme over the 5-year period. 
My remarks relate to the purpose of the protests outside the House, the matter which we are discussing, and are directed to the use of land by Aboriginal people. Therefore it is right that the policy of the Government on this matter should be widely disseminated. 1 wish also to deal with Aboriginal sacred sites and sites of special significance because this goes to the heart of the matter. The protests related to the question of land rights and it is that policy that we are debating. Therefore I think the House should be cognisant of it. The Government has said that it shall endeavour as soon as possible to preserve and delineate for all time the use of those special sacred sites for Aboriginal people. This was part of the policy announced on 26th January. I asked the Institute of Aboriginal Studies to convene a gathering in order to find nut best- 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies Act 1964- 66, I present the report of the Council of the Institute for the year ended 30th June 1972, together with the Institute's financial statements and the report of the AuditorGeneral on those statements. 
The report of the National Radiation Advisory Committee on the Biological Aspects of the Fallout in Australia from French Nuclear Weapons 1971, which was distributed in printed form recently, falls into 2 parts. The main part of the report is the assessment made by the NRAC of the biological significance of fallout from the 1971 nuclear tests in the Pacific. Appended to this assessment is Report AWTSC No. 3 of the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee on the levels of fallout over Australia from nuclear weapons tested by France in Polynesia from June to August 1971. This latter report was tabled by my colleague, the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland),  in April 1972. 
The Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee is responsible to the Minister for Supply for safety aspects of the use of testing of nuclear explosive devices in Australia, for evaluation of proposals by other countries to explode nuclear devices outside Australia which might give rise to increased levels of radioactivity in Australia, and for monitoring of levels of radioactivity in the Australian environment arising from activities with nuclear explosive devices either in this country or elsewhere. Its members are all physicists in the fields of nuclear, radiation and meteorological physics. The Committee has particular operational responsibilities to monitor fallout in Australia and reports the results of its monitoring on a continuing basis to the Minister for Supply. All its measurements are published as soon as possible and are made available to interested parties. In contrast to the operation role of the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee, the National Radiation Advisory Committee has a purely advisory function. The latter Committee was established by the Government in 1957 to provide scientific information in matters associated with the effects of ionising radiation on the Australian community arising from any source. Since its responsibility is to consider the effects of ionising radiation, including those which might arise from fallout from nuclear explosions, the membership of the Committee is biased towards the biological sciences - genetics, public health, experimental pathology, radiobiology - but also includes several physical scientists with particular expertise in the nuclear sciences. The NRAC is, therefore, a body of scientists with wide experience in appropriate scientific disciplines, charged with making its own independent judgment on the effects of the various sources of ionising radiation on the Australian community. 
The National Radiation Advisory Committee has reported in the past on the possible biological consequences of a wide range of sources of ionising radiation including the medical use of X-rays, the tuberculosis case-finding programmes and radiation control programmes as well as fallout from each French nuclear test series in the Pacific. In addition the Committee has from time to time reviewed, in language comprehensible to the lay reader, the current status of knowledge with respect to biological effects of ionising radiation. The most recent report of the Committee of this nature is that dated October 1965. I am informed by the Committee that it is now undertaking another such review in the light of additional knowledge acquired since that time. The future role of the Committee will also, I am sure, include assessments of safety factors in the development of a uranium industry in Australia. (Quorum formed) In its present report the National Radiation Advisory Committee has stated that fallout from the 1971 French nuclear weapons tests presents no hazard to the Australian population. In making this assessment the Committee has, in 2 instances, compared the levels of radiation dose due to fallout with the dose received from natural background to which populations have been exposed since the beginning of life on this earth. In the other instance, the Committee has compared the radiation doses with a radiation protection guide it established in 1965 which is consistent with a similar guide established at about the same time and for the same purpose by the British Medical Research Council. 
I have been advised that a wide range of biological effects can be produced in experimental animals or in human being by exposure to large doses of ionising radiation delivered in a short period of time - that is, at high dose rates. The effects may include radiation sickness, cancers of various kinds including leukaemia, opacity of the lens of the eye, some shortening of the life span and hereditary effects. There are, I understand, many technical difficulties which prevent direct evaluation of any effects of radiation doses on experimental animals at low levels approaching that of natural background radiation and even more so at the still lower levels resulting from fallout in Australia. The effects, if any, are so small that their recognition would be extremely difficult even in large and strictly controlled experiments, if these could be undertaken. The difficulties are even greater in the case of man. 
On the basis of experimental animal data, and the limited human data, obtained at high doses, international and national bodies have recommended standards for protecting persons against the effects which might arise from sources of ionising radiation. They have considered it prudent to make the working assumption that even down to the lowest radiation dose the risk of producing particular biological effects - for example, cancer or hereditary effects - in humans is directly proportional to dose, without a minimum or threshold dose at which no effect occurs. However, the International Commission on Radiological Protection, a non-governmental international body, has referred to such assumptions as being both 'cautious' and conservative' and stated 'that some effects may require a minimum or threshold dose'. In part of its evaluation of the hazards to health of the 1971 French tests the National Radiation Advisory Committee followed a practice adopted by the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation, namely, that of comparing the radiation doses from nuclear weapons tests with the doses inevitably received by the community from natural background radiation. 
The average natural background radiation dose to a person in the Australian communities is about 100 millirad a year. However the natural background varies from place to place due to such factors as altitude and the amount of naturally occurring radioactive material in the soil. In a given location the annual dose due to natural sources also varies from person to person due to such factors as the materials used in the construction of buildings in which they live and work, and the amount of time they spend indoors and out of doors. Taking all these factors into account, the actual radiation dose due to natural background radiation received by persons would vary, one from the other, from the annual average by up to about 10 millirad a year. Some of the population living at altitude or in areas of high natural radioactivity would receive annual radiation doses greater than the average by SO per cent or more. 
The Appendix to the report of the NRAC shows, for example, that the total external radiation dose from fallout deposited on the ground from the 1971 French nuclear tests was, when reduction factors due to shielding are applied, in all cases less than 0.7 millirad. If the conservative assumption of direct proportionality between dose and biological effects, without a minimum or threshold dose, is applied it follows that this dose would have given rise as a total to less than 1 per cent of the same biological effects in each and every year which are due to the average natural background radiation dose. Any biological effects would have been less than those which would result from the variations which occur in natural background radiation from place to place and for individual to individual. I wish to emphasise that I am not in any way supporting the French tests. The Government has made known its opposition to atmospheric nuclear weapons testing by any nation. However, I believe that it is important to reassure the Australian population that, on the basis of the best independent advice available and contrary to some alarmist views, fallout from the French tests to dale does not constitute a hazard to the health of the Australian population. 
I present the following paper: 
French Nuclear Weapons Explosions m the Pacific - Ministerial Statement, 16th August 1972. 
Motion (by  Mr Chipp)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) I refer the honourable member to the statement I made in the House on 24th May 1972 (Hansard page 2970). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The concepts of economic growth and of conservation of the environment and rational use of resources are not mutually exclusive. 
In my statement of 24th May 1972, I said that- 
As far as the Commonwealth is concerned, the question is ons of devising a pattern of national development in which environmental objectives go hand in hand with economic, cultural and social goals; 
The Commonwealth's philosophy is directed to devising and developing such  a  pattern in co-operation with the States, with local government, with business and industry and the community as a whole; and 
The environment must be considered as a major factor in the planning and management of practically all forms of development from human settlements to engineering and industrial works. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I draw the honourable member's attention to my answer to Question No. 5500 (see Hansard of 26th April 1972). 
and (4) The Council is supported by a Standing Committee comprising senior officers of the Commonwealth and State environment agencies. The Council has also established special committees to - 
carry out a review of the problems of nonreturnable containers and packaging generally; 
to investigate and report on national emission standards and guidelines to protect the environment; 
assemble information on monitoring currently being undertaken by State Governments and the Commonwealth and to investigate co-ordination of methods of measurement and analysis. 
On 22nd February last, in  answer to Question on Notice No. 3798 by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  I said I was having inquiries made about United States and Canadian policies in regard to government advertising. The United States Department of State has advised that contracts for government advertising are governed by the Federal Procurement Regulations (41 CFR - 1). Section 1-1.301 of those Regulations provides that: 
All purchases and contracts, whether by formal advertising or by negotiation, shall be made on a competitive basis to the maximum practicable extent. 
The Regulations do not prescribe absolute preference for American advertising agencies. 
The Canadian Department of External Affairs has advised that, after considerable inquiries, it is unable to provide any information on this subject which would be useful. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is the responsibility of the individual Minister to have an environmental impact statement prepared and submitted when preparing a Cabinet submission on a proposal that has some relevance to the environment. 
The impact statements like the Cabinet submissions will not be public documents. 
The impact statement policy would not apply to past decisions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Environment Council met in Canberra on 27th July 1972. 
and (3) The following statement was issued at the conclusion of the meeting: 
The Australian Environment Council of State and Commonwealth Environment Ministers met in Canberra today to consider the implications for Australia of the resolutions of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment at Stockholm. 
As a consequence, the Council decided to take further steps on air, water and noise pollution and welcomed the continuing Commonwealth/States co-operation in these matters. 
The Ministers present were: 
I remember quite clearly the speech made by the honourable member for Griffith. There is nobody more anxious than I to see enacted legislation controlling the activities of travel agents. However, in spite of the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition last week it was made clear to me by a number of States that in order to ensure effective legislation it was necessary to have legislation covering not only international and  i  interstate activities but also intrastate activities. Therefore, to ensure that the matter was properly dealt with it was important to have model legislation that was available in all States. One of the major, States saying that this was necessary was South. Australia. As a result model legislation was drawn up by the Victorian Minister. It was presented to the Tourist Ministers Council in April of this year. Four States agreed that this legislation should be proceeded -with but 2 States stood out and said at thai time that they thought it was not necessary. Those States happened to be Western Australia and Tasmania. Following a meeting last Friday all States are now agreed :. that legislation should be prepared.  I  understand that Victoria, Queensland, South , Australia and New South Wales will be going ahead very shortly and that Western Australia and Tasmania are in the process, of preparing recommendations for their, governments. I expect considerable progress to be made before the end of the year and that it will be of interest to the honourable member for Griffith and other honourable members in this House. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question of Australia's involvement in  a  proposed international convention on the dumping of industrial wastes at sea has been the subject of correspondence between the Prime Minister and the Premiers commencing in July 1971 as well as discussions between Commonwealth and State Ministers responsible for environmental control and also the Ministers responsible for port development and marine affairs. Australia was represented at all meetings of the Intergovernmental Working Group on Marine Pollution which discussed the draft convention and at the Stockholm Conference supported the early completion of the convention. In a statement issued after a meeting of the Australian Environment Council in Canberra on 27th July 1972 Ministers attached particular importance to the adoption of actions and procedures to check on dumping in the oceans off Australia and the implementation of adequate controls to prevent environmental damage. The Council also directed its Standing Committee to examine urgently the final draft international convention on ocean dumping, expected to be concluded by next November, and to report on the implications for environmental control in Australia. 
My colleague, the Minister for Shipping and Transport in a statement of 8th August 1972 said that he would look to early presentation of legislation to Parliament on ocean dumping in the high seas and on the basis of consensus reached at a May meeting of Commonwealth and Stale Ministers he would anticipate early interlocking legislation by the States. 
The answer is no. The purpose of the impact statements is to ensure that the Government, when considering matters coming before it, has made certain that all aspects of the environment have been considered and those examinations will be incorporated in any Government proposals that are put to the House in due course. 
We have just listened, as we have done on other occasions today, to a long list of woes that can be foreseen by the Opposition, and nobody is better at being a prophet of doom than the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds).  I think he would almost enjoy seeing an unemployment rate of 200,000, which was forecast by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in his speech earlier this week. Nothing will be further from the case, and I am certain that the people of Australia will not fall for this incredible list of woes that the Opposition keeps portraying to the nation at this time. I want to deal with a much more pleasing, happy and joyful subject. I want to tell the House something of the great activities that are taking place at this time in the whole field of the arts throughout this nation. 
Last October, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  outlined to the House the Government's programme and philosophy for the arts in Australia. He said at that time. 
The Government sees the arts in a multitude of expressions and forms - 
Not as an adornment, but as an integral part of life - 
Not something exclusive to the hours of leisure, but as a force, penetrating and enriching every aspect of human affairs - 
Not as a preserve of the rich and the sophisticated, but as a source of delight for all. 
This evening I wish to inform honourable members of the progress being made in the development of that programme. There is throughout Australia abundant evidence of a continuing and enlarging public interest in the arts in its many forms. While so much of this interest springs instinctively from the people themselves, Australian governments, both State and Commonwealth, by financial and other means, are contributing significantly to the progress being made. In its own field, the Commonwealth Government continues to give increased financial aid on a substantial scale. Through its several agencies it continues to act as a catalyst in encouraging and supporting the creative effort of artists in their varied fields and providing new outlets for their talents. 
If I do give some emphasis to the Commonwealth's financial contributions I also want to stress that this is not the limit of our interest or the only measure of development in the arts. The real measure is the enhanced quality of life for our people and the progress being made within our society towards standards of excellence in all art forms of human endeavour. In this financial year the Commonwealth plans to spend a total of $7,854,000 on the arts. This is made up of $5.7m in support for the performing arts and $1.7m for assistance for art, literature, film and composition. The balance is for salaries and administration for the Australian Council for the Arts. The total increase in funds for all these purposes this year is $2,364,000 - continuing evidence, to my mind, of the Government's involvement and encouragement in all these fields. 
I want first to remind honourable members that in the next 15 months we will be moving into quite a spectacular period of activity in all these areas. We will see the magnificent Opera House in Sydney opened for its first performance - an opera house which has attracted world attention and which will be the home of our national company. I remind the House that since last September the Government has been promoting the Australian Opera and its associated orchestras by increasing financial assistance to ensure world standard for the opening season in the Sydney Opera House next year. Also in the next 15 months, a start will be made on building the National Art Gallery in Canberra. Already plans are being made by my Department to increase the treasures it will house and to arrange for displays of art in it from many parts of the world. 
The Australian Ballet, which this year celebrates its tenth anniversary, will aspire to new heights on the international scene and at home. An invitation to visit Moscow and other Eastern European capitals, and possibly London, next year is at present under consideration. If this tour can be made, it will do much to enhance our growing international reputation in this art form and also provide the company itself with a matchless experience which will be reflected in new standards of excellence in ballet for Australian audiences. Proposals are being examined for a film version of Rudolph Nureyev's 'Don Quixote', to star Nureyev,  Sir Robert  Helpmann and the 
Australian Ballet and to be made in Australia towards the end of this year. The Film and Television School will be established, and the interim training scheme is about to begin. New incentives are also being introduced for Australian writers and composers on a scale far outstripping assistance previously given. Turning to the detailed activities of the Government's various agencies, I begin with the work of the Australian Council for the Arts, which is the Government's financial agent and adviser on the performing arts. This year's appropriation is $5.7m - an increase of $l.Sm on last year. In the early years the Australian Council for the Arts has given priority to the establishment of professional companies in order to hold our top artists in Australia and to provide quality performances in opera, ballet and drama. 
However, professional peaks cannot exist without a broad base of activity and public interest. So, this year we propose to strengthen the growth of regional organisations. Drama, ballet and opera companies, which a few years ago were small amateur groups have now become, with the help of Government funds, companies operating on a stable professional basis. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  has emphasised this point also. They are providing opportunities for full time employment in the arts on an unprecedented scale, attracting local interest as well as State government support. This year we propose to provide $320,000 for assistance to smaller companies throughout the various States and we hope also to provide funds for programmes designed to develop new audiences, to support creative artists and to help experimental work. 
An interesting development in our support for the performing arts was the establishment in Darwin last financial year of an Aboriginal Theatre Foundation whose aims are to preserve and encourage traditional skills in this field. Details of expenditure last financial year and appropriations for 1972-73 are shown in a table, which I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="079131197208243_70_4.jpg"></graphic>

To satisfy the demand for professionals in all fields of the performing arts, increased funds will be provided for national training programmes. From a $58,000 allocation in 1968-69 - 4 years ago - this year's allocation has risen to $465,000. 
Referring now to progress in the field of the visual arts, special attention is being paid by the Commonwealth Art Advisory Board to the planning of collections of works of art and exhibitions for the National Gallery which should be completed early in 1976. During the past 12 months the collections have been extended in depth and range. The historical collection of Australian art is already close to being complete up to the present day but is under continuous review, so that the works of quality of emergent young artists will be represented year by year as additions to the existing collection. 
We expect the displays of the art of the Australian Aborigines and the arts of the Pacific Basin, including the rich art of Melanesia, embracing Papua New Guinea, to be of world standard and a revelation to all exposed to them for the first time when the Gallery is opened. We are getting together a collection of the arts of South East Asia; it is still small but is growing quite reasonably. I hope that among the first international displays in the new gallery will bc a great loan exhibition of the art of Indonesia which has never before been displayed overseas. In short, it is the Governments' intention to make the National Gallery the great showplace of arts for our region and to attract to it a series of loan exhibitions of the highest quality from other countries. 
It is not an over-statement to say that leading international dealers are now looking to Australia and works of major importance are being offered to us because of the opening of our new gallery. In this Budget the sum of $797,000 has been set aside for the acquisition of works of art and for the conservation of the national collection. This is more than double the amount spent last year. The amount to be spent on exhibitions of works of art in Australia and overseas is $88,000 this year compared with only $23,000 in the past year. The value of these grants, particularly for overseas exhibitions, is seen in the international exhibition in Sao Paulo, Brazil, last year. There Australian art was represented by the works of  Mr Gunter  Christman and  Mr David  Aspden.  Mr Aspden  was awarded a gold medal. The House will be interested to learn that this was the first gold medal awarded to an Australian artist since  Sir Arthur  Streeton received his at the Paris Salon in 1905. 
The Commonwealth Art Advisory Board now proposes to move into a new phase of creative patronage by the direct commissioning of paintings, sculpture and high class craft work for specific purposes and locations. For example, a commission for an important piece of sculpture to be sited in the sculpture garden, between the National Gallery and the shore of Lake Burley Griffin, has been offered to  Mr Clement  Meadmore. It is important in this field to look to the future. I have received suggestions from some members of the Art Advisory Board that the Government should examine at not too distant a time whether it will be possible to establish in Canberra a great museum and a national portrait gallery which would aim to reflect important aspects of Australia's history. Such institutions could present an emotive pageant of Australian historical events and national figures to Australians visiting Canberra, inculcating in them a greater national pride and appreciation of our heritage. 
I come next to the Australian Film and Television School and the measures we are taking to promote a viable Australian film industry. The Tariff Board is examining film production and distribution in Australia and its report and recommendations will be of considerable help to us in assessing prospects for the industry. We are proceeding with our plans for the Australian Film and Television School and an interim training scheme. The interim training scheme is now in its final planning stages. Applications for scholarships for the first course close on 15th September.  Mr Storry  Walton, an Australian film and television producer and director with wide experience, has been seconded from the Australian Broadcasting Commission to become the executive director of the interim training scheme which I expect will begin before the end of the year. 
It has been designed as a 12 months' course in film and television, and will offer 12 scholarships to young people who have had some experience in film and television production. The value of each scholarship will be $2,500 plus $500 living away from home allowance where required. The successful applicants will do 6 months film and television training and a further 6 months on attachment to a film or television studio. Up  to  3 graduates may be given a further year's scholarship overseas. The aim is  to  produce junior film and television directors, writers or technicians who can play creative roles in the Australian film and television industry and in educational institutions. Planning for the film and television school itself is well advanced. Negotiations for a site are nearly complete and discussions on building plans have begun. 
Sitting suspended  from  6  to  8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was outlining to the House some of the exciting developments that have taken place throughout the whole field of arts activities in the Commonwealth of Australia, and dealing particularly with the developments in the film industry. On the production side the Australian Film Development Corporation has made sound progress since its establishment in 1970. It has taken part in 23 film-making projects, of which 15 have been completed. Already, one of these feature films has recovered its full production costs and is now making a profit. The Corporation's activity has attracted other Australian investors on quite a significant scale. The Corporation will continue to seek to demonstrate that filmmaking can be a profitable enterprise and by so doing accelerate the growth of a selfgenerating Australian film industry. In the past year the Corporation committed  $950,000  out of its initial fund of $lm. In the Budget it has been allocated a further  $950,000,  thus reinstating the fund to its original level. This additional money, together with anticipated returns from investments and loans last year, will enlarge the Corporation's assistance to the industry. 
This year also heralds a new phase in Commonwealth support for Australian writers, with special attention to young writers. The Government has approved programmes totalling  $300,000  compared with the provision of  $170,000  for the preceding year. Five major literary prizes are to be available this year for the first time. They will be:  $10,000  for the best book of the year by an Australian author;  $2,500  in each of  3  categories for the best book of the year by a young writer; and  $2,500  for the best children's book of the year. Other major changes this year will be increases in the number .ind kinds of fellowships and other forms of assistance available to writers with, in particular, an increase in the value of fellowships from  $6,000  to  $8,000  a year. For the first time,  2  special fellowships will be reserved for writers under the age of  25.  Increased support is also provided for literary magazines, including promising new journals, particularly those produced by, or devoted to, the work of younger writers. I think the House should know that many works of importance produced in the past  30  years would not have been written, much less published, without the support of the Commonwealth Literary Fund. Australian poetry, in particular, has been almost  100  per cent supported by the fund. 
I come now to the Commonwealth's interest in helping Australian composers to have their work published and to promote it throughout this country and overseas. The grant this year has more than doubled to  $140,000,  a dramatic increase from the modest provision of  $10,000  made when the scheme began in  1967.  It reflects the response that the scheme has produced and the wealth of talent seeking encouragement and outlet which this country possesses. The number and value of awards available to composers will be increased and the value of general fellowships lifted from  $6,000  to  $8,000.  The extra funds will also enable more works to be commissioned from Australian composers. I conclude by saying I believe that today the arts in Australia are in a ferment of change and growth. This is exciting and stimulating for all those who share an interest in them. Throughout Australia audiences are growing. The enthusiasm for the arts is not confined by any means to the big cities, the big companies and the big galleries of the Commonwealth. There is intense regional interest which is being fostered by the Commonwealth and by local funds and enlivened by the enthusiasm of the people concerned. I am sure that the philosophy outlined by the Prime Minister is getting, and will get, a fuller and freer expression as each year goes by. By such means do we establish a cultural identity for Australia in the eyes of the world - an identity which is wholly Australian, notable for its diversity, vitality, originality and quality, and one which will give us enduring satisfaction as we develop on this continent one nation and one society. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The 14th annual conference of the Tourist Ministers' Council was held on 10-11 July 1972 at Kalgoorlic, Western Australia. 
The Ministers who attended were: 
The  Hon.  R. J. D. Hunt, M.H.R., Minister for the Interior, representing the A.C.T. and the Northern Territory and also representing Commonwealth interests on behalf of the Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities; 
For the information of honourable members I present the summary report of the 
Australian delegation to the United Nations Conference on Human Environment, Stockholm, 1972. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian War Memorial Board of Trustees has in hand arrangements for the appointment of a General Editor in a War History Section, whose responsibilities will include writing a history of Australian particpation in the Vietnam War. 

 Dr R. J. O'Neill of the Australian National University has been appointed Official War Historian to write a one-volume history of the Korean War.  Dr O'Neill's  reports indicate that a satisfactory rate of progress on the history has been maintained. 
The House will recall the circumstances in which the 'Dunera' brought these passengers to Australia in 1940. I gather that the interest of the right honourable member stems from a desire to the author  Mr Cyril  Pearl to write a biography of some of the people who were in the ship at that time. 
I try to be well informed on some of these matters. As the right honourable member will know also, 2 lists are in existence, one held in Australia and one in the United Kingdom. Before making a decision on this matter I sought the attitude of the United Kingdom and I found that the United Kingdom Government has a firm policy on the nondisclosure of records that would cause distress or embarrassment to living persons, particularly individuals, and that this list falls definitely within that category. On this matter one has to seek a judgment between the value to historical research on the one hand and the wishes of individuals on the other hand. In these days of computers governments must be very careful about the kind of personal and private information that is disclosed. I think the remarks of the honourable member for Griffith at the time of the last census about the disclosure of personal information should be taken into account and we should remember to what extent personal opinion about this important matter has been affected. At any rate, having taken a great deal of judgment on this matter, the Government has decided that on balance there should not be a release of this document because there are too many individuals who would be personally affected. 1 hope that, having raised the matter, the right honourable member will draw the attention of all those people in Australia who may be interested to  Mr Cyril  Pearl's project. This may be an opportunity to advertise the fact that they should get in touch with him because I am sure the project has a lot of merit. 
Regarding the second part of the right honourable member's question, as far as I can ascertain at the moment this report will fall within the general rule that has been announced dealing with the release of documents, but I hope it will not be many weeks before the whole of the wartime records can be made available for examination and this will, I expect, fall in line with it. However, I will make absolutely certain and let the right honourable member know. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
~ 
1968- 69: $50,000, including $25,000 paid by the New South Wales Government from the Commonwealth's grant to the State under the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Act 1968; 1969- 70: $65,000, including $51,500 for a Walgett community centre. In addition, in April 1970 a loan of $5,000 was made to the Foundation from the Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises to assist with the operation of a shop at the Sydney International Air Terminal. The loan was transferred to Aboriginal Arts and Crafts Pty Limited on 1st July 1971. 1970- 71: $37,000, including $8,000 for operating costs of the Walgett centre and $10,000 for appointment of Aboriginal Art Adviser of which $6,000 was paid by the Australian Council for the Arts; 1971- 72: $32,000 including $10,000 for operating costs of the Walgett centre. 
Yes, the allegations are being investigated. 
I have no knowledge of this matter apart from the report in The Review. 
Yes, irrespective of whether the allegations are correct. 
This would be a matter generally for the airlines to discuss. I shall take it up with my colleague, the Minister for Civil Aviation, have a look at it and get the Leader of the Opposition an answer. 
I am grateful to the members of the Public Works Committee for having raised the preservation of important and ancient Commonwealth buildings. I have already been giving a lot of thought to this subject, and I have had discussions with members of the Australian National Trust, who often advise on the category buildings should be placed in and their importance. Suffice it to say that after hearing the debate today I shall be reinforced in my determination to see whether we can do more in the future than we have done in the past. Honourable members may know of the success that I had as the honourable member for Fawkner in saving the South Yarra Post Office from destruction. I therefore can say that over the years I have shown as much sympathy to the problem as have members of the Public Works Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In presenting this legislation I wish at the same time to give honourable members a brief account of Commonwealth activity in the field of Aboriginal advancement during the past year, in continuation of the accounts that I and my predecessors have given in previous years. The Bill provides for grants to the States totalling $ 14.5m in 1972-73. Hence it concerns only slightly more than one-quarter of the total provision for direct Commonwealth expenditure on Aboriginal advancement for the year. To illustrate the substantial provisions made by the Commonwealth since the 1967 referendum, I have had prepared a table - No. 1 - which T will later seek to have incorporated in Hansard. This paper reveals that the Commonwealth proposes to provide a total of $53.285m in 1972-73 compared with $31.3m in 1971-72, and $8.97m in 1967-68 immediately after the referendum. Honourable members will also be interested to know that the Bureau of Census and Statistics on 15th August issued a public authority finance bulletin entitled 'Commonwealth Outlay on Aboriginal Advancement 1971-72', showing in national accounting form the growth in Commonwealth expenditure from 1967-68 to 1971-72. I expect that similar bulletins will be issued each year and will provide a valuable indication of the growth and variety of the Commonwealth's provision. 
Of the total proposed Commonwealth provision of $55.3m for 1972-73 it is intended that, in addition to the $22.545m available in the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account under my control, of which the $14.5m for the States forms part, $24.5m be provided in the votes of the Department of the Interior for expenditure on Aboriginal advancement in the Northern Territory, $305,000 in the votes of the Department of Labour and National Service, S3.73m and $75,000 in the votes of the Department of Education and Science for secondary and study grants and for the continuation of special projects in the Northern Territory, and $150,000 in the votes of the Department of Health for similar special projects in the Northern Territory. In previous years these amounts for education and science and health were, included in the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account, and it would therefore be appropriate to compare last year's provision in the Trust Account of $14.83m with the total provision this year of $26.5m for the same purposes; but it has been thought more appropriate that provision should be made from now on in the votes of the functional departments. 
In addition to the total proposed Commonwealth provision of $53.3m for 1972- 73 I anticipate that the States will be providing some $12m from their own resources. There will thus be an overall provision of something like $65m for 1972-73. Taking the $ 14.5m States grants proposed in the present Bill along with this provision by the States themselves of some SI 2m, the States will have available approximately $26.5m for direct expenditure on Aboriginal advancement in 1972- 73. In addition, however, some of the programmes of the Office of Aboriginal Affairs from the $8,045,000 available to it, after making the proposed States grants, will benefit Aborigines in the States. Of this amount, $5m will be for the purchase of properties for Aboriginal communities off reserves and $500,000 for grants in association with capital fund loans, as promised by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in his statement of 26th January, and $2,545,000 for grants-in-aid for a variety of purposes. Both of these programmes will benefit Aborigines in the States. I have had prepared as Table No. 2, which I will make available shortly, a summary statement of grants-in-aid during 1971-72, and, for ease of reference, have included with it the summary of such grants-in-aid from 1968-69 to 1970-71 which formed part of my second reading speech last year, so that honourable members can obtain a picture of the impact of this programme. 
Against that background I come now to the Bill itself. The legislation provided for a 58 per cent increase in the grants to States, the proposed $14.5m for 1972-73 compared with $9.2m for 1971-72 and only $3.65m for 1968-69. Over the 5-year period 1968-69 to 1972-73 a total of $39.76m will have been granted by the Commonwealth to the States. At the recent meeting of the Australian Aboriginal Affairs Council in Darwin, State Ministers expressed their general agreement with the way in which the Commonwealth has been administering its Aboriginal advancement policies. At that meeting State Ministers pressed for increased grants for the present financial year. I believe that the 58 per cent increase in grants this year keeps faith with the expressed feelings of the Council. Table No. 3 which I will make available later demonstrates the increase over the past 5 years by States. As for previous years, the Government proposes to allocate the funds between the States taking account of their percentage of the total Aboriginal population as revealed by the J 966 census and also of their relative needs. On this basis New South Wales will receive $3. 72m, Victoria $670,000, Queensland $4. 79m, South Australia $1.27m, Western Australia S3.96m and Tasmania $90,000. I am hopeful that the results of the 1971 census will be available for use in next year's division. Until that time, we base our estimate of the Aboriginal population of Australia in the region of 140,000. 
Of the amount of $ 14.5m I propose that the greater proportion - over $8m - be devoted to housing, but that work commenced in other fields also continue at an expanded level. I envisage allocating the $ 14.5m as between the various purposes for which the grants are made to the States on the basis of S8.25m for housing, $1,748,000 for health, $2,377,000 for education, $500,000 for employment and vocational training, $875,000 for special work projects and $750,000 for regional projects. I have set out in Table No. 4, which I will make available later, the division of each State's grant as between these 6 purposes, with figures for 1971-72 shown for comparison. Experience over the past years has shown that as the financial year proceeds States are sometimes obliged to seek variations in the allocations between these purposes although within the overall grant to the State. Any such variation will be relatively minor and designed to enable States to adapt their programmes to meet unexpected contingencies which might arise during the year. In order to assist honourable members to see what these figures mean in reality, a precise statement of the use made by the States of their 1971-72 grants has been prepared as Table No. 5, which again I will make available later, shows. Taken along with similar statements provided in previous years this provides a running account of the Commonwealth's endeavour, together with the States, since the referendum. 
Funds provided for housing through the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account over the past 4 years have resulted in the construction or purchase of about 1,500 additional houses, and the funds which I propose for 1972-73 will result in the acquisition of some 825 houses. A fully effective programme should both keep up with the growth rate in family formation, which is roughly estimated to be of the order of 1,200 new families a year, and overcome at the same time the very substantial backlog. I estimate that for the first time the allocation for 1972-73, taken along with what the States are doing with funds from their own resources, should provide enough houses to keep pace with the rate of family formation amongst those families wishing to occupy houses provided by governments. Much remains to be done and the Government is very conscious of the needs in this field. Over the past year we have been assisting with the establishment of Aboriginal housing societies in reserves and other remote communities. One State devoted some small element of its grants for housing for this purpose, and in addition the Office made direct grants from its provision for grants-in-aid. An expansion of these arrangements is proposed for 1972-73; and so far as the Office's direct grants are concerned, I intend to set aside an amount of approximately $400,000 in the Office's allocation under the Trust Account for this purpose. The average cost of houses erected through the housing societies is $8,500. The Aboriginal groups are involved in actual construction as well as in design and material decisions and a panel of the Royal Australian Institute of Architects has been established following a seminar earlier this year to help co-ordinate research and development programmes. 
An area of special concern among Aboriginal Australians is the need for dwellings for their aged, and some States have devoted and will continue to devote portions of their grants to the provisions of such dwellings. This problem was emphasised in my recent consultation with official State and Territory Advisory Councillors and will be receiving the attention of my advisers. Some States have used and will continue to use portion of their grants for the provision of hostels. The Office also makes direct grants to voluntary organisations for hostels, and this year I envisage setting aside S650.000 for the Office to continue in this work, compared with $596,000 in 1971-72. In the light of experience we are moving increasingly towards smaller family-type hostels as being more attractive to Aboriginal students and workers. Experience this year has shown that these smaller hostels are fulfilling a real need especially in the urban areas. 
Funds for health work provided through the Trust Account are making possible an improvement of rural health services in areas of Aboriginal population. Hospitals, dental clinics, nursing homes and rural health centres have been established and community health nurses have been placed in many rural and outback areas. Programmes of health education and preventive medicine being developed by professional people should progressively relieve the burden on the curative services provided in hospitals in the major centres. Supplementary food assistance has also been made available for children and expectant mothers on settlement communities throughout the State of Queensland, and New South Wales continues to subsidise, from our grant, voluntary organisations working in the Aboriginal health field. In addition, of course, the Commonwealth Departments of Health and Interior have over the past year expended substantial amounts on health through their own programmes. 
Clearly much remains to be done in the health field and the health status of Aborigines remains a cause for concern, particularly in respect of infant mortality and malnutrition. It is not merely a matter of providing more finance but also of continuing research into the root causes of some medical problems, and of involving Aboriginal communities, particularly mothers, in improved nutritional and health practices at the grass roots level. Nevertheless I think we can draw some encouragement from the increasing level of expenditure, and our greatly increased knowledge of problems by comparison with 5 years ago. The transfer of all health responsibility in the Northern Territory to the Department of Health will I am sure result in a new approach to these important tasks. 
Funds have been provided to the States - and in some cases by direct grants also - to meet a variety of educational needs ranging from the construction of, and the provision of equipment for, preschools, primary and secondary schools, to the establishment of residential hostels in the cities and major towns so that students from rural areas may be able to continue their education beyond the primary level. In discussions with the States it was decided that one of the main targets to be aimed at in the educational sphere during this year would be the further development of pre-schools and pre-schooling facilities so that Aboriginal children would be suitably prepared for entrance into the school system. Provision is being made to achieve this aim. 
In addition to its assistance to the States, the Commonwealth, through the Department of Education and Science administers the secondary and study grants schemes, inaugurated respectively in the 1969 and 1970 academic years. We can feel some satisfaction at the combined effect of these schemes and the increased State efforts. Whereas in 1969 there might have been no more than 2,000 Aborigines in secondary schools throughout Australia, by 1972 there are of the order of 8,000, of whom 4,266 were in training as at June under the secondary grants scheme. Of course, this falls far short of the ideal: On a population percentage basis there should be some 13,000 Aborigines in secondary schooling. But we can be seen to be making progress, and Aboriginal children will soon be emerging from secondary schooling with educational prerequisites for higher levels of employment. Under the study grants scheme there were 552 grantees in training as at June this year at tertiary and postsecondary levels. Of these 29 were studying at universities and 9 undertaking other tertiary education - a small number, it is true, but a distinct improvement in the sit uation at the time of introduction of the scheme when there were only 4 Aboriginal graduates and a further 11 studying at universities. 
Funds have been granted to the States primarily for training and the development of employment opportunities. A vocational training complex has recently been established at Port Hedland at a cost in excess of Sim to serve the northern areas of Western Australia where it is hoped to develop the potential of the Aboriginal workforce. All such programmes are envisaged as supplementing the Commonwealth's major Aboriginal employment effort through the Department of Labour and National Service, which we believe to be making valuable progress. I should like to pay a tribute to the success of the Department of Labour and National Service in finding employment opportunities in a wide rage of jobs particularly in the urban areas. 
Employment assistance is also provided under the heading of special work projects. Funds have been granted to local and other authorities to provide employment for Aborigines on socially valuable projects chosen in accordance with criteria specified by my Office and the Department of Labour and National Service. These projects have enabled shire councils in many rural areas to carry out projects of value to their communities while at the same time providing employment and training for Aborigines. I believe this expenditure has fully justified itself and envisage a substantial expansion for 1972-73, particularly in conservation-type projects. In addition to such special work projects financed by the States from their grants the Office makes direct grants for similar projects, and honourable members may have heard my statement of a few days ago about my approval of a grant of $10,000 to Ernabella Mission for the first conservation project. 
Several other projects financed by direct grants by the Office aim at improving employment opportunities. Thus, the research phase in our crocodile and turtle farming projects has made progress, and  Dr Bustard  has numbers of Torres Strait Islanders and coastal Aborigines engaged in pilot farming projects. Of course, as honourable members will already be aware, the whole direction of the capital fund for Aboriginal Enterprises operated  by the  Office is to assist suitable Aborigines to become self-employed. 
The final category of expenditure by the States based on Commonwealth grants is regional projects. Research demonstrates the need for a complex set of inter-related programmes if real progress is to be achieved. These programmes will be a local expression of the balanced strategy outlined by the Government in the Prime Minister's statement on 26th January. 
It will be apparent that, as I said in my second reading speech last year, because of the nature of the programmes to which the finances are devoted, a substantial proportion of the funds are being applied to the advancement of the younger generation of Aboriginal Australians. The housing programmes aim primarily to assist families, whose children will benefit thereby; a great deal of health activity is devoted to improving the health situation of Aboriginal infants and children; the bulk of expenditure in education is, of course, for younger Aborigines; while the employment training scheme and other activities of the Department of Labour and National Service seek in particular to assist schoolleavers. 
I think it important to bear in mind that the problems facing the Aborigines in major towns and cities and those of the Aborigines living in communities on reserves, on pastoral properties and on the fringes of remote townships differ very greatly. The movement of Aborigines into the major cities has been quite striking over the past decade or two. While at the time of the 1966 Census over 91 per cent of Aboriginal Australians still lived in rural areas, the Aboriginal population of the capital cities had doubled between the censuses of 1961 and 1966. All the evidence suggests that this rate of drift will have continued or increased since then. It is now estimated that at least 30 per cent of Aboriginal Australians are living in urban centres. Consequently, we have placed an increasing emphasis on programmes to assist Aborigines in urban areas. 
It is, it seems to me, our task in the urban situations primarily to remove those handicaps which prevent the Aboriginal citizens from playing a full part in the urban community. This will involve assisting them with accommodation, providing the means for them to overcome the health handicaps from which many of them suffer, giving assistance with education and employment, and providing legal assistance. If one looks at our major city, Sydney, one can see examples in all these fields: Either with the State or unilaterally we have provided hostels and houses, supported the Aboriginal health service in south Sydney, provided funds for schooling, pre-schooling and adult education facilities, assisted Aborigines to find and hold employment, and supported the Aboriginal Legal Service. During a visit which I paid some months ago, I was personally most impressed at the work being done by the Aboriginal Medical Service in south Sydney, and believe that the Aborigines and non-Aborigines involved are providing a referral or treatment service to numbers of Aborigines in the Sydney metropolitan area who would not at this stage have the necessary confidence to seek treatment in the first instance from the normal community services. Similar pictures could be painted of more or less comparable developments in other major cities. It is our intention to increase the finance available for such services during 1972-73 both through the grants to the States and through direct grants from the Office. We expect that, as our programmes become more and more effective, the urbanised Aborigines will need our assistance less and less. 
A test of the effectiveness of our urban programmes will be the extent to which the Department of Labour and National Service and the State authorities are at the end of the process able to assist the Aboriginal citizens into stable employment. There seems little doubt that ample employment is available in the cities: What we seek to do is to remove those handicaps inhibiting Aborigines from taking full advantage of this situation. 
As regards the remote Aborigines, most of those involved are now living in static communities. But if almost all Aborigines have abandoned their semi-nomadic hunting and gathering life, this does not mean that the old tribal structures and beliefs have also disappeared. These persist more or less strongly depending upon the background and history of the community involved. At the same time as their cultural life persists, the economic life of the communities is changing. Their members are finding themselves having to cope with a cash economy, to become accustomed to a radically changed diet and to learn aspects of hygiene not previously relevant in their nomadic existence. I think we should all try to realise that these Aborigines living in remote situations are experiencing a difficult period of rapid change. We must try to give them what support they need, while at the same time respecting their traditions and culture and helping them to preserve and develop these to the extent that they desire. 
I believe that we must approach the matter as flexibly as possible, knowing that we are seeking to deal with a period of great change for the individuals involved. In relation to housing, for instance, we should not foist standard urban houses onto remote Aboriginal communities until their desires and future are better known. We should help them develop appropriate kinds of dwellings, such as the house developed by the Aborigines at Finke. We should seek to encourage and develop new and different types of employment, such as conservation work, crocodile and turtle farming and community enterprises, preferably those related in some way to the land. We are now able to acquire land off reserves for Aboriginal communities throughout Australia, and are in the process of granting Aboriginal communities on reserves in the Northern Territory gen eral purpose leases covering substantial areas and a wide variety of purposes so that a community itself may decide upon the precise allocation of the land as between those purposes. In addition we have embarked on a far-reaching programme to delineate areas which are of sacred or special significance to Aborigines. It has been variously estimated that there are over 15,000 sites in this category. The Government expects to spend $100,000 this year on the programme. Once these areas are delineated the Government will ensure that they are preserved for all time as inalienable. 
I hope that we can through the provision of relevant education ensure that members of the remote communities become less and less dependent, while at the same time relating that education more directly to the sorts of employment we will be encouraging the Aborigines there to undertake. Unless we can find additional, different and meaningful employment opportunities for Aborigines living in remote communities, we may expect the drift to the cities about which I spoke earlier to accelerate. I now lay on the table the 5 tables to which I referred earlier, and suggest that, with the concurrence of honourable members, these be incorporated in Hansard at the end of my speech. 
I commend the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill 1972 to honourable members. (The documents read as follows) - 
As I informed the right honourable member in my answer to a question on notice which was reported in Hansard for 1 9th September, the original inquiry was held by the British Government and not the Australian Government. Those records are held in the British archives and I have no mechanism by which they oan be made available in our archives. I have said that within 2 weeks I expect to be made available for inspection any information that is in the Australian archives other than the passenger list which, because of individual histories, I do not think should be made public. The full facts concerning that list were made available to the right honourable member in my previous answer and additional information, as he knows, will be made available, I expect, within  2  or  3  weeks. 
in reply - I think I should remind the House at the outset of the purpose of the Bill we are discussing. It is for the purpose of making grants to the States for Aboriginal advancement in this financial year. Also I remind the House that this legislation deals only with the actual $ 14.5m which is to be provided to the States for certain purposes this year. However, looking at this matter in the wider sphere I would like to say, as I said in my second reading speech, that the Federal Government will provide this year, in conjunction with the State governments, a total of $65m for 140,000 people. 
The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  said that there was no mention in my speech of aims and goals for the Aboriginal community. The purpose of my speech was to deal with grants to the States in this financial year. But let me go back to the statement that was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 26th January. The Prime Minister said that the eventual aim is that Aboriginal Australians should be assisted as individuals, or if they wish, as groups, to hold effective and respected places within one Australian society, with equal access to the rights and opportunities it provides and acceptance of responsibilities towards it. He said that at the same time they should be encouraged and assisted to preserve and develop their own culture, languages, traditions and arts. He went on to say that we recognise the rights of individual Aborigines to effective choice about the degree to which, and the pace at which, they come to identify themselves with the Aboriginal society and that we encourage and assist them to develop their culture, languages, traditions and arts so that these can become living elements in the Australian society. 
Having said that, I ask the honourable member for Fremantle where is the difference between that aim and his aim to encourage the Aborigines to become a distinctive people. I am sure, having listened to the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  that he does not believe that we should favour the equivalent of Bantustans, ghettos or any other form of separate development. I presume that the honourable member for Fremantle does not believe that is the answer. If it is not the answer I find it difficult to understand where his aim and ours are very much at variance. 
I listened to what was said by the honourable members for Wills, Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  and Fremantle. I gather that they wish the Aborigines to develop as a distinctive people. Does that mean that the Aborigines should stay as they are? I do not think it does because one of the parts of the Opposition's amendment asserts that we should provide more employment for Aborigines and that we should be doing more in the field of health so that the standard of health and the way in which health services are provided are similar to the bases of those provided to other Australians. The amendment also said that their housing should be similar to ours. If honourable members opposite say that education, health, employment and housing services should all be on those lines, surely they are advocating that in the long run we shall be moving towards one community, preserving distinctive cultures of Aborigines but certainly moving in the more material things of life to one common community. That is the aim of this Government. 
I do not believe that honourable members opposite have properly thought out the differences between their policy and our policy. I have met with Aboriginal people and I am certain that the desires of the Aboriginal people are changing year by year. The more, people who come out of the education system and the more people who ask for the sort of employment that has been mentioned this afternoon, the more changes there are in the fundamental desires of Aborigines. Therefore, the essential task of this Government is to maintain a flexible policy towards Aborigines in order to find out as the years go by how we can achieve those aims that I believe rightly have been set out. 
The second point that has been mentioned is consultation with the Aboriginal people. I cannot agree more with honourable members opposite when they say that we should be doing much more than has been done in the past to consult directly with the Aborigines. I do not believe, for instance, that the way in which the honourable member for Wills suggested consultation should take place - that is through the Federal Council of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders - is the answer. What is quite clear is that there are different aims, desires and goals for different parts of Aboriginal communities throughout Australia. The aims and goals of the people who live at Redfern are not the same as those of the people who live in Arnhem Land. It is because of this that I do not believe that one representative in this House would be able to state the aims of the Aboriginal people. I think that at this stage in our development it is wiser for me to endeavour to get together as broad a cross-section of Aboriginal representation as is possible throughout the nation. As the honourable member for Brisbane said, there are advantages in having direct consultation with the various groups who live in small communities throughout the continent. But at the same time there are also advantages in getting all the groups together so that they can understand that the aims and goals for those living in parts of the Northern Territory are different from the aims and goals for those living in the urban areas and that, therefore, there are advantages from time to time in getting together on a national basis. I refer to this system of advisory councils for which I have been labouring over the last year. I am not attempting to suggest that the representation is perfect at this time but I believe that it is the best that can be devised at this moment, and we shall work towards improving it as the months go by. I do not think anybody has done more than I have as Minister to try to ensure a better consultation direct with the Aboriginal people rather than through intermediaries. 
My third point concerns our relationship with the States. Here again I think there is a slight inability on the part of the Opposition in its amendment to think through this problem, because there seems to be some conflict between paragraph (a) and paragraph (h) of its amendment. Paragraph (a) reads:  its failure over a period of more than 5 years to exercise the full and direct responsibility in Aboriginal Affairs . . . 
Paragraph (h) reads:  its failure to assist the States in meeting these responsibilities . . . 
What is the attitude of the Opposition towards our relations with the State governments? Does the Opposition believe that ali responsibility for Aboriginal affairs should be taken over by the Commonwealth Government? Should we have schools for Aborigines only in Redfern and Brisbane? Should we take over all responsibility in relation to Aboriginal land rights and mining rights? I think that we would find it very difficult to do this under the Constitution. I am certain that the only way in which we can work effectively for the best advantage to the Aboriginal people is to work more closely with the State governments and State Ministers. I believe that the meeting I had with State Ministers in Darwin this year showed that generally all of us believed - State and Federal Ministers alike - that we are working towards the right goals as set out in the Prime Minister's statement of 26th January. Therefore, I reject the Opposition's amendment, particularly paragraphs (a) and (h), because we have been moving towards helping the States. There has not been too much comment during the course of this debate about the level of aid to the States; rather comments have been related to whether that aid should be better directed. 
The next matter with which I feel 1 must deal is this question of land. Firstly, 1 think the Opposition has omitted to realise what the Commonwealth Government is doing in the field of delineating and protecting the sites of special and sacred significance to the Aboriginal people. 1 hope that honourable members opposite will study the report of the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies which deals with this matter. I have referred to that report once already in this House. I have accepted all of the recommendations contained in the report and 1 am now putting into operation as rapidly as possible means whereby we. in conjunction with discussions with the Aboriginal communities, can delineate the sites that are of special and sacred significance to Aborigines and preserve them for all time for the purposes which they desire. That is the first point I wish to raise. 
My second point concerns another facet of the recommendations of the Institute, namely that those sites that are of importance historically but not of importance to living Aborigines should be treated as sites which all Australians should be encouraged to visit so that they can understand to a greater degree than has been possible in the past the essential aspects of Aboriginal life and tradition. This is another recommendation of the Institute which I have accepted, and I hope that the Aboriginal communities will assist in pointing out to visitors, to tourists and to all Australians interested in these things, the essential significance of the sites. These sites which have been of significance to the Aboriginal people for 4,000 years bear the same sort of relationship to Aborigines as do churches and other sacred areas to other parts of the Australian community. 
I have not as yet really heard from the Opposition where our policy dealing with general purpose leases in the Northern Territory differs from the land policy that it is advocating. The honourable member for Wills said that he did not wish to see the land provided to these communities on a freehold basis. I ask him this: ls there very much difference between a general purpose lease which we are advocating and the type of land tenure system that he is putting forward? I am certain of one thing, and that is that our policy must be flexible because the desires in relation to the use of land and land tenure will change in the next 20 or 30 years, and we must not tie down the future to the present to the extent that we shall not be able to change these things if the Aboriginal communities desire them to be changes. So again I think that honourable members opposite should think a little more deeply and spell out a little more clearly what are the differences between their policy and our own. 
Other matters have been referred to today and I must deal with them very quickly. First of all, in the field of education it was suggested that we should do more towards helping to educate Aborigines in their own tongue. 1 think what we have done in the language laboratory at Alice Springs, what is being taken up on Elcho Island and what has been achieved already in parts of the north and south of Australia and in Western Australia shows that we have been moving in that direction over the last year. 
The honourable member for Lalor suggested that there should be more imagination in the field of housing. I hope he has studied the report of the seminar that took place on Aboriginal housing at which we asked imaginative architects from the Australian Institute of Architects to meet Aboriginal communities and to develop Aboriginal styles of housing to meet their own needs. The house at Finke is one example, but there are others. 1 believe we have been imaginative in this field. We are ahead of what the Opposition would desire to take place in the field of housing, because over the last 4 years we estimate that we have provided sufficient housing for more than 14,000 members of the Aboriginal community. Before we go much further we will have to look again at this question of flexibility and ask ourselves: Will the Aboriginal communities stay in the places where they are now? Have those tribes which were nomadic only a few years ago when the honourable member for Fremantle and 1 were on the House of Representatives Select Committee on Voting Rights for Aborigines ceased to be nomadic? Will those tribes in the Docker River, Uendumu, Kapunda and Hooker Creek areas remain there or will there be further movement? Will we be able to find continuing employment for the people in those areas? If not, will we have to encourage them to move to areas where there are greater opportunities for employment? If there is to be movement, should we be providing inflexible types of housing and other types of accommodation in those areas. Until we have the answers to these questions, 1 think there should be flexibility. Certainly we should be doing more for employment in rural areas. A tremendous amount has been done in the last year and, through the outstanding efforts of the Department of Labour and National Service, employment opportunities in the urban areas have been increased. I could not agree more with the Opposition that we need the results of the 1971 census as rapidly as possible. Until we have many of the figures that will be provided therein, we will not be able to get all the answers that honourable members on both sides of the House desire. 
In the general fields of housing, education, health and employment the informa tion I presented in my second reading speech has shown that considerable advance was made over the last year. As I said at the time, I am not complacent about this but I do believe that if honourable members opposite accept the fundamental aims to which we are moving - I have not heard, even though there has been a lot of talk today, in what way the Opposition's fundamental aims really differ from our own - then I think that what I have put to the House is in line with what the Aboriginal people desire. I hope that over the coming year there shall be greater opportunities for consultation, and if there are ways in which the present allocation of funds needs to be modified in order to give greater emphasis to some facets of the programme and less to others, we will do what we can to achieve them. But in the meantime I feel certain that what we are doing is on the right line. We have been thinking out where they wish to go and we will help them to achieve their eventual goals. For all those reasons I reject the amendment put forward by the Opposition. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Dr J. F. Cairns'  amendment) stand part of the question. 
Pursuant to section 23 of the Australian War Memorial Act 1962-1966 I present the annual report of the Board of Trustees of the Australian War Memorial for the year ended 30th June 1972, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
 I am glad that we have had such a useful series of speeches today and also last Thursday week on the estimates for the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. It was to be. expected that there would not be the concentration on Aboriginal affairs that might have taken place last year, owing to the fact that we had a debate on that subject only 2 weeks ago. Consequently the speeches on the Department have generally concentrated on the importance of the environment in Australia at the present time. I think it is noticeable that a change has taken place since, we debated these estimates last year. In that debate emphasis was made about the shortage of staff in my Department. I think it is good to know that the Department, with the large increase in staff that has taken place in that period of .12 months, is now able to carry out the tasks and responsibilities that have, been entrusted to it. I pay a tribute to the small staff that 12 months ago shouldered the large burden that had to be carried at the time. 1 think it is important that we have been able to set up an administrative structure that enables the Commonwealth to play its part in the environment scene. It is important here that the Committee should realise the change that has taken place in the policy of the Opposition over the last 12 months. I think honourable members should take, note that when the estimates for this Department were discussed on 13th October last year the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  said: 
The various piecemeal activities of several government departments must be lumped together so that the environmental policy reflects the environment itself - a whole and integrated system. The United States of America, for example, has a problem solving agency - the Council of Environmental Quality - and a policy making agency - the Environmental Protection Authority. When the EPA was formed a year ago ;t took over organisations from 6 federal departments- 
He listed them and then went on to say a little later: 
This is the way it is being done in the United States of America. Similar moves are being made in other federal states such as Canada and West Germany. 1 say to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  that we have an opportunity here to do likewise. 
It is interesting that only last Thursday week, speaking in this debate, the honourable member made the following statement: 
Many countries have tried to set up huge monolithic departments with the power to solve environmental problems, lt is a hopeless and futile path to take. 
In fact, the Opposition has completely changed its mind over the last 12 months. It has realised now, as it did not realise 12 months ago, that the path that has been taken by this Government is the correct one in the federal system such as we have in Australia. We have set out to establish a federal structure that works co-operatively with the States and with other departments. This is a policy-making Department on matters of the environment. The administrative responsibilities are handed over to other administrative departments. In the same way also it is recognised that the States have the main responsibility in this field and we have to work cooperatively with them. This was the principle that I enunciated 12 months ago. We have followed it and it has worked successfully. I think it is interesting to all honourable members to note that if we had done what the honourable member for Reid suggested we should have done 12 months ago he would now be saying as he said last week: 'It would be a hopeless and futile path to take'. The Opposition really has no clear conception as to how environmental machinery should be established in Australia. It is time it woke up to its lack of thought and planning on the whole of this important matter. 
Some good comments have been made today, particularly by the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar' and the honourable member for Lang (Mr Stewart).  Both stressed the need for balance in environmental considerations and said that we must balance the needs of the environment against the needs of the economy and try to see that the two march hand in hand together. They were not saying that there must be economic growth and that there must be care of the environment but rather that the two can be made to co-operate and not to fight against one another. The Government, through the Australian Environment Council, has established the means by which we can see that we do get this balance not only in relation to matters which are the direct responsibility of the Commonwealth but also in relation to those which are the responsibility of the States. There has been very great progress in the work of the Environment Council. Last week a particularly important meeting of the Council was held in Brisbane at which it was made clear that progress has been made in the field of air pollution. 
I take up the remarks of the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  who said how much had been done in this field since, for instance, the Clean Air Act of 1958 was established in Victoria. I refer the honourable member to a recent report of a document presented to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development working party in Tokyo which shows that the proportion of solid particles in the atmosphere in Melbourne and Sydney has been considerably reduced since 1958. Great progress has been made as a result of these Clean Air Acts which have been passed in many of the States in Australia in the past few years. 
I am glad to see that as a result of the announcement by both the Commonwealth Government and State governments of the polluter pay' principle that industry is cooperating with governments in seeking solutions to environment and pollution problems and that the governments and industry are working together to find better solutions than they have had in the past. Therefore I would say generally that in the field of air pollution, noise pollution, water pollution and soil pollution much progress has been made in the last 12 months. I think the speeches that have been made today indicate a much greater appreciation of the problems that will face Australia in the year to come and the realisation that the Government has played a very important part in performing the task that is facing Australia at this time. I thank all honourable members for their contributions to the debate today. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Australian Tourist Commission Act 1967, I present the fifth annual report of the Australian Tourist Commission for the year ended 30th June 1972 together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's Report on those statements. 
Pursuant to section 27 of the National Library Act 1960-1967, I present the twelfth annual report of the Council of the National Library of Australia for the year ended 30th June 1972, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements.; :. 
The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The request by the Premier of Western Australia for additional funds for Aboriginal housing has been carefully considered.  As 1  stated in my Second Reading Speech of 14th September, Western Australia will receive $2.5m for this purpose in 1972-73, an increase of 100 per cent on the previous year. In addition the Commonwealth has been encouraging Aboriginal housing societies in the State and a total of $49,000 has been provided so far to assist societies at the Beagle Bay, Balgo Hills and Mowanjum communities. Additional funds will be available for housing societies in Western Australia this year. 
 As has already been announced, Lord Vestey has given the Australian Government 35 square miles of land which will now be handed to the Gurindji people at Wave Hill. The land is in 2 parts. One area is of 25 square miles and the other area of 10 square miles will be used for cattle mustering. This was the original area of land that Lord Vestey had in mind. Amicable discussions have taken place between the Government and Lord Vestey. 
In answer to the first part of the question, I inform the honourable member that only one application was received from the Gurindji people and that was for 35 square miles. As yet no other application has been received. There has been some discussion concerning a pastoral project. The honourable member suggested that an area of 500 square miles would be economic. The advice I have received through the Bureau of Agricultural Economics is that an area of 500 square miles would be nothing like adequate for an economic proposition. 
Six hundred square miles would be nothing like adequate. A very much larger area would be required if the proposition were to be economically viable. Therefore the policy of the Government . has been quite clear. Aboriginal groups can make application for land as it becomes available but such applications must be on an economic basis. The only application received to date, was for 35 square miles. We must be grateful to Lord Vestey for giving that area of land for the project. If other applications are received the Government will consider what is required, but the only application that has been received was for 35 square miles. I think the House should be grateful for the way in which the matter has been conducted. 
The answer to the. honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) The matter is the responsibility of the New South Wales State Government and the question would be more appropriately addressed to the State Minister. However, I have sought information from the State Minister for Environment Control and will provide the honourable member with a copy of his reply. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter is the responsibility of the Tasmanian State Government and the question would be more appropriately addressed to the State Minister. However, I have sought information from the State Minister for Environment and will provide the honourable member with a copy, of his reply. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The request was made on 12th September 1972 at 8.15 p.m.; the copy was received at 9.35 p.m. 
The request was made by the Department of the Interior. 
(a) approximately 315 copies; (b) approximately 2,375 copies. 
No. 
8.30 a.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following Press statement was issued at the conclusion of the meeting. 'State and Commonwealth Ministers with prime responsibility for the environment agreed today that, South Australia excluded, the existence of inadequate sewerage facilities is  a  major cause of pollution in Australia. They recommended that the States affected approach the Commonwealth at the next Premiers' Conference with a view to making special financial arrangements, in addition to arrangements already in existence, for the specific purpose of removing the backlog in the construction of sewerage systems and sewage treatment plants, such financial arrangements to apply over  a  10 year period. 
They agreed that the arrangements should be of  a  nature to permit the elimination of the backlog in this period through assured annual financial provisions. 
Present at today's meeting were: 
COMMONWEALTH- The Honourable Peter Howson, M.P., Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. 
NEW SOUTH WALES- The Honourable  J.  G. Beale, M.E,, M.L.A., Minister for Environment Control. 
VICTORIA- The Honourable W. A. Borthwick, M.L.A., Minister for Lands and Minister for Conservation. 
QUEENSLAND - The Honourable  J.  BjelkePetersen, M.L.A., Premier of Queensland, (Chairman). 
SOUTH AUSTRALIA- Representing: The Honourable G. R. Broomhill, M.H.A., -  Dr W.  G. Inglis. 
WESTERN AUSTRALIA - The Honourable R. Davies, M.L.A., Minister for Environmental Protection. 
TASMANIA- The Honourable M. G. Everett. Q.C., M.H.A., Attorney-General. 
Council noted that the brief for the Australian Delegation to the OECD Air Management Sector Group meeting in Tokyo had highlighted the increasing air pollution of Australian cities stemming from motor vehicle emissions and the indications that the standards currently proposed for new vehicles would not . be adequate. Council therefore asked that its Emissions Sub-Committee seek an early joint meeting with the Motor Vehicles Emission Committee of the Australian Transport Advisory Council to review the adequacy of existing standards for new vehicles and how these might be extended to vehicles already on the road. Council noted that progress was being made in all States on enabling legislation or regulations relating to noise pollution and asked the Standing Committee to make recommendations on uniform standards for it to consider at its next meeting. 
The Council approved the creation of  a  Research Sub-committee. This Sub-committee would be required to establish priorities for a 5 year environmental research programme. In so doing the programme should identify and attempt to rationalise environmental research activities being undertaken in various localities and instrumentalities and not seek to duplicate work already being . undertaken locally or overseas. The Research Sub-committee will also be required to draft for Council's consideration a research listing for 1972 similar to that published by New South Wales for 1971. 
The Council resolved to co-ordinate pollution monitoring data from all available sources including data on the dietary intake of man and animals. It decided that data on environmental conditions should be made public promptly together with any necessary explanatory notes. The Ministers agreed to set up a sub-committee to look at marine pollution problems in Australia. The Standing Committee was asked to recommend on guidelines for the preparation of environmental impact statements which might be adopted by the States and Commonwealth.' 
Proceedings of this Council are of  a  confidential nature. However, it is the Council's practice to issue public statements concerning the progress of its work at the end of each meeting. 
For the information of honourable members  1 present the official report of the Australian parliamentary delegation to the United States and Mexico. 
Pursuant to section 13 of the Aboriginal Enterprises (Assistance) Act 1968, I present the fourth annual report by the Office of Aboriginal Affairs on the administration and operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The purchase of the Everard Park station in South Australia by the Commonwealth Government has been completed. The Aboriginal people associated with Everard Park have indicated that they wish to continue to operate the property as a pastoral undertaking. For this purpose it is contemplated that an Aboriginal operating company will be formed, but details are to be worked out in consultation with the Aboriginal community and the South Australian authorities. The Aboriginal community will be assisted in the undertaking by an Adelaide-based firm of pastoral consultants, which has prepared a development plan. 
To make possible the continued operation of the property as a pastoral undertaking, I have approved the provision of loan finance from the Capita] Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises and more finance will' be provided for additional stock, equipment and improvements in accordance with the recommended programme for the development of the property. 
Brisbane Airport: Re-siting Proposal  (Question No. 6535) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The manager of the Australian Tourist Commission's New York Office first noticed this advertisement in the Sunday New York Times of 30th April 1972. He immediately protested to the New York representative of Airways International and told him that the words 'Approved by the Australian Tourist Commission' appeared without the Commission's approval and must not appear again. I am informed that the Airways International representative apologised to the Commission and claimed that the words were inserted in the advertisement as a result of a misunderstanding between himself and his agency. The Commission subsequently declined to become associated with the airline company in any way. 
See answer to (1) above. 
and (4) I do not have any information concerning the financial standing of this company. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information has been provided by the State authorities responsible for Aborigines. New South Wales- Five known. Victoria- Some, although none are recorded because records do not discriminate on the grounds of race. Queensland - No distinction is made as to race or colour. South Australia- Two. 
Western Australia- Two who identify as 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No special records are kept of Aborigines commissioned as Justices of the Peace, but some appointments are known to the Aboriginal affairs authorities which have supplied the following information: 
New South Wales - Eight known. Victoria - One known. 
Queensland - All appointments to the Commission of the Peace are recorded without any, identification by way of race or colour. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows. Information has been provided by the New South Wales Directorate of Aboriginal Welfare: 
The records of the Bega and 'Nowra hospitals do not distinguish on the basis of race or ethnic groupings. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In 1969-70 the Commonwealth granted $6,000 to South Australia for the purchase of land for a health hostel for Aboriginal women at Port Augusta. In 1970-71 a further $1,000 was granted for preliminary investigations and design for the hostel. The Lutheran Church has approached the Commonwealth for a grant for the building and at present discussions are continuing with the South Australian authorities on the future of the project. 
Australian Capital Territory Solicitors: Trust Accounts  (Question No. 6433)  Mr Enderby  asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Is the Attorney-General able to state the average amount of money likely to be in the trust accounts of solicitors in the Australian Capital Territory, by, reference to minimum or maximum deposit, at any one time during a year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Aboriginal Affairs Council has discussed at recent annual meetings such matters as policies on land for Aborigines, discriminatory legislation and legislation prohibiting discrimination on racial grounds, which are relevant to, for example, the International Labour Organisation Convention No. 107, Indigenous and Tribal Populations 1957, and the 1965 International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. 
Darwin, 28th July 1972. 
The  Hon.  Ralph Hunt, M.P., Minister for the Interior  (Chairman) 
The  Hon.  Peter Howson, M.P., Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1966, 1967, 1968, 1970, 1971 and 1972. 
Prior to the second series of French nuclear tests in the Pacific in 1967, the French Ministry of Information announced that 'a small number of devices of limited power will be exploded'. In other years, except for 1972, notifications simply took the form of Notes to Diplomatic Missions in Paris, enclosing copies of Notams (warnings to aircraft and shipping of activated danger zones). In 1972 Notams were sent direct to aviation and shipping authorities including those in Australia. 
Reference to the number, size and type of explosion in each series of tests can be found in the following documents: 
Test series 1966: Australian Journal of Science, Volume 29, page 407, table 1. 
Test series 1967: Australian Journal of Science, Volume 30, page 218, table 1. 
Test series 1968: Australian Journal of Science, Volume 31, page 385, table 1. 
Test series 1970: Defence Standards Laboratories Report AWTSC No. 1, page 23. table 2. 
Test series 1971: Defence Standards Laboratories, Report AWTSC No. 3, page 11, table 1. 
Test series 1972: There has been no official announcement by the French but the consensus of unofficial reports carried by the news media gives 3 explosions: 26th June very low yield, 1st July, low yield and 28th July low yield. 
The systems and methods of identifying and monitoring radioactive fallout in Australia from the tests are described fully in the following reports. 
Test series 1966: Australian Journal of Science, Vol. 29, pages 402-417. 
Test series 1967: Australian Journal of Science, Volume 30, pages 217-226. 
Test series 1968: Australian Journal of Science, Volume 31, pages 383-392. 
Test series 1970: Defence Standards Laboraories, Report AWTSC No. 1. 
Test series 1971: Defence Standards Laboratories, Report AWTSC No. 3. 
The Australian Journal of Science is freely available in libraries throughout Australia, and the copies of the last 2 reports have been tabled in the House. 
All data from the monitoring of fresh fission products in fallout over Australia from the French tests in Polynesia have been published in the reports listed in 4 above. Fallout from the 1972 series will be published in Defence Standards Laboratories Report AWTSC No. 5 to be issued later this year. In addition results from the longlived radioisotopes, strontium 90 and caesium 137, for the corresponding years have been published in the following reports: 
Test series 1966: Australian Journal of Science, Volume 30, pages 307-316. 
Test series 1967: Australian Journal of Science, Volume 31, pages 174-183. 
Test series 1968: Australian Journal of Science, Volume 32, pages 238-248. 
Test series 1969-70: Defence Standards Laboratories 1970: Report AWTSC No. 2. 
Results from the 1971 series of test will be published in Defence Standards Laboratories Report AWTSC No. 4 which is expected to be available by the end of November. 
I draw the honourable member's attention to my statement in the Parliament on tabling the National Radiation Advisory Committee's report on 16th August 1972 in which I referred to the concept of a minimum or threshold dose (Hansard, 16th August 1972, page 211). 
and (9) At the invitation of the French Government and with the approval of the Australian Government 2 officials of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the  Chairman  of the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee (AWTSC) visited Tahiti, the headquarters of the French Pacific Test Site, in June 1966 to examine the means established to ensure the safety of the French nuclear tests in the Pacific. The expenses of the visits by the officials were met by the French authorities and those of the  Chairman  of the AWTSC by the Commonwealth. 
No. 
In addition to the extensive fallout monitoring in Australia, data from which have been reported in full as 4 and 5 above, comprehensive monitoring programmes in the Pacific are mounted by Japan, U.S.A., New Zealand and France; the last two pay particular attention to the populations of Polynesia. Results from the programmes are published widely and are made available to the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation (UNSCEAR). 
The National Radiation Advisory Committee is not aware of any reports from Public Health Authorities in Australia or the Pacific area of cases of death or illness attributable to radiation from fallout from the French nuclear tests in the Pacific. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have no evidence of this. 
See answer to (I). 
I have received letters from university historians expressing concern in general terms about delays in releasing records. 
Delays caused by lack of staff have been acknowledged and steps have been taken to reduce such delays. 
Because it had not been demonstrated to me. 
