My question is directed to the Minister for the Army. Can he advise the House how much the Australian Government invested in the military base at Terendak in Malaysia in construction and associated costs? What is to happen to that investment of Australian taxpayers' money now that the base has been abandoned? Can he say that this investment will be used to offset the high rental that the Malaysian Government is demanding for Butterworth air base, in which we also have substantial investments? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I shall resume my personal explanation. The allegation is that I was badly misinformed on the price of wheat sold to Communist China. The Minister has not given any evidence to refute my statement. 
A further allegation is that the wheat sales were for humanitarian reasons.I had argued previously that they were to extricate the Government from its own scandalous mismanagement of the wheat industry. I adhere to that point and it is substantiated,  Mr Speaker,  by the observations of the Minister who said that he was approached on this humanitarian question by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen). 
Tonight I want to examine what the Government has described as its new and comprehensive commitment to regional security. When we unwrap this pretentious parcel of platitudes what do we find? Firstly, the Government is not talking about the whole Asian region; it is not talking about stationing our forces in Indonesia, India, Burma or Ceylon, because those countries do not want our forces; it is not talking about joining an Asian regional defence organisation, because there is not one, and if there was Australia would not be invited to join. In essence, the Government is talking not about Asia, not even about South East Asia, but 2 countries - Malaysia and Singapore. Secondly, the Government is talking about only 1,200 troops stationed in only one of these countries - Singapore. Thirdly, the Government, in a grand but empty gesture, is leaving 2 squadrons of Mirages in Malaysia because it has no alternative. It has failed to provide a base in Australia capable of taking half of our own fighter forces - that half at present in Malaysia. Fourthly, the Government is contributing only one naval vessel to the Malaysia-Singapore arrangements, which represents a halving of our previous commitment. This is what the Government represents as Australia's role in regional security. It is a fraud. What passes as the Government's policy is insignificant in relation to the only 2 countries affected and of no consequence or even interest to all the other countries in the region. 
The Government's handling of even these limited commitments has been unbelievably incompetent. Firstly, we have abandoned an Army base in Malaysia which has cost the Australian taxpayer millions of dollars and the Government has not thought fit to tell the Australian taxpayer what is to happen to our multi-million dollar investment in that base. Secondly, because of the absence of any agreement or even intelligent negotiation, our troops have been dumped into 2 run-down barracks in Singapore whichare 12 miles apart. Our troops are already in Singapore, yet the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has told us that discussions with Singapore about the final location of the troops are continuing. Thirdly, although Australia ran the base at Butterworth the lease was held by the British, who have relinquished the base to the Malaysians. The investment of millions of dollars of Australian taxpayers' money was not protected. The Government has again goofed badly. Fourthly, if we are to believe this Government's repeated statements that we are so welcome why can we not get the Army base we want in Singapore and why are the Malaysians demanding a stiff rental or indeed a rental at all for the air base at Butterworth? The simple answer is that the Governments in Malaysia and Singapore have shown demonstrably by their actions that they could not care less whether we stayed or left. 
Let us examine what this Government claims are the terms of our continuing presence in Malaysia and Singapore. In February 1969 the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  said: 
Our forces will be stationed in the area under existing arrangements, the terms of which are governed by our association with the AngloMalaysia Defence Agreement. 
Let us be very clear that Australia is not a signatory to that Agreement. Through an exchange of letters our association was expressly in terms of our participation in the Commonwealth Strategic Reserve. The Commonwealth Strategic Reserve in Malaysia no longer exists. In short, there are no existing arrangements covering the presence of the Royal Australian Air Force at Butterworth. Let it also be clearly understood that Singapore is not a signatory to the AngloMalaysia Defence Agreement. There are no existing arrangements covering the Australian Army presence in Singapore. The Australian people are being monstrously deceived. It is a mark of the superficiality of this Government's approach to foreign affairs that it equates isolationism with the withdrawal of a handful of forces from 2 countries. 
The Labor Party is opposed to the 19th century garrison mentality that typifies the present Government's approach to foreign affairs and defence. President Nixon, commenting on his own policy of not committing land forces abroad, said: 
The only issue before us is how we can be most effective in meeting our responsibilties, protecting our interests and thereby building peace. 
The Labor Party does not accept, as President Nixon no longer accepts, that the garrisoning of forces in foreign countries is an effective way of meeting our responsibilities. It is this -clinging to the remnants of colonial attitudes that has isolated the Liberal Party from the mainstream of Asia. 
The Australian Government is now mourning the demise of another myth that it has wilfully and deceitfully supported - the myth of SEATO. Whilst several pages of  President  Nixon's February statement on foreign policy are devoted to NATO there is not a single line about or a single reference to SEATO. This was pointed out by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn).  SEATO has been submerged by its own irrelevance. And this is the organisation that successive Liberal Party leaders have described as a cornerstone of our foreign and defence policies. Fourteen years ago I was associated with SEATO in Bangkok and was  chairman  of one of its subcommittees. Even then the staff of SEATO referred to the organisation by its initials as the 'Sitting Eating And Talking Organisation'. From its artificial inception SEATO failed miserably to attract the major countries of Asia, whose interests SEATO was supposed to protect. Our nearest neighbours - Indonesia. Malaysia and Singapore - have never thought that SEATO was worth while joining. The largest nonCommunist country in the world - India - declined entreaties to join, as did Burma and  Ceylon.  Pakistan joined because it believed that the organisation could be an effective lever not against Communist China but against its neighbour India. France, Britain and Pakistan have long since ceased to participate in the charade and even the Thai Foreign Minister has described the military capability of SEATO as a fiction. It is even more so now that President Nixon has excluded ground forces from its commitments. 
The United States and Australian Governments have sought to make public relations mileage out of associating SEATO with the intervention in Vietnam. Three foundation members of SEATO - Britain, France and Pakistan - are noteworthy by their absence from Vietnam. The only reason why the two remaining Asian members - Thailand and the Philippines - intervened was that the United States blatantly bribed them to send units. As the  Chairman  of the United States Senate Foreign Relations Committee said recently: 
This seems to me to be the ultimate in corruption for us to make deals like this in pursuit of an illusory policy all designed to prove to the world that we have great support in Vietnam which we do not have at all . . . 
In common with Thailand and the Philippines, Australia is not in Vietnam because of a SEATO decision. Nor are we there - let us be very clear about this - because of a request from the South Vietnamese Government. In each case the much publicised but significantly unpublished request from the South Vietnamese Government came, if it came at all, as a contrived and diplomatically convenient afterthought to the pressure exerted by the United States administration. Such are the myths and deceptions on which the Liberal Party has thrived. 
We have heard in this session the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  parrot another myth - the domino theory. The honourable member for Farrer was to continue this myth. The domino theory requires for its validity the assumption that any dissent from the established order, no matter how corrupt, no matter how incompetent, no matter how dictatorial that establishment may be, is defined as Communist. Even in Australia the Liberal Party readily equates dissent with treason. It boasts of its membership of the free world, which comprehends a multitude of totalitarian and oppressive regimes, all assumed to be respectable as long as they are not Communist. But how different the theory appears if we accept, as  President  Nixon is now coming to accept and the Labor Party has always accepted, the rightful place of nationalism and demands for social and economic justice.  President  Nixon now recognises the explosion of another myth - international Communist unity. To use his own words: 
Once a unified bloc, its solidarity has been broken by the powerful forces of nationalism  . . The Marxist dream of international Communist  unity  has disintegrated. 
The domino theory may be applicable to the game of dominoes, but we are not playing with dominoes. We are dealing with people and countries with long traditions and intense national pride. lt is now coming to be recognised in the United States that the United States policies, which this Government has slavishly and mindlesssly followed, have strengthened the Communists' position. In supporting corrupt, incompetent and unrepresentative regimes we have played into the hands of the Communists. We have given responsible opposition groups only one outlet - to join forces with and, on many occasions, be exploited by the Communists. And we have forced nationally minded Communists into dependence on foreign Communist powers. No Vietnamese Communist, no matter how indoctrinated with Communist ideology, would have sought material support from China, a country which for centuries the Vietnamese have regarded as hostile. I would remind honourable members that to this day there are still no Communist Chinese combat forces in Vietnam. Yet our involvement in Vietnam forced the Vietnamese nationalists and Communists into a far closer relationship with Communist China than would have been their preference. Through our lamentable ignorance of Asia we succeeded in achieving what our policy should have been designed to avoid. 
The Minister for External Affairs has parroted the words of  Sir Robert  Thompson that the domino theory is valid because he has talked to the dominoes. Let us listen to the talk of one of the so-called dominoes, Indonesia, given by that country's Ambassador to the United States, Soedjatmoko. In an address in Hawaii he said: 
It is not the political colour of a regime that counts in the end, but its capacity for nationbuilding and development. In the present world situation no outside power can for long force any South East Asian country to do its bidding. The South East Asian nations do not constitute lifeless entities that automatically fall one way or the other. The domino theory, therefore, is to us rather a gross over-simplification of the nature of the historical processes that go on in the area. It obscures and distorts rather than illuminates our understanding and offers no guidelines for realistic policy.  ] had the privilege of representing Australia, or of being a representative of Australia, for extended periods in 2 of the so called dominos - Malaysia and Thailand. My experience coincides with that of Soedjatmoko. 
Just before 1 left Malaysia 1 paid a farewell call to Sarawak and went to a place called Engkilili. A longhouse in Engkilili had been burned down some 2 months prior to my visit. 1 had gone down with the resident for the particular division and on the way down he said that he was carrying a cheque for M20.000- about SA6.000- -to go to the longhouse dwellers. I said: 'They will be glad to see you.' He said: T am not so sure about that.' When wc got there the longhouse dwellers sent him packing with his SM 20,000 cheque. On carrying out investigations 1 found out that the day after the longhouse burned down the Sarawak Communist organisation had turned up with 5 bags of rice, some galvanised iron and a small work force to help put up new accommodation. 
When I got back to Kuching I spoke with a leading member of the Sarawak Government - I will be happy to give his name to the Minister for External Affairs - and said: 'You seem to have trouble in Engkilili. What is it?' He said: The trouble is that the Sarawak Communist organisation is too close to the people.' I said: 'What are you going to do about it?' He said: 'We need more guns.' This attitude is regrettably all too prevalent. It assumes that the only good Communist is a dead one. But I am sure that the reverend gentleman among the honourable members opposite will be well aware of the great strength that Christianity derived from its martyrs. I would suggest that the only good Communist is one who is politically helpless - who has, by enlightened policies, been deprived of any popular cause to exploit. That is the direction in which our foreign policy should lie, and we do not get there by bolstering incompetent, corrupt and unrepresentative regimes. 
It has always disturbed me that we have been ever ready to credit the Communist Chinese with masterminding everything from minor riots to major coups. We have been Mao Tse-tung's best public relations agent. We have built for the Communist Chinese a reputation which their own ineptitude in diplomatic affairs and their nonexistent conventional strike capacity could never hope to do. This Government goes into the 1970s as it emerged from the 1960s without a foreign policy and without a defence policy. For too long we have marched to the beat of another drum. Our political interests in South East Asia and our economic interests at home have been electioneered on the one hand and auctioneered on the other. In the eyes of the world the lucky country is fast becoming the lackey country. For too long the Liberal Party has adhered like glue to old myths, echoed tired slogans and adamantly avoided facing up to new realities. What this country needs, and needs urgently, is a thoroughgoing reappraisal of inherited assumptions. We need an Australian foreign policy and on past performance and present indications we need, above all, a new government. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Howson)  adjourned. 
M.r  Speaker,  I have learnt a great deal this week. 1 spent some time in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics - 4 years in fact - as an Australian representative. I thought I had learned a great deal about Communist tactics. However, I am appalled,  Mr Speaker,  by the Communist tactic of smearing which the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has adopted. It is an evil innuendo to suggest that any man in public life can be held responsible for whoever happens to be in the audience at a public meeting which he is addressing. The Prime Minister has just done that. It would seem to me that any man appearing on the same platform as a Communist would be subject to the very same smearing tactic of the Prime Minister. Well,  Mr Speaker,  the Prime Minister had better begin with his own ministers. I have here a report published by the Institute of Political Science which held a meeting in Canberra from the 27th to 29th January 1968. On the same platform at that particular function were  Mr Laurie  Aarons. Secretary of the Communist Party of Australia, and the Minister for Externa! Territories  (Mr Barnes). 
Opposition members - Oh! 
I thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I can well appreciate the views expressed in that particular way by my colleagues. We can see,  Mr Speaker,  that if the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  had been found to have spoken on the same platform, after the 
Prime Minister had had his Australian Security Intelligence Organisation agents check the facts, he would have been damned forever. This,  Mr Speaker,  is the state of society to which Australia has come where, as I have said before, dissent is equated with treason. I came into this Parliament,  Mr Speaker,  with perhaps the idealistic notion that a parliamentarian had one of the higher vocations of life. I thought that we came here to represent our fellow men. I think there is no higher calling. I am appalled,  Mr Speaker,  by the tactics adopted by the man elected to be the Prime Minister of this country. I think it is a crying shame that he, as Prime Minister of Australia, has lowered himself to adopting the tactics of a group of people to whom he considers himself opposed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 1.4 a.m. (Friday) 
The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has spoken feelingly about the protection of innocent children. I wholeheartedly support the feelings that he has expressed. I do not have pictures with me as did the honourable member for Angas, but let me quote from the 'Australian' of 4th December 1969. An article in this publication states: 
Just outside the village there was this big pile of bodies. This really tiny kid - he only had a shirt on, nothing else, came over to the pile and held the hand of one of the dead. 
One of the Gls behind me dropped into a kneeling position and killed him with a single shot'. 
It is because of this that I adopt what the honourable member for Angas has described as the high moral stand of supporting the Moratorium. 
Last night I had the privilege of being called upon to speak by a Moratorium committee representing the genuine, peaceloving people of my electorate of St George. The  chairman  of this meeting was the Reverend Michael Horsburgh, Vice-Principal of Wesley College at the University of Sydney. My co-speaker was  Mr Colin  McDonald,  President  of Catholics for Peace and Vice-President of the Ex-servicemen's Human Rights Association of Australia. The organiser of the meeting,  Mr Bill  Weekes, had been the campaign director for 3 campaigns for the State Liberal Party member for the electorate of Earlwood and for 9 years was  President  of the Earlwood Liberal Party State Electorate Conference. Present at this meeting were 4S0 decent, honest Australian citizens. Are these the sort of people that the Attorney-General describes as an assorted collection of Communists, Communist sympathisers, Trotskyites and anarchists? 
The Attorney-General referred to what he described as the wicked falsehoods in an advertisement. Let us now have a look at some of the wicked falsehoods of this Government's propaganda. I would like to refer to an infamous publication of a department of which I had the honour to be an officer for 20 years. I refer to a publication entitled 'Vietnam - Questions and Answers'. May I take as my first point in going through this publication, a publication filled with what the Attorney-General describes as wicked falsehoods, a statement which appears on page 19. This statement was made in reply to a question on why we are in Vietnam: 
But the matter is that while Australia values the closeness and strength of its friendship and alliance with the United States, our forces are in Vietnam to help the government of the South at its request. 
It is a matter of some significance that in the several volumes of the documents on Vietnam published by the Department of External Affairs - and I have read each and every one of them; as a matter of fact I have contributed material to them - the much referred to official request from the Government of South Vietnam has never appeared. On 24th May 1962 the then Minister for Defence, in announcing the dispatch of a group of military instructors to Vietnam, referred to an invitation by the Government of the Republic of Vietnam, but the very volume in which that statement appears does not print any such invitation. Again on 29th April 1965 the then Prime Minister, is a circumlocution for which he achieved justifiable acclaim, stated: 
We are now in receipt of a request from the Government of South Vietnam. 
But again what one would have regarded as a historic and unprecedented document which occasioned Australia's sending forces abroad to participate in an undeclared war was not and has never been published. Perhaps we should analyse not so much what the Prime Minister said on this occasion but how he said it. I quote from a document entitled 'Vietnam - First Half of 1965' published by the Department of External Affairs, which reports the Prime Minister as having stated: 
The Australian Government is now in receipt of a request from the Government of South Vietnam for further military assistance. I think I should say that we decided in principle some time ago, weeks and weeks ago, that we would be willing to do this if we received the necessary request from the Government of South Vietnam and the necessary collaboration with the United States. 
He is admitting that whatever message may have turned up the decision had been made before the receipt of that message. This document also contains the facts about the New Zealand commitment. It is curious that the New Zealanders did not get what was a message from the Vietnamese Government or what was said to be a message from the Vietnamese Government until 1 0th May. The New Zealand Government at least had the discretion and the propriety to leave its announcement until 27th May. The plain fact is that we did not respond to the request of the South Vietnamese Government; we bowed to the pressure of the United States Administration - and we were not the only country to do so. 
The myth of the so-called free world involvement at the request of the South Vietnamese Government was dealt a mortal blow in the case of the Philippines.  President  Marcos stated - and listen to these dates - on 19th February 1966 that the request for the Philippines' intervention was made by the South Vietnamese Government on 14th April 1965. Three months prior to that date, in January 1965, the United States Government had signed an agreement with the Phillipines underwriting all the costs of the Philippines' participation in Vietnam. Two points are clear from this statement: Firstly, that a Vietnamese request, if it ever arrived, was a mere and contrived formality; and secondly, that the Philippines, as with Thailand, was bribed by the United States Government to intervene. This is the course of action which caused the  Chairman  of the United States Senate Foreign Relations Committee to comment. He said: 
This seems to me to be the ultimate in corruption for us to make deals like this in pursuit of an illusory policy all designed to prove to the world that we have great support in Vietnam, which we do not have at all. 
The position of the United States is even more equivocal. The United States has never received a request from any of the multitude of governments of South Vietnam to intervene because, in spite of repeated requests by the United States Senate Foreign Relations Committee, the United States Administration has never been able to produce such a document. The United States Administration was not interested in the contribution of the bribed and pressured members of the free world. It was interested, as  Senator Fulbright  pointed out, only in seeking to gain acceptance of the illusion of world wide support.  President  Johnson found it expedient to bolster his own Administration's standing in the United States domestic political scene. It was a public relations exercise, and Australian sons, brothers, fathers and husbands have died for a Maddison Avenue victory. 
I would like again to refer to this publication 'Vietnam - Questions and Answers' on the question of Vietnam's breaching of the Geneva Agreements. It is stated at page 13 that the International Control Commission had reported that unarmed and armed personnel, arms, munitions and other supplies had been sent in from the zone in the north to the zone in the south with the object of starting, organising and carrying on hostile activities. But as a part of the falsehood of the propaganda of this Government it did not mention what that same report said about the United States and what it said about the Republic of South Vietnam. The International Control Commission's report states in section 20: 
Taking into account and basing itself on its own observations and authorised statements made in the United States of America and the Republic of Vietnam, the Commission concludes that the Republic of Vietnam has violated articles 16 and 17 of the Geneva Agreements in receiving the increased military aid from the United States of America in the absence of any established credit in its favour. The Commission is also of the view that though there may be not any formal military alliance between the Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of Vietnam the establishment of a united Military Assistance Command in South Vietnam as well as the introduction of a large number of United States military personnel beyond the stated strength of the Military Assistance Advisory Group amounts to a factual military alliance which is prohibited under Article 19 of the Geneva Agreements. 
One would assume from a further statement in the report 'Vietnam - Questions and Answers' that the infiltration of North Vietnamese personnel started immediately after the signing of the Geneva Agreements. But what are the facts? I should now like to refer to the United States Committee on Foreign Relations report entitled 'Background Information Relating to South East Asia and Vietnam'. What do we find? Under the date, 1st January 1955, 6 months after the signing of the Geneva Agreements, it says that the United States promises to render direct assistance to Vietnam on the basis of existing agreements of December 1950 for the support of Vietnamese armed forces. On 12th February 1955 the United States Military Assistance Advisory Group took over the training of the South Vietnamese Army following the relinquishing of the command authority by the French. We can study this background information for year after year but it is not until 10th November 1960 that we find, in this American publication, the first reference to any North Vietnamese incursion of South Vietnamese territory. In that statement it says that the South Vietnamese Government reported that Communist attacks were made across the border. What we have to think of this is that 6 months after the signing of the Geneva Agreements which prohibited infiltration and which prohibited any military alliance the United States, on its own evidence, was in action. It was not until 1960, again on the evidence supplied by the United States Senate, that there was information that the North Vietnamese had come into action. 
Perhaps we should look at some of the conscious deceptions also contained in the further reports in 'Vietnam - Questions and Answers'. On page 8 of that document it states that the South took the position that until the people of the North were able to have genuine elections it would be impossible to hold free elections over the whole country for the purposes of unification; for the South to have taken any other decision would have been unrealistic and wrong. Bui what do we find when we look up what the Geneva Agreements said about those elections? It says that 'the elections shall be held by secret ballot and that they shall be held in July 1956 and under the supervision of an International Commission composed of representatives of member States of the International Supervisory Commission'. That was an agreement signed by the United States. That was an agreement signed by the South Vietnamese Government. We, in co-operation with the United States and with the puppet regime of Ngo Dinh Diem set up by the United States, aided and abetted the Vietnamese to defy that agreement. We even said that it would be wrong for them to act in accordance with the Geneva Agreements which honourable members opposite have many times said should be the basis of Government policy. 
The Australian people are now realising that they have been deceived and that this Government has lied and lied and lied. This position is becoming untenable. What passes as Australian foreign policy is bankrupt and motivated by fear of revelation. The Government, by this device introduced by the Attorney-General, is desperately seeking to shift ground. But the Government will find, in the words of Abraham Lincoln, that not all the people can be fooled all the time, 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Has the Malaysian Government proposed that the Royal Australian Air Force base at Butterworth be used jointly with the Royal Malaysian Air Force? To give effect to this proposal has the Malaysian Government asked the Australian Government to withdraw 1 of its Mirage squadrons? In view of the inadequate facilities at the Mirage base at Williamtown, where does the Government propose to locate the squadron if it is withdrawn from Malaysia? 
Since coming to this House I have been subjected to a conscious and co-ordinated attack by both the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I have been appalled by the immaturity of the attack - by the petticoat pettiness of the Minister for External Affairs and by the fourth form prefect posturing by the Minister for Defence. I find it reprehensible that senior Ministers should devote so much of their time and that of certain officers to such pettiness instead of revamping foreign and defence policies which have become demonstrably bankrupt. I could, perhaps, regard this as flattering but it is, in fact, pathetic. 
The Government is desperate. Its policies are based on myths and are perpetuated by lies and deceptions. The facade is crumbling and all it seems that the Ministers can do is to pick up a few fallen bricks and throw them indiscriminately. Yesterday we heard the Minister for External Affairs attacking a commentator who, as the Minister well knows, has not been a friend of the Labor Party and whose only sin is that he is stating facts that the Liberal Party cannot face up to. In a speech in this House on the Vietnam Moratorium I quoted from the Fina] Declaration of the Geneva Conference the section relating to the agreement to the holding of elections in Vietnam. I said that this was an agreement that the United States of America signed. The Minister, in reply to an arranged question, denied that the United States had done so. The United States attached itself to certain aspects of the Geneva Agreements, as the Minister for once correctly pointed out, by issuing a declaration. The Minister has apparently relied for that reference on a publication by his Department entitled Vietnam Since 1954 Geneva Agreements'. On page 17 of that publication there is what purports to be the United States declaration issued in July 1954. The declaration was, in fact, made by the United States Under-Secretary of State, Walter B. Smith, in Geneva on 21st July 1954. For a very curious reason the text of the actual statement is not as reproduced in the publication of the Department of External Affairs. 
To set the record straight I should like to add from the real text the very next paragraph that follows the truncated version that appears in this Government's publication. I quote from the Department of State Bulletin, Volume 31, No. 788, dated 2nd August 1954, page 162, as follows: 
In connection with the statement in the declaration concerning free elections in Vietnam my Government wishes to make clear its position which it has expressed in a declaration made in Washington on 29th June 1954 as follows: 
In the case of nations now divided against their will, we shall continue to seek to achieve unity through free elections supervised by the United Nations to ensure that they are conducted fairly. 
The United States, by that declaration, agreed to the holding of elections. The 1954 Agreement laid down that the elections would be supervised by the International Control Commission, that they would be free elections and that they would be by secret ballot. The Minister for External Affairs persists with the lie that the North Vietnamese alone were responsible for violating the Geneva Agreement. Now, under pressure, he is adopting the rather curious stance that the United States by not signing all of the Agreement and adhering to all of the Agreement could not possibly violate it, but the United States participated in the conference and pledged itself under its declaration to refrain from the threat of force or the use of force. 
In previous speeches in this House I have already quoted from the International Control Commission reports proving that the United States was guilty of violating the Agreement. I want now to quote from the 1962 report of the ICC which proves that South Vietnam and the United States hindered the operations of the Commission. I quote from age 41 as follows: 
Since December 1961, the Commission's teams in South Vietnam have been persistently denied the right to control and inspect, which are part of their mandatory tasks. Thus these teams, though they were able to observe the steady and continuous arrival of war material, including aircraft carriers with helicopters on board, were unable, in view of the denial of controls, to determine precisely the quantum and nature of war material unloaded and introduced into South Vietnam. 
It is very important for one simple reason: It makes a lie of everything the Australian Government has been saying in the last 3 weeks. We have circumstances when publications that carry the imprint of this Government fail to give the full text of those sorts of agreements that it finds itself not happy with; and I have pointed out on previous occasions where in official publications of the Department of External Affairs, approved by the Minister for External Affairs, 1 side of the case has been given and the other side completely omitted. This is the sort of Government we have - a government that can only thrive if it falls back on the lies and deceptions that it has perpetrated. 
I desire to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I would like to make 2 points. As was suggested by the honourable member for Mitchell, 1 did serve in the Soviet Union, from which country I was expelled twice. 1 also point out that I did have contacts with left wing groups in Malaysia. I also had contacts with right wing groups and I had very close associations with the Government of Malaysia. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. .Did  Sir Robert  Thompson, an .exponent of the domino theory, appear on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's 'Guest of Honour* programme on .8th March 1970 and also on a half bour ABC television programme? Did  Dr Han  Suyin, an exponent of the view that the People's Republic of China has a rightful place in the world community, appear on the ABC's 'Guest of Honour' programme on 3rd May 1970? Doss the Postmaster-General agree that the ABC has in these circumstances maintained a balance between differing political views? 
Did the Minister for External Affairs in a television interview on 15 August in commenting on Australia's attitude towards military aid to Cambodia state: 
People wouldn't believe us if we said we want a negotiated settlement and at the same time we gave military aid, so we gave civil aid instead. 
How does the Minister relate that statement to the course the Government has pursued in Vietnam? What steps does the Minister intend to take to make people believe in the Government's reported interest in a negotiated settlement in Vietnam? 
 When listening to the speech of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  it occurred to me that it was strange to present the point of view that be holds and for Australia to be withdrawing a battalion from Vietnam instead of putting in a division. The whole thrust of the Minister's argument was his great concern for the people of South Vietnam. Yet at the same time he and his Government are agreeing to withdraw Australian forces. If they were serious about the arguments they have put forward to the Australian people time and time again, this is not the time to be withdrawing forces; it is the time to be introducing more forces. 
The Minister for Defence made great play of the terms of aggression. I would like it to be known once and for all whether it is aggression from the North or whether it is civil war. 
I am very pleased that the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  is maintaining a certain consistency. Paragraph 6 of the final declaration of the Geneva Conference, dated 21st July 1954, states: 
The seventeenth parallel should not in any way be interpreted as constituting a political or territorial boundary. 
I find it very difficult to understand how it can be regarded as aggression from the North when the General Conference on Indo-China regarded the whole territory as one territory and the division line as not constituting a political or constitutional demarcation. 
It is not a new line. It has been sitting there since 1954, if the honourable gentleman had got around to reading it. We are talking about aggression in Cambodia. We on this side of the House have not denied that the North Vietnamese have been in Cambodia at any stage. 
I do not think honourable members opposite should start calling the kettle black. I have here a document dated 13th May 1964. It is the message to the  President  to the United Nations Security Council from the permanent representative of Cambodia to the United Nations. I shall make the document available. It states: 
On the same day the International Control Commission visited the site, made its inquiries and prepared reports on this absolutely unjustifiable act of criminal aggression, which is in fact a repetition of the attack made at Chantrea on 19th March 1964. 
That was an act of aggression by South Vietnamese forces, but not entirely by South Vietnamese forces. The message continues: 
In the course of interrogation by the members of the Commission the South Vietnamese prisoner confirmed that United States officers had taken part in these last two acts of aggression. 
The United States Government made a public apology at that stage for the aggression in Cambodia in 1964. 
Let us talk about aggression in Laos. For many years we have been told that all the Air Force flights out of the 4 bases in Thailand have been reconnaissance flights. It so happens that these reconnaissance planes are B52s, the largest bombers in the world, and the number of attacks in the last couple of years has been running at 14,000 to 15,000 movements a month. 
I turn next to my understanding of the forces and pressure that go into the making of the United States foreign policy. As the Minister for Defence mentioned, we cannot act unrelated to our allies. I refer to this subject because for many years we have been marching to the beat of another drum. I think we should at least understand when the beat of that drum is changing. We have been all the way with LBJ and we have gone a-waltzing Matilda with Nixon: but let it be understood that our involvement in Vietnam was not the result of any purported request from the South Vietnamese Government and still less a request from SEATO. It was purely and simply a request - a direction - from the United States Administration. It was not a strategic requirement but a public relations requirement. We should be looking at what is going on in the United States, because no United States  President  can ignore any groundswell that builds up in that country. The anti-war movement in the United States has already compelled the retirement of one  President  and is forcing the hand of the present incumbent. There is little that Australia can do in this process, but at least we should try to understand it. 
To put the matter bluntly, it is just as important for us to examine the motives of our friends as it is to examine the motives of our foes, otherwise we will be left, as this Government has been left on so many occasions, out on the end of a very fragile limb. Domestic considerations led the United States into Vietnam and domestic considerations will lead the United States out of Vietnam.  President  Eisenhower came to power on one issue. Following the 1940 takeover of China by the Chinese Communists, he argued that the Democrats had lost China. In the period between 1950 and 1954 under  President  Eisenhower the Republicans realised that by the 1954 election they would be tarred with exactly the same brush - that they, the Republicans, had lost Vietnam. From that period on, as a matter of domestic political consideration, the United States adopted a policy of open ended commitment to South Vietnam. It started off with aid to the French and was followed by aid through the American puppet, Ngo Dien Diem. The Americans developed from this the idea of ringing Communist China, from Korea right round to Pakistan, with a series of bases. In the domestic field the anti-Communist movement took the form of  Senator Joe  McCarthy, the Red baiter, whose words still echo in this chamber and around Australia. 
The Government sought to obtain the support of the United States business group. We heard  President  Eisenhower talking about the value of tin and tungsten. Now, strangely enough, the voice of the American capitalist is being heard. The  Chairman  of the Board of the Bank of America,  Mr Louis  B. Lundberg, stated publicly: 
The war in Vietnam has seriously distorted the American economy, has inflamed inflationary pressures, has drained resources that are desperately needed to overcome serious domestic problems confronting our country and has hampered the rate of growth in profits on both a before and after tax basis. 
Vietnam is not a lost cause. It was a wrong cause. The Americans have come to realise it, and the Australian people have come to realise it. It seems to me that the Government has come to realise it, because one can point to the inconsistency of its policy towards Cambodia compared with the course it has adopted in Vietnam. 
In the words of the proposal before the House, it is time - in fact it is past time - for the withdrawal of all Australian forces, lt is time - indeed past time - for international action to be taken to end hostilities. It is time to get on with the constructive job of rebuilding a country, north and south, that has nearly been destroyed in the ill-guided efforts to save it. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that in a statement dated 29th April 1965 (Department of External Affairs Select Documents on International Affairs No. 2 of 1965, page 50) the then Prime Minister announced that the Australian Government was in receipt of a request from the Government of South Vietnam for further military assistance. 
If so, what was the form and source of this request. 
When was the request actually received. 
Has the full text of the request ever been made public. 
If not, will he make the document available. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
Did recommendation No. 14 of the Interim Report from the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise presented in June 1970 recommend that the Air Co-ordinating Committee examine the feasibility of re-allocating air space to facilitate the re-routing of flight paths to minimise noise over residential areas. 
If so, what steps (a) have been taken, and (b) are intended to be taken by his Department to implement this recommendation. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the document entitled 'Declaration by the Representative of the United States of America' July 1954 reprinted on page 17 of the Department of External Affairs 'Select Documents on International Affairs No. 1' of 1964, purport to be the full text of the Declaration by the Representative of the United States of America. 
If noi, will he make available the full text and state why the presentation contained in the Select Document referred to does not indicate that it is an abridged version. 
This is the first time since my entry into the House that I have had the opportunity of discussing the Estimates for the Department of External Affairs, in which I had the privilege of serving for some 20 years. Tonight I shall examine some aspects of the nature of our overseas representation and, secondly, I shall take up what the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  and the Acting Minister for External Affairs  (Mr Swartz)  before him discussed at some length. I refer to the allocation and what lies behind the allocation nf $184m for the foreign aid programme. To all intents and purposes, the Department of External Affairs has been in existence only since the end of the Second World War. Like Topsy, it has just growed. Expansion has been piecemeal. In the quarter of a century of its existence there has been no review of its operations and certainly no examination of the procedures which we have adopted, mainly from the British Foreign Office, and how these could be pertinent to the formulation and implementation of Australia's foreign policy. 
In the last 10 years the British Government has held 2 full scale inquiries into overseas representation. I would strongly urge the setting up of a special commission along the lines of the Plowden and Duncan commissions in the United Kingdom. The purpose of this commission would be to examine thoroughly our overseas effort and to make recommendations for more effective participation in our overseas representation. It seems to me - and this is an impression I have after about 20 years service - that we have succumbed to the delusion of grandeur which, of course, is an occupational hazard of diplomacy. We have opened up a number of posts in a multitude of countries of only peripheral interest to Australia. We now have posts in some 50 countries. 
At the same time in areas of immediate concern to use we have concentrated our staff in the capital city. We have, for instance, no regional officers in Indonesia. All om* staff in Indonesia reside in the Australian fortress in Djakarta. Incredible as it may seem, we have a consulate, in Portugese Timor but no representation in Indonesian Timor; nor do we have an office in Sumatra. I understand that the British Government is now closing down its operations in Sumatra and it would seem to me that this is an opportune time for the Australian Department of External Affairs to take over the British office in Sumatra. 
But perhaps of more moment is that we have no office in West Irian. Our border with West Irian is the only border that we have with a foreign country. I think that all members in this Mouse on both sides will agree that the relationship between West Irian and Papua-New Guinea will be vital in the future relationship between Indonesia and Australia. Similarly, in the last post in which I served, in Sabah and Sarawak, we have no representation. I make these suggestions in a constructive spirit and I hope that the Minister for External Affairs, who like most Ministers is not here tonight, will take them into account. 
Let us have a look at the Australian foreign aid programme. At the outset 1 want to applaud a belated but welcome innovation in the Australian aid programme. The Department has been given authority to programme its aid to Indonesia over a 3-year period. The annual average - I think we should point this out - is not significantly larger than the appropriations for last year, but what is important is that the planning and expenditure can be phased over 3 years rather than 12 months. For too long the public finances in Australia have been hidebound by the annual Budget requirement to spend in the current year the funds appropriated, otherwise these funds will be lost. The consequences have been a flurry of frequently reckless expenditure in the closing stages of the financial year. The annual budgeting for development programmes, whether they be foreign or for Australian domestic projects, is to my mind an anachronism which invites, indeed encourages, deception and ineffective utilisation of resources. 
This is not the place to comment on the half-baked and pathetically superficial aid philosophy propounded by the Minister for External Affairs in his recent statement to this House. He pontificated on the moral and humanitarian motives of aid giving. All I want to say is that if it had not been for the cold war and the aid auction between the East and the West our moral and humanitarian instincts might not have been so much in evidence. I could not help recalling during the sermon of the Minister for External Affairs a Malay proverb that points out that water lapping in a half-full bucket makes more noise. His speech made good advertising copy on how good we looked statistically, but we Australians who foot the bill deserve something much more substantial. 
The foreign aid allocation of $184m could be very readily used in Australia. We are building roads ia Asia which we sorely need here. We are putting in water pipes in Asia when large areas of Australia are unsewered, and we are providing educational opportunities for Asians when many Australians are denied them. The people of Australia have a right to know what it is all about and it is about time that we looked behind the neon lit statistics which the honourable member for Diamond Valley quoted tonight and see what sort of aid is involved and how effective it is. Let us take, as an example, our aid to Vietnam. The civil aid to Vietnam has been just as much a public relations exercise as the force commitment of the free world. The United States has provided massive military aid and economic assistance to South Vietnam. The country has in fact been flooded with economic assistance well beyond its capacity to absorb. Yet the United States Administration, in order to justify its commitment and particularly to justify its commitment to the American people, went to great lengths to encourage countries within its sphere of influence to make contributions.  President  Johnson's principal concern was to show the American people that the policies he pursued had the help and support of other nations, and that the United States was not alone. 
In the military sphere the United States Administration blatantly bribed South Korea, the Philippines and Thailand to send forces. The full cost of the participation of these forces in Vietnam is paid by the United States people. In the civil aid field the United States Government - which, as I have said, was already committing more aid than South Vietnam is in a position to absorb, devised programmes that would allow nominal participation by countries that the United States could influence. Our aid to Vietnam has been unselective in approach and inconsequential in dividends either to the Vietnamese people or to the Australian people. We have picked up the odd and scattered crumbs from the vast United States civil and military banquet. In short, the Australian .Government has scavenged for aid projects on which to project and build its public relations image of compassion and concern. 
Much of what is classified as civil aid to Vietnam comes within the category of para-military aid. An example of this is the $500,000 special aid to Vietnam provided in this Budget, which is for the construction of houses for dependants of members of the regional and popular forces in South Vietnam. Last year's Budget provided $100,000 for sleeping kits for the Vietnamese police. In the past we have also provided barbed wire and galvanised iron for what were euphemistically described as strategic hamlets. But much of this, I think, pales in comparison with our so called aid programme in the medical aid field. We have spent a great deal of money on this medical aid programme. Perhaps I could refer honourable members to the official report by the Department of External Affairs which was prepared by Professor Sydney Sunderland, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Melbourne. A couple of points that he made were: Under prevailing conditions the system does not provide our teams with enough work to do. The Vietnamese doctors are often conspicuous by their absence and collaboration is difficult. 
There is evidence that in some hospitals the presence of the Australian team has meant a decline in the attendance and work of local personnel since they will not do anything if there is a chance of getting a foreigner to do it for them. 
In fact, the whole report written by Professor Sunderland indicates that there have been serious deficiencies in this particular aid programme, arid this means that Australian taxpayer's money has not been used to the best advantage. 
I would say that our resources could be much more effectively utilised in programmes which we ourselves decided upon and which were not palmed off to us by the Americans. The civic action programme by Australian forces in Vietnam involved expenditure of funds of $230,000 last financial year. Its aim is to do the job that successive South Vietnamese governments have not been able to do - to attract and hold the loyalty of the people. I do not regard this as a responsibility of our fighting forces. Yet in an official publication it is stated that there is no doubt that 'most of the effort of the Civic Affairs Unit is in the field of military civic action - the use of military forces to improve the social and economic standard of the population as a means of winning their support to the Government of Vietnam.' 
The Minister in his speech made no mention of trade. Trade is very important. Many of the countries of South Asia and South East Asia are just as interested in trade as in aid. Their cry is: 'Trade and aid'. What have we done in LDC preferences - that is, preferences to less developed countries? We have done nothing. If we take our imports, we find that in 1958-59 our imports from the countries of South Asia and South East Asia amounted to 12.4 per cent of our total imports. By 1968-69, imports from these countries had dropped to 5.5 per cent of our total imports. Likewise, if we look at the preferential tariff system, we find that it has worked out in this way: During the first year of the operation of the scheme, the total imports admitted from Indonesia under the preferential tariff system amounted to $2,500. In the last financial year, after some years of operation of the scheme, the total had risen to the astronomical sum of $15,300. The hot dog stand at the Sydney Cricket Ground is worth more than that. 
In the short time available to me, I wish to deal with this question of our aid to Papua and New Guinea. Only $33,750,000 of our total aid of $126,100,000 is earmarked for what is described as 'certain well defined purposes of a developmental nature'. The Government is embarking now on loans as a part of our aid programme. What I am most concerned about is the nature and quantity of our aid to Papua and New Guinea. It is in effect a budget support programme and we could forgive the people of Papua and New Guinea for believing that, when independence is received, we will no longer be responsible for providing aid. Now is the time to set up a long term developmental programme as an earnest of our intention to continue to concern ourselves with the economic and social development of Papua and New Guinea. The programme should be drawn up by, and administered through, a joint commission. 
Progress reported. 
[ present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of St George respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes. 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that histotrians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in "Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', page 9S1); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald' on 14th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray.' 
Petition received and read 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Education Council report on the needs of the State Education Services, has established the most urgent need in education. 
That these needs can be summarised as severe teacher shortage (especially in high schools), oversize classes, and lack of hygienic toilet, washroom and drinking facilities. 
That the additional sum of $1,000 million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance, the State School System will disintegrate. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray, that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, take immediate steps to ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their Public Education Services. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. In view of the reported postponement of the 5-power defence conference, when does the Minister expect to sign an agreement with the Governments of Malaysia and Singapore regularising the garrisoning of Australian forces in those countries? 
This evening, we are dealing with the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation. Civil aviation, although a modern phenomenon, involves, it seems to me, an age-old conflict between the traveller and the resident. Possibly this conflict goes back to the time when homo sapiens for the first time jumped on a horse, went through a puddle and splashed a bystander. We are living still with this notion of pollution and the effect that the traveller and the devices that the traveller uses has on the public and particularly upon the resident. 
As you know,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I am a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. Through the hearings of that Committee, I have come to the conclusion that I am far from satisfied that the Department of Civil Aviation is giving as sufficient attention to alleviating aircraft noise nuisance as it should. The interests of people living in noise affected areas is running a poor second place to the interests of airline operators. Australia in fact trails well behind other countries of the world in minimising the aircraft noise nuisance. Yet, to listen to successive Ministers for Civil Aviation and honourable members opposite one would think that we are leading the world. This is demonstrable nonsense. 
Twelve years ago, before the age of the passenger jet, the British authorities introduced at Heathrow Airport a maximum noise limit of 110 EPNdBs - the measurement of noise - for day movement and 102 EPNdBs for night movements. This was 12 years ago. Despite the introduction of new and noisier aircraft, this limit has been maintained. But, to this day, no limit is imposed by the Department of Civil Aviation on the activities and the operations of any aircraft at any Australian airport. Years before this Government got around to instituting an inquiry into aircraft noise, the British Government had set up a committee on this subject. That committee had taken evidence, had produced recommendations and the British Government had acted upon them years before, as I say, we ever got around to such action. 
Honourable members opposite and particularly successive Ministers for Civil Aviation have seemed, to indicate to the Australian people that the maintenance of the curfew at Mascot was a retrograde step and that we were falling behind the progress of other nations. I wish to quote from information supplied by the Department of Civil Aviation concerning a few international airports abroad. The airports at Montreal, Toronto, Nice, Paris, Dusseldorp Osaka, Oslo and many more have restrictions or curfews imposed upon operators into those airports. The Australian Government is paying lip service only to the Australian airport curfew - particularly at Kingsford-Smith. Over the last 2 years, approximately 40 aircraft movements a month have occurred inside the curfew hours. Those movements have been by jet aircraft. This was a matter that concerned the Committee on which I served. It particularly concerned me and my colleagues from the neighbouring electorates of Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and Barton  (Mr Reynolds).  In the report which was tabled in the House at the end of the last session by that  Committee,  we pointed out in no uncertain terms that the Committee: 'is concerned at the frequency of such approvals' - that is, approvals for flights during curfew hours: 'and the Committee recommends that a more stringent application of the criteria authorising jet movement in curfew hours be made to ensure the preservation of the original intention of the regulation'. But, still nothing has been done and, from the comments of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  it appears that nothing will be done. We have the absurd position that on 3 nights a week Qantas schedules an aircraft movement out of Mascot at 11 p.m. Has anybody in this chamber ever taken off in a plane which the airline company says will leave at 11 p.m. and which in fact has departed at 11 p.m.? The absurd programme of departures right at the commencement of the curfew period ls one of the reasons why aircraft should not be scheduled at such times. 
There have even been suggestions emanating from Ansett Airlines of Australia that it will employ or utilise aircraft which in fact will be by-passing the very spirit of the curfew. We have heard from Ansett Airlines of Australia that it intends to introduce the Electra aircraft as a night freighter. This is of great concern because the Minister for Civil Aviation, speaking in the Senate, pointed out that during spot checks by the Department of Civil Aviation the Electra aircraft was found to create slightly more noise at one of the 2 selected measuring points under the landing approach than a DC9 pure jet. He went on to say that further checks had taken place and that these had indicated it was significantly quiter. But the point at issue is that the Electra aircraft is capable of making more noise than a DC9 jet aircraft, but, under the arrangement for the curfew at Sydney airport, at the moment Electra aircraft can operate during the hours of the curfew. 
Sitting suspended from  6 to  8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was indicting the Government for its neglect of people who live in areas affected by aircraft noise and for trailing behind other parts of the world in introducing effective noise abatement procedures. 1 said that it seemed to me that the interests of people who live under a flight path were running a poor second to the interests of airline operators. 1 also pointed out that the curfew as at present administered was a complete farce. But the future for people who live in my electorate is even more gloomy. We have been told by the Department of Civil Aviation that the number of movements of regular passenger aircraft by 1980 will be 120,000 per year. This means 330 movements a day or, if my arithmetic is correct and we adopt, as the Government obviously intends to adopt, a 24 hour service, one movement every 4 minutes. So long before the saturation of aircraft movement is reached, the people in my electorate will be saturated by aircraft noise. lt is very obvious to all of us on this side of the chamber that the Government intends to construct double runways - 2 runways north and south and 2 runways east and west - at Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport. This is because of the Government's lack of foresight and lack of planning in introducing at an earlier stage than this a site for a second airport in Sydney. So much money has been spent on Mascot that the only possibility for this Government, which has shown its ineptitude, is to continue to throw good money after bad at Mascot. Mascot covers an area of 1,600 acres. Tullamarine, which is the new airport in Melbourne, has an area of 5,500 acres, and most overseas airports in this modern day and age have areas of between 12,000 and 14,000 acres. This Government, through its incompetence, and lack of foresight, will continue to pour money into this very narrow area of land at Mascot. 1 know that the Government is not particularly worried about noise reasons, but even for commercial reasons it should be obvious to all that an area the size of Mascot cannot be developed any further beyond 1980, and it is about dme - in fact, it is past the time - that this Government started to think about a second airport for Sydney. As I have mentioned, the Government has shown incompetence. In one respect it has shown monumental incompetence in its planning and development of Mascot. Back in 1965 the Department of Civil Aviation ignored the advice not only of the New South Wales airport development committee but also of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots which pointed out in that year that the proposed extension of the north-south runway to 8,500 feet was inadequate and also unsafe. It seems to me, on looking back over this period, that there was a conscious decison to limit the length of runways. Again it seems to me from comments made by  Senator Henty,  in another place, that this was to restrict competition from other international airlines whilst Qantas Airways Ltd did not have the latest aircraft. With short runways, aircraft on international routes could not take off with full pay loads. What may have served Qantas's short term interest has been paid for dearly by the Australian taxpayer. 
I should like to give some figures which have been provided by the Department of Civil Aviation on what this stop and start policy on runways at Mascot has cost the Australian taxpayer. 1 preface my remarks by saying that in the United States the cost of runways and taxiways is approximately $300 per foot. The cost of construction of the original runways and taxiways at Tullamarine was $570 per foot. The cost of the extensions into Botany Bay that are now taking place at Mascot is $5,500 per foot. This arises because of lack of foresight by the Government. The dredge that was already in position in Botany Bay was lost, and the construction of any extensions always presents a contractor with handicaps, such as maintaining a degree of serviceability of the runway that is being extended and all the other costs associated with the restraints that are placed upon a contractor under these conditions. So throughout the history of the last 10 years of the development of Mascot we have seen incompetence, complete lack of foresight and complete lack of planning on the part of the Government. It has added up to a deplorable record of waste and mismanagement. 
It is about time that the Department of Civil Aviation developed a planning section which was not looking at what developments will be in 2, 3 or 4 years time. International civil aviation is the fastest growing industry in the world and its requirements have to be foreseen. Admittedly, sometimes we have to look into the crystal ball. But on many occasions in the past the Department of Civil Aviation has not been able to look beyond its very small nose. I hope that the decision about the development of a second airport for Sydney will be made now because, as we have seen from the experience at Tullamarine, it takes at least 10 years to develop an airport from the time the first sod is turned to the first flight of an aircraft. My colleagues and I believe that this decision has to be taken urgently. In the meantime I hope that the Department of Civil Aviation will give its full attention to alleviating noise in Rockdale, Banksia, Bexley, and other suburbs in the constituencies of my colleagues the honourable member for Barton, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  and the honourable member for KingsfordSmith. People are involved, and to my mind it is the purpose of government that the interests of people should supersede those of profit. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that in a statement dated 24th May 1962 (Department of External Affairs Select Documents on International Affairs No. 1 of 1964, page 36) the then Minister for Defence announced that at the invitation of the Government of the Republic of Vietnam Australia was sending a group of military advisers to that country. 
If so, has the full text of the request ever been made public. 
If no, will he make the document available. 
asked the Minister for the 
Army, upon notice: 
Did recommendation No. 14 of the Interim Report from the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise presented in June 1970 recommend that the Air Co-ordinating Committee examine the feasibility of re-allocating air space to facilitate (he re-routing of Sight paths to minimise noise over residential areas. 
If so, what steps (a) have been taken and (b) are intended to be taken by his Department to implement this recommendation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did recommendation No. 5 of the Interim Report from the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise presented in June 1970 recommend that the Department of Air and the Department of Civil Aviation institute an extensive investigation of complaints into the effects of overflying aircraft on structures so as lo establish the cause of damage. 
If so, what steps (a) have been taken, and (b) are intended to be taken by the Department of Civil Aviation to implement this recommendation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did Recommendation 9 of the interim report from the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise presented in June 1970. recommend that the Department of Air and the Department of Civil Aviation introduce a standard method of recording complaint information as outlined in the text. 
If so, what steps (a) have been taken, and (b) are intended to be taken by the Department of Civil Aviation to implement this recommendation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for  Civ  il Aviation, upon notice: 
Did Recommendation 10 of the interim report from the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise presented in June 1970. recommend that the Department of Civil Aviation and, where appropriate the Department of Air. pay continuing attention lo the administrative arrangements as set out in the text. 
If so, what steps (a) have been taken, and (b) are intended to be taken by the Department of Civil Aviation to implement this recommendation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did Recommendation II of the Interim Report from the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise presented in June 1970, recommend that at Sydney during the hours of curfew (11 p.m. lo 6 a.m.) movements be confined to operations over Botany Bay except in cases of emergency. 
If so, what steps (a) have been taken, and (b) arc intended to be taken to implement this recommendation. 
asked the Minister representing  the  Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did Recommendation 12 of the interim report from the House of Representatives Select Committee On Aircraft Noise presented in June 1971), recommend that criteria authorising jet movements in curfew hours be applied more stringently to ensure the preservation of the original intention of the regulation. 
If so, what steps (a) have been taken, and (b) are intended to be taken to implement this recommendation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did Recommendation 13 of the interim report from the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise presented in June, 1970, recommend that the Department of Civil Aviation thoroughly examine flight patterns within a 5-mile radius of airports in order to avoid residential districts by directing aircraft over water, open spaces or industrial areas, wherever possible. 
If so, what steps (a) have been taken, and (b) are intended to be t a keri to implement this recommendation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation,  upon  notice: 
Did Recommendation 14 of the Interim Report from the Mouse of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise presented in June 1970 recommend that the Air Co-ordinating Committee examine the feasibility of re-allocating airspace to facilitate the re-routing of flight paths to minimise noise over residential areas. 
If so, what steps (a) have been taken, and (b) are intended to be taken by the Department of Civil Aviation to implement this recommendation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did Recommendation 16 of the interim report from the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise presented in June 1970, recommend that as a noise abatement measure the glide slope at Australian airports should be standardised at 3.(1 degrees wherever possible. 
If so, what steps (a) have been taken, and (b) are intended to be taken to implement this recommendation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
Did recommendation No. S of the Interim Report from the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise presented in June 1970 recommend that the Department of Air and the Department of Civil Aviation institute an extensive investigation of complaints into the effects of overflying aircraft on structures so as to establish the cause of damage. 
If so, what steps (a) have been taken and (b) are intended to be taken by the Department of Air to implement this recommendation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: (!) Did recommendation No. 9 of the Interim Report from the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise presented in June 1970 recommend that the Department of Air and the Department of Civil Aviation introduce a standard method of recording complaint information as outlined in the text. 
If so, what steps (a) have been taken and (b) are intended to be taken by the Department pf Air to implement this recommendation. 
-For 20 years this Government has deluded the Australian people into believing that it had a defence policy but for a policy it has substituted slogans; for information, lies; and for discussion, pronouncement. In the last few weeks the Malaysian Government, in pressing for accommodatios with China - Mainland  or  Communist, depending on whether  or  not wheat is being sold to it, as far as the Aus tralian Country Party is concerned - and the neutralisation of South East Asia, guaranteed by the United States of America, the Soviet Union and China, has shown a sanity and a maturity which is sadly lacking in this Liberal-Country Party Government. How absurd our policy looks when the countries we pompously pretend and presume to protect do not accept the fallacious patterns on which our policy is supposedly formed. This Government has been extraordinarily reluctant to disclose to the House and to the people of Australia the cost of maintaining our forces overseas. A superficial . glance at the Budget papers would show the amount of $21,846,000 under the heading of Department of the Army. Under the Department of "Air it is $22,025,000. The figure for the Department of Navy does not disclose any cost for maintaining the Australian commitment in Vietnam and in MalaysiaSingapore. 
If we delve a little deeper we find that as from 1st July 1969. in an obvious attempt to minimise the expenditure related to the overseas commitment, the Government has transferred the expenditure on stores purchased in Australia and forwarded to Australian defence forces abroad from Division 666 'Forces Overseas' to Division 670 which deals with armaments and stores. This means that the Government has resorted to accountancy tricks to deceive the Australian people about the cost of maintaining our forces abroad. I challenge the Government to disprove that the total cost is not the sum of $43,871,000, which appears in the Budget, but is in fact closer to $1 00m. 
We on this side of the House regard this expenditure as a waste. It distorts not only our defence expenditure but also the whole Budget expenditure. We would prefer to  channel this money to meet more urgent needs in the defence vote and in the general Budget. For instance, with these funds we could, without raising taxation, increase the standard and married rates of pension by $2 a week instead of the piffling 50c that has been made available by this Government in this Budget This Government has also shown a marked aversion to putting in writing the understandings and commitments that we have with other countries. The F111 fiasco is a notable case. But there have been cases in which the Government has sought to raise its stupidity to the rank of a virtue. When speaking in this House on 25th September 1963 the then Prime Minister said, in relation to the commitment of forces to Malaysia and Singapore:   . . our vital engagements with the United Kingdom are not written or in any way formalised. Yet we know and she knows that in this part of the world we look to her, and she looks to us. We each apply in' a spirit of mutual confidence a golden rule of mutual obligation. 
This form of ingenuousness has cost the Australian taxpayers S20m. In June 1957 we agreed with the United Kingdom and New Zealand to share the cost of the construction of a Commonwealth base at Terendak and we paid 22.7 per cent of the total cost. This works out at nearly $6m. The Malaysian Government leased the site to the British Government. The British Government pulled out and, under the terms of the lease, the whole base returned to the Malaysian Government. But has this Government at any stage announced to the people of Australia and to this House what has happened to the $6m that we invested in Terendak? We have not heard one word from the Auditor-General. Regrettably this Government's gross imcompetence has been repeated with the Royal Australian Air Force base at Butterworth. Although it has been a predominantly Australian base  in terms of. manning the United Kingdom again held the lease. The British Government has returned this base to the Malaysians along with $12m worth of Australian investment. I am at a loss to understand the apathy which condones this massive misuse of the taxpayers money. Furthermore, I am appalled at the lighthearted manner in which the Auditor-General in his report dismissed this misuse of funds. He said: 
The rights of occupancy of the Air Force base, Butterworth, were transferred by the United Kingdom authorities to the Malaysian Government on and from lst April 1970. Included in the transfer were capital works and equipment which according to departmental records, had cost Australia in excess of $12,300,000. 
The Auditor-General has made no further comment on this misuse of funds. There has been no examination of , the reason why safeguards were not written in to safeguard our equity in both the Terendak camp and the Butterworth camp. Why is not the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Minister for the Army  (Mr 
Peacock), the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  and the Auditor-General carrying out their responsibilities on behalf of this Parliament and the people of Australia? As to the terms of occupancy when the leasing of these bases or the arrangements with the Malaysians or Singaporeans come up, why have we not. heard what the terms of our occupancy are to be? The Minister for Defence in response to a series of questions which I put to him on this subject has completely evaded the issue. When will our occupancy be regularised? What are the terms to which we will agree to stay in Butterworth and to stay in Singapore? What will it cost the Australian taxpayers? We in this House and the people of Australia have a right to know. For too long we have put up with this monumental incompetence of the Australian Government. I also want to know when the stationing of our forces in Singapore will be regularised. When will we get these satisfactory barracks we have been told about? When will we sign a status of forces agreement? How much money do we have to pay? 
In the very limited time at my disposal in this debate I want to refer to a point which is of very great concern to all members of a democratic institution. I refer to a handbook that is made available to and which is required reading by Australian national servicemen and Australian soldiers going to Vietnam. This book is a deliberate attempt to brainwash members of the Australian forces. It is classified as restricted but members of the forces are encouraged to discuss it with, in the words of the handbook, 'your family and friends'. The Army has been used and is being used to propagate the political viewpoint of the Liberal Party. It is a cheap political trick. It is reminiscent of what happened when I was in the Department of External Affairs and that Department was required to send out an essentially propagandist publication called 'Questions and Answers on Vietnam* to Australian schools. To take a couple of examples of the kinds of lies, deceptions, innuendos and prejudices, it states in chapter 1, paragraph 3: 
The 1954 Geneva Agreement . . . provided for the division of Viet Nam into two parts. 
As I have said before and I will say it again in the hope that it gets through to honourable members on the Government side, that the final declaration of the Geneva Conference dated 21st July 1954 explicitly states in section 6: 
That the military  demarkation  line should not in any way be interpreted as constituting a political territorial boundary. 
Time and again we can go through these statements and repeat the lies and the deception of the Government, but one point that we should keep in mind is that our forces are enjoined in this document not to think for themselves. They are told: You will be kept informed regarding the true position of the war by your officers'. So we are setting up a system of political commissars when the soldier is told not to think but to take notice of what his political commissar in the Australian Army tells him to think. We finish up with the motto - this could well apply to honourable members opposite but not to any democratic institution such as the Australian Army - that they are required to live up to, namely, constant vigilance, eternal suspicion. This is the kind of attitude we are taking to the people we are sending abroad to fight in the name of democracy. We are denying them democracy and we are denying Australian people democracy. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. - 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next J years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for 78 per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
1 wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
 I do claim to have been misrepresented. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I remind the honourable member that he has not yet spoken in this debate. 
I have spoken in this debate. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has tried to make the point that I had sought to reduce the defence vote. This did not enter into ths speech thatI made. The point that 1 did make - and I refer to Hansard of Friday, 16th October. 1970 - was that we would prefer to channel the money that is being wasted to meet more urgent needs in the defence vote and in the general Budget. I want to make that point very clear. 

 Mr MALCOLM FRASER (WannonMinister for Defence) I also wish to make a personal explanation. I must make it quite clear thatI was quoting the very remarks of the honourable member for St George.I did not misrepresent what he said because the only example of alternative spending which he gave when he was talking about reducing the defence vote was to spend the money on social services. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa- Leader of the Opposition  -  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
My- question is directed to the Minister for External Affairs. How does the Minister reconcile his statement on 14th October to the Leader of the Opposition that Malaysia will abstain, from a vote on the actual recognition of - Communist China, with his reference given today to Tun Ismail's statement that Malaysia would, if necessary, cosponsor any move to admit China .to the United Nations by a simple majority? Was Tun Ismail's statement contained in an official report from Kuala Lumpur, received in Canberra on. 5th October, some 2 weeks ago, and some 9 days before the question from the Leader of the Opposition? Why. has the Minister sought to mislead this House about a radical change in Malaysian policy- 
 Mr Deputy Chairman,  I have been appalled throughout this debate by the unbelievable trite contributions that honourable members on the Government side have made to this debate. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has set an all time low in the understanding and the comprehension of the portfolio that he administers.  His  limited ability is all too painfully apparent. Let me try to put this debate into perspective. 
We are dealing with the astronomical sum of $1,136,988,000. This money has come from each and every Australian in the form of taxation. This Government has failed to justify the expenditure. We have been treated to the broad and generalised inconsequential generalities on which this Government thrives. But neither in this debate nor in the Minister's statement on defence, have we ever been given  a  systematic account of the threat to our security and a detailed and logical exposition of the sort of defence arrangements, including the type of equipment in all Services, that we require to meet this threat. lt seems to rae that the notion of the Government on defence is rather like that of the newlywed who goes shopping in a supermarket and responds to impulse buying rather hoping that the purchases that she makes will add up to a meal. But  a  pile of military equipment, no matter how expensive it is, does not add up to  a  defence policy. The Government has been incredibly naive in the defence shopping list. The classic example of impulse buying was the Fill. Back in 1963 we were told the purchase was vital to our security. Here we are in 1970 and we have not seen the Fill and we are told that we will not see it until 1972. What disturbs me about the purchase, apart from the obvious political gimmickry that was involved, was the attitude of mind that allowed such a decision. The Government suffers from a chronic disease of big noting itself. So it decided it must have the fastest, the most sophisticated and the shiniest piece of military equipment. We were, as several Ministers have told us, to have the greatest thing with wings since angels. But was the question ever asked: Do we need this sort of equipment? I would like to quote from a statement of a man who was very much involved in the Fill, the TFX. the United States Defence Secretary McNamara. He said: 
We do not buy the best there is in terms of technology in any one of our weapons systems. We would be fools. No-one does. The farmer did not buy the beat truck. I did not buy the best automobile. We" would be foolish if we bought the best in technology in terms of the most advanced, in terms of speed, in terms of range, in terms of higher power, when we did not need it. 
The decision on the FI 1 1 was made by the United States in terms of highly sophisticated demands by a much more highly sophisticated defence establishment. It was absurd for Australia in these circumstances to try to play in the big league when we in fact were not even a good district side. 
This must be the only assembly in the world where a newly elected Government has introduced a defence statement before a foreign affairs statement. After the defence statement was made the Government proceeded to haul in a foreign affairs statement to justify it. This was a simple case of putting the cart before the horse. This Government has proclaimed time and time again that it has a policy of forward defence, but what it is in fact is a policy of backward withdrawal. For some years we maintained a Royal Australian Air Force Sabre squadron at Ubon in Thailand. In July 1968 the Government announced that the squadron would be regrouped - a glorious euphemism for withdrawal - at Butterworth. What the announcement did not reveal was that this Royal Australian Air Force squadron at Butterworth was cluttering up the tarmac and the aprons at Ubon and the Americans told them to get the hell out of there. So the squadron was withdrawn. Of course the Thais did not come into the calculation; it was a deal between the Americans and the Australians. The Government has already announced the withdrawal from Vietnam of a battalion, yet if one was to believe the Government's concept of the threats of Communism we should not be withdrawing a battalion, we should be putting in a division. The Government's military advisers are clearly concerned about the efficacy of the group we leave in Vietnam; nevertheless the Government's policy of backward withdrawal proceeds. 
In Malaysia the Government has withdrawn our ground forces from Malaysia further away from the only possible threat that there could be on the Thai-Malaysian border and dropped them into 2 barracks in Singapore which are 12 miles apart. The Government has not told us what the arrangements will be. When speaking earlier in this debate I listed a series of questions, but the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and other Ministers have refused point blank to comment on them. In the hope that somewhere, sometime, the Ministry will get around to answering them I want to repeat the questions: When will our occupancy be regularised? What are the terms on which we will agree to stay in Butterworth and to stay in Singapore? What will it cost the Australian taxpayers? I also said that I wanted to know when the stationing of our forces in Singapore will be regularised. When are we going to have these satisfactory barracks which the Minister for Defence has talked about? When are we going to sign a status of forces agreement? How much money will we have to pay? The Malaysians, of course, in Butterworth have us over a barrel. Half of our RAAF fighter force is stationed there and the Malaysians know that this Government cannot station half of our fighter force back in Australia. What an indictment of our defence planning when we just do not have the facilities to accommodate all our Mirage squadrons in Australia. It is about time this Government adopted a far more responsible attitude to the men of the armed Services and the equipment that we have purchased. 
It was also a point of great concern and it should be of great concern to all honourable members in this House, that as part of this backward withdrawal the Government has recalled the anti-aircraft unit from Butterworth. The British last year took away its airfield defence units, and our ' planes and personnel in Butterworth are largely unprotected from air, sea and land attack. The 1970 Defence Report points out that the experience of allied forces in South East Asia has shown that the enemy has been successful in inflicting damage to Air Force assets and bases by limited ground attack. The report pointed out that 2 airfield defence units have been sent to Vietnam but not one word has been said about Butterworth, where half our fighter force is stationed. The Air Force defence at Butterworth is virtually nil. It sits alongside the Straits of Malacca. It has a main road running through it. It is not more than a day and a half's march from the area which our defence forces have indicated could be an area of guerilla activity, and yet 1 repeat that there are no acceptable airfield defence units placed at Butterworth. 
To take further the points of issue, on the backward- withdrawal the Government has pointed out that we are reducing our naval commitment to Malaysia and Singapore by one ship. And so the process of backward withdrawal has proceeded and in the meantime this Government presumes to attack the Australian Labor Party which stands very firmly on the basic premise that the basis of any defence policy is to protect our shore. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
Did recommendation No. 10 of the Interim Report from the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise presented in June 1970 recommend that the Department of Civil Aviation and, where appropriate, the Department of Air pay continuing attention to the administrative arrangements as set out in the text 
If so, what steps (a) have been taken and (b) are intended to be taken by the Department of Air to implement this recommendation. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In trading with Communist China yet refusing to recognise that nation, is Australia becoming isolated from a majority of the countries of Asia and from Australia's partners in the Commonwealth? 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Does bis Department propose to produce an annual report for 1969-70 along the lines of previous reports. 
If not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Does the Department of Civil Aviation propose replacing the non-directional beacon (NDB) at Derby with a visual omni range (VOR). 
Is it a fact that 40 international flights per week cross this sector and that aircraft leaving either Den Pasar or Alice Springs have between 2 and 3 hours flying before reaching the next reasonable navigational aid. 
If so, will the Minister give the installation the highest priority to ensure that the VOR becomes operative in the course of this financial year. 
by leave - As a member of the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise I would like to associate myself with the expressions of appreciation to the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  and the staff. In his statement the  Chairman  said that Australia has been in the vanguard of world wide efforts to reduce aircraft noise. I have the utmost respect for the honourable member for McMillan but I beg to differ with him on this point. For instance, the United Kingdom some 12 years ago introduced a plan of noise monitoring at Heathrow Airport and a large number of international airports have regulations affecting aircraft noise which are far more stringent than those currently in operation in Australia. To my mind the interests of people living in the vicinity of airports is running a very poor second to the interests of airline operators. This is particularly true in view of the Government's refusal to carry out one of the recommendations relating to the curfews made in an earlier report of the Aircraft Noise Committee. 
Recomendation 12 of the interim report which was tabled last June very clearly stated: 
. criteria authorising jet movements in curfew hours be applied more stringently to ensure the preservation of the original intention of the regulation. 
It seems to me that we are paying only lip service to this recommendation. 1 appeal to the Government and the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  to act in accordance with that recommendation of the Aircraft Noise Committee. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has indicated the limitations under which members of the Committee operated because the terms of reference were not expanded in accordance with an amendment moved by the Opposition to include an inquiry into the siting of airports. What we on this Committee have had to do is deal with the effects rather than the causes and this has been a limitation we have all felt. A further difficulty that has become apparent in recent months is the possibility of duplication of runways at Mascot. I am sure I speak on behalf of my colleagues, the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  and the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  when I say that we on this side of the House are diametrically opposed to the duplication of runways at Mascot. 
There is this great problem of Sydney requiring a second airport. A second airport is essential because if one looks at the situation from the traffic point of view there will be a saturation of aircraft movements at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport in the very foreseeable future. That is one point. But before we have that situation of saturation of aircraft movements, the people in my electorate of St George will be saturated by aircraft noise. I would like to refer to recommendation 19 of the report now before us. It states: 
Monitoring of aircraft noise should be introduced in Australia with Sydney airport as a first priority. 
In recommending the introduction of monitoring, in the first instance at Kingsford-Smith Airport, we look to the development of an effective procedure of requiring pilots and operators te conform to standards that will substantially reduce the present level of noise. There is a disconcerting variation in the noise made by the same type of aircraft under similar flying conditions. Hitherto, economy and safety have been the main criteria of operations, but one would hope that henceforth safety, noise abatement and economy in that order will constitute the criteria. 
In the report we have recognised the necessity for an experimental period in setting up a noise monitoring system. Many problems have to be resolved. We have to get our criteria straight; we have to know what we are doing. I urge the Department of Civil Aviation to give this recommendation the highest of priorities so that the experimental work may be carried out quickly and effectively. I hope that the noise limit that will be set will be based on the premise of minimising the discomfort of thousands of people living in my electorate and the other electorates adjacent to Sydney Airport. 1 feel that as members of Parliament we should be concerning ourselves with pointing out that progress should not feed on the sacrifices of the people. We have heard a lot about how progress is assisting in the development of Australia. But after all. Australia is only Australians. When technological progress detrimentally affects the lives and amenities of people, it is about time we had a good look at the criteria on which we judge progress. 1 commend the report to the House, particularly to the Minister for Civil Aviation, and I hope that it is not a vague hope that the Minister for Civil Aviation will lose no time in effectively implementing the major recommendations of the report. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many movements of (a) jet aircraft, (b) prop-jet aircraft and (c) piston-engine aircraft have taken place between the hours of 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport during the period 12th June to 7th August 1970. 
How many movements within each of these categories have taken place on each of the runways between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. during the same period. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister in the absence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the remarkable revelation by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that Australia was not consulted about the United States sponsored operations in Laos, can the Prime Minister say whether under the terms of the ANZUS Treaty Australia was consulted about the statement made by  President  Nixon yesterday? 
1  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable ihe  Speaker  and Members of the House of. Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble, petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of Stale education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage,, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That an additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should bc amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the Slates for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
One of the points we have raised in this debate, and on which the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  stands indicted for his lack of action, is the plan for civic aid and rehabilitation in IndoChina. I do not believe any honourable member, particularly on this side of the House, objects to civil aid in principle and certainly no-one questions the dedication of both civil and military personnel engaged in the implementation of programmes. But today I want to look behind the principles and examine the practice of civil aid in Vietnam. Seeing that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has been caught out recently on whether there is or whether there is not to be. civic action, we might start with an examination of our civic action programme in Vietnam. The military civic action programme is a shallow public relations exercise. 
I will now give honourable members the reason why I regard it as a shallow public relations exercise. If the honourable gentleman would listen he would find that this information comes from a bulletin published by the Department of Foreign Affairs. In listing the purposes of the programme it stated: 
. there is no doubt that most of the effort of the Civil Affairs Unit is in the field of military civic action - lb* ase of military forces to improve the social and economic standard of the population as a means of winning their support to the Government of Vietnam. 
We are asking our men to try to achieve an objective which successive South Vietnamese regimes have failed to do and that is to achieve the loyalty of the people they are supposed to represent. Civil aid to Vietnam has been just as much a public relations exercise as the force commitment of the so called free world. United States administrations, in justifying the commitment and particularly in justifying it to the American people, have gone to great lengths to encourage countries within their sphere of influence to make contributions. We all know that the commitment of Thai, Philippine and Korean forces was made on one basis, that is. that they were bribed to go into Vietnam. But in the civil field the United States, which is able to saturate South Vietnam with aid, devised programmes that would allow the nominal participation by other countries so that it could point to the broad support that it was said to have. 1 can remember seeing when I was in the Department of Foreign Affairs a multitude of pamphlets and publications on the free world's contribution to the effort and 1 also recall a statement that the Government of Honduras, for example, had provided drugs and medical aid. But perhaps 1 could refer honourable members and the Minister now to the recent discussions on this point in the United States Senate Foreign Relations Committee where it was pointed out that the aid provided by Honduras, which was supposed to have gone in a Honduran Air Force aeroplane was in fact transported in a United States Air Force aeroplane which had been repainted with the symbols of the Honduran Air Force. A large group of people had gone to hand over this token gift of drugs, and I would like to read the statement subsequently made by the  Chairman  of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. He said: 
After a stop of 5 days in Vietnam, (be philanthropic party (there were 26 aboard) returned in even more leisurely fashion (it took 13 days from Honduras to Vietnam), taking 16 days  . . via a different route - one which naturally included Hong Kong. . . . The record does not disclose the cost of this pilgrimage, but 1 think we can lake judicial notice that it undoubtedly exceeded (he cost of supplies delivered to the Vietnamese. 
The point is that the United States has tried to devise little operations that could expand what it regarded as the support of the whole free world. But let us look at what Australia's aid has involved. Our aid to Vietnam has been unselective in approach and inconsequential in dividends either to the Vietnamese people or to the Australian people. We have picked up the odd and scattered crumbs that have been let fall from the banquet table of the United States military and civil aid. In short, the Australian Government has had to scavenge for aid projects with which to project a public relations image that it says is built on compassion and concern. Much of what we have classified as civil aid to Vietnam comes within the category of para-military aid. We can take an example the Minister for Defence has mentioned, the $500,000 special aid for housing. This in fact was for barracks for the dependants of members of the regional and popular forces in South Vietnam, no doubt designed to strengthen their questionable loyalty to the Thieu Government. In the 1969-70 Budget we provided under civil aid $100,000 worth of sleeping kits for the Vietnamese police. 
We have also in the past supplied barbed wire and galvanised iron for what have been euphemistically described as strategic hamlets. One is never sure whether strategic hamlets were built to keep the Vietcong out or the people of South Vietnam in. But our largest civil aid programme has been in the medical field. We have spent something like S3m on this project but regrettably it has had serious drawbacks and has been severely criticised by no less than a gentleman sent to Vietnam by the Government to examine the medical aid programme. He said: 
Because there is no consistent Australian role or policy the Australian programme sometimes involves the repeated dislocation of hospital administration, services and practices. . . . Under prevailing conditions the system does not provide our teams with enough work to do. The Vietnamese doctors aTe often conspicuous by their absence and collaboration is difficult. 
He went on: 
The general impression is that the Australians are welcome only because they relieve the local doctors of their public hospital duties for which they continue to be paid. . . . Much of the minor surgery performed by the Australians could be done just as easily by the Vietnamese doctors who, however, now prefer to spend more time in in private practice. 
But this medical aid has been maintained despite the trenchant criticisms because the Government has considered that it would be politically embarrassing not to carry on. But the Australian taxpayer, whose money has gone into these projects, has in fact been the loser. What the Government has in fact done is to trade in political gimmicks. We have scavenged for aid projects in Vietnam and we have perverted the functions of our armed forces. The Government may be satisfied with its antics and may regard these antics as constituting a civil aid programme but we on this side of the House most certainly do not. In South Vietnam, North Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia we are faced with a monumental job of reconstruction because policies which were supposed to be designed for the betterment of the people have failed. These policies have in fact been counter-productive, but what is this Government going to do about the rehabilitation of Indo-China? That is the question we ask. We on this side of the House will not be satisfied with the gimmicks that have been put forward as a civil aid programme. 
This evening I wish to examine in some detail the performance over the years of the former holder of the External Affairs portfolio - the present holder of the Foreign Affairs portfolio - and the man who through the intrigues of powerful outside interests and the devisiveness of the Liberal Party has finally scrambled to the position of Prime Minister of our nation. Australia deserves better. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has supported at every step along the way the flounderings of the Liberal Party's foreign policy. The Press in the last few days has lauded his consistency. I agree. He has been consistent - consistently wrong. 
In one of his typical interventions on the Vietnam issue, the Prime Minister had this to say: 
The only other point that I want to mention is the argument of the Leader of the Opposition that the war in Vietnam is unwinnable. That may have been the case a year ago when it looked as though it could have been a long drawn out struggle obviously leading to a stalemate and possible compulsion al the conference table. That is' not the case today. 
The date of that speech was 22nd March 1966, almost 5 years ago to the day. With monotonous regularity, he has predicted every year as the' year of victory in Vietnam. Equally monotonously, he has been wrong. This afternoon, he spoke of the success of Vietnamisation. Vietnamisation is a semantic hoax. It is a public relations tranquilliser. Where would the South Vietnamise regime's army in Cambodia and Laos have been if it had not been for the massive United States aerial bombardments and the death dealing helicopter gun ships? The  President  of South Vietnam has not been able to attract . the loyalty of his own people and despite foreign forces half a million strong he was not able to secure his own country. It is nonsense to talk of the success of Vietnamisation. 
The new Prime Minister, like all his colleagues, has been a supporter - a great supporter - of the diplomatic dodo, SEATO. He has strongly supported the view that the South East Asia Treaty Organisation is the corner stone of the foreign policy of the Liberal Party. For once he is right, but this only serves to show how shaky the foundations are of the foreign policy of the Liberal Party. SEATO was put together in a hurry by the then Secretary of the United States State Department John Foster Dulles. It failed from the very start because the important countries of South East Asia refused to join. How can any organisation which pur ported to promote 'security' in Asia operate without such countries as Indonesia, India, Malaysia, Singapore and Burma? It was and it still is a farce. But the new Prime Minister has striven to show that we are in Vietnam because of SEATO. This is a lie. There was no SEATO Council decision requiring . members to send forces to Vietnam. 
Then I shall say,  Mr Speaker,  that the statement certainly was not in accordance with fact. The only reason why two of the three Asian members of SEATO, Thailand- and the Philippines, made token commitments to Vietnam, which they, no longer maintain, was that the United States Government bribed them to go there, The Prime Minister, as he has told us on many occasions, is a self-confessed disciple of the domino theory. But if Vietnam was the domino to set all the others toppling, surely the countries which he has described as being dominoes - Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore and Burma, as well as Thailand and the Philippines - would in their - own interests have weighed into Vietnam voluntarily. The plain fact is that these countries have viewed the conflagration in Indo-China as a power play between big powers who could not care less about the peoples of South East Asia. They do not see the threats, as this' Government purports to see them, and they are right. Even  President  Nixon has blown up the Red menace with which this Government has sought to con the Australian people for over a decade. I refer now to a statement by  President  Nixon on 18th February 1970, in which he said: 
Once a unified bloc, its solidarity has been broken by the powerful forces of nationalism. The Marxist dream of international Communist unity has disintegrated. 
On the domino theory President Nixon wiped out the whole lie when he said of the smaller countries: 
Once, many feared that they would become simply o battleground of cold war rivalry and a fertile ground for Communist penetration. But this fear misjudged their pride in their national identities and their determination to preserve their newly won sovereignty. 
By his adherence to the myths, deceptions and lies the new Prime Minister has been one of Mao Tse-tung's best public relations agents. He has been ever ready to credit the Communist Chinese with masterminding everything from minor riots to major coups, and he has built for the Communist Chinese a reputation which their own ineptitude in diplomatic affairs and their non-existent conventional strike capacity could never hope to achieve. In short, this Government has succeeded in achieving what an Australian foreign policy should have been designed to avoid. This Government has an appalling record of grave miscalculations and monumental mistakes. If there was ever a man who was out of his depth in foreign affairs it is this man who by default leads this Government and regrettably this country of ours. 
It is little wonder that in his speech this afternoon the Prime Minister did not even allude to foreign policy - a portfolio which he continues to hold. In Asia he is regarded as a second rater. When the Indonesian Foreign Minister,  Mr Malik,  was putting together a conference on Cambodia last year he did so without any consultation with Australia. Yet  Mr McMahon  and  Mr Malik  . were in Bangkok at a United Nations meeting together when  Mr Malik  was taking the initiative. On 20tb April last year, at a Press conference in Singapore immediately after the Bangkok meeting,  Mr McMahon  was asked what Australia's attitude was to the discussions on Cambodia that  Mr Malik  had held in Bangkok, and  Mr McMahon's  response was: 
I can only speak from my personal memory and personal knowledge. I know nothing of it. 
Yet the very next day the Minister sought to save his own face by saying, very belatedly, that he welcomed the initiative. This episode illustrates how far this Government has fallen in the estimation of our Asian neighbours. This Government just does not count in South East Asia. Australia, through this Government's ineptitude, has. become isolated from our neighbours and from the people with whom our children will have to learn to live. I hope that they will learn to live with them much better than this Government has done. 
The new Prime Minister's pathetically poor comprehension of Australia's national interests is well illustrated in our relations with the United States. At all times he has out-hawked the most extreme United States Hawks, but his single minded and slavish devotion has been neither to Australia's advantage nor to the advantage of the United States. Speaking in this place in 1967 the present Prime Minister criticised the Labor Party's assessment that the Government was in fact 'creating a policy that would mean isolationism in the United States' and consequently the United States withdrawal from this area, with all that it has meant to Australia and to South East Asia, leaving us to fight ovir battles on our own. He challenged the Labor Party to prove that this was not what the Labor Party was saying. The Labor Party has stood firm on this position, and only last week its viewpoint was endorsed by no less a member than the former Minister for Defence, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who said, as headlined in the 'Australian': 'Australia must walk alone'. He pointed out that the United States clearly is reviewing the manner in which it will fulfil its alliances and treaties. 
Successive Liberal Party governments have sought to get the United States bogged down in Asia. The trouble is that they have succeeded beyond their wildest expectations. But the result has been the very contrary of what they sought to achieve. The United States has become disenchanted; it has become sick and tired of the great loss of United States lives and the great outflow from the United States Treasury.  President  Nixon has formally declared that the United Slates will not get so involved again, and the withdrawal from Asia, which the Labor Party predicted many years ago, is now on.  President  Nixon has said that the United States will continue to observe existing commitments, but it is a very sobering thought that nowhere in the President's major foreign policy statement last year is either ANZUS or SEATO mentioned. The new Prime Minister, in a speech in the House on 19th March 1970, quite wrongly and misleadingly quoted  President  Nixon as saying: 
The United States will keep all its treaty commitments; and that, of course, includes ANZUS; 
President Nixon never said any such thing. This Government has been so wrong so often that it cannot face up to the realities of foreign policy. It simply does not understand what is going on - it never has and it never will. I again quote President Nixon who said: 
Our interests must shape our commitments, rather than the other way around. 
Further on he said: 
We will help where it makes a real difference and is considered in our interest. 
Like the old grey mare, ANZUS ain't what it used to be. I refer to a recent statement by a former head of the Department of External Affairs,  Sir Alan  Watt. He said:  lt would be unrealistic, however, not to note the possible gap between what Australian expectations and American responses under ANZUS or otherwise are as interpreted in the light of the Nixon doctrine. 
It is about time that we woke up and stopped behaving like babes in the international wood; it is about time that we stopped our mindless attachment to the decisions of the United States Administration. The United States is a global power. lt has to consider all sections of this globe, and Asia is only a part of its thoughts. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting we were considering in detail the pathetic performance over the years in the field of foreign policy of the man who through the intrigue of powerful outside interests and the chronic divisions within the Liberal Party has finally scrambled to the position of Prime Minister of this nation. His lamentable performance today gives us no hope that we have a confident hand at the helm of this nation of ours. Admittedly he has been consistent, as his main supporter, the "Daily Telegraph', has pointed out, but he has been consistently wrong. Five years ago he forecast the victorious end of the Vietnam war. He continues each year on the year to make that same sort of forecast. He has consistently praised SEATO which, because the main countries of South East Asia - Indonesia, India, Malaysia, Singapore and Burma - have refused to have anything to do with it, has failed. The fact that SEATO is regarded by this Government as a cornerstone of Australia's foreign policy shows just how shaky is the foreign policy of this Government. 
We have quoted President Nixon to disprove once and for all the domino theory, to which the new Prime Minister is attached, and the myth of international Communist unity. President Nixon in talking about Communist unity said: 
Once a unified bloc, its solidarity has been broken by the powerful forces of nationalism . . . The Marxist dream of international Communist unity has disintegrated. 
Talking about the dominoes- the very dominoes that it was thought were sufficiently threatened to warrant going to Vietnam - President Nixon said: 
Once, many feared that they would become simply a battleground of cold-war rivalry and fertile ground for Communist penetration. But this fear misjudged their pride in their national identities and their determination to preserve their newly won sovereignty. 
The greatest disservice this Government has done to Australia has been to pursue policies which have led to the disenchantment of the United States with any form of involvement and any form of commitment for the peace and security of South East Asia. The ANZUS Treaty on the evidence of the Government itself is almost a dead letter. The Government policies have left us isolated in Asia and we have lost our liaison with the United Slates. 
The Prime Minister in his capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs and the new Minister for Defence in his former capacity as Prime Minister have lightheartedly sold Australia down the river. They quite readily confess that Australia was not consulted about the invasion"1 of Cambodia. They also confess that Australia was not consulted about the invasion of Laos. But - this is more serious - they do not seem to think that they should have been consulted. If an alliance is to mean anything it bestows both rights and responsibilities. The Liberal Party has eagerly accepted responsibilities from Korea to South Vietnam to United States bases on Australian soil. We have also given the United States a blank cheque to exploit our industrial resources. But we also have rights and these are particularly important when the United States is indulging in brinkmanship in Indo-China which could lead to Chinese intervention or he possibility of the use of nuclear weapons. 
As an independant and sovereign country we should accept only the consequences of actions on which we have been consulted and on which we agree. Neither the former Prime Minister nor the present 
Prime Minister have subscribed to this basic proposition. They are forfeiting Australia's rights. What has happened under this Government is that our political interests in Asia and our economic interests at home have been electioneered on the one hand and auctioneered on the other. That is why we have moved this motion of want of confidence in the Government, lt is our belief, and I think it is the belief of the Australian people, that we deserve a better government. 
The Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Swartz)  referred in his statement to what he described as a new-found interest by the -Australian Labor Party in the recognition of Communist China. I would like to remind the Minister that the platform of the Australian Labor Party has had as one of its fundamental planks for the last 15 years the recognition of Communist China. The annual foreign policy dissertation by this Government has become one of the year's predictable yawns, and on this occasion, we were not disappointed but if the complete irrelevance of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Bury)  had to say about world events as they actually are were not so serious it would be mirthful. But Australian sons, husbands and brothers have died through this Government's criminal neglect of Australia's interests. We have been no more than an echo of whatever administration happens to be in power in Washington. Our marionette performance has not helped the United States and it most certainly has not helped Australia's position in South East Asia. This Government through its policy has effectively isolated Australia from the countries and people of South East Asia. Australia urgently needs a foreign policy. For too long we have marched to the beat of another drum. We are capable of measuring our own steps and fixing our own direction. But quite clearly this Government is not. Australia's foreign policy is, in a word, in a shambles. 
The Labor Party not only foresaw but warned against the direction that the Liberal Party was taking. We were right. The Australian people were gravely misled and unconscionably deceived. But there is little satisfaction in being proved right when our nation is the victim. Australia's international relations have to be rebuilt. This is not the time for empty slogans, fabricated myths or manufactured threats. We are not a powerful country. We cannot threaten, nor should this be our aim. But we can seek to understand and associate ourselves with the aspirations of our neighbours. The countries of Asia have become increasingly disenchanted with the activities of the big powers. They reject being used as pawns in an international game over which they have no control and as a result of which they are likely to be the devastated losers. They - seek an environment free from external interference. Yet neither in the Minister's speech nor in the fourth form essay that he. tabled, under, the guise of a review of foreign affairs is there any mention of the changing attitude of the countries of Asia. One would think that Australia was a midwestern State of the United States rather than a country that' is vitally involved in Asia. 
The deceptions, lies and myths which have been the only components of this Government's China policy are now being exposed - most tellingly by the United States Government itself. The Government, we are told, is reviewing our policy towards China. Quite clearly something has been happening because since I have been in this House T have heard reference to Red China, mainland China, Communist China and now continental China. We are also hearing now prim references to China as the People's Republic of China. Apart from this monumental achievement, the review after intense diplomatic effort brought forth the epoch making phrase that 'we must be sensitive to change'. As usual the Government is wallowing along reluctantly and incredulously in the wake of United States foreign policy. It is a great pity that this Government could not have been as positive as President Nixon in his review on 25th February 1971 when he said: 
The United States is prepared to see the People's Republic of China play a constructive role in the family of nations. 
We do not wish to impose on China an international position that denies its legitimate national interests. 
President Nixon went on to talk about the influence to which China's achievements entitled it. This Government has deceived the Australian people for so long about China that, clearly, it has come to believe its own propaganda. The sudden switch is too much for it. The Minister for Foreign Affairs just had to hang on to some of the debris of the foreign policy wreck, as the following statement indicates. He said: 
But it is necessary to point out that the isolation of China from the international community has been largly the result of its own international attitudes. 
There have been two walls of China, one built by  China's traditional insularity fortified by the dismal record of contact with the avaricious European powers in the 19th century and with Japan in the 1930s. The second wall was methodically built by the United States' to contain China. China was ringed by a series of United States bases from South Korea through Japan, Taiwan, the Philippines, Okinawa, South Vietnam, Thailand and earlier Pakistan. The Seventh Fleet has dominated the China Seas, and United States spy planes have operated at will. It is time, in fact past time, that we looked calmly and objectively at what we have come to regard as the Communist Chinese threat. For too long we have reacted emotionally to massive campaigns depicting the downward thrust of China, of technicolour Democratic Labor Party and Government propaganda of the Red threat oozing over South East Asia and dripping on to Australia. We have been propagandised into believing that hordes of Communist Chinese will turn up on Bondi Beach next Sunday. The hysteria was deliberately generated and then exploited by this Government for domestic political reasons. The former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, an astute but shallow politician, saw the electoral advantage of playing to the lowest common denominator in the makeup of Australians - a traditional antipathy to Asians and a blindly unselective fear of Communism. The yellow hordes and Red menace became a colourful election winning formula. Those who sought to examine the premises and question the conclusions were branded as traitors, as was the Labor Party in its campaign of 1966. But we have been proved right and the Liberal Party continues to be proved wrong. But the Communist Chinese have no monopoly on aggressive intent. Depending on one's orientation, a well documented case of aggressive statements and aggressive actions could be made against almost every country. But in the words of the children's rhyme 'sticks and stones will break my bones but words will never hurt me'. What sort of sticks and stones does China have? It has a regular armed force of 2,780,000, which is an awesome number until it is related to the population of 750 million. On this basis China has a relatively smaller force than has any of the countries in its proximity. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Mansard a table of statistics relating to the military balance of South East Asian countries. 

<graphic href="072131197104223_75_1.jpg"></graphic>

The Chinese Navy has no battleships, no cruisers, no aircraft carriers. It has only 4 destroyers. It is, if anything, more antiquated than the Australian Navy but it at least avoids running over the Hong Kong ferries. The makeup of the Chinese Air Force is defensive in character with emphasis on fighter interceptors. In short in comparison with other countries China's military strength, particularly for an aggressive role, is not particularly convincing. Tonight on the basis of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said and what the Act ing Minister said I might issue a warning or a caution. Do not let us go overboard about the position of Taiwan. It is absurd to talk about the interests of the people of Taiwan when the vast majority of them have been denied any political expression. Our policy towards China should not be bedevilled by a mistaken loyalty to a regime that forfeited its authority over the people of China 22 years ago and which has proved incapable of earning the loyalty of the Taiwanese people. We are told that it would be morally wrong to jettison Taiwan and that Taiwan has as many people as Australia. But what the Government is really saying is that we should not jettison the Chiang Kai-shek regime. The Chiang Kai-shek regime was foisted on the Taiwanese people in 1945. For the previous 50 years Taiwan had been a Japanese colony. Under the postwar settlements as foreshadowed in the Cairo Declaration of 1st December 1943 Taiwan was returned to China. Chiang Kai-shek's forces, assisted by a small United States team, took over in September 1945. The United States has produced remarkable evidence at this stage to indicate the corruption and the extortion of the Kuomintang Chinese in Formosa. General Wedemeyer in his report on his mission to China dated 17th August had this to say: 
The army- 
This is the Chaing Kai-shek army, the army that is still in Taiwan - conducted themselves as conquerors, secret police operated freely to intimidate and to facilitate exploitation by Central Government officials. 
Numbering less than 2 million out of a total population of 144 million the Kuomintang to this day effectively control political, economic and military power in Taiwan. Only 10 per cent of the National Assembly of the Republic of China are Taiwanese. In the much more influential Legislative Yuan, which has 457 members, Taiwan representatives hold only 26 seats. Is this the sort of regime that an Australian government should seek to perpetuate? 
The people of Taiwan have been ignored, and their wishes remain unknown. Surely they should be given an opportunity of. pronouncing on their own fate. If Taiwan is to remain an independent country, the Taiwanese should be given the opportunity to rule their own country. On the other hand they may wish to revert to being part of China. But it is absurd to suggest that the present position should be supported by Australia to the detriment of our relations with the People's Republic of China. Canada has  recognised the People's Republic of China. The regime in Taiwan by its own decision has broken off relations with Canada because it continues to insist that those who have diplomatic relations with it recognise it as the Government of all of China - a mistaken impression that the Prime Minister continued to perpetuate in statements he made in the House today. 
The Malaysian Government, despite the misleading information that the Prime Minister has given in the past to this House, has stated that it regards the People's Republic of China as the legitimate government of all China, including Taiwan. 
The direction of our policy is clear. We should move toward, first, the recognition of the People's Republic of China; secondly, the representation of the People's Republic of China in the United Nations; and thirdly, resolving the political future of the peoples of Taiwan, lt would pay us well to keep in mind the words of a very great Foreign Secretary pf the United Kingdom in the 19th century, Lord Palmerston. These words, which take the form of a motto, we perhaps should write across the doorway of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Lord Palmerston said: 
In foreign relations there are no permanent friends, no permanent allies, only permanent interests. 
asked the Minister for 
Immigration, upon notice: 
Under what circumstances may a European with professional qualifications obtain citizenship within 5 years of taking up permanent residence. 
How many of these people have been naturalised during the last5 years. 
asked the Minister for 
Immigration, upon notice: 
Under what circumstances can a person of Asian origin become naturalised within 5 years of taking up permanent residence in Australia. 
In seconding this motion I would like to point out that the reason for it arose out of our desire to expand the terms of reference of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise to include the siting of airports. The Government refused to accept this amendment and as a result the motion now before us was placed on the notice paper on 3rd March 1970 - 13 or 14 months ago. It seems to me that it is not only the mills of God that grind slowly because I found as a new member of this House how cumbersome and how inflexible the procedures of this House can be when the Government chooses to avoid . issues which it does not like. The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  made the usual criticisms of the Australian Labor Party. He said that the Labor Party was seeking to centralise control. What we are seeking is in fact effective co-ordination. Despite what the Minister had to say there is not in Australia at present effective coordination of transport industries on a national basis. Certainly the Government has no objection to national co-ordination in terms of commissions because it has already set up the National Universities Commission to co-ordinate tertiary education in Australia. We are still asking for the same sort of principle to be applied in the very important field of transportation. 
The Minister also made the point that there is no need at all to take up the time of honourable members on this issue when we are all so busy. I hope that we are all busy on items as important as this. I most certainly support the motion because I think this is the sort of thing that members of Parliament should be undertaking. It is very easy for the House to dismiss the effectiveness of select committees. However, I would like to refer to the United Kingdom experience over the selection of a site for a third airport for London. Back in 1963 a Whitehall interdepartmental committee decided on an inland area called Stansted for the site of a third airport The British Government confirmed the decision in May 1967, but the citizens of the United Kingdom and private organisations did not like the decision that the Government had made. The Noise Abatement Society of the United Kingdom presented a very detailed and very worthwhile report. The Society recommended another site at Foulness. I would like to quote from the report of the Noise Abatement Society which places an emphasis on noise, and I am fairly confident that this is not the sort of emphasis that any sort of interdepartmental committee in Australia would put before the Government. The preface to the Society's report on the third London airport states: 
Noise destroys all that is good in civilisation. It adversely affects health of mind and body, retards recovery of the sick and reduces the capacity to learn and the quality of work done. 
It is vitally important therefore that London's Third Airport is built on a site where the least possible nuisance is caused by day or by night. 
Later on, the report stated: 
The main determining factor in siting a modern airport is noise, since this is the factor most likely to restrict its operational potential. 
Through their individual efforts the members of the Society succeeded in having the Roskill Commission set up. As honourable gentlemen will know, in the last couple of days, the British Government made a decision on the siting of a third airport for London. That decision is not for Stansted, which was recommended by the interdepartmental committee but for Foulness. 
Quite clearly a recommendation or a decision on a third airport for London, as on a second airport for Sydney or on the development of airports and ports in Australia, is far too important a matter to be left in the hands of interdepartmental committees. The problems are just as much social as they are economic. The Department of Civil Aviation has an interdepartmental committee. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  received the report of that interdepartmental committee in September last year and that is the last we have heard of it. We do not know what were the terms of reference of this committee. We do not know the weighing of criteria which the Committee examined. Therefore it seems to me that Australia will be faced with a Whitehall decision. What we on this side of the House are recommending is that the whole area of development in national transport, particularly the siting of airports and harbours, be brought to the attention of honourable members through a select committee. 
Perhaps I could make one observation, particularly in relation to air transport. Air transport is, without any doubt, the pampered child of the transport industry; it certainly is one of the spoilt brats of the Commonwealth Budget. For every person carried on a domestic flight the taxpayer, through the Budget, makes a contribution of $11. It also should be a matter of great concern to members of this House that the air transport industry is supremely illogical. Airline operators decide what is the most profitable aircraft in terms of passengers, freight and operating costs but no thought is given to the enormous expenditure in terms of providing runways, terminal facili ties and so on, because the people and not the airlines have to pay for these. To use a transport analogy, the cart is being put before the horse. The airline operators come up with great shining monsters and the Goverment has to get off its stern and find out what sort of runways are needed, whether existing runways will have to be reinforced and whether passenger buildings will have to be enlarged. Surely this type of approach has to be stopped. 
I would like to refer at this point to the developments at Mascot. The Government is throwing good money after bad at Mascot in persisting with the further development of Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. Diminishing returns have set in with a vengeance. As the honourable member for Newcastle has pointed out, the airport area of 1,500 to 1,600 acres at Mascot is insignificant by international standards which now require between 12,000 and 15,000 acres. Even Tullamarine has 5,500 acres. Furthermore, the construction costs into Botany Bay are astronomical in comparison with construction costs on land. In the United States of America the cost of runway construction works out at about $300 a foot. At Tullamarine the cost was in the vicinity of $570 a foot but the costs of the extensions into Botany Bay are working out at $5,500 a foot, which is 10 times the cost at Tullamarine. But what is equally disconcerting is that the projected duplication of the north-south runway, which will be achieved at an excessive cost, will be a scandalous waste in terms of usage. The limited area will not allow the 5,000 feet separation of runways which is required under international standards for simultaneous operations. The most that can be obtained is a 1,000 feet separation, and it will not be possible to use the runways simultaneously. 
The Government's civil aviation policy, which has been notable for its lack of foresight and planning, continues to flounder. The Minister for Civil Aviation, in a statement made, appropriately, on 1st April, said: 
Because of the heavy investment by the Commonwealth and the airlines we are committed to Mascot. Therefore, we have to make the most  of  what we have. 
Let us examine this proposition. The Commonwealth investment at Kingsford-Smith, including additional developments specifically authorised, totals about SI 13m. But what is the value of the airport land for alternative use? I made some inquiries of land valuers and real estate agents and they have told me that the land in that area is worth from $5 to $7 a square foot. As the area involved is about 1,600 acres, the real estate value of the airport is in the vicinity of $350m. Quite dearly it is nonsense to talk of the investment burden. The Government could, on economic grounds, jettison Mascot and construct a new airport of the size of Tullamarine which cost in total $83m and show a handsome profit It could most certainly cover the cost of a fast access from Sydney to an outlying airport by monorail or by a 6-lane highway. 
Let us assume that we work on the basis of retaining Mascot as it is, stop any further development and put the planned resources intot a second airport. This decision must be made urgently because, as we have seen at Tullamarine, it take  10  years from turning the first sod until an aeroplane takes off on the first regular flight. A second airport - and I concede this point to the industry - should be so sited as to allow for a 24- hour a day operation. On economic grounds it is a colossal waste of resources to limit the hours of operation of an airport but justifiable public pressure and the social priorities of people living in the vicinity of Mascot will prevent the lifting of the curfew. The airline operators and the people they serve have a vested interest in getting a second airport The Government is more likely to respond to their demands than to the demands of the people I represent and my demands. So I say to the airline operators that it is up to them to start putting pressure on the Government for a second airport for Sydney because this is the only way that they will get 24-hours a day operation. 
In its report the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise raised a number of issues and made a number of recommendations, but the Government has been very lax and certainly very slow in seeking to implement the recommendations. One of the recommendations dealt with noise monitoring. Noise monitoring, as we see it, is to place a limit on the noise that aircraft can make and still be allowed to operate at airports. Noise monitoring has been in operation at Heathrow Airport near London for 13 years. I ask the Government immediately to implement the recommendations of the Aircraft Noise Committee and to impose a noise limit on aircraft operating at Mascot, such monitoring to be policed by a noise monitoring system. The operating rights of airline companies whose planes persist in violating the noise limit should be cancelled. 
The noise exposure forecast has been a matter of great concern to municipal authorities in my electorate, in the electorate of my distinguished colleague the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and in the electorate of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly).  The noise exposure forecast can show only points of noise nuisance. The action called for is to reduce noise over these areas and not to wipe out areas under the guise of planning which is what the State and Federal governments seem intent on doing. To the problems of aircraft noise and safety the Government has introduced another factor - the reality of depressed land values. The problem will get worse. Total aircraft movement at Kingsford-Smith Airport for the year 1970 amounted to 123,081. A projection made by the Department of Civil Aviation predicts that by 1980 some 210,000 movements will be taking place at Kingsford-Smith Airport. This means that if the airport is allowed to be open 24 hours a day there will be 1 movement every  2  minutes, and life will be hell for the people of St George. 
The Australian Labor Party has set down a policy which is clear and unequivocal. It regards the following points as vital and urgent: Firstly, we must halt the further uneconomic and anti-social development of Mascot airport. The Government is only throwing good money after bad. The airport area is far too small by international standards to justify further development. Secondly, an immediate decision must be made to build a second airport and to get on with the job. Thirdly, noise limits must be imposed on planes operating at Mascot, such limit to be policed by a monitoring system. Fourthly, the night curfew must be rigidly enforced. Fifthly, the angle of approach of aircraft coming into Mascot must be increased from 2.67 degrees to 3 degrees. Sixthly, there must be insistence on greater usage of the runway over Botany 
Bay. Finally, as has been proposed in the motion, a select committee of this House should be set up to inquire into and report upon the development of major airports and harbours. We do not want to be faced, as the people of Great Britain are faced, with a Whitehall decision in respect of which the people can make no contribution and cannot make their point of view known. What the motion seeks is a select committee that can take into account not only economic problems and transport problems but also special problems that are involved in any transportation question. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Will the Minister for Defence tell the House why, if Malaysia and Singapore are as anxious to have Australian forces as the Government says they are, we have to pay any money at all for the use of military bases in those countries, particularly as the United Kingdom and Australia paid for the construction of the bases in the first place? 
This afternoon we are debating a Bill which, in the words of the Minister, seeks to obtain authority to borrow from the Reserve Bank an amount necessary to complete the financing of the deficit in 1970-71 and to use the proceeds of the borrowing for defence purposes. I am dumbfounded that the Government, has the impertinence to ask the Parliament for further funds for defence purposes when, through an appalling dereliction of duty, it has failed to safeguard an Australian multi-million dollar investment in military bases in Malaysia. The Government, through its incompetence, has in fact forfeited control over an investment at Butterworth worth $12.3m. One of the repercussions is that we are now being asked to pay rent for bases that we constructed. The Australian taxpayer is also being asked to pay rent for military bases in Singapore when, on the basis of our contribution to the base at Terendak we made a contribution of 27.7 per cent of the total cost. That Australian investment for defence purposes amounted to some $7m. 
The background to this is that in June 1958 the Australian Government entered into an arrangement with the British and New Zealand governments for contributions towards the cost of building the Terendak base. The British contribution was 54.1 per cent, the Australian contribution was 27.7 per cent and the New Zealand contribution was 18.2 per cent. The arrangement was that the United Kingdom held the lease from the Malaysian Government for 30 years but under that lease, when the time came for the British to relinquish the base, they handed the base back to the Malaysians; and that is precisely what happened. The British had the arrangement with the Malaysians, we had a rather extraordinary arrangement, with the British and so, when the British handed it back, our investment - the Australian taxpayers' investment - went lock stock and barrel to the Malaysian Government. We have not heard one word from the Australian Government about what has happened with this investment. Yet we are being asked today to vote more funds for defence purposes. The same thing happened at Butterworth base. Although Australia was the operational commander of the base, this base was returned by the British to the Malaysian Government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many aircraft operated by (a) Ansett Airlines of Australia (b) Trans-Australia Airlines and (c) Qantas Airways Limited have been fitted wilh reduced smoke combustion chambers? 
What percentage of the fleet of each company has been modified in this way? 
When did each company begin its modifications? 
By what date is it anticipated that all the aircraft operated by each company will be modified? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did Recommendation No. 19 of the Report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise presented in October 1970 recommend that monitoring of aircraft noise should be introduced in Australia with Sydney Airport as first priority. 
If so, what steps (A) have been taken and (B) are intended to be taken to implement this recommendation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Did Recommendation No. 23 of the Report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise presented in October 1970 recommend that the Department of Civil Aviation should press for the reduction of aircraft noise certification limits and pursue a relentless course of imposing restrictions on any airline whose aircraft repeatedly exceed acceptable noise standards. 
If so, what steps (A) have been taken and (B) are intended to be taken by the Department of Civil Aviation to implement this recommendation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Haw many officers are in the (a) first division, (b) second division and (c) third division of the Commonwealth Service. 
How many officers in each of these divisions receive an actual salary in excess of $9,500 per annum. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the statement issued by the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce on 25th March 1971 concerning parliamentary salaries which points out that Australians should seek acceptance of the principle that we only get the Government we deserve and are prepared to pay for, and that a better qualified Government can only result in long term benefits to every Australian. 
If so, is the Government's attitude to this matter the same as that expressed by the Melbourne Chamber of Commerce. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 27. per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 47 per cent on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, willever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned showeth: 
That the Australian people both in metropolitan and rural areas should have the best television programmes available to them and that television as a powerful means of communication should not be in the control of too few hands. 
The increased quota for Australian dramatic productions should not be imposed by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board at the expense of Australian professional variety or Australian documentary or educational programmes, but directed more towards cutting down expenditure on the purchase of imported productions, thus effecting a considerable saving in Australia's overseas balance of payments. 
The Australian Parliament has a responsibility to encourage the development of our National identity, character and heritage and the promulgation, for the sake of our children, of an adequate picture of Australia, her standards, morals and way of life, particularly through the media of Radio and Television, which is in the immediate control of the Australian Government. 
Until constructive and positive action is taken by the Australian Government to promote Australian culture and protect the employment and professional standards of Australian writers, artists and producers in Australia itself there is little likelihood of stopping the flow of Australian talent from Australia to other countries. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board must insist that its new quota standards of Australian dramatic content on television are rigidly imposed and enforced on all commercial television stations. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Cause the Australian Government to recognise the right of Australian professional people engaged in the creative and performing arts to further develop their skills and talents in Australia, and to be protected from overseas programmes in a way that will encourage an Australian Television and Radio industry that can reflect and contribute to our identity and growth as a Nation. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The charade of this Government for the last  6 k  years has now been completed. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  today, after  6i  years of futility of trying to hide the documents associated with our entry to Vietnam, has tabled them. I would like to read them. The first one is a response from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Vietnam. He wrote: 
I have the honour to refer to your letter of today's date confirming the Australian Government's oiler to send to Vietnam an infantry battalion of 800 men, with some 100 personnel in logistic support to serve wilh United States forces in assisting in the defence of the Republic of Vietnam.  1 wish to confirm my government's acceptance of this offer and to request the dispatch of this force to Vietnam on the basis which we discussed. 
There was no request. In fact, all that it was was an acceptance. Quite clearly - and the Government agrees - the decision was made months before. But the great difficulty was to get the South Vietnamese Government's agreement to accept - not to request but to accept. 
I would now like to refer to the Pentagon papers and to a dispatch which was sent from the United States Ambassador to Washington dated 17th April 1965, a little less than a fortnight before the date of the documents which have just been tabled by the Prime Minister. Page 444 of the publication 'The Pentagon Papers' in part states: 
April 8. Received Deptel- 
This is from Washington -  2229 directing approach to GVN, suggesting request to Australian government for an infantry battalion for use in SVN. While awaiting a propitious moment to raise the matter,  I  received Deptel 2237 directing approach be delayed until further orders. 
What happened then was that Ambassador Maxwell Taylor made some suggestions to the United Stales on how to handle third country forces. On page 445 of the documents he said: 
Let me suggest the kind of instruction to the AMB- 
This is him telling Washington what to tell him -  which it would be most helpful to receive for use in presenting to GVN what  I  take to be a new policy of third-country .participation in ground combat. 
The suggestion he made is this: 
We arc prepared to bring in additional US ground forces provided we can get a reasonable degree of participation from other third countries. If the  GVN will make urgent representations to them, we believe it entirely possible to obtain the following contributions; Korea, one regimental combat team; Australia, one infantry battalion; New Zealand, one battery and one company of tanks; PI, one battalion. If forces of the foregoing magnitude are forthcoming, the USG is prepared to provide the remainder of the combat reinforcements as well as the necessary logistic personnel to support the third-country contingents. Also it will use its good offices as desired in assisting the GVN approach to these governments. 
Quite clearly the much publicised and not until now published letter from one of the multitude of South Vietnamese weekend governments is no more than a contrived gimmick to give a veneer of respectability to the unprecedented action of sending abroad in a time of undeclared war young Australians to be killed and maimed in a futile war. The Liberal Party was not the only government of this world to be so conspired against. In fact it was part of a world wide conspiracy manipulated by President Johnson. The pattern of personal pressure by President Johnson on the heads of governments of client states including Australia to commit forces led to the inspired - not request - acceptance by the Government of South Vietnam. With the concurrence of the House I incorporate in Hansard the 2 documents which were tabled earlier by the Prime Minister.  29th April 1965 
Your Excellency, 
I have the honour, with reference to our conversation yesterday, to confirm the Australian Government's offer to send to Viet Nam an infantry battalion of 800 men, with some 100 personnel in logistic support, to serve with United States forces in assisting in the defence of the Republic of Viet Nam. 
I have informed the Australian Government, following our conversation, that Your Excellency has accepted this offer and has requested the despatch of this force to Viet Nam on the basis which we discussed. 
Please accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration. 
D. ANDERSON 
Ambassador  His Excellency Dr Phan  Huy Quat, Prime Minister of the Republic of Vict Nam, SAIGON 29th April 1965 
Dear  Mr Ambassador, 
I have the honor to refer to your letter of today's date confirming the Australian Government's offer to send to Viet Nam an infantry battalion of 800 men, with some 100 personnel in logistic support to serve with United States forces in assisting in the defence of the Republic nf Vietnam. 
I wish to confirm my government's acceptance of this offer and to request the dispatch of this force to Viet Nam on the basis which *e discussed. 
Sincerely, 
PHAN-HUY-QUAT 
The Honorable H. D. Anderson 
Ambassador of the government of Australia Saigon, Vietnam. 
The Prime Minister in his speech yesterday asserted that all was well in Vietnam and that our intervention had been a success. But can he say that Communist China's influence is less now than it was in 1965 when we sent our forces or in 1954 because now, at a time when United States  prestige throughout Asia is at its lowest ebb, Communist Chinese prestige is at its highest? Does he know that there is less territory of the areas of Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos now under the control of authorities favourable to the United States than there was in 1954 or at any time since? Is he aware that Laos has suffered between 1966 and 1969 the highest casualty rate in the world and endured the US bombers the highest bombing per square mile in all history? Does he know that in Cambodia since May 1970 the US invasion has produced over 1 million refugees and that thousands of ethnic Vietnamese living in Cambodia have been slaughtered? Has he been advised that the Cambodian Government in only the last few days has protested to the South Vietnamese Government - not to the North Vietnamese Government - about the atrocities committed by South Vietnamese troops who have vietnamised Cambodia, the only area in which vietnamisation has been a success? Does he know that the poorer classes in Vietnam are being forgotten while a minority of irresponsible people in positions of power think only of grabbing money and consolidating their power to continue to exploit the people? He should know, because this was contained in a statement made by Vice-President Ky. 
Last night the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  tried to argue about land reform. Vice-President Ky, in speaking about this subject, said: 
The peasantry is supposed to be given special help through the land reform programme. But in reality they are still being exploited by intermediaries. 
Does the Prime Minister know that 400 Australian sons, brothers and husbands have been killed and over 3,000 maimed? Yes, our policy in Vietnam has been a success - a disastrous success! A Communist regime would have been hard put to it to achieve a similar success. But the point is that through our misdirected desire to ensure the reimposition of the French empire in Indo-China in 1945 and the United States assumption of the French role in 1954 we effectively stopped the evolution of an Indo-Chinese solution to an Indo-Chinese problem. We might not have liked the result but could it have been any worse than the current sufferings and the past sufferings of the Indo-Chinese people? There is an old Persian saying that only your own fingers can find the itch, and it is about time that we let the people of Indo-China resolve their own problems. There are many influential South Vietnames who are prepared and who are capable of negotiating with the North Vietnamese. This is fundamentally and primarily a Vietnamese and Indo-Chinese problem and the big powers should keep out until they are asked to provide guarantees that they will not come in again. Perhaps I could quote a Korean proverb which says that when whales fight the shrimp get crushed. I suggest that the whales be invited to sail well out to sea. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Has the reduction in the funds available to his Department instituted by the former Prime Minister resulted in a cut in the vote for the maintenance of telephones in public telephone booths? 
Is it a fact that a number of telephones in public telephone booths in the Electoral Division of St George is out of action because of lack of maintenance? 
If so, will he take steps to ensure that economies required by, the Government are not made at the expense of this important community service. 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many persons of Asian origin have become naturalised within 5 years of taking up permanent residence in Australia? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Member;, of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The  humble petition of certain electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth - 
That the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use of international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effect? on man, animals or plants; 
That the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
That the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds thai the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the Parliament take note ot the consensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
That honourable members urge upon 'he Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many movements of jet aircraft took place at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport between the hours of 11 pin. and 6 a.m. in each of the following periods in 1971: 7th-8th April, 8th-9th April, 9th-10th April, 10th-11th April, 11th-12th April, 12th-13th April and 13th- 14th April? 
What was the runway usage for (a) landings and (b) take-offs for each of these periods? 
Was Ministerial approval (a) sought and (b) obtained for all movements of jet aircraft within the curfew hours for these periods? 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - Whereas - 
the Commonwealth Parliament has acted to remove some inadequacies in the Australian Education system. 
a major inadequacy at present in Australian education is the lack of equal education opportunity for all. 
200,000 students from Universities, Colleges of Advanced Education and other Tertiary Institutions, and their parents suffer severe penalty from inadequacies in the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1968. 
Australia cannot afford to hinder the edu cation of these 200,000 Australians. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
The allowance of personal education expenses as a deduction from income for tax purposes. 
Removal of the present age limit in respect of the deduction for education expenses and the maintenance allowance for students. 
Increase in the amount of deduction allowable for tertiary education expenses. 
Increase in the maintenance allowance for students. 
Exemption of non-bonded scholarships, for part-time students from income tax. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned showeth: 1. That the Australian people both in Metropolitan and Rural areas should have the best of television programmes available to them and that television as a powerful means of communication should not be in the control of too few hands. 
The increased quota for Australian dramatic productions should not be imposed by the Austalian Broadcasting Control Board at the expense of Australian professional variety or Australian documentary or educational programmes, but directed more towards cutting down expenditure on the purchase of imported productions, thus effecting a considerable saving in Australia's overseas balance of payments. 
The Austalian Parliament has a responsibility to encourage the development of our National identity, character and heritage and the promulgation, for the sake of our children, of an adequate picture of Australia, her standards, mores and way of life, particularly through the media of Radio and Television, which is in the immediate control of the Australian Government. 
Until constructive and positive action is taken by the Australian Government to promote Australian culture and protect the employment and professional standards of Australian writers, artists and producers in Australia itself there is little likelihood of stopping the flow of Australian talent from Australia to other countries. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board must insist that its new quota standards of Australian dramatic content on television are rigidly imposed and enforced on all commercial television stations. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, should - 
Cause the Australian Government to recognise the right of Australian professional people engaged in the creative and performing arts to further develop their skills and talents in Australia, and to be protected from overseas programmes in a way that will encourage an Australian Television and Radio industry that can reflect and contribute to our identity and growth as a Nation. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Will the Minister for Labour and National Service consider requiring the registration with the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission of Australia's most powerful trade union, the Australian Medical Association, so that doctors' fees can be fixed in the same way as the wages of patients whom they treat? 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth - 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned showeth: 
That the Australian people both in metropolitan and rural areas should have the best of television programmes available to them and that television as a powerful means of communication should not be in the control of too few hands. 
The increased quota for Australian dramatic productions should not be imposed by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board at the expense of Australian professional variety or Australian documentary or educational programmes, but directed more towards cutting down expenditure on the purchase of imported productions, thus effecting a considerable saving in Australia's overseas balance of payments. 
The Australian Parliament has a responsibility to encourage the development of our National identity, character and heritage and the promulgation, for the sake of our children, of an adequate picture of Australia, her standards, morals and way of life, particularly through the media of Radio and Television, which is in the immediate control of the Australian Government. 
Until constructive and positive action is taken by the Australian Government to promote Australian culture and protect the employment and professional standards of Australian writers, artists and producers in Australia itself there is little likelihood of stopping the flow of Australian talent from Australia to other countries. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board must insist that its new quota standards of Australian dramatic content on television are rigidly imposed and enforced on all commercial television stations. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, should - 
Cause the Australian Government to recognise the right of Australian professional people engaged in the creative and performing arts to further develop their skills and talents in Australia, and to be protected from overseas programmes in a way that will encourage an Australian Television and Radio industry that can reflect and contribute to our identity and growth as a Nation. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What is the daily rate of travelling allowance within Australia of Commonwealth public servants in the (a) first division, (b) second division and (c) third division? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What steps have been taken, since the Minister's answer to my question No. 1505 (Hansard, 14th October 1970, page 2183), to Implement recommendation No. 16 of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise that. as a noise abatement measure, the glide slope at Australian airports should be standardised at 3 degrees wherever possible. 
What further steps are intended to be taken to carry out the recommendation. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned showeth: 
That the Australian people both in Metropolitan and Rural areas should have the best of television programmes available to them and that television as a powerful means of communication should not be in the control of too few hands. 
The increased quota for Australian dramatic productions should not be imposed by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board at the expense of Australian professional variety or Australian documentary or educational programmes, but directed more towards cutting down expenditure on the purchase of imported productions, thus effecting  a  considerable saving in Australia's overseas balance of payments. 
The Australian Parliament has a responsibility to encourage the development of our National identity, character and heritage and the promulgation, for the sake of our children, of an adequate picture of Australia, her standards, mores and way of life, particularly through the media of Radio and Television, which is in the immediate control of  the Australian Government. 
Until constructive and positive action is taken by the Australian Government to promote Australian culture and protect the employment and professional standards of Australian writers, artists and producers in Australia itself there is little likelihood of stopping the flow of Australian talent from Australia to other countries. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board must insist that its new quota standards of Australian dramatic content on television are rigidly imposed and enforced on all commercial television stations. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, should - 
Cause the Australian Government to recognize the right of Australian professional 'people engaged in the. creative and performing arts to further develop their skills and talents in Australia, and to be protected from overseas programmes in a way that will encourage an Australian Television and Radio industry that can reflect and contribute to our identity and growth as a Nation. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended - 
Tonight we are examining the activities of the most important and largest enterprise in Australia. If we added together the value of the assets of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd, Unilever Aust. Pty Ltd, G. J. Coles and Co. Ltd and British Tobacco (Aust) Ltd, the resulting figure would be about equal to the total assets of the Australian Post Office. It is because it is such an important enterprise and because it has an annual turnover of about $625m that the Opposition has put forward its amendment. The Opposition is seeking the sort of information on which it can make a detailed and proper assessment of how the largest enterprise in Australia should be organised and what philosophy and policy should go behind its operations. The Post Office is the largest employer in Australia; its 110,000 employees represent half of the existing Public Service. This is why the Opposition has indicated that, for the purpose of easier arrangement of personnel management and industrial relations, the Post Office should be taken away from the control of the Public Service Board. 
Tonight I should like to spend a little time in discussing the finances of the Post Office. I must say that the more I look at it, the more I get the impression that the Government is playing a game of monoply. This year, the Government on the one hand will provide finance of $255m to the Post Office and, on the other hand, will take away $141m in interest payments. The curious feature of all this is that these loans go into the acquisition of assets which, in any event, are owned by the Australian people. But even worse than this is that the money which is used to buy these assets attracts an interest payment. These interest payments are then taken into the calculation of the running costs of the Post Office and are, as we have seen from the statement of the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Hulme),  used as a justification for increasing the charges for service- In fact, what is happening is that the Australian taxpayer is paying a double-bunger tax. As I said, the advances to the Post Office come from the people in the form of taxes but in order to pay back the interest on the advances which come from the taxpayer in the first place, the Government slaps on higher charges for Post Office services. The Government is using the Post Office as a tax collector rather than as a service agency which is what honourable members on this side of the House believe it should be. However, in doing this, as my colleague, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  pointed out, it is adding to the inflationary spiral. This is the most effective way of increasing the inflation about which the Government claims to be concerned. 
As has been mentioned, over the last 2 years postage charges have increased by 40 per cent, telephone connection charges by 67 per cent, telephone rentals by 38 per cent and television and radio licence fees by 33 per cent. Another feature of this curious relationship between interest on loans and the financial operations of the Post Office is that the fixed assets of the Post Office amount to $2,1 74m but its indebtedness to the Treasury is almost the same - $2,237m. It seems to me that we must stop this starched white shirt accountancy approach to the Post Office. It is a big institution; it is a people's institution. Its basic function is to provide a service and only a detailed examination of the philosophy of the accounting for its operations and on the nature of those operations can overcome many of the problems which face the Post Office in the year 1971. 
The Opposition would rather prefer that the Government, which has access to all the information and which it does not provide to the Opposition, provided this information- Then we would undertake a debate in this House on the basis of equal information. -  Mr Garland  - But you are not justifying your case. 
The case is pretty simple because of the increases which will take place and which, to my mind, are unjustified. Let us take the telephone charges as an instance of an unjustified increase. Last year, the Post Office made a profit of $23m from telecommunications services. The Postmaster-General, in his original statement, said that unless there was an increase in tariffs the Post Office would lose Sim. So what happened? The charges will be jacked up so much that the profit this year will be $53m. How can that possibly be justified? As always, this Government is placing the burden on those who are least able to afford it. For older people, a telephone call could be the difference between life and death but the Government has increased the rental on pensioners' telephones from $31.34 to $36.66. This is an increase of 16 per cent to the pensioners but, on the other hand, this munificent Government will provide only an 8 per cent increase in pensions. 
This is cold-blooded sleight of hand. At a single stroke the Government has taken back a month's worth of the pension increase proposed in this Budget. 
A case can be made out on the present archaic accounting devices of the Post Office for an increase in postal charges. I was interested to note that the PostmasterGeneral in a speech on 17th April identified a major area of loss. He pointed out that this area was on the concessional bulk postage arrangement. I would like to repeat the statement that he made because I think he was getting at the point. The only difficulty is that I do not think he followed it to a logical conclusion. The Postmaster-General said: 
These concession rates represent in effect a substantial subsidy to the publishing and printing industry and to many organisations ranging from religious, charitable and welfare organisations to social and recreational clubs. 
This is the important part. The Minister continued: 
It is debatable whether this subsidy is an appropriate charge on the Post Office's finances. 
As I said, the Postmaster-General has raised the problem but, at this stage, he does not seem to be prepared to face up to it. The Postmaster-General regards the Post Office as a business enterprise. The Government has taken this view and we of the Opposition go along with it to a certain extent. But surely if it is a business enterprise these forms of subsidy should not be under its control. If the Government - this could be either a Labor government or a Liberal government - decides that some form of subsidy should be made to these organisations, it should not be part and parcel of the accounting system of the Post Office. 
Equally, there are a number of expenditures by the Post Office that do not seem to us on this side of the House to be a proper charge to the Post Office. A point in question is the new booster station at Darwin. In a Press statement of 3rd September 1971 the Postmaster-General pointed out that the booster station which is used by Radio Australia cost $8m. Irrespective of whether this development is funded from television licence fees or the operating costs of the Post Office, it seems absurd that the financing of what is essentially a foreign affairs function should be met from the licence fees of television viewers or from the charges on letter writers. There is a whole field in which the Post Office is operating in which, if you assume the criterion that it is a public and business enterprise, these charges should not be attributable to it. These are the reasons why I think it is necessary for this House to be given an opportunity of a detailed statement from the PostmasterGeneral and from his Department so that we can examine all these sorts of issues and amongst us all - because we are all concerned with this because it is the taxpayers' money that is involved - come up with a more logical and more effective operating system for the Australian Post Office. 
In his statement immediately following the Budget and subsequently the PostmasterGeneral had joined in what is almost the Greek chorus these days of trying to sheet home responsibility for inflation to increases in wages. Again, the Opposition would like to reiterate that under the present arbitration arrangements, wage increases follow price increases and do not precede them. The Postmaster-General talks about productivity. But again, we are not given any indication of what the productivity of the Post Office is. If the Government was so concerned about this concept of productivity surely it would within its own departments, and particularly in the biggest enterprise in Australia, introduce a productivity survey. Looking at the evidence that is available to us from a number of Post Office publications, we find that in 1969-70 the Director-General of Posts and Telegraphs stated in his annual report that there had been a 6 per cent increase in business. But on checking over the staff figures we can work out that during that period staff increased by only 3.7 per cent. In the previous financial year the increase in business activity was given as 4.2 per cent. But the staff increase was only 1.7 per cent. Another way of looking at this question of productivity in the absence of any detailed information from the Post Office is in terms of physical output - the actual job being done by the number of people doing it. If we take the 10-year period from 1960 through to 1970, we find that the number of postal articles handled jumped from 1,953 million to 2,725 million, or an increase of 39.5 per cent. The number of telephone calls rose from 1,612 million to 2,860 million, an increase of 77.4 per cent. The number of connections of telephone services rose from 229,800 to 467,183, an increase of 107.2 per cent. What was the position with the number of people who were handling these very substantial increases in activity in the Post Office? The number of full-time staff employed in 1960 was 85,993. By 1970 it was 107,520. That gives an increase of 25 per cent. The number of postal articles handled increased by 39.5 per cent; telephone calls increased by 77.4 per cent; telephone connections increased by 107.2 per cent; and the number of people employed has increased by only 25 per cent. 
Not all the increases, no matter how the Government might try to wangle the information available to it, can even be attributable 'to wages. I would like to take the example of the mixmaster, the letter sorting device that was placed in the Redfern Mail Exchange. The Postmaster-General, in a letter to me dated 29th July 1971, very kindly gave some indication of how the introduction of the Redfern mail sorting device had in fact increased mail handling charges in Sydney. In 1965-66 the direct handling cost per $1 of postage revenue in Sydney was 26c. After the introduction of the mixmaster by 1969-70 it had risen to 30c. In Melbourne which does not have the great advantages of this notorious machine, the handling cost rose from 26c in 1965-66 - the same figure as in Sydney- to 27c in 1969-70. That is still 3c less than the operating costs of the cost of handling at Sydney. In Brisbane, which must have some very highly effective and most productive mail sorters, the handling cost per $1 of postage revenue in 1965-66 was 19c. Several years later in 1969-70 the cost is exactly the same. 
The PostmasterGeneral. This machine at Redfern cost S4m. The supplying company was Telephone and Electrical Industries - TEI - a company which boasted among its directors at the time of the installation a former Postmaster-General and a former DirectorGeneral of Posts and Telegraphs. TEI is a wholly owned subsidiary of the United Kingdom based company Plesseys. I am concerned about the very limited choice  of  suppliers available to the PostmasterGeneral's Department. Plesseys appears to occupy  a  pre-eminent position in the contract arrangements that are now entered into by the Postmaster-General's Department.  I  have placed on the notice paper  a  series of questions relating to the contracts that the Postmaster-General's Department enters into.  I  will reserve judgment until that information is available. But  I,  along with my colleagues on this side of the House, share some concern about  a  company which is  a  major contractor to the Government and which has on its board of directors - one is a managing director  -  2 men who were formerly very closely associated with the Postmaster-General's Department, namely a former PostmasterGeneral and a Director-General of Posts and Telegraphs and who, through some quirk of fate, find themselves in a position to arrange contracts with the Department. 
One point that the Government has not mentioned in its price increases is, of course, the television licences for stations. These, of course, have been left untouched since 1964 because, 1 think,  Sir Frank  Packer would probably raise more objections and is capable of raising more objection than the pensioners of St George are able to raise. These rates have remained the same since 1964. The television stations pay a basic once and for all licence fee  - I  may be corrected on this if  I  am wrong - of the great sum of $200. They then pay a percentage of gross earnings - about 1 per cent of gross earnings up to $lm. There is a slight increase over the Sim mark. But all that all of the commercial stations paid to the Government in 1970-71 for the opportunity of making quite substantial profits - this would apply particularly to the metropolitan television stations - was $1,647,000. I rather hazard the guess that the sum of about $1.6m will hardly cover - will hardly make a slight dent - in the cost of providing the transmission services and other technical services which the Postmaster-General's Department makes available to the television industry. 1 hope that if the Government feels it necessary to raise fees it will have a jolly good look at the fees paid by television stations. Any organisation which has been able to retain its cost factor at the level it held in 1964 certainly merits very close consideration. 
Throughout the Budget arrangements for the Post Office the Government, following its usual philosophy, has sought to place the charges on those least able to afford them. In fact, it has allowed those who are in a position to pay to get away scot free. I hope that the Government will accede to our request for a total examination of the operations of the Post Office. We all have an interest in this matter and, most certainly the Australian taxpayer has. 
Sitting suspended from 6.1 to 8 p.m. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Under what arrangements did the Royal Australian Air Force occupy the air force base at Butterworth in Malaysia. 
What has been Australia's total financial outlay on (a) the capital cost and (b) the operating cost of the base. 
What arrangements have been entered into with the Malaysian Government for the continued occupation of the base by the RAAF. 
What is the annual rent paid by the Australian Government to the Malaysian Government for the use of the base. 
What contribution has been made by (a) the Commonwealth, (b) State government departments, (c) local authorities, (d) parents and (e) other bodies to (i) the cost of building and equipping pre-schools in each case since 1960 and (ii) all running costs in the year 1970-711. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Will the Minister tell the House why he departed from the practice of his predecessors by not issuing on 8th September - SEATO Day - a statement to commemorate the South East Asia Treaty Organisation, an organisation which the Government, at least hitherto, has regarded as the cornerstone of Australian foreign policy. 
asked the Prime Minister,  upon notice: 
Did he state on 6 May 1971 that the newly established ministerial committee on Aboriginal affairs would review as a matter of urgency Commonwealth programmes for the advancement of Aboriginal citizens. 
How many times has the committee met since that date. 
Is he In a position to make a statement on the matter; if not, why not. 
Tonight we have been treated to the long awaited report by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  on the second airport for Sydney. But what we got was a squib. The procrastination which has marked the  2i  years of preparation of this report is to be followed by a further committee and it will be a long time before we get a responsible decision from the Government. This dilly-dallying ineptitude is not only costing the Australian taxpayers millions of dollars but it is also making life hell for the people living in the vicinity of airports, particularly the Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport. It seems to me that the Government could not care less about the people living in my electorate and the adjoining electorates of Barton, KingsfordSmith and Grayndler. 
The report displays a complete lack of understanding and, what is more, a complete lack of vision in the planning of what has been described as the fastest growing industry in the world. The Government is standing flat footed in an area noted for its great challenges to human planning. It seems to me that the Government is intent on throwing good money after bad in persisting with the further development of Mascot Airport. It envisages a further investment of $200m in addition to the existing investment of $112m by the Commonwealth. The Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport, as we all know, is a pocket handkerchief sized airport of 1,600 acres. The standard for international airports overseas is between 12,000 and 15,000 acres. This pocket handkerchief size airport at Mascot will have a Commonwealth investment of $300m. The Minister and honourable members on the other side have been speaking about hundreds of millions of dollars. The new international airport at Tullamarine which has an area of 5,400 acres cost only $83m. As far as we on this side of the House are concerned the uneconomic anti-social development of Mascot Airport must be halted and a second site must be selected forthwith and an immediate start made on construction. This is not a new problem. I wish to refer to a prescient statement made 111 years ago by  mY  good friend and colleague the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  in 1960. My colleague said: 
Rather let us have a public inquiry before great sums of money are expended on the provision of airports in these thickly populated areas. Even at this stage consideration might be given to removing Sydney's international airport to Richmond . . . 
That statement was made  Hi  years ago. lt has taken the Government and its committee 21 years to arrive at the same decision. J am glad to note that the Minister for Civil Aviation in a statement in another place, which has been repeated here tonight, accepts the necessity for a second airport for Sydney. He also recognises that it will be needed by the late 1970s or early 1980s. But 1 wonder whether he recognises that in this day and age it takes 10 years to build an airport, lt takes 10 years from turning the first sod until a regular passenger transport takes off. After  2i  years we have this abortive report. How long do we have to wait until the next committee presents its report? 1 think we will be lucky to see the second report before the end of the century. In the meantime land developers are moving into the areas already named in this latest report. There will be additional costs to the Government in the purchase of the land and we will run out of areas large enough for an airport. Because of this long delay I do not think that at this stage wc should just be thinking -about a second airport. Rather, we should adopt a visionary approach of forward planning and think of a third airport. 
Because of the lack of vision on the part of this Government in the past in civil aviation matters it is no doubt thinking in terms of needing 4,000 to 5,000 acres for a second airport. As 1 said we should be thinking in terms of at least 12,000 to 15,000 acres. I recently visited Los Angeles and the city authorities have set aside 18,000 acres for the provision of a new airport to be built 28 miles out of Los Angeles at Palmdale: Pending construction of a second airport for Sydney the Government is to proceed with further development of Mascot Airport. It is no secret - this has been obvious to those who have been associated with airport problems - that the Government intends to duplicate both the north-south runway and the east-west runway at Mascot. I am sorry that we are unable to have incorporated in Hansard a map prepared a couple of years ago by the Maritime Services Board of New South Wales. This map shows the 2 runways running out into Botany Bay. What we have to keep in mind is that the cost of extending these runways into Botany Bay is astronomical in comparison with their construction on land. 
In the United States the cost of constructing runways and taxiways is approximately $300 a ft. The cost of constructing runways at Tullamarine was approximately $570 a ft. The cost of the extensions currently taking place at Mascot - no doubt this is the extension and duplication that the Government has in mind - runs out at $5,500 a ft, roughly 1,0 times what it costs to build runways on land. But what is equally disconserting is that the projected duplication of runwavs which will be achieved at excessive cost will be a scandalous waste in terms of usage. The limited area available for construction will not allow a 5,000 ft separation of runways. International Civil Aviation Organisation regulations require that for simultaneous use of runways they must be 5,000 ft apart. But the plans 1 have seen for Mascot show that the runways will be only 1,000 ft apart. This will mean that these runways will not be able to be used simultaneously even though there has been a tremendous expenditure of funds on them. 
The Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation graciously acknowledged in his speech that there is some conflict between the interests of Sydney as a whole both now and in the future and the interests of communities adjacent to Mascot Airport. lt is very nice of him to concede that point because this is the basic point. 
We in this place spend a lot of time talking about the quality of life but when it comes down to a practical proposal this Government is not in the forefront. For example, let me refer to an article by  Dr Elfyn  Richards, Vice-Chancellor of Loughborough University of Technology, Loughborough, in the United Kingdom.  Dr Richards  is a former member of the Wilson Committee on Problems of Noise. He made a statement which I hope this Government will keep in mind. He said: 
Noise pollution is with us and, like taxation, it is likely to remain. Like taxation, too, noise pollution is unfair if its burden is borne too heavily by a single part of the community. The right balance must be struck between the economic gain a nation derives from the existence of an airport, and the burden of amenity and property loss suffered by local people in the region of the airport. 
As the representative of the people of the electorate of St George I can say that this criterion is demonstrably not being used by this Government. Let us have a look at aircraft movements at Mascot. In 1970 there were 123,081 movements at Mascot Airport. The projection of the Department of Civil Aviation is that by 1980 there will be 210,000 aircraft movements at Mascot. My arithmetic is not particularly good but on the basis of the airport being used 24 hours a day this would mean one aircraft movement every 2 minutes. I would like the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson),  who is safe in the knowledge that he does not live near Sydney, to spend a couple of nights at my place to find out what one flight every 2 minutes would mean. 
Having acquiesced in the growth of the problem of aircraft noise and not handling development of civil aviation in this country with any vision, the Government all of a sudden seeks to place the onus for rectification of the problems of aircraft noise on local government authorities. It has devised a particularly good public relations gimmick which' it has explained as noise exposure forecasts. Noise exposure forecasts do not tell us anything that we do not already know. First of all we know that aeroplanes make noise and when they are flying over residential areas they disturb people. Noise exposure forecasts reveal the degree of annoyance but the Government's superb answer to this is that we should wipe out these areas rather than reduce the noise over the areas. The whole object of the exercise is 'Okay, we regard the airport as important'.  Sir Frank  Packer certainly regards it as important. As the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has already pointed out,  Sir Frank  Packer has indicated to the Government what its attitude ought to be, and this is not the first time that the position of  Sir Frank  Packer has been made known in this House. 1 am prepared to acknowledge the statement in the Minister's speech on noise monitoring. Noise monitoring is not something that this Government came up with. It was a recommendation of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise and it was the recommendation that the Labor Party members of the Committee placed in that Committee's report. I want to make it very clear that we will not be satisfied with just putting in a noise monitoring system because as we see it the purpose of a noise monitoring system is not only to monitor noise but also to establish a noise limit and should aeroplanes exceed that limit this system will detect it. The Opposition goes further and says that if any companies persistently violate the noise limit, their permission to land and to operate at Kingsford-Smith Airport should be withdrawn. The Opposition is also delighted to note that the Government will continue to insist on the curfew but as a colleague of mine who is the Mayor of Rockdale. pointed out, as far as this Government is concerned the curfew applies only when airlines do not want to operate. It is to be hoped that the Government will pay increasing attention to the recommendation of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise that the curfew should be rigidly enforced. 
To sum up, the Opposition sees the problem in several ways, but basically the further uneconomic and anti-social development of Mascot Airport must be halted. As I pointed out, the Government is only throwing good money after bad. The airport area is far too small by international standards to justify the huge sums that the Government appears to have in mind for investment. Secondly, there should be an immediate decision to build a second airport arid get on with the job. Thirdly, there should be imposed on planes operating at Mascot a noise limit which should be effectively policed by the noise monitoring system. The operating rights of companies whose planes insist on violating the noise limit should be cancelled. Fourthly, the Government should rigidly enforce the night curfew. I hope that the opportunity will be taken by this Government to adopt a far more effective attitude to the growth of civil aviation in this country. Australia depends upon civil aviation and I hope that we do not have to continue for too long to depend on this Government to give us the lead. 
What we are discussing today is far too important and far too serious for the pitiful attempts at pedestrian debating made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn).  We are dealing with a situation which involves the lives of Australian sons, husbands, fathers and brothers. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced on 18th August that the Government had decided to withdraw all remaining Australian combat forces from Vietnam and in a shallow political flourish he brought in the 'home by Christmas' catch cry. So he first of all telegraphed our moves to the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese. A responsible Government would at an appropriate time have said in a simple statement 'Today all Australian combat forces have left Vietnam'. 
Precisely. That has been the motivation of this Government since 1965 and before. The Vietcong and the North Vietnamese know that we have 2 battalions at Nui Dat and that about mid-October there will be only one - one where there were 3 before as an integrated task force. This Government will be guilty of a culpable act if it leaves only one battalion at Nui Dat even if it is only for a matter of weeks. The recent military encounter, in which regrettably 5 Australian lives were lost, showed that the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese were operating from bunker positions about 10 miles from the Australian base at Nui Dat, and this is the area which the Government has claimed - it was reiterated again today - to be secure. In his statement of 18th August the Prime Minister sought to assure the people that the purpose of sending our troops to Vietnam had been substantially achieved, that security throughout the country had improved remarkably. What rubbish! 
When is the South Vietnamese Army going to assume responsibility not only for Phouc Tuy Province but also for safeguarding our withdrawal? Will it allow Australian forces to be sitting shots for the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese? Nothing that the Prime Minister has said and nothing that the Minister for Defence has said indicates to me that the South Vietnamese Regular Army will help us. There appears to be no immediate prospect - I would be delighted to receive a denial of this from the next  speaker  - that the ARVN will come into Phouc Tuy Province. The policy of the South Vietnamese Government is to make regional forces available. These regional forces are not equipped to undertake the very delicate and very difficult task facing the Australian forces at the moment. It seems to me - this is our concern and this is why we have raised this issue this afternoon - that we will be left to fend for ourselves, and regrettably we could run the risk of a massacre. As has already been pointed out a withdrawal is perhaps the most difficult of all military operations. It is certainly the most dangerous from the viewpoint of potential casualties. 
Over 2 years ago, in June 1969, the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  stated quite categorically that our force was a self-contained force and that unless it was all withdrawn together it would be quite ridiculous militarily - not only ridiculous but also suicidal. But this Government has proceeded to do exactly what it said it would not do. It has indulged in a piecemeal withdrawal in the face of the Gorton statement 'one out all out'. For domestic political face saving the Government is prepared to gamble with the lives of Australian troops. It is seemingly intent on creating the most unacceptable military situation. When the 3rd Battalion was withdrawn from Phouc Tuy the security of our forces - as is commonly recognised - was jeopardised but if, with the withdrawal of another battalion, only one battalion is left at Nui Dat it will be criminal negligence on the part of the Government. I do not want to know when the 3rd Battalion of the Royal Australian Regiment is to leave Nui Dat but I plead with the Government to withdraw the 4th Battalion at exactly the same time. 
I also suggest that our forces at Nui Dat be withdrawn together to Vung Tau in exactly the same operation and that the return of both the 3rd Battalion and the 4th Battalion to Australia be expedited. Vung Tau is about as secure as any other area in South Vietnam; it is more secure than Nui Dat and it is the embarkation point for sea transport. We should seek the assurance of the South Vietnamese Government that the South Vietnamese Regular Army will be responsible for the security of the approaches to Vung Tau. I do not want the Minister to answer this sort of query. I do not want the suggestions that we on this side of the House have made to be debated but I hope that full consideration will be given to them. 
Perhaps one of the points that is concerning this Government is that of stores. In his statement of 18th August the Prime Minister mentioned that the shipment of stores and equipment will be completed in the early months of 1972. I can already visualise the Army accountants and stores officers running around with forms in quad ruplicate checking up on the dented saucepans, other inventories and ripped tents. But this infamous and futile war has cost the Australian people in real terms about $200m a year. That is money that has already gone down the drain but do not let us run the risk of losing more lives in a misguided Public Service passion for having the store returns in ship-shape order. By all means get out what is useful and what is convenient. Perhaps we could make a virtue of necessity by magnanimously making available to the South Vietnamese as part of our aid programme the stores that we have at Nui Dat. But let us not leave a battalion of our troops in an exposed and suicidal position, guarding with their lives a pile of equipment that, in any event, will be obsolete in 2 or 3 years time. The life of an Australian soldier is worth far more than that. 
asked the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Were any expenses involved in entertainment associated with the last America's . Cup held in the United States of America met by the Commonwealth Government. 
If so, what was the nature and amount of these expenses. 
asked the Postmaster-Gen  eral, upon notice: 
What payments were made to (a) TransAustralia Airlines and (b) Ansett Airlines of Australia for the carriage of Royal Mail in 1968-69, 1969- 1970 and 1970-71. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the statement of the Prime Minister at Cairns on 23rd April 1971 that Aboriginal Australians should be encouraged and assisted to preserve and develop their culture, languages, tradition and art. 
Is it a fact that administrators and school teachers at Yuendumu in the Northern Territory are imposing Anglo-Saxon names, including surnames, on Aboriginal children. 
Is it also a fact that the children of the same family are being given different surnames. 
If so, are the parents of these children highly disturbed at this attempt to eliminate their own family or clan names of which they are justly proud. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Does any Australian Capital Territory Ordinance regulate the flying of flags so as to require that all flags on display in public places should be in sound condition and not tattered and torn. 
If so, will he bring the regulation to the attention of the Federal Secretariat of the Australian Country Party which is situated in a prominent position on National Circuit. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Which compapnies won contracts for the supply to his Department of (a) exchange equipment, (b) underground cable, (c) motor vehicles and mechanical aids, (d) long line carrier equipment, (e) telephone, (f) radio relay equipment, (g) teleprinters and telex equipment, (h) conduit, (i) P.A.B.X. equipment, (j) common user data network equipment, (k) switchboards, cordless and cord types, (1) switchboard cable, (m) power rectifiers, (n) testing instruments, (o) data modems, (p) loading coils and (q) multi-line telephones in the years 1968-69, 1969-70 and 1970-71. 
What was the value of the contracts won by each compapny 
1  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next 5 years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray for Earlwood Infants School. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices is 27 per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 47 per cent on some Contraceptive Devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly, pray that the Sales Tax on all forms of Contraceptive Devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no Sales Tax. Also that Customs Duties be removed, and that all Contraceptive Devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
When was the Advisory Committee on developments at Sydney (Kingsford Smith) Airport established. 
How many times has it met. 
Which organisations are represented on the Committee. 
Are any popularly elected representatives included on the Committee. 
What are the Terms of Reference of the Committee. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
What sum has been (a) allocated and (b) expended from the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account for additional programmes in the Northern Territory during each of the years 1968-69, 1969-70 and 1970-71. 
What sum will be allocated from the Trust Account for this purpose in 1971-72. 
After the interlude provided by the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  I think it is time we got back to the issues. The issue is not the issue that has been passed off by members of the Government as a low-key matter or a slight breakdown in communications. This is an example of appalling irresponsibility on the part of the Government. The approach may have been low key but most certainly the subject matter was not. In fact, this is a matter of life and death - the life and death of our soldiers. The will of the electorate has prevailed and the Government has had to bow to pressure to withdraw our forces from Vietnam, but what it is currently trying to do is to reverse the trend and to establish a continuing commitment in South Vietnam. The Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  challenged honourable members on this side of the House to demonstrate the difference between having forces trained in South Vietnam and in Australia. But he did not say why the Government was not prepared to accept training in Cambodia. The reason is very obvious: All the com.comitant dangers that attend training in foreign countries and particularly in foreign countries which are at war. 
What happened in South Vietnam is that this Government said: 'OK, we will go ahead and train the South Vietnamese' but through a process of absolutely absurd planning it established a training base next to Nui Dat in an area which the Government now agrees is insecure and is not defensible and we have withdrawn to Vung Tau. So, the training facilities that cost the Australian taxpayer a great deal of money were abandoned and further training facilities have had to be- set up at Van Kiep But are we to leave our instructors and our trainers in Van Kiep or anywhere in South Vietnam unprotected? We send in 30 trainers and 50 instructors and the next step surely is that we send in forces to protect them and so, once again, we put our foot on the escalator that we have known so well in Vietnam. 
I think it is significant that in a matter of great moment we did not receive the request from the Government of Cambodia; in fact, we received the request, as we received the request for our involvement in Vietnam, from the United States. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  pleaded that he was sorry that he did not have time to comment on this episode. I was quite happy to give him an extension of time for the whole day so that we could hear his argument on this matter. However, he did not raise this issue and no other  speaker  from the Government side raised it. This has been another request from the United States. The so-called request for Australian involvement in Vietnam, when it was finally tabled in this House, was not a request at all but an offer. 
Perhaps we should examine why we received this request from the United States. The United States Administration has been going through a process of disciplinary action by the elected representatives of the United States people - the United States Congress. The United States Congress has become sick and tired, as have the American people, of the flouting of responsibility by the representatives who govern the country. The same could be said of the Australian people regarding those who govern Australia. So, Congress has introduced a number of limitations on the activities of the United States Administration in Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia. The American people are becoming sick and tired of paying out fantastic sums of money for secret wars, particularly in Laos. For instance, in 1971, $284.2m was spent by the United States in Laos, which compares with a total Laos budget for operations in this area of a mere $36.6m. It is because of this that a harness has been placed upon the United States military forces in Laos and Cambodia and, when the process of training comes up, who will be the sucker? Who has always been the sucker? None other than this Australian Government. So, the proposal was put forward. The United States said: We cannot do it because our Congress is holding us back. Come on chaps, you have stuck with us all this time. Admittedly, we have left you out on a bough time and again, but you are the suckers; you take over the training.' This is precisely what is involved. 
The Government will not train these forces in Cambodia. It has stated this. The Opposition has no objection to Australia training friendly forces in Australia. So, the Government has gone around the back door. It has bowed to what the Americans have told it to do or demanded that it do and will train these forces in Vietnam. What this Government is doing is circumventing the express wishes and desires of the elected representatives of the United States people - the United States Congress. We have been told today that this has nothing to do with what happened in Vietnam. The Government has said: 'Oh, no, we will not commit forces.' I should like to go back over the steps of Australian involvement because I think it is necessary to keep clearly in mind the lesson of Vietnam. One thing that this House must remember for the future is the lesson of Vietnam, so that we will never again become involved in what has happened in Vietnam. However, we are again starting the slow creeping involvement. 
On 24th May 1962 there was an announcement by the then Minister for Defence. I shall read his statement because the words used are almost the same as those we have heard today. A report of the statement reads: 

 Mr Townley emphasised that Australia would not be providing combat forces, nor had she been asked by the Government of Vietnam to provide such forces. The role of the Australian Army instructors would be to assist in the training of the people of Vietnam and so help defeat the Vietcong Communists whose aim was to take over that country by organised terrorism. 
We were to send training instructors. There was to be no combat. But what happened? The Australian people were not told of the changes that took place in the role of our advisory team. 
However, in the Pentagon Papers it has been revealed that the Australian advisers, from 1964 onwards and, perhaps, back in 1963, began a process of training, advising and participating in the role and the activities of the South Vietnamese forces. However they were training not only ordinary South Vietnamese forces but also specialised South Vietnamese forces and these specialised forces were operating under a plan which was called 34a. This 34a operation was, in fact, a commando operation from South Vietnam into North Vietnam. This was before the Australian forces became involved in actual combat. A hint of this was given, but not until many years later, in a statement which was issued on 29th September 1968 by the then Minister for the Army,  Mr Lynch,  in which he revealed that in 1964 tie role of the Australian training team 'became far more active'. He admitted that 20 members of the team were deployed from Da Nang in the north of South Vietnam to the demilitarised zone. It was in this precise area that the 34a operations under General Harkins took place. This is the sort of involvement in which we found ourselves. We have gone from instructors to advisers to participants to combatants and 8,000 Australian men have served in South Vietnam because of this one tiny step which was taken back in 1962. 
I think it is incumbent upon all honourable members, both in the Government and in the Opposition, to ensure that we do not repeat the demonstrable errors of Vietnam. This is not a matter of low key; that is not a matter of administrative disorganisation; this is not even a matter for one Minister. This is a matter for this Parliament. I was delighted that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  said in this House yesterday that before there was any commitment of Australian instructors to Cambodia, this House should have the opportunity to debate the matter. This is one of the reasons why the Opposition has brought on this debate. We are not prepared to let any Australian become embroiled again in this creeping involvement without its being fully debated in this House and without every issue being explained to the Australian people. This Government has a deplorable record of deceit and lies. The time has come when we on this side of the House are not prepared to let this continue. We will argue against and we will fight any movement to get Australia once again on the escalation of involvement. I believe that this Government owes this House a full and detailed record of what went on in this so-called low key approach. I challenge the Government to table the record of conversation of the United States official - formally the. United States Ambassador but downgraded for the purposes of the Government - with the Department of Foreign Affairs. Every conversation that takes place between a representative of a foreign government and the Department of Foreign Affairs is recorded in a record of conversation. The Opposition wants to see that record of conversation tabled in this House. 
Yesterday in a debate the Acting Prime Minister indicated that he would be prepared to consider tabling the letter which passed between the Minister for Defence and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  He maintained today that the Government had nothing to hide. If the Government had nothing to hide let it put that piece of paper on the table, and if the Minister says: 'We are right, we have nothing to hide', let him demonstrate it. However, I must say from my experience over 20 years with the Department of External Affairs and 2 years in this House that I just do not believe the Government until I see all the facts. This is what the Opposition wants to see today. So I challenge the Government to table, for the information not only of the Opposition but also of the people of Australia, evidence of this socalled low key approach. I am not worried about the Minister for Defence in his personal position but I am worried about what happens to the Australian people. It is a responsibility of the Government to keep the Australian people informed and to take them into its confidence because a government which cannot do that does not deserve to be a government. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That, as a part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray: 
That the Government go beyond the plea of the Prime Minister for magnanimity and compassion in the trial of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman on charges of treason, and insist on the liberty of this openly and democratically elected leader. 
Your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes io see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray 
That the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister  representing  the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What was the cost of the Ansett Airlines of Australia maintenance base constructed at Melbourne Airport. 
Was the cost financed by the Commonwealth Government. 
If so, what financial arrangements has the Government entered into with Ansett Airlines of Australia to effect repayment. 
I am very glad that the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  is maintaining his loyalty to the Service from which he has recently departed. In commenting on these estimates I would first of all like to commend the Government for its decision to withdraw the Fourth Battalion from Nui Dat to Vung Tau. Honourable members may recall that in the debate that took place in the House on 29th September the Opposition argued that it would be suicidal to leave the Fourth Battalion in an exposed position at Nui Dat. It is rather strange to recall that in that debate the Government rejected our suggestion but fortunately minds of much greater military worth than those in the Government ranks evidently prevailed. 
Today we are discussing a highly important and certainly a very costly item in the Budget. The amount is almost mind boggling - $1,252,383,000. We on this side are far from satisfied that the Government is using the money allocated for the very purpose that it is allocated - Australia's defence. We do not feel that in a number of areas the Government is making the best use of the funds that are available. In the short time that we are allowed in this debate I would like to take up some of the history and some of the present activities of the Department of Defence, and its subsidiary departments, in Malaysia and Singapore. To start with the Royal Australian Air Force base at Butterworth, Australia has in fact lost a very substantial investment of Australian taxpayers' money, particularly in Malaysia, both at Butterworth and the former military establishment at Terendak. The 1969-70 report of the Auditor-General reads: 
The rights of occupancy of the Air Force base, Butterworth, were transferred by the United Kingdom authorities to the Malaysian Government on and from 1st April 1970. Included in the transfer were capital works and equipment which according to departmental records had cost Australia in excess of $12.3m. 
Through inept planning and through inept financial control this Government lost an Australian investment of over SI 2m. The background to this is that the British held a lease from the Malaysians and when the British wanted to move out of Malaysia the lease was handed back to the Malaysians. At no stage did the Australian Government safeguard (he investment of Australian funds in that base. What is the present position? For the Australian capital invested at Butterworth, Australia has to pay a rental. In 1971 the rental was 8650,000, and that was for the privilege of using what we built with Australian taxpayers' money. The Government has argued that this is, in fact, offset by a Malaysian contribution. In a reply to a question I put on notice, on 13th September the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  said: 
The amount of rental in 1970-71 was SA649.417, against which was offset SA592.749 being Malaysia's share of the cost of jointly-used maintenance services, leaving a net payment to Malaysia of $A56,668. 
So the whole matter was sorted out and all Australia had to pay was $56,000. But, in fact, Australia is providing, and apparently will continue to provide, the Malaysians with a service. Presumably Australia &lt;s providing for them the type of repair equipment that they need for the operations of their Sabre jets. Australia is paying out in services an amount equivalent to what the Malaysians are paying Australia, so this is not an offset programme. Australia is providing facilities and is getting back payment for those facilities, but as a separate category we are paying rental. 
I found the dishonest presentation by the Minister, in his reply, obnoxious. The cold fact is that Australia is paying, and will continue to pay, in Butterworth a rental on Australia's own investment. This is not an investment of only $12m. Since Butterworth was first established Australia has laid out something like $57m in maintenance charges. The cold reality is that we have provided a base at Butterworth and have maintained that base but within Australia we do not have a base that can accommodate the 2 Mirage squadrons that we have at Butterworth. We have 2 Mirage squadrons at Williamtown but it is not possible to put the 2 Mirage squadrons that we have at Butterworth into that base. In terms of military balance this is suicidal. Half of our fighter force is, in fact, maintained in Butterworth and if Indonesia were a hostile power those 2 squadrons would be wiped out of operation because we could not get them back to Australia. This is monumental irresponsibility, both financially and militarily, on the part of the Government. Australia invested something like $7m in the base at Terendak and that also has gone down the drain. Australian forces are no longer based at Terendak. All told this Government has lost $20m of investment in bases in Malaysia and does not have the equivalent sort of bases in Australia. 
In relation to Singapore, we have been told that we do not have to pay rental for our bases there. This is made to sound like a diplomatic triumph, but would it not be absurd if we had to pay for the privilege of assisting countries that maintain they want our forces in those countries? As I am in a fairly generous mood today I should like to praise the former Minister for Defence, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  for standing up at the Five Power meeting in London in April and not bowing down to the absurd request that the Singapore Government was making at that time. However it will cost us money, and plenty of money. It has been worked out that the cost of the married quarters and educational and other facilities will be about $ 1.25m a year. 
A curious item appears in the Budget. A sum of $5. 36m has been put into a trust account and the purpose of that trust account - I hope that Government supporters will try to explain this to me because I cannot understand what it is all about - is to finance Australia's share of commonuser logistic support for ANZUK forces in Singapore. I trust that that $5.36m will be explained along with the other difficulties which the Government obviously is having in the Five Power arrangements. All told the maintenance of our forces and garrisons overseas is a very heavy charge to our defence vote. In the current Budget the allocation for our Army overseas is $20.2m. I presume that this allocation was made before the Government bowed to political and popular pressure in Australia for the full withdrawal of our forces from Vietnam, but I think v/e can conclude that the cost of maintaining the Army in the Singapore-Malaysia area, given that the figure of $20.2m covered part of our Vietnam commitment, will be about $7m. Of course these figures - this is another point I should like clarified during this debate - are usually given as costs over and above the maintenance of those same forces in Australia, so that figure of $7m is a fairly substantial amount that must be accounted for. 
On the same sort of analysis we can say that the Air Force in Butterworth will cost the Australian taxpayers SI 2m, so we are finishing up with a figure of roughly  $20m  as a commitment to Malaysia and Singapore. This is a commitment that the Opposition believes is completely devoid of any strategic basis. In this day and age the maintenance of garrisons, particularly white garrisons, in the countries of South East Asia is an anachronism. This is a great confidence trick that the Government has put forward in what it calls a forward defence policy. But that forward defence policy has meant that we have not been able to establish on Australian soil the very bases that we have paid for on the soil of other countries. We are, in fact, leaving Australia without the sort of bases that it should have. If we had a Butterworth in north Queensland or in Western Australia how much more effective would it be for Australia's defence? We are continuing to maintain bases in foreign countries while this Government has not been able to lay down a sufficient and satisfactory base establishment in Australia. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did  Mr William  Bundy of the State Department of the United States of America or another senior member of  President  Johnson's administration visit Australia in December 1964 or January 1965. 
If so, (a) was the visit made public, (b) what was the purpose of the visit and (c) with whom were discussions held. 
Will the Acting Prime Minister now clarify whether the Government's decision on Australian participation in the training of Cambodian forces is, as he asserted on 2nd November, merely to enter into 'discussions with the governments of the United States, Cambodia, Vietnam and New Zealand on the possibility of training Cambodians in Vietnam'; or, as the Prime Minister asserted a day later, 'a decision in principle to train Cambodian troops in South Vietnam in co-operation with New Zealanders and United States people'; or. as he has since been reported, to send 30 military instructors to join 10 New Zealanders in a training programme for Cambodians? What offer from Australia was accepted by Cambodia at a meeting yesterday in Phnom Penh and by whose authority was it conveyed to that meeting? 
One of the difficulties from which both sides of the Committee suffer in a consideration of the estimates for the PostmasterGeneral's Department is that we are dealing with only the tip of the iceberg. Here we have a multi-million dollar industry; in fact, the total earnings of the PostmasterGeneral's Department in 1970 were $7l5m. During any consideration of the estimates for this Department we have a series of Bills coming before us but it seems to me that we never really settle down to a comprehensive study of what is the largest industry in Australia. There are problems that we have to face up to, such as the extent to which the Post Office is a community service and the extent to which it is a business enterprise. The great i egret that I have is that as parliamentarians we have never really had an opportunity to study some of the basic issues that are presented to us in a rather piecemeal way. For instance, the Post Office as such has to carry a large number of subsidies ranging from those for the country telephone ser vice, the Radio Australia programme, which always seems to me to bc a Foreign Office function, to the bulk postage of periodicals. These subsidies are a charge upon what the Government often says is a business enterprise but in character they are subsidies which the Post Office is required to carry on behalf of the Government. It is about time that we prevailed upon the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme),  in his last year of office, and his officers to bring before this Parliament a detailed White Paper on the organisation, the functions, the structure and the financing of the Post Office. 
One of the continuing problems we have concerns the loans that are made available to the Post Office and the repayment of those loans. For instance, this year the Government under another heading will advance to the Post Office some $255m. So on the one hand it is giving it $255m while on the other it will take back $141. 8m in interest payments. The curious thing is that these loans go towards the acquisition of assets which the Australian people, through this Parliament, own anyway. But the interest rates that have to be paid on those loans become a running cost to the Post Office and are used as justification for the Post Office increasing the cost of its services. This type of financing seems to have the same sort of reality as a game of monopoly. What has been happening is that the Government - not only this Government because Labor governments did much the same thing - is using the Post Office as a taxation authority. This is not the way it should be used, but if it is to be used in this way let us be very clear in our minds what it is we are doing. One of the other difficulties that has arisen, and one which is now being shown far more consistently in the increase in the cost of living, is the way in which the Government's operations in the Post Office are an inflationary factor. Over the last 2 years postage rates have increased 40 per cent, telephone connection charges 67 per cent, rentals 38 per cent and, as we all know, radio and television licences have increased 33 per cent. These are charges made by a government instrumentality under the direction of the Government, which work against the Government's economic policies. 
Perhaps I could leave in the Minister's mind the thought that it would be a great bestowal upon this Parliament if, in his last year of office, he presented to this Parliament a very detailed statement of how he and his Government see the Post Office and if he brought forth new ideas as to how the Post Office and its finances might be organised. We on this side of the chamber favour establishment of a statutory corporation to run the Post Office, but I must say that I personally have never been able to obtain sufficient facts on which I can make a judgment as to whether this is the right or wrong way of doing it. I am inclined to think that it would be a good idea to have a statutory corporation but, as I say, one of the great difficulties we experience is obtaining the type of information upon which we can make a proper judgment. 
There are a couple of other points I should like to raise. I have mentioned the increases in fees for television viewer licences. I think it is noteworthy that the individual owners of television sets have had to pay increased charges for viewer licences but that increased charges have not been imposed on television station owners. The licence fee for television station owners has remained unchanged since 1964, and no doubt  Sir Frank  Packer is hoping that this particular circumstance will continue. But if increased charges are to be imposed, it seems to me that television station licence fees constitute the first area in which they should be levied. Television stations pay a basic licence fee of only $200 a year and, in addition, a percentage of gross earnings; for most stations it is 1 per cent of gross earnings. I hope that, if further increased charges are imposed by this Government in the area of Post Office activities, before slapping up the charges for the licence fees of individual television viewers very earnest consideration will be given to increasing the charges for television station licence fees. 
One point about which I am most concerned relates to the operation of the coaxial cable between Sydney and Melbourne. The Postmaster-General, who is at the table, in a reply to me dated 9th November 1971 pointed out that the coaxial cable is leased by the Post Office to 2 television organisations, namely the General Television Corporation Pty Ltd, which is owned by the Australian Consolidated Press Ltd and therefore is a Packer organisation, and the Herald-Sun TV Pty Ltd in Melbourne. I asked - I thought it was a reasonable request for a parliamentarian to make - how much these facilities cost. The answer I received was as follows: 
The rates for the leases of these facilities are matters for private negotiation between the Post Office and the parties concerned and it would not be proper for me to release publicly in the House, the information sought by the honourable member. 
Personally, I do not believe that this is the sort of attitude which the Government should adopt towards a member of this House who is seeking information. I further asked how the Australian Broadcasting Commission got access to the coaxial cable. Apparently these arrangements are supposed to be agreed upon mutually between the 2 companies concerned and the Australian Broadcasting Commission, but  we are not  told what the arrangements are. It seems to be odd that a government instrumentality has to go cap in hand to private companies to get access to Commonwealthowned facilities. I can tell honourable members one thing that will happen when the Australian Labor Party takes office: That type of arrangement will not be allowed to last one day after we take office. 
In the limited time left to me I should like to take up the rather personal problems which face the ordinary people. As I think we all feel, we have entered into an era of computerised frustration, but in no field is it more prevalent nor more niggling than in the impersonal world of the telephone. The telephone is becoming a costly servant and a very demanding master. But how insignificant we feel as individuals when we are confronted with computerised accounts based on the automatic readings of little black boxes, and how powerless we feel we are to challenge the accuracy of  those transistorised  robots with which we are forced to deal! Not only do we feel powerless, but we are made to feel impotent by the ready assumption of the Post Office bureaucracy that if there are any difficulties about Post Office accounts, the computer must be right. May I suggest that in cases of alleged overcharging of telephone accounts - there is a large number of cases; we all receive representations about them - the Post Office should devise a system of registering outgoing calls and that these be checked against automatic meters. If necessary, a charge could be made, but this should be refundable if there is a discrepancy between the 2 readings. The customer may be proved wrong, but at least be would have the satisfaction of being convinced rather than being dictatorilly told. Together with my colleagues I find that this matter presents a great problem. People come along with these computerised print-outs of their accounts and they feel frustrated; they feel that a personal attack is being made upon them. They go to the Post Office and they are told: 'You are wrong'. They are given the impression that they are liars and that the computer must always be right. If we could bring a little personalised service into the running of the Post Office, this would be very much appreciated by the customers of the greatest organisation in Australia. 
It is frustrating to have only 10 minutes in which to deal with a subject like civil aviation which in my particular St George - not the town of St George in Queensland but the electorate of St George in Sydney - presents a very pressing problem. Aircraft noise is more than a damn nuisance. In my electorate it is a social menace, and the Government's procrastination over making a decision on the siting of Sydney's second airport means that there will be an intensification of traffic at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport and (his intensification of traffic will bring about an upsurge in aircraft noise. My views on the aircraft noise problem are well known, and I can only commend, once again, to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who is sitting at the table, and through him to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  in another place, the proposals which I have put forward so often and so consistently. 
Tonight I want to raise a number of issues of concern. The first is what I regard as the star chamber tactics of the Department of Civil Aviation - the bureaucratic dictatorship - regarding operations at Sydney Airport. What is happening is that there are 2 committees associated wilh Sydney Airport. One is the Sydney Airport Development Committee, which is charged with the development at Mascot, and (he other is the new airport committee which is investigating the siting of Sydney's second airport. From answers I have received to questions on notice, it is very obvious that the last thing the Department of Civil Aviation wants is to have popularly elected representatives appearing on any of its committees. There are no popularly elected representatives from the councils that are vitally affected around Sydney airport on the Sydney Airport Development Committee and there are no popularly elected representatives on the airport committee that is examining the siting of Sydney's second airport. What sort of democracy do we have when people who represent people vitally affected by what is happening at Kingsford-Smith Airport are not provided with an opportunity to put forward views on behalf of the people whom they represent? 
The second point I want to make - and the Minister for National Development will be very aware of it because the Minister for Civil Aviation has already declared his attitude towards it - is that Ansett Airlines of Australia is sending 3 Electra aircraft to the United States for conversion to cargo carriers. This conversion will cost 
Ansett Airlines $500,000 for each aircraft. The purpose is clear. The existing curfew regulations at Sydney Airport apply only to jet engined aircraft, not to turbo-prop aircraft such as Electras. This means that  Sir Reginald  Ansett will be able to fly his Electras 24 hours a day and, more importantly, all through the night. But what this Committee should realise is that Electra aircraft - and this was proved in the investigation which was carried out by the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise - can make as much noise as DO aircraft. 
The problem that will face my people in St George is this constant buzzing by confounded Electras running for the net profitability of Ansett. I do not give a hang what  Sir Reginald  Ansett gets, out of this, but I am insisting that the people whom 1 represent and the people in the adjoining electorates of Grayndler, Kingsford-Smith and Barton should be provided with some peace at night-time. Ansett admittedly is keeping to the letter of the law, but the Department of Civil Aviation is allowing him to defeat the spirit of the law. and the people living in the environs of Sydney airport will be the sufferers. I suppose it is far too much to expect that this Government will ever clamp down on  Sir Reginald  Ansett. 
The third point I want to make is to express very grave concern about the dilatory manner in which the airline companies - both Ansett and Trans-Australia Airlines - are responding to the fitting of reduced smoke combustion chambers to aircraft engines. These reduced smoke combustion chambers are designed to prevent the emission of pollutants from aircraft engines. According to information I have received in reply to a question on notice I had addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, he maintains that some 20 engines out of what he describes as 53 Pratt and Whitney JT8Ds have been modified. I live very close to KingsfordSmith Airport, and I can see every plane that takes off and lands. I must confess that I have a personal reservation as to whether 20 per cent of aircraft engines of this type have been modified. 
These modifications began some 18 months ago, and they were due to be completed by 1972, but the Minister for 
Civil Aviation has advised me that the modification programme will not be achieved until mid- 1973. This is not good enough. Planes are spewing out trails of particles and rubbish all over St George. Housewives in St George have to wait for a lull before they can put out their washing. Kiddies wading pools are covered with murk every morning, and people in the area adjacent to the airport cannot leave their cars parked in the streets because they get smeared with fall-out. The Department of Civil Aviation is falling down on its job of ensuring that the airlines get on with the modifications. I do not think it is too much lo ask of the Department of Civil Aviation thai it should prod the domestic airlines to complete the modifications within a year. If the airline companies do not co-operate, then I think that the Department of Civil Aviation should cancel their licences. The Department should also introduce regulations covering overseas planes which can be fitted with this modification. Certain engines cannot be fitted with it. Certainly the Pratt and Whitney engine can be fitted with it, and I think that the Department of Civil Aviation should insist that every aircraft that can be modified should be modified for operations into Australia. If they cannot be modified they should not be allowed to come into Australia. 
Lastly I want to express my concern over the financing of the maintenance base facilities at Tullamarine airport. What has happened there is that the grand, generous Commonwealth has built maintenance repair facilities for both airlines. But the point about which I am particularly concerned is the way in which the financial arrangement is working in relation to the Ansett company. The Government has built at a cost of about $5m the maintenance bases for Ansett and has provided lease back arrangements over 40 years at 7$ per cent. I know dozens and dozens of young folk who are looking forward to building a house and who would be delighted to get a loan not of $5m but of $5,000 over 40 years at 7i per cent. But Ansett, having got a 7i per cent loan from the Commonwealth, then makes debenture issues at 8 per cent to 81 per cent for 5 to 12 years. The Australian Government as recently as July 1971 negotiated a loan for  15  million European units of account which carry interest at 8 per cent over 10 years. So while the Government is borrowing money at 8 per cent over 10 years it is providing $Sm to Ansett Airlines under the lease back arrangements over 40 years at  7i  per cent. It is no wonder that  Sir Reginald  Ansett is such an active supporter of this Government. No doubt the Government will say that the same sort of arrangements are made with TransAustralia Airlines. This is not the point. TAA is a Government enterprise and to my mind should be able to derive its financing on an accountable business basis from the Government. This surely must be the only country where private enterprise receives financial and legislative encouragement to compete not against private enterprise but against government enterprise. I will be watching this very carefully to see that the precedent that has been established by this loan will not be carried on into the future. The Standing Committee on Public Works said in its report in 1968:  lt is not thought that the Government will finance by  this  or a similar method further stages of development of the maintenance bases or other works properly attributable to the airline operators at Tullamarine or, indeed, at any other airport in Australia. 
We on this side will be watching that and will be most concerned if this unfortunate precedent is carried on in the future. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Which company leases the coaxial cable between Sydney and Melbourne. 
What are the terms of the lease including the cost. 
Under what arrangements including cost does the Australian Broadcasting Commission have access to the coaxial cable. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
What was the initial cost of the letter coding system installed at the Redfern Mail Exchange. 
When were tenders called for the supply and installation of the system. 
What company, was awarded the contract and under what conditions. 
Which companies were unsuccessful and for what reasons. 
What is the annual (a) operating and (b) maintenance cost of the letter coding system. 
Is the maintenance . contracted out to the supplying company; if not, what arrangements (a) are made for maintenance now and (b) were made in the past 
What volume of mail was the system designed to handle. 
What volume of mail is the system currently handling. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice: 
Is the sum of $1m included in the 1971-72 budget for the South Pacific aid programme; if so, what are the details of the proposed expenditure. 
Will he provide details of the expenditure of $542,992in 1970-71 for the same programme. 
asked the Minister representing  the  Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What arc the advantages and disadvantages to pensioners who are entitled to the benefits of the pensioner medical services and who continue to pay into hospital and medical benefits funds at 
public ward. 
intermediate ward and 
private ward rates of contributions. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
DM the Auditor-General in bis report for 1969-70 indicate that according to departmental records the capital works and equipment provided by Australia at the Air Force base at Butterworth in Malaysia were valued in excess of $12,300,000. 
Has the Auditor-General made a more recent assessment of the value of the capital works and equipment at this base; if so, what is the assessment. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
What was the unit cost of sorting mail in Sydney prior to the installation of the automatic mail handling plant. 
What is the current unit cost of sorting mail at the Redfern Mail Exchange. 
What is the current unit cost of sorting mail at (a) Brisbane, (b) Sydney and (c) Melbourne. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth humbly showeth: 
That the immediate prospect for nearly 70 million Bengalis in Bangla Desh and 9 million refugees in the northeast region of India is of mass starvation on- a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that: 
The Australian Government immediately provide $1.0,000,000 in direct aid to refugees now in India and commit itself to a continuing aid programme. 
And your petitioners, as in duly bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
How many houses for Aborigines have been constructed by the Northern Territory Administration (a) on settlements, (b) on missions and (c) elsewhere for each of the years 1967-68, 1968-69, 1969-70 and 1970-717 
What was the total expenditure on Aboriginal housing within the categories mentioned for each of those years? 
How many houses are planned in each of these categories for 1971-72, and what is the estimated cost? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
In what year were units of the Royal Australian Air Force first stationed at Butterworth in Malaysia? 
What were the cost sharing arrangements between the Australian and British authorities for the capital costs in developing the base? 
How much did the British contribute to the capital costs? 
What is the value of the Malaysian owned assets that are used solely by the RAAF at Butterworth? 
What are the major components, and their value, of the maintenance services provided by the RAAF at Butterworth for which the Malaysians in 1970/71 paid $592,749? 
Do the Malaysians have sole or joint use of facilities that were originally built at Commonwealth expense? 
Is rental charged for the use of these facilities, if so, how much? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Civil Aviation made available to the Australian Committee of the Pacific Basin Economic Council a detailed progress report on 29 recommendations by the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise. 
If so, will the Minister make the report available to members. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice:  (!) What is the annual cost to the Commonwealth of leasing office space in the Sydney metropolitan area. 
How much space is leased. 
Who are the 5 main lessors. 
In respect of each of these lessors (a) what are the addresses of the properties leased to the Commonwealth, (b) what is the total floor space of the buildings, (c) what is the area of floor space leased by the Commonwealth and &lt;d) what is the annual rentaL 
1 thank the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz).  The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  is at a great disadvantage in this debate. Quite clearly his Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  has not shown him a series of reports that were sent in by Australian diplomatic missions throughout South East Asia. In these reports there is a detailed coverage given by senior members of the Australian missions in Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia. I did not write those records. Those were records of discussions that I had with the Foreign Minister of Indonesia, the Foreign Minister of Singapore, the Acting Head of the Department of Foreign Affairs in Malaysia, and a number of other people. I take my role as an Australian very sincerely. I had 20 years, as the honourable member for Bradfield pointed out, representing this country and representing policies that I did not believe in, which I did to the best of my ability and there has never been any criticism of the way I did that. I mentioned an impression of what people said. If the honourable member asks the Minister for Foreign Affairs to show him the record it will not be from the 'Straits Times', it will be a record made by a senior Australian foreign service officer. Perhaps if the honourable member for Bradfield were ever taken into account by bis own Party it would at least have the propriety to show him these statements, but he was reduced to quoting the 'Straits Times'. Perhaps we can go through some of the statements that  Mr Rajaratnam  has made in public. He mentioned the attitude that the Singapore Government takes towards China. I will quote from a publication called The Asian' in which  Mr Rajaratnam  had this to say about China. I am not agreeing or disagreeing with it. I am just showing the House the sort of things that people are now saying in South East Asia which this Government has lost out on because it does not understand 
South East Asia and it never will understand South East Asia. The statement attributed to  Mr Rajaratnam  in an interview reads: 
China is not economically or even militarily in a position to give any kind of direct aid to revolutionary movements. Their theory is that revolution must be made by the peoples of the countries concerned and it is a cheaper way and, in the long run, a more effective way of influence. 1 am not saying this. This is what the Foreign Minister of Singapore says. It is going to take a massive effort to repair the devastation that this Government has created in South East Asia. The way that this Government has handled its affairs has been clumsy and ham-fisted. The Minister for Foreign Affairs himself described Australia as a small, insignificant country. Certainly he and his predecessors have made it so. They have undermined the standing of Australia in international relations, a heritage which they took from the last Labor Government when Australia was seen to be the champion of the small countries of the world and when Australia became an important influence in world affairs. What has happened to that heritage? It has been devastated and eroded in the last 20 years. in the countries of South East Asia we are regarded at best as an echo of the United States - a somewhat belated echo. The honourable member for Bradfield has referred to various statements that I have made and to statements in the same tenor made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  There is nothing new in those statements. They express a consistent Australian Labor Party policy. But this Government has undermined almost irreparably our relations with South East Asia. I said in Singapore, and I repeat here, that neither the Malaysians nor the Singaporeans regard this Government as being fair dinkum about the S-power defence arrangement. Let us look at one of the reasons. There are several, but we will take one first. That is the statement made recently by the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  which is recorded in the 'Australian' of 7th March 1972. It is headed Gortonian diplomacy' and it says that smooth diplomacy is not one of the attri butes of  Mr John  Grey Gorton. He was recounting, no doubt to an interested audience, how he carried out his diplomacy with Tunku Abdul Rahman, the then Prime Minister of Malaysia. They were talking about border conflicts. According to the 'Australian' he said: 
The Tunku said he wasn't sure what 1 meant when I said Australia wouldn't help. Well, I told the Tunku, if you get into any sort of border fight you had better cope by yourselves because Australia bloody well won't be there. 
This might be a style that is used in the Liberal Party faction fights but it is not a style that one adopts in dealing with civilised countries which have much longer traditions than Australia has. We must remember that in dealing with foreign countries - this is something the Government will never learn - style is just as important as substance. The statement made by the right honourable member for Higgins and a series of statements that were made at that time have irreparably damaged our relations with South East Asia. A rather Gilbertian situation occurred when the 5-power defence conference was held in Canberra. I picked this information up in Malaysia. This great Government, in a very clumsy and hamfisted way, planted a bug in the rooms occupied by the Malaysian delegation. 
It is not a lie. What happened was that, not following James Bond very carefully- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)The word 'lie' must be withdrawn. It is unparliamentary. 
It was placed in the  aiT  conditioning unit. The air conditioner did not operate terribly well, and the hotel gentleman came up to fix it. There, lo and behold, was a microphone. These are the types of tactics and the types of approaches that are taken by this Government. Let me refer to a matter of much greater substance. I have said that the people of South East Asia do not regard Australia's role in the 5-power defence arrangement as fair dinkum. It was not fair dinkum in the Sabah conflict back in 1969. At that stage Australia had seconded naval officers attached to the Malaysian navy. In fact many of these seconded naval officers were in charge of, were captains of, Malaysian naval vessels. The conflict over Sabah between Malaysia and the Philippines blew up and we were asked, in the High Commission in Malaysia, to get the Australian naval officers off the ships. These ships were being deployed to undertake patrol duty off Sabah. Really what the Government was saying was: Fly a god-dam helicopter over them, pull the captains off and get them back to land. 
I did not agree in the first place with Australian seconded officers being in charge of ships other than Australian ships. But how absurd was the situation when they were out under orders, when they were being deployed by the Chief of Naval Staff, and the Government said: No, no. We are not going to be in that. Get them off these ships.' Fortunately, the advice we put forward at that stage from Kuala Lumpur prevailed, and it was not until the ships completed their normal tour of duty of deployment - and that was somewhat curtailed - that they returned to Malaysia. That situation is not likely to arise again. The people of South East Asia realise that the 5-power defence arrangements are so qualified by the Australian Government that they are not going to involve communal activities, communal dissension or internal dissension. As the former Prime Minister said, they are not going to involve border disputes. The only thing they are going to involve is an overt threat to the area. I ask you, where is the overt threat? The Malaysians do not see one. The Singaporeans do not see one. I have heard members of the Government say that there is no overt threat, at least in the next 10 years, and I agree with them. So why have we got our forces there? 
The Malaysians agree that the presence of foreign forces - white foreign forces - on Malaysian soil in terms of counterinsurgency, in terms of any possible communist threat, is in fact counter-productive. They regard the 5-power defence arrangements purely and simply as temporary arrangements because they are now organised towards a neutralisation programme whereby they are setting out to establish a zone of peace - the Minister for Defence talked about this - in the South East Asian area. Their attitude is: Big powers keep out. I mentioned before a Korean proverb which says that when whales fight the shrimps get crushed. The countries of South East Asia are concerned to keep the whales out of South East Asia because they are the shrimps. We are in the same boat. They say: We are the ones who are going to be crushed. We are going to be the devastated losers. They realise, after the events of India and Pakistan over Bangla Desh, that treaties are not worth the paper they are written on. Where was SEATO in the India-Pakistan dispute? Where have treaties ever been? As John Foster Dulles once said, a treaty does not involve anything that people are not going to do anyhow. This is the realism that is now prevalent in South East Asia where people are practical and where they have some feel and concept about what is going on. It is about time this Government had some feel and some concept about what is going on. 
I repeat that the people of Malaysia and Singapore are not going to be overly concerned about Australia's withdrawal because they do not regard us as being fair dinkum in the first place. From the statements made by the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and from the discussions that I have had with the Foreign Ministers, at least they know where they stand. We pointed out that we would maintain - perhaps develop - bilateral arrangements with them in the military field.. But one thing we have to get over is this 19th century garrison fort idea that we have, this absurd idea that we must maintain garrisons throughout the world. That might have been all right in the 19th century, but in the years of the 1970s this approach in international relations is not acceptable in any part of the world. This Government has not had a foreign policy; it has had a policy of military intervention. Everything we have done has been based on military intervention. We had a base at Ubon in Thailand. We have had our forces in Vietnam. Fortunately, they are no longer there. We still have bases in Malaysia and Singapore. But military interventionism is not a foreign policy. The foreign policy we must start to look at is an outward diplomacy, the building up of our economic and trade links with the countries of the area, because we are all very much in the same boat. We have been isolated by the developments in the world. 
There are now 5 major power groupings: The United States of America, the Soviet Union, China, Japan and the European Community. Australia, in this sense as part of South East Asia, has been left out in the cold. We have common interests with these countries and these are the common interests we should develop. You do not develop them by having 4,000 or 5,000 Australian forces on their mainland. So the 5-power defence arrangements are transitional. They are temporary. This is not me speaking: This is the Malaysians and the Singaporeans speaking. They regard the policy that a Labor Government will carry out as a policy in which they can understand what our position is. We can explain it in terms that they will understand. We will act in close consultation with them. The impression I have is that they will be very glad to deal with an Australian Government that knows what is happening in the area and that can take into account the interests, ambitions and hopes of the people of the area. 
Sitting suspended from 6.1 to 8 p.m. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I do. I reject entirely the statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  that I gave a partially correct interpretation of various interviews overseas. The views that I expressed are an accurate reflection of the records compiled by officers of his own Department, as will be noted by any unbiased reader of the records. Only today his Department has forwarded to me additional copies of these records which I would be happy to make available to honourable members on both sides of the House under the privileged conditions which the Minister has indicated. 

 Sir WINTON TURNBULL (Mallee)Mr  Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Late this afternoon my attention was drawn to a book entitled 'From Bob to Bungles and now to Billy' which was published first in 1970 and was written by  Mr Ray  Aitchison. At the time of the incident to which I will refer,  Mr Aitchison  was a reporter in the Parliamentary Gallery representing the Australian Broadcasting Commission. My attention has been drawn to page 212 of (his book. The book states: 
When Tun Razak hadleft Australia he had been angry about another incident. His own security agents had found a listening device hidden in the air-conditioning unit in his hotel room in Canberra. The air-conditioning unit had not been functioning properly, and his security agents bad become suspicious and had looked into it, and had found the electronic 'ear'. 
One of the Malaysians said to me at the time, In some ways we are more sophisticated than you. We know all about bugging a room.' 
Rightly or wrongly they blamed Australian Military Intelligence for having done it. 
This account differs from the account that I received in that according to this account the hotel maintenance staff was not involved. I understand that, in response to Press inquiries, the staff of the hotel in question denied any knowledge of the bugging. The response is certainly substantiated by  Mr Aitchison's  account. It is interesting to note also that the Malaysian concerned blamed 'Australian Military Intelligence'. If this was the case certainly the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Bowen),  who then was Attorney-General, would not have been aware of any operations concerned, not having been called upon to authorise them. My concern is that the wide currency of the allegation is evident not only by a report from London that the British Defence Department was aware of the allegation but also by the extract from which I have just quoted. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money are being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is truly responsible. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works, upon notice: 
What office buildings have been constructed by or on behalf of the Commonwealth Government in the Sydney metropolitan area since 1966. 
What was the cost of each building. 
What is the floor space of each building. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Division of St George respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting In the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  who has just spoken, when commenting on national service obviously is flying in the face of the recommendations of a number of expert committees in other parts of the world which have given far greater attention to the question of national service than this Government ever has done or is ever likely to do. It is not merely a matter of costs. The point is the utility and the effectiveness of an army based on national service when the national servicemen are trained for only 18 months. We cannot build an effective army on this basis and the view of the Australian Labor Party is to provide the terms and conditions and facilities for a thoroughly professional army. That is what we will stand for and that is a matter on which we are prepared to fight the coming election. 
The Opposition welcomes this review. Despite its obvious party political bias it is a step towards a more intelligent and informed debate not only in this House, but also among the Australian people on a matter that is vital to us all - the defence and security of the country in which we live. Hopefully this mini White Paper marks a change and is, in fact, to bs applauded. 
Tonight I want to deal with the Government's defence record. This Government has created and perpetuated a myth that it and it alone, is the trusted custodian of Australia's foreign affairs and defence, but the reality is very different. The stewardship of conservative governments in the pre-war and early World War II years proved nearly disastrous. Australia then, as it is now, was hopelessly unprepared and the first job of the then Prime Minister,  Mr Curtin,  was to ensure the return of Australia's 6th, 7th and 9th Divisions from North Africa where the Menzies Government, in pursuit of this myth of forward defence, had sent them in eager response to the demands of great and powerful friends. Prime Minister Curtin insisted on their return against the combined opposition of both Prime Minister Churchill and  President  Roosevelt. Those of us who can remember the situation recall that the. 8th Division was about to be captured in the Malaya-Singapore area. This was a historical lesson that none of us here should forget. Churchill wanted to send the 7th Division to Burma and on 23rd February 1942 Prime. Minister Curtin sent a remarkable telegram to Churchill. It has many lessons for us today. In that telegram be said: 
Java faces imminent invasion. Australia's outer defences are now quickly vanishing and our vulnerability is now completely exposed. With AIF troops we sought to save Malaya and Singapore, falling back on the Netherlands East Indies. All these northern defences are gone or going. Now you contemplate using the AIF to save. Burma. All this has been done, as in Greece, without adequate air support. We feel a primary obligation to save Australia, not only for itself, but to preserve it as a base for the development of the war against Japan. In the circumstances it is quite impossible to reverse a decision which we made with utmost care. 
What Prime Minister Curtin was, in fact, saying, was that unless we could defend ourselves - unless Australia's soil was secure - forward defence was a lot of nonsense. This is precisely the point the right honourable member for Higgins made tonight. It is fundamental to the Labor Party's thinking. What is fundamental is the security of Australian soil and unless we can ensure and are seen to ensure our capability of doing this our credibility will always be questioned. Now let us look at this Government's record. We need go no further than the Department of Defence Review to illustrate the Government's appalling irresponsibility and its abject failure in providing for Australia's defence. The Liberal Party intervention in Vietnam has weakened Australia's defence position. Our force structure has been distorted and undermined by the demands of the war in Vietnam. My authority for that statement is the Department of Defence Review. In paragraph S3 on page 26 the Review states: 
The opportunity to give greater weight to long term strategic considerations in the shaping of our forces has until recently been restricted by the immediate demands of our combat deployment in Vietnam. That opportunity ls now restored. 
That opportunity is now restored because we have withdrawn from Vietnam. After 22 years of Liberal Party government the Australian Army is now capable of deploying only one battalion with full logistic support. But even operating on Australian soil, the Review admits that it would take 8 to 10 days to move a lightly equipped battalion with supplies for one month to airfield destinations within a 2,000 nautical miles radius of Sydney. As the Review so profoundly points out, 2,000 nautical miles from Sydney is the northern part of Australia and Papua New Guinea. This, of course, assumes that a hostile force, will be kind enough to leave in operation the airfields that we require for ferrying purposes in order to bring that lightly equipped battalion into operation. It seems to me that the Australian people can draw little comfort from the Government's sorry defence record. After 22 years the Liberal Party is still unable to guarantee the operations of a 3 battalion task force. One of the reasons is our reliance on the United States logistic support. Because of this reliance we cannot operate independently and this point is confirmed by the Review which in paragraph 39 on page 24 states: 
The Vietnam deployment demonstrated our ability to sustain a force in the field over a protracted period, but it revealed also that we were dependent in many respects on logistic support from our allies 
The hypocrisy of this Government's claim to be the custodian of Australia's defence is laid bare by the very terms of its own Defence Review. One of the great problems we have had over recent years is that tens of millions of dollars of Australian taxpayers' money has been spent on bases in Vietnam and Malaysia which we have abandoned, and in that process the Government has left Australia undefended. With the money squandered on bases during the futile involvement in Vietnam we could have constructed modern bases in Australia, including the establishment of a defence arc from the northern part of Western Australia around to the northern part of Queensland. After 22 years the Government is still talking but is certainly not acting. The Minister for Defence when introducing the Defence Review in this House is reported on page 12S4 of Hansard as saying, and this is after 22 years: 
We need a progressive and long term development of base, communications and support facilities to serve Australia and its allies, co-ordinated where appropriate with civil development 
He goes on to say that this cannot be created at short notice. One would not imagine that 22 years was short notice. When talking about bases the Government uses such phrases as 'is being established', major works are being approved' and plans are being developed'. This is all that this Government has to show to the Australian people in terms of defence preparedness after 22 years. Devoid of any pretensions to have provided for the security of Australia, the Government has sought to divert attention from its own incompetence by creating a side issue of the maintenance of bases in Malaysia and Singapore. It clings desperately to the discredited policy of forward defence which can never be credible certainly not in the eyes of our allies, unless we are capable first of all of defending our own territory, as I previously have pointed out. This is a view which the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  has endorsed. The Government knows full well that the bases in Malaysia and Singapore are only temporary. The report by the Government-dominated Foreign Affairs Committee on the Indian Ocean Regions states on page 11 that 'long-range defence planning cannot ignore the possibility of all forces being stationed in Australia.' The Review in paragraph 44 at page 25 states: 
Facilities outside Australia will be taken into account but their permanent availability will not be assumed. 
The Government knows full well that the forces in Malaysia and Singapore are only temporary but is trying to create a political issue. It is trying to make a political mountain out of nothing. Those forces will not be there certainly by the end of 1974 and more likely by the end of 1973. As I have stated before and will repeat, the Malaysian Government regards the bases in Malaysia as temporary. An article in the Bulletin' on 8th April reporting on the meeting between the Prime Minister of Singapore and the Prime Minister of Malaysia at page 27 had this to say: 
However, both Governments (Malaysia and Singapore) appear to be unworried about the controversy stirred up in Australia by ALP foreign Policy spokesman Bill Morrison's recent visit to the area. Since 1969 they have been psychologically prepared for an Australian withdrawal but there are certainly no signs in either country that white faces are unwelcome. 
The question is not whether our forces are welcome. Certainly the behaviour of our forces in both countries has been exemplary and has reflected great credit on Australia. Of course they are not unwelcome but the point surely is whether they are needed. This Government has placed so many restrictions on their availability that their presence in the light of foreseeable threats is meaningless. As with Vietnam, the Government is cynically seeking to use Australian forces for narrow domestic political purposes. This Government persists in its outdated anachronistic garrison mentality. Meanwhile, it has seriously jeopardised Australia's own security. This is the record of this Government which maintains that it is the custodian of Australia's defence. It is an appalling record and a record that the people of Australia will have the opportunity to measure and make a decision on, hopefully in a few months time. 
 The matter of public importance which we. are debating calls for a statement by the Government - just a statement by the Government. However, during this debate not one member of the Government - not one Minister - has participated. Yet a Government supporter has introduced this matter of urgency. Where is the urgency when not one Minister participates in the debate? Where is the urgency when not one Minister is prepared to get up and say: 'We wm make, this statement'. The Government is not being asked to take action. Members opposite are so gutless they are not prepared to take action but would merely make a statement. I am appalled at the monumental hypocrisy of the Government. For a quarter of a century it has played on people's fears rather than appeal to people's aspirations. It chooses to ignore and, so far as it can in votes, will allow the chaos that it has created in the economic life of this country through its shortsighted and doctrinaire Budgets. It ignores the mounting inequality in education and the needs of the sick, the old and the handicapped. 
It is obvious from this debate, that members opposite yearn for the days of the colourful election-winning formulas of 'the Red menace' and 'the yellow hordes'. The people of North Vietnam, the people of South Vietnam - in fact, the people of all Asia - mean nothing to the Government except when they can be exploited for this Government's narrow domestic political purposes. Members opposite, want to turn the clock back to the 1966 election when their election propaganda had the communist Chinese dripping blood down over Asia and onto Australia. But even then their hypocrisy was obvious because at that stage, they traded with communist China. Indeed they are falling over backwards to enter into some negotiation with China now. What a gang of humbugs this Government is. We might fairly ask what positive steps this Government proposes to take as a result of the dangers that it seems to  see  in Vietnam. 
Let me retrace briefly the history. When Australia first became involved in Vietnam in 1962 the operations were not against the North Vietnamese combat forces in South had had a gutful of the repression and corruption of the Diem regime. When we committed combat forces in 1965 there were, according to the United States Department of Defence, no more than 400 North Vietnamese but against people who Vietnam, and they were there in the early part of 1965 for one very simple reason: Following the infamous Gulf of Tonkin resolution, which was a put up job to justify the decision that the United States mil itary had already made, the USA - this was back in 1964 - began aerial attacks on North Vietnam. In that period it was the bombing of North Vietnam that in fact brought about North Vietnamese intervention. 
I quote for the benefit of the Minister for Social Services  Mr Schlesinger,  who was Special Assistant to the  President  of the United States of America from 1961 to 1964. He said: 
And far from stopping infiltration across the Seventeenth parallel, the bombing, if our own reports are to believed, has stimulated it. The first result was to bring North Vietnamese forces south of the border. In 196S according to General Westmoreland, the enemy began to move regular North Vietnamese army units into South Vietnam. 
We talk about blatant aggression. The Labor Party does not support aggression whether it be from the North Vietnamese, the South Vietnamese, the Americans, the Chinese or the Russians. Do not let us get caught up in this question of what constitutes aggression. Does not a flight of B52s in the clouds - admittedly not stepping over some imaginary line on the ground - operating from Thailand or South Vietnam, or other bombers from the Seventh Fleet constitute aggression. Let us not get caught up in the legalities of what constitutes aggression. Ask the North Vietnamese peasants or the South Vietnamese peasants to differentiate between a bomb dropped from the clouds and mortar fire from the surrounding hills. To them it is all aggression. The Labor Party is opposed to aggression; we have always opposed aggression, and we shall continue to oppose aggression. 
The Government professes a concern about this matter. Surely, if we are to take its argument seriously, that concern is much more obvious now than it was in 1965. However, in those days, for narrow political, domestic reasons, it jumped with alacrity to the request of  President  Johnson. What is it doing today? It is doing nothing except, as the terms of this discussion show, to try to conjure up some short-term political advantage. We do not condone war. In fact, we would rather hope that this Government would have learnt some lessons from the war in Vietnam. Of all the people throughout the world, the supporters of this Government have learnt nothing, and they have certainly forgotten nothing. Perhaps we should take as an example how the American people have learnt some very basic lessons from their involvement in Vietnam. I quote the National Conference of Catholic Bishops of the USA held in November 1968: 
There are moral lessons to learn from our involvement in Vietnam that will apply in future cases. One might be that military power and technology do not suffice, even with the strongest resolve, to restore order or accomplish peace. As a rule internal political conflicts are too complicated to be solved by external applications of force and technology. 
Further on they say: 
Another lesson might be the realisation that some of the evils existing in this world, evils such as under-nutrition, economic frustration, social stagnation and political injustice, may be more readily attacked and corrected through nonmilitary means than by military efforts to counteract subversive forces bent upon their exploitation. In addition, may we not hope that violence may be universally discredited as a means of remedying human ills. 
The Labor Party opposes, and it has continued to oppose, Australia's participation in the Vietnam war. This Government delights in the continuance of the Cold War, perhaps mindful of what it sees as possible electoral advantage. But it is unmindful of the sufferings of the people of Vietnam. I make no distinction here between the people of South Vietnam and the people of North Vietnam, for they have been used as pawns in the big power game. There is an old Arab saying that only your own fingers can find the itch. It is time - it is past time - that the people of Vietnam, both North and South, were given an opportunity to settle the future of Vietnam. Itis, after all, they who will have to live there. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
Which units of the Royal Australian Navy are stationed in Western Australia. 
What is the (a) type, (b) tonnage and (c) speed of these ships. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation and it relates to the operations of the Concorde aircraft. In view of the justifiable concern and the differing views relating to the operation of the Concorde, will he take steps to revive the Select Committee on Aircraft Noise before the projected test flight of the Concorde, which is scheduled for the near future? At the same time will he refer to the Committee for inquiry and report the noise and associated aspects of the operation of the aircraft which could detrimentally affect people living in the vicinity of the projected route and the approach paths to Australian airports? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
Have any RAAF aircraft, normally based in Australia, been deployed to the base at Butterworth, Malaysia, since January 1971. 
If so, for what purpose were they deployed and how long did they remain on station. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
What is the distance from Butterworth, Malaysia, to the nearest airport on Australian soil capable of accepting Mirage aircraft. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
What is the average number of letters received each month from listeners in Indonesia to Radio Australia. 
What percentage of the letters received require  a  written reply. 
How and when are the letters processed. 
What is the average time lag between the date of  a  listener's tetter and (a) the date of the reply and (b) the estimated date of delivery. 
If the time lag appears excessive, what steps are being taken to reduce it. 
The point under discussion today is the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen).  Regrettably, it is a very disappointing document because it seeks vainly to justify a policy which is demonstrably bankrupt. In fact, the foreign policy of this Government is in shambles. This is not only the point of view of the Australian Labor Party and of Australian commentators, but also the point of view that has been expressed by learned commentators overseas. I want to refer to a recent production of 'Current History*, dated 11th March 1972, which is an academic journal published in the United States of America, and in particular to an article by Professor Bernard Gordon of the University of New Hampshire. In the article Professor Gordon had this to say about the Government's foreign policy: 
. there is no strong sense of direction in Australian foreign policy, and in some instances in recent years there has been considerable disarray. 
That, I think, is putting the matter mildly, because this Government's foreign policy, and particularly its policy towards Vietnam, has blown up in its face. All that we have heard in earlier speeches is an indulgence in mock heroics. Perhaps we can go back some years. Until after the United States' bombing of North Vietnam, following the fabricated Gulf of Tonkin incident - and I am referring here to what was said by the United States Defence Department - there were only 400 North Vietnamese combat forces in South Vietnam. At that stage Australia decided to commit Australian forces, when there were only 400 North Vietnamese there. But now, when there are several divisions of North Vietnamese in South Vietnam, all that this Government can do is to throw up its hands in horror; but it does precisely nothing. If this Government and the previous speakers really believed in their own propaganda they would be sending Australian forces back to South Vietnam. But of course the Government will not. The whole point of this is just to show what a gang of humbugs this Government is and has become. 
But the height of hypocrisy is reached in the Minister's comments on Communist China. This Government has actively opposed the recognition of Communist China. It has actively opposed in the past the admission of Communist China to the United Nations. The Government's whole attitude has- been to exploit one-quarter of the world's population for its narrow, domestic, political purposes. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has been reported as saying that China has served the Liberal Party well. What a remarkable comment to make about one-quarter of the. world's population - it has happened to serve a declining party well. But the members of the Labor Party were branded as traitors for raising in this country many years ago precisely what all other countries have now come to accept. On China, as on every other foreign policy issue, this Government is hopelessly out of step with reality. As the Prime Minister and other members of the Government have said, Communist China still has the smear of the mud that this Government has thrown on it in the years past. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, in his speech, could not help but try to make some of that mud stick. He said that Communist China was still carrying out its subversion and insurgency in other countries. Let us look - and the Minister referred specifically to it - at the speech made by the Communist China delegate to the United Nations. He said: 
It is our bounden duty to support the just struggles of the people of various countries. For this purpose we have provided aid to some friendly countries to help them develop their national economy independently. . . . We provide free military aid to countries and people which are fighting against aggression. We will never become munition merchants. .-. . However, as China's economy is still comparatively backward, the material aid we have provided is very limited, and what we provide is mainly political and moral support 
This would hardly go down as a fire brand speech. But the Minister is trying desperately to get some of that mud which has been thrown in the past to stick. But, of course, every time that question of subversion has been raised, honourable members opposite reply back to Lin Piao, who is now somewhat in eclipse in Communist China but who has been a whipping horse for this Government in times past. Let us take what I suppose is, for this House, the unprecedented step of having a look at what Lin Piao actually said about subversion. In a statement entitled 'Long Live the Victory of People's War' written back in 1955, Lin Piao said: 
In order to make a revolution and to fight a people's war and be victorious, it is imperative to adhere to the policy of self-reliance, rely on the strength of the masses in one's own country and prepare to cany on the fight independently even when all material aid from outside is cut off. If one does not operate by one's own efforts, does not independently ponder and solve the problems of the revolution in one's own country and does not rely on the strength of the  mases,  but leans wholly on foreign aid- 
And I will read this very slowly - 
even though this be aid from socialist countries ... no victory can be won, or be consolidated even if it is won. 
That is an observation made by the renegades, by the subversives of Communist China. The point I want to make here is that if Communist China is regarded as an enemy - and obviously the Government regards China as such - then one should analyse very carefully what it says, what it does and what it is capable of doing. 
And the Country Party's trade partner, as the honourable member for Fremantle points out. This Government has been crying 'wolf' for so long and so often that it is likely, as in the fable, to cry wolf once too often. It seems to me that we do ourselves - and I think this is important - a great disfavour by creating threats or attempting to make threats more than they are in a mythical sense, because what this does is to distort our own defence preparedness, our own force structures. Chasing phantoms and tilting at windmills has no place in the foreign policy or the defence policy of a responsible government. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs in his speech referred to the five Power Defence Arrangements. I have been subjected to many attacks for pointing out what in fact is the reality of the situation. Malaysia does regard the Five' Power Defence Arrangements as temporary, Singapore would not be overly concerned if our forces were withdrawn, and Indonesia does not care one way or the other whether our forces remain there or not. I mentioned earlier a statement by Professor Gordon. I refer again to this document in which Professor Gordon said: 
Today, however, the so-called '5-nation' arrangement is meaningless: As Singapore's Defence Minister said recently to this writer, 'the 5-nation arrangement is  a  farce - it is worthless.' 
A footnote says that Singapore's Defence Minister said that in Singapore in June 1971. That statement, I think, substantiates the points of view that I gathered during my visit to South East Asia. Honourable members may also be interested to know that a leading member of the governing party in the Malaysian Parliament,  Mr Musa  Hitam, in a speech earlier this year in the Malaysian Parliament, fully agreed with the statements that I have made on the Five Power Defence Arrangements. 
I have had reason to comment before in this House on the curious but highly significant procedure of practice of this Government of introducing a defence statement before a statement on foreign affairs. This is a classic case of putting the cart before the horse. This practice shows, more eloquently than words, that military interventionism is this Government's substitute for foreign policy. It has been a policy of foreign military interventionism - nothing else and nothing more. I am very glad to say that there has always been a philosophical difference between the Labor Party's approach to foreign affairs and that of the anti-Labor groupings. The last Labor government in this country attached itself very firmly to the spirit of the Atlantic Charter which was signed by President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill in 1941. That Atlantic Charter sought to respect the rights of all peoples to choose the form of government under which they will live. President Roosevelt's son, in commenting on a conversation between Prime Minister Churchill and President Roosevelt at that Atlantic meeting in 1941 had this to say of his father's point of view: 
I am firmly of the belief that if we are to arrive at a stable peace it must involve the development of backward countries. I cannot believe that we can fight a war against fascist slavery and at the same time not work to free peoples all over the world from  a  backward colonial policy. 
What happened was that when the Japanese were defeated - Roosevelt was dead at this stage - the colonial countries came back into South East Asia and tried to turn the clock back to 1941 as if nothing had happened in the interim. This Government supported and continued to support the French in Indo-China. When the Labor Government went out of power, after the Labor Party had actively supported Indonesian nationalists in Indonesia, the Government immediately turned and supported the Dutch colonialists. The Prime Minister will visit Indonesia in the near future. He will bathe in the reflected glory of what the Australian Labor Party did when it was the government of this country to build a firm understanding with the peoples of Indonesia. One would only wish that the Labor Party had been in power when the Vietnam question came upwhen this Government was supporting the French before Dien Bien Phu. The Government continued to support the United States after 1954. What a difference it would have made if Australia could have presented the same sort of philosophy, the same point of view as the Labor government presented in the case of Indonesia. 
I only wish that we could relate ourselves, not to the concept of stability that this Government sees as a desirable end but to the concept of change and the concept of support for peoples who engage in justifiable opposition. We cannot turn our backs on change. We cannot continue to support and bolster regimes that do not allow justifiable opposition because what we have done with the opposition in so many countries in South East Asia has been to give them one alternative and one alternative only; that is to join forces with, and on many occasions to be exploited by, the communists. We have fought against change because it changes the status quo. This Government, if it is anything, is in favour of the status quo in Australia. It is in favour of the privileged of this country and so its philosophy is to support the status quo and support the privileged in the countries of South East Asia. 
The history of Vietnam - the history of many parts of South East Asia - would have been vastly different if the spirit of the Atlantic Charter and the thoughts of President Roosevelt had been implemented. 
But this Government has never comprehended those thoughts and has never understood what it is that motivates the peoples of South East Asia. It is not this dichotomy between communist and noncommunist. These countries feel that they are small and they do not want to have anything to do with big powers whether they be capitalist big powers or communist big powers. Their policy is to live at peace and to keep the big powers out of the area. But nowhere in the Minister's statement does one find any support for the ambitions and aspirations of the people of South East Asia. The Labor Party supports the contention of keeping the big powers out, whether they be communist big powers or capitalist big powers. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation upon notice: 
Can he say what are the noise limits imposed under the United States Federal Aviation Administration noise certification procedures for the (a) Boeing 747, (b) Boeing 707, (c) Boeing 727, (d) Douglas DCS, (e) Douglas DCS, (0 VC10 and (g) BACIII aircraft currently operating in Australia. 
What are the noise readings taken by the Department of Civil Aviation for the same aircraft under similar conditions to that prescribed by the Federal Aviation Administration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
What are the main engine types used by the aircraft of (a) Trans-Australia Airlines and (b) Ansett Airlines of Australia. 
How many engines of each type are included in the inventory of (a) Trans-Australian Airlines and (b) Ansett Airlines of Australia. 
How many engines of each type have been fitted with reduced-smoke combustion chambers for (a) Trans-Australia Airlines and (b) Ansett Airlines of Australia. 
Which engine types not being fitted with reduced-smoke combustion chambers are capable of being so fitted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many (a) landings and (b) take-offs occurred on each runway at Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport during each month in 1969, 1970 and 1971. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
How many (a) landings and (b) take-offs occurred on each runway at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport (i) for the week beginning 20th December 1971 and (ii) for each subsequent week up to and including the week beginning 14th February 1972. 
asked the Minister for Edu cation and Science, upon notice: 
Does his Department require documentary evidence in the form of a report by the school architect and a statement by the school auditor to indicate that grants for science and library facilities have been used for the purposes for which they were intended. 
If so, will he make available the reports supplied by all schools which have received grants for science and library facilities. 
What arrangements are in force to ensure that these facilities continue to be used for the purpose for which they were intended. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many Australian Service personnel and dependants are presently stationed in (a) Malaysia and (b) Singapore. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What was the capital expenditure by the Australian Government on bases and base facilities in Vietnam for the. period 1962-1972. 
The Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter)  has just displayed a conveniently short memory. If he looks to the record he will find that when the question of national service was raised in this House in 1964 the then Minister for the Army,  Dr Forbes,  on the advice of the Department of the Army, strenuously rejected and opposed the concept of national service for the very reasons that are still valid. 
For the benefit of the Minister for Defence, who obviously needs some recall factor, I point out that, in August 1964,  Dr Forbes  argued strenuously against the introduction of national service. Also the Department of the Army came out against the introduction of national service. The combined points they made then are still valid today. The Minister for the Army should know that national service was introduced in Australia for one purpose and one purpo.se only, that is, for the Australian participation in the disastrous conflict in Vietnam. 
That is precisely right because the Americans had already put forward their points in late 1964 and our commitment was to begin in 1965. If the Minister for the Army were to go through the record - 1 suggest that he should - of the debate at that time and the points that the then Prime Minister made he would see the whole context of Indo-China writ large across every statement he made at the time. 
Let us have a look at the statement on defence by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn).  The first thing that should be said about it is that it is an abject admission of the Government's failure in defence planning. The Australian continent is no better prepared to defend itself now than it was in 1941. Whilst hundreds of millions of dollars have been spent and squandered in pursuit of the Government's so-called forward defence policy Australia's own defences are down. Let us look at the record. The Government has already admitted that its military adventures in Vietnam have seriously distorted our defence structure and weakened our defence preparedness. Let us examine the words used in the 'Australian Defence Review' itself. Let me quote from page 26 of that document, lt reads: 
Opportunity to give greater weight to long term strategic considerations in the shaping of our forces has until recently been restricted by the immediate demands of our combat deployment in Vietnam. That opportune is now restored. 
That means that that opportunity has now been restored because we are out of Viet nam. This point is also admitted in the statement of the Minister for Defence. Let me quote from it. He said: 
The years immediately ahead provide an excellent opportunity for Australia to consolidate its defence infrastructure and to improve existing Service establishments. 
That is the position after this Government has been governing Australia for 23 years. Let us have a look at the Government's record. 1 received from the Minister for Defence today - he let me have it only today although I sought the information by way of a question 1 placed on the notice paper some months ago - information to the effect that in the last 10 years the Government has invested only $35.3m on new bases in Australia. But during this period we have spent in Vietnam not $35.3m but hundreds of millions of dollars. We have spent $20m on bases in Malaysia which we no longer control and which are the property of the Malaysian Government through the incompetence and inadequacy of this Government which failed to protect the Australian taxpayers* investment. 
Let us look at our defence preparedness in terms of the Royal Australian Air Force. We have 4 Mirage squadrons in the Air Force. Two of those Mirage squadrons are at Butterworth and the reason they are at Butterworth is that there is no base in Australia for half our current fighter force. There are 2 squadrons that we cannot place in Australia. What an indictment that is of the defence planning of this Government. Let us examine the so-called concepts of mobility that this Government talks about. The Government, at page 25 of the 'Australian Defence Review', dealing with our air lift capacity, says: 
Assuming maximum effort, these aircraft could, in about eight to ten days, transport a lightly equipped Army battalion, with supporting elements, equipment, vehicles and stores sufficient for one month, from the Sydney area to airfielddestinations within a 2.000 nautical miles radius of Sydney. 
Let us examine in that context this concept of mobility. In about 8 to 10 days a lightly equipped battalion of less than 1,000 men can be transported to within a 2,000 nautical miles radius of Sydney which, as the Australian Defence Review' points out, still keeps them on the mainland of Australia and in parts of New Guinea. What a tremendous achievement in 8 to 10 days. 
It also assumes that the airfield that is being used in the transport of Australian forces is kept intact by the enemy or any potential enemy. What could happen in 8 to 10 days? 
Let us look at some examples of the reasoning of this Government in terms of the statement made by the Minister. He announced with a flourish that there would be a 26 per cent increase in defence expenditure over 5 years. But this really means, and merely means, that defence expenditure will be maintained at the present percentage of the gross national product which has been the same for the preceding 2 years - 3.4 per cent. Let me put this in the perspective of the gross national product. The percentage increase in the gross national product over the last 5 years at constant 1966-67 prices was 28 per cent. If this trend continues defence expenditure will have to increase by 28 per cent but it would be still only marking time with the growth in the gross national product. 
I state emphatically that there is no difference between the attitude of the Liberal Party and the Labor Party on priorities and on funds associated with defence. The Labor Party has said that its defence expenditure would range between 3.2 per cent and 3.5 per cent. If we examine statistically the argument the Government has put forward on the percentage increase through to 1976-77 we will find that defence expenditure will be below 3.4 per cent of the gross national product. I noticed last night when the Minister was making his speech that he was embarrassed by the fact that he had to admit that it was 3.4 per cent. A quarter of the way through his speech he read 3.4 per cent, which was the figure provided by his experts, but he immediately thought 'By God, that is the sort of figure the Labor Party is talking about', and then said it was 4.3 per cent. As soon as he realised that we knew he had made a mistake he said: 'Of course, what I should have said earlier was 3.4 per cent'. So there is fundamentally no difference between the priorities attached to expenditure on defence by the Labor Party and by the Liberal Party. 
I was delighted to note that the Minister's statement last night left out the great myth of forward defence. This was the myth upon which the Government fought the 1966 election with the concept of the Chinese or communism or whatever it was pouring down over Asia and dropping on to Australia as though on every Sunday morning we could expect to see the Chinese communists or somebody else on Bondi Beach. Let us look at this concept of forward defence from the point of view of military strategy and ask the question: Where did forward defence get us in the Second World War? When the Labor Party took over in the latter part of 1941 the 6th, 7th and 9th Divisions were not in Australia protecting Australia but in North Africa. It was because a Labor Party Prime Minister insisted that the Australian forces should be on Australian territory to protect Australia that they were brought back, and they were brought back against the strong opposition of Prime Minister Churchill and  President  Roosevelt. When they came back they were not provided with a convoy. They came across the Indian Ocean without any assistance from Prime Minister Churchill who adopted the attitude that Australia could be liberated later. Australia was completely expendable, a point always to remember about great and powerful friends when the crunch is really on. 
Let us look at the jargon which the Minister is now putting forward, the jargon about the broad maritime and archipelago surrounds of the continent. What does that mean? It means essentially - this is Labor Party policy and the Liberal Party has now come to accept it - that the rightful place for Australian forces is not in Malaysia or Singapore maintaining some 19th century garrison but here for the protection of the Australian mainland and to use only the Australian mainland as a spring board for any operations to our north in Australia's national interest. But not only Labor but the Liberal Party, Malaysia and Singapore have moved away from this old 19th century garrison mentality. Let us look at this matter from the point of view of the Asians. There is the great slogan - this little myth - of: 'It is better to fight them there than here'. There is no question who 'they' is or where there' is. We should put ourselves in the position of the Asian countries. How comfortable would we feel to know that other countries were quite prepared to make a battleground of our country? This is why the countries of South East Asia have rebelled against this concept of 'better to fight them there than here'. It has led to the concept of neutralisation. They do not want to be designated as a battleground. 
I am glad that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in his disastrous trip through South East Asia learnt at least one lesson - the concept of neutralisation. What it really means is: 'Big powers keep out'. 1 have referred before to the Korean proverb - it is also a proverb that is part of the culture of every country in South East Asia - that when whales fight the shrimp get crushed. The countries of South East Asia are sick and tired of being crushed and being thrown around by the big whales. They want to get the big whales out. The Prime Minister during, his visit abroad learned a number of things and he had to learn them the hard way. First of all he learned the correctness of the very thing on which I was pilloried by the Minister for Defence and by the Government, that Malaysia regards the five power defence arrangements as temporary and transitional. I will say again, because the Prime Minister of Singapore said it last night - I was attacked for saying it earlier this year - that they would not be overly concerned if Australian forces were withdrawn. 
The Labor Party has made it a point to ensure that the countries of South East Asia understand its policy. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and I have been through South East Asia and have gone into this matter in detail with the Malaysian, the Singaporean and the Indonesian governments. They know it and they accept it. I suppose their great difficulty is that they never know what this Government's point of view is. They take the point of view of the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  who had no concept of relations with South East Asia. He referred to a sovereign country, Malaysia, as Malaya and there were a whole series of statements that destroyed Australia's standing in South East Asia. It is a great pity that this Government does not pay a bit more attention to the role of diplomacy and the understanding of the peoples of the Asian region because we are a partner involved in the region. Today was the Indonesian national day. This Government deliberately slighted the Indonesian Government. There was not one Minister at the reception to celebrate that national day. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  or, if he could not make it to present the toast to the  President  of Indonesia, another Minister should have been there. There was not one Minister there and the toast was offered by the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs,  Sir Keith  Waller. He is a grand man; but certainly in terms of diplomatic protocol this sort of function required the presence of a Minister. It was the national day of our largest and nearest neighbour and a Minister was not even prepared to attend the function. We on this side of the house considered it important and for that reason the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  was present. I accepted an invitation and was only too honoured to be present. This shows the abysmal ignorance of members of this Government. They do not understand the forms or the substance of relations with the countries of South East Asia. Their whole concept of foreign policy has been one of military intervention. The countries of South East Asia are no longer prepared to take it, and I am glad that they are not. This Government has learned of the utter bankruptcy of its foreign policy and the utter bankruptcy of its defence policy. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What was the capital expenditure on new bases within Australia for (a) the Army, (b) the Air Force, and (c) the Navy for the period 1961- 62 to 1970-71. 
Where are the new bases located. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
On what occasions since the Australian Army has been based in Singapore have Australian Army units exercised jointly with units of the armies of Malaysia and Singapore. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What was the total expenditure on Australian Forces stationed at Butterworth, Malaysia, for the financial years 1969-70 and 1970-71? 
What were the main components of the expenditure and the cost for each? 
J ask the Prime Minister whether he shares the sense of national frustration when, at the Olympic Games, the achievements of young Australians are celebrated by an anthem traditionally identified with another country. Will be encourage the selection of a distinctively Australian anthem for such occasions? 
Tonight we are discussing the proposed expenditure of the Department of Civil Aviation, the operations of which impinge on a major environmental threat - aircraft noise. Aircraft noise has been defined by the United Kingdom Noise Abatement Society which was responsible for the relocation of the United Kingdom's major airport. The Society stated: 
Noise destroys all that is good in civilisation. It adversely affects health of mind and body, retards recovery of the sick and reduces the capacity to learn and the quality of the work done. 
It is in this context that on behalf of the Opposition I move the following amendment: 
That the proposed expenditure be reduced by $10.  as an instruction to the Government to: 
introduce noise limits on aircraft operations at all Australian airports based on standards laid down by the International Civil Aviation Organisation, 
strictly enforce the curfew for jet aircraft at those airports at which the curfew applies and; 
conduct an inquiry into the measures which the Commonwealth and State Governments should take to avoid noise problems associated with Perth airport. 
The purpose of this amendment is to draw attention to the growing social menace of noise and to indicate ways of reducing it for the benefit of people living in the vicinity of major Australian airports. Honourable members will recall that the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise recommended that the monitoring of aircraft noise should be introduced into Australia with Sydney Airport as the first priority. May I commend the Government on the action that it has taken on the recommendation of that Committee. That recommendation was sponsored by the Labor Party members of the Committee. 
Noise monitoring equipment is currently being installed at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. This is not enough. The next step is to apply noise limits on the operations of aircraft, such limits to be policed by noise monitoring equipment. Fifteen years ago the United Kingdom authorities introduced into Heathrow Airport a noise monitoring system. The system records violations of the noise limits. In the event of violations the airline operators responsible are called to task. They are notified of any infringements. The ultimate sanction that is used on such occasions is that persistent flouting of the limits results in cancellation of operating rights of the airline responsible. The Labor Party is thinking in those terms and has couched its amendment accordingly. We trust that honourable members opposite will accept our amendment because it represents a very important step towards reducing aircraft noise. 
Honourable members will know that in Sydney a curfew is applied at the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport to scheduled flights of jet aircraft between the hours of 1 1 p.m. and 6 a.m. Under the present regulations no restrictions are applied to flights of prop aircraft such as the DC3 and most private aircraft, or to turbo-prop aircraft such as the Fokker Friendship and Lockheed Electra. However, an examination of the recorded flights of jet aircraft within curfew hours shows that the record of this Government is appalling. It has deliberately flouted the recommendations of the Select Committee which in its report recommended: 
The criteria authorising jet movements in curfew hours be applied more stringently to ensure the  preservation  of the original intention of the regulations. 
But what do we find? In 1971, in response to a question asked in another place by my friend and colleague  Senator Douglas  McClelland this information was obtained: There were 552 jet flights between 1 1 p.m. and 6 a.m. Of that number 108 were approved by the Minister for Civil Aviation, 201 by the regional director, 240 by other Department of Civil Aviation officials, and 3 were not approved at all. This means that although the curfew is supposed to be imposed when the airline operators want to fly, they fly. The Government has shown a callous disregard for the welfare of people living in the vicinity of Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport, which is located in my electorate of St George, and people living in the electorates of my colleagues the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds),  the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  and the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly). 
The Department seems to agree to every request made by the airline operators. Not only does the Department respond to every request; the Government is adding to the trouble as is shown by these figures: In 1971 22 flights were made by VIP aircraft within curfew hours. On 4 of those flights the VIP aircraft flew out of Sydney completely empty; on 3 occasions the VIP aircraft had only one passenger. What a monstrous abuse of the Government's powers with complete disregard for the people residing in the areas adjacent to Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. VIP aircraft are not the only culprits. The international jet set is also involved.  Mr Henry  Ford and 7 of his jet set cronies arrived in Australia on 6th February 1971. They flew into Sydney at midnight. Quite clearly this Government is more interested in toadying to the international jet set than it is in looking after the interests of people living in the vicinity of the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. 
Last Christmas we had an exchange with the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  on the subject of aircraft noise. It involved particularly the increase in traffic over the Christmas period. In response to my protest I got this answer: 
As you are aware it is necessary for me in the overall public interest to approve at certain times of the year including Christmas and New Year a number of additional special flights to cater for the very large numbers of air passengers wishing to travel throughout Australia. 
An examination of the details of flights on the night of 24th/ 25th December shows that 11 flights by domestic airlines arrived at Sydney during the curfew hours. They carried fewer than 300 passengers. One Ansett aircraft arrived at 1.08 a.m. with no passengers at all. One TAA aircraft arrived at 2.15 a.m. with one passenger. Of the 11 aircraft, only 3 were more than one-third full. These figures certainly do not support the assertion by the Minister for Civil Aviation that large numbers of travellers have to be catered for in that period. The figures show that for the benefit of a total number of 295 passengers a quarter of a million people living in the vicinity of the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport were subjected to the noise accompanying the arrival of those 11 aircraft between I I p.m. and 2.15 a.m. This callous disregard for the interests and welfare of people living in the St George electorate and surrounding areas has to stop. 
That is the purpose of the amendment that the Labor Party has moved tonight, lt is a part of the Labor Party's policy and we will carry it out when we are in office. Earlier in my speech I referred to prop and turbo-prop aircraft and pointed out that under the present arrangements no restrictions are imposed on them. A critical point has now been reached.  Sir Reginald  Ansett, who occupies a very privileged position with this Government, has now employed 3 Electra turbo-prop aircraft on night freighter flights. The House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise received evidence that on occasions an Electra can make as much noise as a DC9. The proposition that we put forward is that prop and turbo-prop aircraft must not fly over residential areas during curfew hours and must confine their entire operations to movements over the Botany Bay runway. 
Another point that I want to raise is the lack of interest and lack of progress that has been shown in the fitting of smoke recombustion chambers to aircraft. The areas around the airport are deluged with pollution caused by unburnt particles of kerosene from aircraft. In response to a number of questions that I have put to the Minister for Civil Aviation, it now appears - this is 28 months after the programme was started in June 1970 - that only 55 per cent of the aircraft have been modified. According to the information we have the programme is now to extend through to the middle of 1973. On behalf of the folk in my electorate and on behalf of the folk in the neighbouring electorates, I urge that greater priority be given by the Government to insisting that both TAA and Ansett modify the smoke recombustion chambers of the JT8D engines much more quickly than has been happening in the past. The other points raised in our amendment will be taken up by other Labor Party speakers. I commend the amendment to the Committee. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Was I correct in understanding that the Prime Minister indicated in the television programme 'Monday Conference' last night that the purpose of the Australian battalion in Singapore was to reduce the possibility of trouble between Malaysia and Singapore? Does the Prime Minister really believe that Australian soldiers should be used as policemen between 2 Asian countries with whom we have friendly relations? Can the Prime Minister inform the House which part of the Five Power Arrangements authorises Australia to undertake this hapless and objectionable task? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
This afternoon I propose to deal with relations between Australia and 2 of oar closest and, one would hope, our friendliest neighbours, Malaysia and Singapore. What has happened over the last few years is that Australia's relations with both Malaysia and Singapore have been damaged almost beyond repair by a succession of Liberal Party Prime Ministers and by their ham fisted and diplomatically inept statements. The catalogue of offensive remarks and offensive statements by the 2 most recent Prime Ministers is appalling. Let us examine those of the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  who in a calculated insult confined the operations of the Five Power Defence Arrangements to a non-existent country that he chose to call Malaya. In one phrase he unilaterally divided Malayasia into 2 parts and categorically asserted that Australia would not assist East Malaysia. It would rather be like the United States of America saying to us that the ANZUS Treaty did not include Tasmania. 
The second piece of Gortonian diplomacy was recorded for posterity in a speech that the former Prime Minister made to the American Chamber of Commerce in Brisbane in March of this year. Recalling his discussions with the then Prime Minister of Malaysia, Tunku Abdul Rahman, he said: 
The Tunku said be wasn't sure what I meant when I said Australia wouldn't help. 'Well,' I told the Tunku, 'if you get into any sort of border fight you had better cope by yourselves because Australia bloodywell won't be there'. 
This may be the style of the language that is used by the Liberal Party in its faction fighting, but it is not the style and it is not the language that any country uses with 2 countries such as Malayasia and Singapore which have long traditions of culture and long traditions of dealing with other countries on a businesslike and proper basis. 
One would have thought that we had reached the rock bottom in our diplomatic relations with the countries of Malaysia and Singapore, but no, because along came the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  In an interview he gave on television before leaving Djakarta he immediately raised the question of how important the Five Power Defence Arrangements were so far as the Liberal Party was concerned. In the interview he said: 
. nor do I think that there is any real necessity to have a 5 power arrangement so far as the United Kingdom, New Zealand, Singapore, Malaysia is concerned . . . 
There was an immediate, quite vehement response from both Singapore and Malaysia and the Prime Minister spent the rest of his trip in Malaysia and Singapore trying to wriggle out of his indiscretion. It seems to me that there is little wonder that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Malaysia can say that the Labor Party's defence policy for South East Asia is acceptable to the Malaysian Government. It is no wonder that the Singapore Prime Minister indicated that Australia's military commitment does not mean a great deal to the Singapore Government one way or the other. This is precisely the point of view thatI expressed in this House. It is precisely the point of view that was vehemently attacked by Government members when I expressed it. But it is the truth because this is what these countries have come to feel. 
A yawning credibility gap has been created by the McMahon Government and by the Gorton Government and neither Malaysia nor Singapore can trust a government that has indulged and is continuing to indulge in the wild indiscretions in which this Government has indulged. But not satisfied, it  seems,  with the almost unbelievable catalogue of diplomatic disasters, the Prime Minister capped previous performances by stating last night that all the Australian battalion was doing in Singapore was to reduce the possibility of trouble between Malaysia and Singapore. Honourable members will recall that this morning I asked the Prime Minister whether he really believed that Australian soldiers should be used as policemen to stop trouble between 2 countries with whom we have friendly relations. In a typical fashion the Prime Minister sought to give the impression that he had not said what millions of Australians heard him say. We are getting a bit sick and tired of flirtations with the truth and dealings with untruth that have marked this Prime Minister. He refused to take up my question about what part of the 5-power defence arrangements authorised Australia to undertake this hapless and objectionable task. 
The Labor Party - this is the clear policy of the Labor Party as has been stated time and time again - is opposed to garrisoning Australian forces in Malaysia and Singapore. We find abhorrent the idea that Australian soldiers should be used as policemen in foreign countries. Not only has this Government given Australian soldiers the impossible task of being the fall guys to reduce the possibility of trouble between Malaysia and Singapore. This is a distortion of the role of our own armed forces. This Government must not be allowed to use our soldiers, our airmen and our naval personnel as pawns in its petty Party political game. It has no right, nor has any other government the right, to ask our soldiers to do its dirty work for it but this is precisely what this Government has done. 
The statement of the Prime Minister is an afront to 2 independent and sovereign countries. What impertinence it is for this Government to interfere militarily in relations between 2 neighbouring countries! What misplaced delusions of grandeur have led our foreign policy and our defence policy to interfere so blatantly in other people's affairs? What sort of Pentagon mentality have we adopted in our relations with other countries? This Government's penchant for military interventionism as a substitute for foreign policy has to cease. It is past time that common sense prevailed, and it is certainly not going to prevail with the present Prime Minister leading this country. 
I want to make a couple of observations on the monumental hypocrisy of this Government in its relations with the People's Republic of China. I take a quote from a Liberal Party handbook published in 1972. It reads: 
Countries can, of course, have dealings with each other in a whole variety of ways without the political-legal process of 'recognition', which implies little more than the establishment of formal relations through the exchange of diplomatic representatives. Lack of formal recognition will not detract in the future, any more than it has in the past, from our perception of the important place of China in the world and our respect for the individual people of China. 
What humbug! If diplomatic relations are to be looked at in these terms, why have diplomatic relations with any country in the world? Why place such emphasis upon diplomatic relations with Taiwan? The whole thing smells of humbug and hypocrisy. We in the Labor Party have maintained since 1954 that we cannot ignore one-quarter of the world's population. It is our purpose and our intention to move rapidly towards a recognition of the People's Republic of China. We have heard recently that the Australian Government has not been and is not hostile to the People's Republic of China. What an incredibly short and selective memory the Government has. Do supporters of the Government not recall that Australia led in the United Nations every movement, every motion and every resolution that came up to have the admittance of Communist China, the People's Republic of China, to the United Nations regarded as an important question so that it could circumvent a simple majority decision of the United Nations and replace it by a twothirds vote? This was the sort of hostility and it was a continuous campaign. If honourable members read the speeches of the leaders of Australian delegations to the United Nations they will see this compound of hostility being thrown forward at each and every opportunity. This is the hostility that has been a mark of Australia's foreign policy. 
Now the Prime Minister has indicated that it is really the attitude of the countries around the area that will dictate what we do in our relations with China. Let us have a look at the countries in the area. Japan has just recognised China. If I may take up another flirtation with the truth which was mentioned last night by the Prime Minister, he said that Indonesia has not recognised China. Indonesia has. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I rise under standing order 66. I understood the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  to have indicated that at the completion of my speech this afternoon I was about to launch a hostile attack on Indonesia. This was very far from the facts. I have with me the Hansard greens of the speech I made this afternoon in which I pointed out in relation to Indonesia the flirtation with the truth that has become a mark of the recent statements of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon). 
I think the difficulty with the Prime Minister is that his imagination outdistances his objectivity. I would take issue- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - The honourable member cannot introduce nev, matter. 
I am not introducing new matter. I am repeating what I have said. 
It is not a point of order. I am talking in terms of standing order 66. The point I made was ...that last night the Prime Minister categorically stated that Indonesia 'did not recognise the People's Republic of China. That is not the truth. Indonesia does recognise the People's Republic of China. This is another instance of the flirtation with the truth which we have come to associate with the Prime Minister. In my concluding remarks I was not launching a hostile attack on Indonesia. If anything, I was trying to correct a misunderstanding which the Prime Minister introduced on television last night. 
There have been several references by preceding speakers to the subject of aid. I reenter the debate in order to give some comments from the Labor Party's point of view on the concept of aid. Aid, as has been pointed out, is of fairly recent vintage. It was started in post-war Europe to overcome the devastation which had been caused by the war and was to assist in the rebuilding programme under the Marshall Plan.One of the main motivations of the Marshall Plan - I think it is inherent in subsequent aid programmes - was the political motivation and the motion or desire to contain communism. Because of this political streak in our aid programme and in other Western aid programmes and in communist aid programmes from the other side of the fence, the benefit that could have accrued to the poorer countries of the world has been diminished. 
There have been some very forthright statements on the political content of aid. I think none has been more forthright and more political than that attributed to President Nixon who, in a speech on 23rd February 1966. before he became President, had this to say: i  don't believe any foreign aid programme can be justified unless it serves political ends.  i  don't believe any foreign aid should be used to subsidise socialism abroad. Foreign aid is one of the most powerful instruments we have to reward our friends and punish our enemies. 
That is a very blatant statement of aid policy. I think that inherent in that statement are a number of considerations which have affected aid policy in the post-war period. Certainly, in our activity in Asia, we have been prompted by this desire to pre-empt the Communist bloc. We had an example of this when the Prime Minister  (Mr 
McMahon), who was then the Minister for Foreign Affairs, announced Australia's aid to Cambodia. He said: 
The decision to increase our aid has been made in pursuance of our policy of aiding South East Asian nations to resist communist aggression. 
One also can see the political motivation in the civic action of our armed forces in Vietnam. One of the publications put out by the Department of Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Department of the Army described the purpose of civic action in these terms: 
There is no doubt that most of the effort of the civic affairs unit is to improve the social and economic standards of the population as a means of winning their support for the Government of South Vietnam. 
In regard to the discussion that we had this afternoon on the subject of Malaysia and Singapore, I do not see it as the role of the Australian armed forces for them to be used to prevent trouble or the possibility of trouble between 2 of our friendly neighbours; neither do I see it as a function of our armed forces to go into a country to win support for the government of that country when it cannot attract the loyalty of its own people. I conclude on this question of aid motivation with the observation that if it had not been for the cold war our humanitarian motives might not have been so much in evidence. 
But fortunately there has been a change and a rethinking of aid programmes. There has been the report of the Pearson Committee, which was set up to examine on a world-wide basis the present state, and perhaps the future, of aid programmes. It came to a couple of conclusions which I think are particularly relevant to our motivation or our thinking on aid. The first was that aid is not a guarantee that the recipient country will choose any particular ideology. The Pearson Committee pointed out that aid does not usually buy dependable friends. These conclusions are very true and they have been borne out by the experience of a number of countries, both on the communist side and on the western side, that the recipient country will not choose any particular ideology because of the aid and that aid does not buy dependable friends. This has led, particularly in the United States of America, to a realisation that aid does not have this political benefit that was described by  Mr Nixon  in 1966. 
What has happened is that an aid fatigue has set in. This is unfortunate because international aid is not achieving 2 things. It is not achieving the diminution of the gap between the rich countries and the poor countries. In fact, that gap is becoming wider and on the projection of present estimates this gap will become larger and larger over the next 20 years. Another feature that is often overlooked is that the gap between the rich and the poor within the less developed countries is becoming wider. I appeal to honourable members on both sides of the Parliament not to be mesmerised by statistics. Let us not look to neon lit statistics and talk about 1.67 per cent of our gross national product because the important thing is not the amount of aid. Let us fix this in our minds. The important thing is the quality of aid and what that aid is achieving. 
Other philosophical questions should also be taken into account. From our high position of Western developed countries we seem to assume that all countries want to adopt our Western standards. God forbid. We have worshipped the God of the gross national product. We have put all our emphasis upon economic growth in terms of the gross national product. We are setting out to create in these countries societies, economies and cultures that are identical with ours. It is unfortunate and the sooner we realise it the better, but we have distorted the social and economic fabric of many of these countries by the type of aid we have provided. Forutnately a re-thinking is taking place on the question of the statistics and the merit of measuring by economic statistics. One of the International Bank's advisers has recently written: 
A rising growth rate is no guarantee against worsening poverty. We were taught to take care of our GNP as this will take care of poverty. Let us reverse this and take care of poverty as this will take care of the GNP. 
In other words, what he is saying is: 'Let us worry about the content of the GNP even more than its rate of increase.' Robert McNamara, the former United States Secretary of Defense who is now the  President  of the World Bank, had this to say: 
The state of development in most of the developing world today is unacceptable and growing more so, not because there has not been progress but because development programmes have been directed largely at gross economic goals and  have failed to ensure that all nations and all groups within  nations . have shared equitably in the economic advance. 
I think this is important, certainly the way the Labor Party looks at the question of the equitable distribution of the wealth of the countries 'of South East Asia. We have provided a lot of infrastructural aid in the building of roads, bridges and dams. Those who benefit most directly and immediately from this" type of programme are the people who have the capital and who are in a position to exploit the facilities that have been provided. This increases the gap between the rich and the poor in those countries and does nothing to distribute as equitably as possible the economic wealth that is available. 
A few years ago food aid comprised about half of our total bilateral programme. A lot of this is not motivated by humanitarian considerations but, in plain fact, to get rid of surpluses. I was delighted to note that a publication of the Department of Foreign Affairs said that when the size and content of food aid programmes are based solely on the need to dispose of surplus commodities, food aid may well be open to the charge that it is ineffective. It may not only be ineffective but it may also be counter productive, because the experience in a number of countries in South East Asia is that the agricultural development of those countries has declined because of their dependence on foreign food aid. We also find that the trade in agricultural products of similarly less developed countries has been affected. My conclusion is that we should start re-focusing our aid, not in terms of neon lit statistics but on some very simple things such as eliminating crippling disease, blind ignorance and the wretchedness of poverty. I think it is about time we measured our achievements in terms of people and welfare and not money and statistics. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Can he say, whether Radio Australia occupies an important place in radio broadcasting in Indonesia. 
Has he or any member of the Australian Broadcasting Commission visited the present Radio Australia offices in Djakarta. 
Is he satisfied with their location. 
Are the working conditions and facilities available conducive to the efficient operation of the office. 
Are there any plans for upgrading the office accommodation in Djakarta. 
Will the Prime Minister protest to the British Prime Minister about the blatant discrimination against Australian nationals seeking employment in the United Kingdom? If the reply he receives is not satisfactory will he undertake to remove any preferential commerical treatment at present enjoyed by the United Kingdom in Australia? 

 - Mr Speaker, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 10 (a) of the resolution appointing the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs,I inform the House that, at the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  the Committee has reported to him upon the following reference: 'What is the most effective form of aid - bilateral or multilateral?'. 
In order to refresh the minds of honourable members, following the interruption during which other matters were discussed, I should repeat the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  which I have great pleasure in seconding. He moved as follows: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with  a  view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'the Government be condemned for seeking to usurp the powers and functions of future Parliaments by extending an agreement which does not expire until 1977 through to 1982 and for the reason that it discriminates against TransAustralia Airlines and does not provide for evenhanded competition between the  2  airlines'. 
Today the Government is demanding, in the last days of this Parliament and significantly on a day on which the proceedings of the House of Representatives are not being broadcast, that this House in 1972 extends to 1982 an agreement which does not expire until 1977. As the Opposition has pointed out in its amendment, the Government is seeking to usurp the powers and functions of future parliaments in the interests of its great and powerful friend,  Sir Reginald  Ansett. This is the most blatant piece of political skulduggery that has ever been perpetrated by an Australian government in the history of the Commonwealth. It not only smacks of patronage; it is patronage. 
This Government's civil aviation policies are dictated by one man - a man who is not elected and is in no way responsible to this Parliament or to the Australian people. This Government, in its legislation on civil aviation, has been careful not to place  Sir Reginald  Ansett above the law. What it has done is to make laws that place  Sir Reginald  Ansett above everybody else, including this Parliament. How can this Government justify its action today in 1972 in seeking to extend an agreement that runs until 1977 for a further 5 years from 1977 to 1982? What is more, it is demanding that this be done on the second last day of this Parliament. This is a plain case of aerial banditry with  Sir Reginald  Ansett holding the gun at the Government's head and this spineless Government standing and delivering the goods. It is quite obvious that Ned Kelly has not yet. died. 
Let us took at the advantages that  Sir Reginald  Ansett derives from the Bill and from airlines agreements dating back to 1952, through 1961 and subsequent legislation concerned with the principal act. I ask honourable members to remember that this is government assistance to a private company to the detriment of the Government's own company. Where else in the world would one find a government that is prepared to provide assistance to a private company against the interest of the Government's own company? This is not a question of socialism versus private enterprise; it is a case of the Government private enterprising the profits of the airlines and socialising the losses. It is a case of the Government guaranteeing a private company by legislative and administrative protection and neglecting the interests of the Government company itself. 
If *e examine the 1952 agreement which started this whole support- this whole succouring of  Sir Reginald  Ansett - we find in clause 5, which is still operative and part and parcel of the present Bill, a guarantee that Ansett Airlines of Australia shares in the carriage of royal mail. In response to a question that I asked of the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  last year, he indicated to me on 28th September 1971 that in 1970-71 the total air mail contract for the carriage of air mail was worth $4m. Of this amount, Ansett's share was almost exactly half. To be precise it was $1,983,519. All honourable members will agree that this is pure gravy, even if the air mail were carried on airliners. I think all honourable members can recall the time when one of Ansett's road freighters was involved in a crash. It disgorged not surface mail, but air mail. These were letters that the paying public would rightfully expect to be carried by air mail. On that occasion we found that they were being carried by road freighter. 
Under clause 6 of the original agreement the Government ensures that Ansett gets a goodly share of government business - that is, the travel of public servants and the carriage of government freight. Again in response to a question on notice we discovered that in 1968-69 the Ansett organisation got the lion's share of government freight. It received $1.8m whilst TAA's share was $1.4m. The travel of public servants is perhaps one of the most lucrative avenues for airline operators. I wonder how many taxpayers realise that in 1970-71 the total cost of carrying public servants around Australia amounted to $15,082,800. I should have thought that the Public Service Board would be including on its recruitment posters the phrase: Join the Public Service and see Australia'. Of this $15m-odd Ansett, which is a private company, received $6.3 m. What an incredible situation this is when government business is carried by the Government's competitor. Can honourable members imagine any private company handing over private business to government companies? In Australia we have the situation where through the operations of this Government, at the behest of  Sir Reginald  Ansett, Ansett gets what he wants when he asks for it. 
Another aspect concerns the maintenance base facilities at Tullamarine. I think this is cause for great concern by this Parliament. An arrangement was entered into between the Ansett organisation and the Government on the financing and the construction of the maintenance facilities at Tullamarine. The cost of those facilities was financed by the Commonwealth. The Public Works Committee of this Parliament in a report dated 7th November 1968 expressed its concern at this operation. In that report the Committee noted the statements that had been made to the previous Committee in 1965 that both the Government and the airlines accepted a responsibility to provide finance for such facilities at Tullamarine. The report indicated that the Committee was concerned at the change of policy. The change of policy was made despite what the Government said previously. The Government had agreed and, in fact, acted upon an agreement to finance and build the base at Tullamarine. The actual arrangement is that Ansett leases the base, which cost $5m, by paying  7i  per cent per annum over a period of 40 years. You,  Mr Speaker,  would know a number of people who would be very happy to get a loan at  Ti  per cent for 40 years to build their own house. 
However the situation becomes a little more extraordinary when we realise that Ansett Transport Industries made a debenture issue at 8 per cent to 8i per cent for 5 to 12 years. Looking at this in terms of finance, the Australian Government last year negotiated a loan of $15m in European units of account which carried an interest rate of 8 per cent over some 10 years. So while the Government borrows abroad at 8 per cent it is prepared to give Ansett Airlines the use of facilities worth $5m for 40 years at 7i per cent. It is no wonder that  Sir Reginald  Ansett appears to be and is actively a supporter of this Government. The Government may argue and try to explain that TAA receives much the same sort of deal, but that is not the point. TAA is a government enterprise, and surely Australia must be the only country in the world in which a government enterprise is not provided with support by the government that it is representing. 
I refer now to the legislation which was brought into this House recently, and particularly to clause 9 of the Third Schedule. Clause 9 reads:  (1.) The Commission and the Operating Company undertake not to operate turbo-jet aircraft at the Sydney, Brisbane and Adelaide airports and at any other airports at which operations are for the time being restricted to specific hours during the hours within which operations by turbo-jet aircraft are normally prohibited at those airports. 
When one gets round the legal jargon one finds that that refers to the curfew hours particularly at Sydney Airport. It is saying that the companies cannot operate turbojets during curfew hours. The next subclause reads as follows:  (2.) The last preceding sub-clause will not apply to cases of emergency or to cases where there has been unavoidable delay- 
That is fair enough -  or to operations the Minister considers are necessary in the interests of the public generally in order that airline services may be provided during peak periods. 
I want to take up this question of the airline movements that the Minister considers necessary. We have had a number of debates in this House on the question of the Government allowing airline operators to break the curfew at will. What has happened? Last year there were 552 violations of the curfew. Of these, 108 were approved by the Minister. But what this piece of legislation does not point out is that the Minister can devolve responsibility so that the director in New South Wales or the officer in charge of the airport has the same powers as the Minister. Although the Minister approved only 108 operations during curfew hours, the total was 552. Although it has been said that these operations took place in order to move the numbers of people travelling at holiday periods, in a previous debate the Opposition pointed out and proved that 90 per cent of these movements during curfew hours were not required even on a transport or movement of passengers basis. 
What has been happening and what this Government has caused to happen represents a callous disregard of the needs of the people living in the vicinity of the Sydney Airport - the people of the electorates of St George, Kingsford-Smith and Barton. Quite clearly, the intent and purpose of this Government is that the interests of people living in the vicinity of airports should run a very poor second to the interests of airline operators and particularly to the interests of one airliner operator -  Sir Reginald  Ansett. People living in the vicinity of Mascot Airport will, on 2nd December, have an opportunity to express their point of view. The honourable member for Newcastle time and time again has made very explicit in this House what the Labor Party's policy is in relation to the curfew. It is, in accordance with the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Aircraft Noise, to enforce rigidly the curfew at Kingsford-Smith Airport. This Government has disregarded the interests of the people in the area of Mascot for the particular advantage and purposes of that great supporter of the Liberal Party,  Sir Reginald  Ansett. 
As I pointed out previously, this Bill is an astonishing piece of legislation for any government to bring into a parliament. An agreement which does not end until 1977 is being extended for a further 5 years, through to 1982. And this is being done in 1972. Perhaps the reason for this is known to some Government supporters, but I suspect that it has a very direct and very proportional relationship to the amount of money that  Sir Reginald  Ansett puts into the coffers of the Liberal Party. It has been documented that in 1961, when this Agreement came up before, he paid something like 100,000 to the Liberal Party campaign. Perhaps the Minister for National Development  (Sir Reginald Swartz),  in his reply, would care to tell the House how much has gone into the Liberal Party campaign funds for this piece of political skulduggery that the Government is trying to perpetuate and perpetrate this afternoon. 
Obviously  Senator Joe  McCarthy rides again. We have heard a very thin tissue of lies which marks the- 
Well, untruths. 
A deliberate untruth. 
I withdraw the remarks. The speeches tonight merely mark the desperation of the Government. It is in a state, of desperation. It is very remarkable how 2 backbenchers, not noted particularly for their contributions in this House, should have come to be in possession of such detailed information. One would hardly think that this is the sort of information one could readily obtain from the Parliamentary Legislative Research Service, which is the only source honourable members on this side of the House have at their disposal to obtain information. So one can only cogitate upon how this information came into the hands of the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon)  and the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar).  The reason why they are using it is obvious. It is in sheer desperation. The honourable member for Warringhah asked: 'Why is it that so many members of the Australia Party and the Australian Labor Party happen to choose this printery?' That is not a very difficult question to answer. We are not in the. very fortunate position of the honourable member for Warringah and others in having bulging campaign funds. We have to seek quotations for printing our literature and it just so happened on this particular occasion that the printery in question gave the lowest quote. Another pamphlet that I had printed for the last election - and it rather hurt me to have to accept the quotation, but it was the lowest - was produced on a printing press in the Hurstville area that is owned by  Sir Frank  Packer. Tonight I want to raise a relatively small matter. It is small only in the inflated monetary terms which one becomes accustomed to in this place. Nevertheless it is significant in terms of the administrative and planning incompetence for which this Government has achieved a justifiable notoriety. 
In June 1971 the Department of Civil Aviation took over from the Department of Works an incinerator at the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. The first matter of interest is that the technical advisers to the Department of Civil Aviation were not satisfied with the incinerator on the grounds that it did not meet the required specifications. However, the technical advice was overridden by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  on the ground that he did not want to embarrass his colleague the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright).  The second point is that the incinterator cost $294,000- not quite a gold-plated incinerator but certainly getting up into the burnt-out silver class. The third point is that it is handling only a fraction of the waste matter at the airport and the operating costs are $13,163 a month. In fact, its performance has been so disappointing that the Department of Civil Aviation is going to dump the incinerator and make other arrangements. It is in fact now arranging a contract with the Waverley Municipal Council to utilise the Council's destructor. The Waverley destructor can handle the quarantine waste for a cost of between $7 to $10 a ton. The present monument to incompetence does it at a cost of over 10 times that amount. On the figures made available to me by the Minister for Civil Aviation the operating costs of the incinerator are $95 a ton. Surely this is something that taxpayers should get burnt up about. 
We have to pay $294,000 for an incinerator that not only did not meet the design qualifications but is operating at only onethird capacity, that is one shift a day. The direct operating costs are 10 times more than the local Council is prepared to contract for. This is an instructive example of this Government's operations. Ministers act irresponsibly, taxpayers' money is wasted and everything is done to keep the lid on so that the public will not know how it is being duped. This is a relatively small matter, but it epitomises this Government's gross incompetence. It is minute in comparison with the $400m down the drain on the Fill aircraft. But the incinerator and the Fill aircraft have much in common. 
In the first instance, they do not measure up to the original specifications. Secondly, the cost has escalated from the original estimate. Thirdly, neither the incinerator nor the Fill should ever have been accepted. Fourthly, Ministers have indulged in various devices to hide their incompetence from public scrutiny. To sum up: The Australian taxpayer has been left with an Fill that will not fly, an incinerator that will not burn and a Government that cannot govern. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  agreed to: That the question be now put 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 12.34 a.m. (Thursday) 
The honourable member will be aware that the former government, of which he was a member, stated that it envisaged processes towards -self-government being carried out with a target date of 1st December 1973, and that as part of those processes there will be a handing over of powers and authorities to the Papua New Guinea Government. At the discussions the Prime Minister and I had with the Papua New Guinea Ministers in Port Moresby a request was made to us - and we noted that request - that in part the transfer arrangements will be undertaken in the course of this year, with the same target date for self-government as prescribed by the former government, with which target we entirely agree. 
 The motion of censure moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  talks about vacillating on Australia's troop commitment to the Five Power Arrangements thereby calling into question Australia's commitment. But who is vacillating; who has called into question Australia's troop commitment? Let us look at the record. The credibility gap - the Liberal Party's credibility gap - began at the Five Power meeting in Canberra. The start of this credibility gap and the start of the vacillations, were one very well remembered phrase of a previous Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  when he talked about a country called Malaya - a non-existent country. What he did in that ham-fisted way was to deny a substantial part of Malaysia the security to which Malaysia as a member of the Five Power Defence Arrangements was entitled. He spoke about Malaya, but did not include the other parts of Malaysia, Sarawak and Sabah. It would be rather like the Americans saying: OK, the ANZUS Agreement relates to the continental parts of Australia but let's forget Tasmania'. 
The Gortonian diplomacy went from strength to strength. When he got to London he was asked about the possibility of conflict between Asian countries in terms of the Five Power Defence Arrangements. In one of the great quotes of this century he is reported as follows: 
The Tunku said he wasn't sure what I meant when I said Australia wouldn't help.' 
Well', I told the Tunku, 'if you get into any sort of border fight you had better cope by yourselves because Australia bloody well won't be there.' 
This may be the style that is used by the Liberal Party in faction fights but it is not the style that any responsible government adopts in dealing with other sovereign countries. It is not the style that Australia adopts under the new Government led by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who has been overseas, and by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  and it is not the style that any responsible country should adopt. 
The next Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  in one of his more memorable remarks in an interview in Indonesia on 12th June 1972 said the Five Power Defence Arrangements did not really matter because it is only an obligation to consult and it doesn't take us any further'. For once the former Prime Minister was right. The Five Power Defence Arrangements are a consultation mechanism. They are not an arrangement which leads to immediate action. However, what the former Prime Minister said at that stage runs right across the fiction that the present Opposition tried to create when it was in government. Prime Minister McMahon at that stage made a most remarkable observation on the meaning and significance of the Five Power Defence Arrangements He said: 
A situation might arise, a battalion, a station somewhere in Singapore would give him- that is, the Malaysian Prime Minister, Tun Razak - the degree of confidence they'd need in the event of the possibility of trouble between Malaysia and Singapore. . . . 
So here we have the extraordinary situation where an agreement is intended to keep members of the agreement apart. This is a most extraordinary concept of an international agreement. 
Let us get back to the one correct statement that former Prime Minister McMahon made - that the Five Power Defence Arrangements are a mechanism of consultation. I quote from a statement by a former Minister for Defence following talks in London in 1971. The statement reads:  . . 'in the event of any form of armed attack externally, organised or supported, or the threat of such attack against Malaysia and Singapore' the five governments 'would immediately consult together for the purpose of deciding what measures should be taken either jointly or separately in relation to such attack or threats'. 
I think that this clears up a basic point - that ANZUK is of a consultative nature. But what has been the problem? It has been the woolly thinking of the previous Government. I think what we have to get down to is whether the efficacy of the Five Power Defence Arrange- [ ments is dependent upon having a handful of people in Malaysia and Singapore. We have to decide whether the efficacy of this agreement requires more than 2 jumbo jets full of troops. I think we have to be concerned also about the predicament in which we place Austraiian forces if they are on the ground in Singapore. We are not talking in 19th century terms although the previous Government, which had this 19th century garrison mentality, did. It is impossible for any force on the ground not to become involved in internal disorders or in racial disputes in countries such as Malaysia and Singapore. It is all very well saying that it is understood by Malaysia and Singapore that the troops will not get involved. 
When I was  Deputy  High Commissioner in Malaysia we had strife in Penang. The difficulty was that Australian families were on the island of Penang. When the riots broke out we had to move those families across to Butterworth. Fortunately no Australian lives were endangered. But think of a situation which is not external aggression or internal subversion but is a civil disorder, and Australian forces willy-nilly become involved. We do not accept that proposition. We will not accept that proposition. Let us have a look at the forces in Butterworth, where 2 Mirage squadrons are stationed. They are there because there is nowhere to put them in Australia. There are no bases in Australia for half of our fighter force. What an extraordinary indictment it is of a defence policy when half of the fighter force of Australia is situated thousands of miles away from Australia. In the event of a crisis, and the countries of this area were either hostile or neutral, we could never get these aircraft back to Australia to carry put their basic function, the defence of the Australian continent. It is fundamental to the Labor Party's approach to defence that not only must we be able to defend ourselves, but we must be, seen to be able to defend ourselves, Unless we are capable of securing Australian soil, notions of forward defence and of commitments to other countries north of us are a complete nonsense. Our whole credibility as an ally is a nonsense unless we are in a position to safeguard our own territory. 
Let . us look at the previous Government's record in defence. The Defence Review that was brought down by the previous Government last year stated explicitly that our involvement in Vietnam had weakened Australia's defence position. I quote from page 52 paragraph 26 of the Defence Review. It reads: 
The opportunity to give greater weight to long term strategic considerations in the shaping' of our forces has until recently been restricted by 'the immediate demands of our combat deployment in Vietnam. That opportunity is now restored. 
Of course it is restored because the Australian Labor Party argued and argued against the commitment in Vietnam. Not only did that commitment weaken us in general terms but also it made us completely dependent and wholly reliant upon the logistic support of the United States. Our task forces in Vietnam were completely dependent upon United States logistic support so our whole logistic structure within the Australian Army was depleted because of this continuing over.reliance on the United States. 
Let us now look at the question of mobility and flexibility in order to understand why it was that under the previous Government we had no opportunity of meeting the obligations under the ANZUK agreement. Again I refer to the Defence Review brought down by the Government in the last Parliament. After 23 years of a Liberal government we were not capable of deploying more than one battalionone lightly equipped battalion - within a radius of 2,000 nautical miles, not from Australia, but from Sydney and that deployment was going to take us 8 to 10 days. This presupposed that whatever airfield was to be used for the ferrying operation the potential enemy or the enemy would be kind enough to leave it In operation. How can we possibly undertake a commitment such as the ANZUK agreement when we cannot move one lightly equipped battalion 2,000 nautical miles from Sydney? The Defence Review very profoundly pointed out that 2.000 nautical miles from Sydney would take us to the northern part of Australia and parts of Papua New Guinea. How can we enter into a commitment when the credibility gap is so wide and so obvious? In the event of a crisis, on the basis of the previous Government's attitude towards defence, we would not at any stage have been capable of undertaking and honouring our commitment. Now we are facing up to reality. We have inherited an appalling legacy and a great deal has to be done to rectify the errors of commission and sins of omission of the previous Government. We are turning our attention wholeheartedly to developing an Australian defence force which has as its primary objective the security of Australian soil. On the basis of the security of Australian, soil our defence force will have the mobility and flexibility to assist any allies with whom we have commitments. We regard our commitments much more seriously than the former Government regarded its commitments because we propose to be in a position to honour those commitments. 
There have been references today to the spy base in Singapore. I find myself in a difficult position in this debate because I was one of the 5,700 who knew about that base and in fact it was in the area of my responsibility when I was in Malaysia. 
The shadow Minister for Defence says: 'Let's spill*. Let us look at the whole question. There is a great deal of difference in security information on the part of public servants and people who are involved in the defence mechanism. They have a responsibility not to divulge information because the responsibility for examining national security - what really relates to national security - is not a matter for generals; it is not a matter for diplomats; it is a matter for the Government. Nobody in the Opposition in the previous Parliament, except myself, knew about that base. It was not until the Prime Minister assumed office that he knew of it. It is for the Government to decide what constitutes national security and how it should be interpreted. It is none of the business of those 5,700 or more to make any disclosures or to say anything about it because we have to take into account the British who are also involved. This is a government responsibility. The Prime Minister has made the statement and has made known the implications and the existence of that base. Let us look at what the Opposition members did when they were in power. They made a fetish of secrecy. They won a couple of elections on secrecy and spying - the Petrov case, for instance. But what did they do in regard to the North West Cape installation? There was an agreement with the United States Government which said in Article 3: 
Except with the express consent of the Australian Government, the station will not be used for purposes other than purposes for defence communication, and appropriate Australian authorities nominated by the Australian Government shall at all times have access to the station. 
But the Opposition when it was in power deliberately set out to limit the interpretation of that agreement and so we had the United 
States ambassador asking for an interpretation of that agreement and getting it very willingly because the text of the agreement states:  . . it was clearly understood that consultation 
Referred to in Article 3 -   connoted no more than consultation and was not intended to establish Australian control over use of the station nor to imply any Government of Australia design to restrict at any time United States Government use of the station for defence communications including, for example, communications for polaris submarines. It is also understood that it was not intended to give Australia control over or access  to  the contents of messages transmitted over the station. 
This was the darkest day in Australia's history. It was the day on which the then Government sold out to another power the sovereign rights of this country. It refused to stand up for the right of the Australian people to know what installations existed on Australian soil and their purpose. The former Government used this in an election campaign by trying to mesmerise the Australian people with scraps of paper. This is a monumental indictment of honourable members who sit opposite. Yet they have the audacity to talk about us. This was a day that all Australians will remember. This is a day that we have sought to rectify. The Deputy Prime Minister made a statement last night giving to the Australian people for the first time the rightful knowledge as to what is happening on Australian soil. 
There was a lot in that which had not been previously said and because it had not been said there were so many wild rumours as to what the contents were. But let us take the position one step further. We have decided to make open government in terms of what is happening in Australia, How can we, without contradiction, not say what we are doing in other countries? The 2 things are caught up. The attitude of mind of the Opposition when it was in government was to shroud all these things in secrecy and it regarded this as its main purpose. It did not divulge to the Australian people what was happening on Australian soil. It did not divulge to the Singaporians what was happening on Singaporian soil. That is the record of the Opposition. This censure motion in fact applies to the previous Government which is now the Opposition. We have stated our position clearly. That is more than the previous Government ever did. It is more than the previous Government ever wanted to do. It is more than the previous Government ever intended that it should do. 
We regard our responsibilities to the Australian people as paramount. That is the difference between the previous Government and the present Government. 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Australian Film Development Corporation Act 1970 1 present the second annual report of the Australian Film Development Corporation for the year ended 30th June 1972 together wilh the financial statements and the Auditor.General's report on those statements. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As the honourable member will be aware, representatives of the licencees of the major metropolitan stations met with me at my request on Monday, 5th February, to discuss among other things the capacity of the television industry to undertake increased production of Australian programs, particularly in the field of variety entertainment. Following the meeting, I have discussed with the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, the progress it is making in its continuing review of Australian performance and capacity of stations from which it periodically determines increased requirements. 
The Board, as is its usual practice, had already Invited a number of organisations, including the appropriate unions to submit their views and it will be meeting with the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations later this year, to discuss with that body (as it is required to do under the provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Acf) the introduction of revised requirements. The Board in its assessment of "the capability of the industry to meet increased requirements will be taking Into account those factors which are known to be likely to affect the Industry's viability, including the effects on revenue of any limitations placed on the advertising of cigarettes, and the costs associated with the Introduction of a colour television service in March 1975. 
The Board has advised me that during the period between June 1972 (when the latest revision of the Australian content requirements was introduced) and 
November 1972 (when the usual holiday lay-off in Australian program production commenced) all metropolitan stations met all of the Board's requirements, as did almost all country stations (with the exception of a small number which, because of limited technical facilities, were unable to obtain sufficient program material in a form usable by them). 
I have advised the Board that in its reports to me on applications for renewal of licences I want to be advised of the station's record in maintaining its Australian content quota. In the cases of 2 country stations which to date have been drawn to my attention, I have advised the licencee that the application for renewal has been approved on the understanding that the station will meet all the Australian content requirements laid down by the Board. I have asked the Board to keep me informed on the matter. 
 It is not only very encouraging but also I think very significant that the Opposition on this occasion is supporting the Bill. I think all Government supporters can agree with many of the Opposition speakers, particularly the honourable member for Boothy  (Mr McLeay),  that the legislation should have been introduced before now. It was the Government's intention that the legislation should be brought before the Parliament with the most urgent haste and this has been done. I may now be able to answer a couple of points which were raised in the course of the debate. I shall certainly try to supply answers to honourable members who raised questions that cannot be answered at the moment. 
The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  asked whether an exemption from sales tax would apply to male contraceptives. I am delighted to inform him that the answer is yes, the exemption will apply to all types of contraceptives. The honourable member also asked whether the basic chemical components, oestrogen and progesterone, from which the oral contraceptives are made, are subject to import duty. I have not been able to ascertain that but I will ensure that the answer is supplied to him. As the items are on the pharmaceutical benefits list the prices to consumers will not be affected one way or the other, whether or not they are subject to import duty. 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  referred to the possibility of profit being made from metric conversion. There is an understandable concern in the community about possibilities of malpractice and there are misgivings and fears. There certainly have been reports of dubious practices. The honourable member quoted from some of these reports. As the Minister in charge of the Metric Conversion Board I can assure honourable members that every effort is being made to ensure that there are no malpractices. In fact a number of reports have been investigated very carefully and the investigations have not revealed any malpractices. That is not to say that the misgivings and fears that the community may have should be wiped aside. The community may be quite justifiably concerned. I appeal to honourable members who hear of any reports of malpractice or become aware of it to report it to me. I shall then give the matter my personal attention. 
I think the metric conversion arrangements are proceeding very well. I compliment the former government for undertaking the program and for making the arrangements that are now working very efficiently. The Government hopes that the arrangements will continue in this way. Marked advances have been made. I think the conversion to the metric system in Australia is being carried out with the minimum of interference and dislocation. 
I think that winds up the debate on this issue. Again I thank the Opposition for joining with the Government in support of the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
We are faced with a problem as to the location of the Institute of Marine Science. Honourable members will recall that the Act specifies that the Institute must be at or in the vicinity of Townsville. We have since found that the site that was selected, Cape Pallerenda, is not suitable because of the introduction of a radar system by the Royal Australian Air Force at Townsville. We propose introducing into the House in the near future an amendment to the relevant Act which will give the Australian Institute of Marine Science Council an opportunity to consider other sites. In short, we cannot proceed with the Institute until we have the location organised. We will regard this matter as having some urgency, because 1 agree with the honourable member that this is an important facility for Australia, and he can rest assured that we will take every step possible to ensure that the Institute is suitably located. The amending legislation will be introduced as soon as possible. 
The honourable member will be aware that the Papua New Guinea Government has indicated that henceforth Anzac Day will not be recorded as an official holiday in Papua New Guinea. The Government is making arrangements for members of the Parliament to visit Papua New Guinea. Letters have been sent to the Whips of the various parties. The visit should take place in May. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question of independence for Papua New Guinea ls the concern of both the Australian and Papua New Guinea Governments. It is also the concern of the United Nations which by General Assembly Resolution 2977 of 14th December 1972 called upon Austrafia to prepare, in consultation with the government of Papua New Guinea, a timetable for independence. 
The Government's policy regarding independence was stated in the Governor-General's speech on February 27th in the following terms: 
My Government will move with all due speed towards the creation of an independent, united Papua New Guinea. It proposes to achieve this in the closest consultation with the Government and House of Assembly of Papua New Guinea within the life of this Parliament'. 
Armed Forces: Re-engagements (Question No. 150) 
The answer to the honourable member's question will be found in the answer to question 5741 (Hansard, 26th October 1972, pages 3470 and 3471). 
Australian Capital Territory: Population Growth andHousing (Question  No. 243) 
I received a telegram from  Mr Fabian  Sweeny suggesting that the Kissing Point Army area be considered as a site. I replied to that telegram. I also received a telegram from the local shire council. As I explained the other day, the problem with which we are faced is that the site chosen is no longer suitable. We will be giving the 
Council of the Australian Institute of Marine Science full authority to select the site. This may or may not be in Townsville but I think it very likely that it would be in north Queensland. 
 Throughout this debate the Opposition has conveniently ignored the appalling record of its members, when in Government, of apprising this House of its attitude towards foreign affairs. They did not try to provide this House with information upon which the House could formulate an acceptable foreign policy. I think more important has been the hypocrisy and the humbug that honourable members opposite have shown in the past in steadfastly refusing to give the Joint Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Committee the sorts of powers that my Party has put forward in this resolution. My Party, when in opposition, argued a whole series of points. In opposition we maintained precisely what we have now put forward. When in opposition we did not want the Joint Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Committee to be shrouded in secrecy. We did not want the Joint Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Committee to be a Ministers committee. We regarded it as important that this House should have a committee that was responsible to it. We argued that for the efficacy of the Committee there should be allocated to the Committee a staff that could carry out the work assigned to it by the Committee. Not one change which has been made in the Joint Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Committee was not forced on the previous Government by my Party. 
The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  who was formerly Minister for Foreign Affairs, will recall that the Labor Party asked for open hearings. We made that request time and again and it was only following a compromise that the former Government agreed that open hearings would be held in the sub-committee on aid. That report has now been tabled and I think it shows the advantages that can flow to a committee of this House when open hearings are held. In opposition we put forward a whole series of points. As  Deputy Chairman  of that Committee it was said to me time and again: 'OK, you are saying these things in opposition, but see how different it is going to be when you are in Government. You will do exactly as we have done.' This resolution makes a lie of that point because every proposition that we put forward while we were in opposition has been duly recorded in this resolution which is now before the House and which is now being accepted by the Opposition - the previous Government - which did not have the intestinal fortitude at the time to put these exact propositions forward itself. 
We have honoured the obligations that we entered into when in opposition by bringing them into this House in the form of a resolution. I am very glad that the Opposition has now seen the error of its ways in the past and is supporting what it previously denied. Great things happen to government members when they go into Opposition. I am glad to see that some lessons are now being learned by the Opposition. 
Reference has been made to the reasons why Omega should be referred to the Joint Parliamentary Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee. Surely the difficulties and the controversy about Omega are related to the defence and foreign affairs aspects. This is the essence of the controversy, lt may or may not be true but this is the fear and the concern that has been expressed by people. We will refer this matter to the Joint Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Committee and the hearings will be held in public. Organisations will be invited to put forward their points of view and the Committee will be able to bring down a report guided by its hearings and by the evidence presented to it. We see that as a function of the Committee. We have lived up to the criticisms that we made in opposition. All those criticisms have been examined and the results of our policy are now incorporated in the resolution before the House. I commend the resolution to the House. 
Self-government and independence are really a 2-phase operation. No country can be compelled to rule another country. We in the Australian Labor Party are not casting ourselves as rulers, and we have a perfect right to insist on that position. The United Nations has laid down and has asked Australia to lay down a timetable for both self-government and independence for Papua New Guinea. The previous Government made a decision that self-government would be introduced on 1st December 1973. When the statement announcing that decision was made by my predecessor the Labor Party fully supported the proposition of the previous Government. We are now required to lay down a timetable for independence for Papua New Guinea. We are doing this in consultation with the Government of Papua New Guinea and, following this consultation, a statement will be made available to the General Assembly of the United Nations and to this House. 
A number of the organisations that come within the. portfolio of the Minister for Science are very relevant to the proposition put forward by the honourable member. One of them is the Commonwealth Analyst and another, which comas within the ambit of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, is the Division of Food Research. We have asked these and other sections of the Department to bring forward proposals on consumer standards. In the consumer protection field there are questions of price and quality but the area that is directly relevant to the Department of Science and the organisations that are responsible to the Minister for Science is that of consumer standards. We also have in mind the Standards Association of Australia and the National Association of Testing Authorities for ideas and contributions which they could make with respect to the establishment of consumer standards. This is a complicated field. I believe that there are areas iri which these organisations do not have sufficient powers or sufficient teeth. These deficiencies will have to be identified and rectified. I am sure that the Government would welcome a visit by  Mr Nader.  Honourable members may recall that he was in Australia last year and that the present Prime Minister chaired a meeting at which  Mr Nader  gave an address. I would hope that we may be able to meet the request made by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has not received the final report from the National Radiation Advisory Committee relating to the French nuclear tests in the Pacific Ocean during 1972. 
and (3) Not applicable.  35Hour Week: New South Wales Electricity Commission Employees  (Question No. 124) 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board regards the safeguarding of the interests of children in the viewing audience as one of its most important functions. The special provisions in its television program standards relating to programming during family and children's viewing time between 4 p.m. and 7.30 p.m. daily are strictly enforced and all stations are familiar with their responsibilities under the Standards in programming at these times. 
For obvious reasons the special provisions for family and children's viewing time do not prevent the presentation of news and other types of actuality programming of an informative nature during these periods: 'A Current Affair' is basically a live interview program, and as such is in this category. The Board considers that the program deals responsibly with important social issues. 
The Board maintains a close watch on 'A Current Affair' and the  Chairman  of the Board has informed me that the Board is aware of the particular segments in the program mentioned by the honourable member. In the case of the item televised on 17th March 1972, a full account of the Board's action under Sections 101 and 119 of the Broadcasting and Television Act is to be found in paragraphs 495 to 497 of the Twenty-fourth Annual Report of the Board for the year ended 30th June 1972. The item televised on 4th July 1972 was examined by the Board following the receipt of a complaint from a Brisbane viewer. The complainant was informed that the interview as conducted did not breach the Standards. The other items mentioned by the honourable member were also examined and did not contravene the Standards. I am informed that the complaints about them to the Board also came from a single source. 
The record of the program, as outlined in the foregoing, indicates that the present arrangements for the conduct and supervision of the program are satisfactory. 
It is rather a joy to be involved in a debate in which there is complete harmony on both sides. I think this is a result of the joint party approach in this 
House to the developments in Papua New Guinea and also to such international institutions as the Asian Development Bank. This is the second loan negotiated by the Papua New Guinea Government. I stress, in response to a query by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  that it is on behalf of the Papua New Guinea Government that these loans are negotiated. Of course we had to provide guarantees, and the Australian Government has indicated that it will provide guarantees for all loans entered into on behalf of Papua New Guinea through to independence. The Asian Development Bank, as honourable members opposite have pointed out, is one of 4 international bodies of which Papua New Guinea has become a member. The other organisations are the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East, the World Health Organisation and the South Pacific Conference. 
Papua New Guinea became a member of the Asian Development Bank back in 1971. I think this is important because what the previous Administration did under the honourable member for Kooyong, who was a Minister, and what we are doing now is to provide an international identity for Papua New Guinea. This is not only in advance of independence; it is also in advance of selfgovernment. Each decision that we are now making in terms of self-government is being looked at from the point of view of the impact that it will have on Papua New Guinea in terms of independence. By the time we come to self-government, which the previous Government decided would be granted on 1st December 1973 and which we fully supported, and before Papua New Guinea gains independence it will in fact have an international identity. We regard this as a very important manifestation of our policy towards Papua New Guinea. In terms of Asian Development Bank loans, as honourable members opposite are very well aware, there are 2 types of loans. The first is the ordinary funds which are made available on normal commercial conditions and terms. The second, the one that we attach a great deal of importance to, is the special funds. The report of the Committee to which the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  referred paid special attention to the approach that Australia should take in international aid to the special fund provisions of the Asian Development Bank. 
The legislation we are discussing tonight relates to a loan for the construction of a high way in Papua New Guinea. As all honourable members will understand, particularly those who have been to Papua New Guinea, it is highly important for the development of the country that access to the very remote areas in Papua New Guinea should be made easily available. The advantage that flows from Papua New Guinea being involved in loans from other organisations, particularly the multilateral organisations, is that it does supplement Australian aid. Nobody could say that Australia can provide the totality of the aid that Papua New Guinea will need in the future. We consider - I think I can speak here on behalf of the Opposition too -that Papua New Guinea and Australia have a special relationship. Certainly to my mind this calls for special conditions and a continuance of the special relationship. We would not want to stand in the way - moreover, we would not want to be seen to stand in the way - of Papua New Guinea receiving aid from other countries. We have, as the honourable member for Kooyong mentioned, indicated that Australian aid would be a continuing aid commitment. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  during his recent visit to Papua New Guinea indicated that we will undertake a 3-year program starting in the budget period of 1974-75. We regard this as important because Papua New Guinea will need to have certain conditions that are known to it so that it can structure its own budgeting arrangements. 
The honourable member for Kooyong mentioned the concept of project aid. I think it is important that the budgeting processes in Papua New Guinea be revised. It was not very long ago that the Permanent Head of the Department of Finance in Papua New Guinea - the Treasurer - indicated that the budgeting arrangements in Papua New Guinea were 50 years out of date. I am glad that he as the officer responsible there said that because it was a thought that struck me over the years in discussions we have had in this House on the Papua New Guinea budget. It is a very unsophisticated and simple budget, but it was tailored to the needs of a colony. As Papua New Guinea approaches self-government and independence it is very necessary that the structuring of the budget - the budgetary practices - in Papua New Guinea be changed. One of the areas of change which the Government has sought to encourage and to which we have had favourable response is the division in the budget roughly into two areas - recurrent expenditure and the development program. 
I think this is important because if Papua New Guinea is to attract aid from other countries, it should have a development budget - in Papua New Guinea it is called, in general terms, an improvement budget - so that foreign countries can attach themselves to projects that are thrown up in the improvement program. This is certainly the form of approach that the Japanese Government has adopted in aid to the less developed countries and it is a form that many other countries will follow. 
The Government will attach itself to this notion, but because Australia has had a very long association with Papua New Guinea it will not be in strict and inflexible terms. So these changes will take place. We will be looking towards an improvement or development budget and a change in the budgetary systems in Papua New Guinea, and we will be looking towards a definition in the Budget of projects that will open the way for assistance from the developing countries in aid to Papua New Guinea. 
The particular project that is under discussion in the House at present is the upgrading, realignment and sealing of 75 miles of the Highlands Highway. As the previous  speaker  has pointed out, this is an area of very dense population and the access which this road will provide for the sending out of goods and products will be invaluable to the meal and subsistence farmers in that area. I should like to apologise to the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  who directed a question to someone else the other day. I was told, nine-tenths of the way through the question, that I was the Minister responsible for answering it. In essence the question was why the present Australian Government was forcing Papua New Guinea to borrow its loan funds from overseas and limiting Australia's contribution to a 'miserly' $10m. The point is that the Government is not forcing Papua New Guinea into world loan markets in preference to assistance from the Australian Government, but I think it is important for all honourable members to realise that there are advantages for Papua New Guinea in seeking loans from overseas to finance part of its expenditure. In the first instance these supplement Australian aid and Papua New Guinea revenue and increase the financial resources available to Papua New Guinea. The second point is that it is important for Papua New Guinea to establish itself on the world loan market. It is important that it establish itself at this time because Australia can still provide the guarantee. If we leave it much longer Papua New Guinea will have difficulties in entering the international loan market if it cannot provide the sort of guarantees that Australia can provide. I think Papua New Guinea will build up its credit worthiness as a borrower through this process. 
I notice the honourable member for Balaclava has just entered the chamber. I apologise to him for the irrelevance, perhaps, of my answer to him, but I think it is very important that Papua New Guinea now entering into the international loan market and becoming an international identity is to be recognised in the international loan market. We regard this as one of the important objectives in bringing Papua New Guinea to independence smoothly. It has to establish a reputation in the international loan market and the only way it can do this is by borrowing on the international market. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes a simple amendment to the Australian Institute of Marine Science Act 1972. The amendment will remove a condition which is presently restricting the selection of a suitable site. Honourable members will recall that the first step towards establishing the Institute was the Act of 1970. An Interim Council was appointed under that Act with  Dr M.  Day of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation as  Chairman.  The Council was instructed to make recommendations to the Government for the establishment of the Institute, its functions, powers and constitution and for the site of the Institute. It was specifically directed by section 4 (2) of the Act that the Institute be at or in the vicinity of Townsville. 
In July 1971 the report of the Interim Council was completed and submitted to the Government. It considered and made recommendations on marine science in general as well as the Institute. The recommendations of the Council led to the Australian Institute of Marine Science Act 1972 which was given Royal Assent on 9th June 1972. The governing Council was appointed under the chairmanship of  Sir Henry  Basten. The Council faced 2 major problems. The original intention was to use some government land at Cape Pallarenda, but this proved impracticable. 
Honourable members may recall that the report of the Interim Council expressed some reservations about the Cape Pallarenda site but within the restrictive terms of the Act it regarded it as the best site available. On page 19 of its report the Council drew attention to the following disadvantages of the site: Firstly, the wharf is exposed and in shallow water; secondly, it is not a suitable base for operations in some fields of marine science; thirdly, Townsville is not a suitable site for some of the other operations proposed; fourthly, there is risk of pollution from a smelter - in fact the site is already badly polluted and water for the aquaria would have to be imported. In addition, when the Council examined the Cape Pallarenda site in detail subsequently it was discovered that prior approval had been given for a Royal Australian Air Force and Department of Civil Aviation surveillance radar to be installed on Many Peaks Range near the proposed site. Expert advice was sought and, based on experience with a similar radar in Sydney, it was considered that the radar could cause unacceptable interference to delicate scientific equipment in the laboratories. It was also determined that electrical screening could not eliminate the problem for some of the items of equipment. 
The Council then resumed attempts to find an alternative site at or within the vicinity of Townsville, that is, broadly within the city boundaries. So far these efforts have been unsuccessful, bearing in mind the conditions which the site must fulfil. 
One proposal was to separate the aquaria from the Institute and locate them on Magnetic Island. This was rejected since the separation would lead to a loss of efficiency as a result of the time lost in travelling between the two sites. In addition, the building and operating costs would be increased and it was desired to conserve Magnetic Island. 
The Council considered the problem at its meeting in February 1973 and as a result reported to me in the following terms: 
Accordingly the Council recommends that the Institute be located somewhere on the tropical coast  of  Queensland, not necessarily where the 1972 Act directs and not necessarily on Commonwealth or Crown land. 
The purpose of the amendment is therefore to remove restrictions on the search for a suitable site. The Government is mindful of .he advantages which would flow from close association with the James Cook University of Northern Queensland. It is still the intention of the Government to locate the Institute on the tropical coast of Queensland. Its work will be directed initially to marine problems in the area of the Great Barrier Reef, the Coral Sea and the adjacent waters of northern Queensland. A further problem arose in connection with the appointment of the Director. This is a key position and the success of the Institute will turn on finding the right person. The Council refrained from advertising for a director until a suitable salary had been determined. The recent Remuneration and Allowances Act 1973 set the director's salary at $19,148. This is the range appropriate to a Head of Division in the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. It should enable a scientist of suitable eminence and calibre to be recruited. With these 2 difficulties overcome, the Council is confident that action can be taken to bring the Institute into operation as soon as possible. 
The Institute will provide for the development of marine science in Australia, lt is important to make provision for research in temperate and tropical waters and to balance properly the allocation of our research resources to these areas. The Government regards the Institute as an important step in developing and extending marine science. The Government intends to overcome Australia's deficiencies in marine science and it is examining other steps that should be taken. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bonnett)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matters referred to fall within the authority of Ministers in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The issue of many licences is carried out by local government councils and aggregate figures for some are not readily available in Port Moresby. At this time the Papua New Guinea Government is heavily committed on urgent projects and the Ministers responsible have only been able to provide the following answers from material reasonably accessible. 
The Minister for the Interior has provided the following information: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no evidence of an increase in leptospirosis in cattle. However, the disease is perhaps diagnosed more frequently as field veterinary officers are more aware of it. 
The causes of this disease are already known. Commercial vaccines are available and are considered to be effective in preventing outbreaks. Chronic carriers of leptospira respond satisfactorily to treatment ' with streptomycin. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Parliamentary Proceedings Broadcasting Act to extend the protection afforded by section 15 of the Act to the Territories not forming part of Australia. Section 15 of the Act provides that no action, civil or criminal, shall lie for broadcasting or rebroadcasting any portion of the proceedings of either House of Parliament. Although the only coverage desired of such broadcasts is domestic, reception may extend to other areas because of variations in atmospheric conditions. 
The Bill does not specifically bar any action or proceeding pending or yet to be instituted in respect of a broadcast or rebroadcast made before the date on which the Bill comes into operation. The opportunity has been taken to incorporate minor amendments relating to dates and titles which would have otherwise been included in a proposed statute law revision Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
by leave - I wish to inform the House about certain decisions that the Government has made concerning Christmas Island. The only commercial activity on Christmas Island is the extraction and export of rock phosphate and phosphate dust. The life of the commercially usable portion of the phosphate deposit at expected rates of extraction is about 20 years. When the phosphate industry ceases to operate there will be no economic future on the Island for the Asian residents that would be appropriate to their experience and skills. There are no indigenous inhabitants of Christmas Island. Asian workers brought mainly from Singapore have been employed in the Island's phosphate industry since mining by the Christmas Island Phosphate Co. began in 1899. Most of the present Asian resident population came to the Island since World War, II or were born there. Since 1966, almost all workers brought to the Island have been on 3-year terms of employment and have been repatriated at the end of their contracts. Prior to this, Asian workers were recruited for an indefinite stay. 
Most of the people who came to the Island as adults had little formal education but have acquired useful skills as a result of their employment in the phosphate industry. Those who came as children or were born there have had the benefit of primary and secondary education. The curriculum is based on the Singapore curriculum with .some modifications and senior students sit for the University of London General Certificate of Education. A technical training centre provides apprenticeship courses for school leavers and technical training for secondary school students. Those who successfully complete the appren ticeship course gain qualifications conferred by the Western Australian authorities. Various improvements to the educational system recommended by an educational adviser in 1970 are being made as rapidly as possible. Under the agreement entered into in 1958, the phosphate operations are controlled by the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission on behalf of the Australian and New Zealand governments, each of which has a 50 per cent share in the enterprise. This agreement superseded a similar agreement entered into in 1949, the year after the Australian and New Zealand governments acquired the mining rights from the Christmas Island Phosphate Co. The Commission employs the British Phosphate Commissioners to manage the mining and other operations and it is the Commissioners who employ the majority of the Asian workers on Christmas Island. 
Phosphate from Christmas Island is of high grade and is the cheapest source for both Australia and New Zealand. Christmas Island supplies about one-third of the 2 countries' total requirements of phosphate rock. In addition about 150,000 tons of phosphate dust are exported annually to Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia. Christmas Island has been an Australian territory under the control of the Commonwealth since 1st October 1958 when Australia took over control from Britain. Under the agreement with the New Zealand government, the net expenditure of the Territory's Administration is met by the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission. Under the Christmas Island Act 1958, adults who were British subjects and ordinarily resident on the Island on 1st October 1958 could opt for Australian citizenship within 2 years of that date. Those who were not 21 years on that date could opt for Australian citizenship on turning 21 years and up to 2 years thereafter. People born on Christmas Island on or after 1st October 1958 are Australian citizens by birth. At 30th June 1972, 497 Asian residents of Christmas Island were Australian citizens by birth or exercise of an option. 
Because there will be no economic future for the Asian residents of Christmas Island when the phosphate industry ceases to operate, the Government has decided that such, residents who are not on fixed terms of employment should be given the opportunity to resettle progressively elsewhere at a rate that will  noi  adversely affect the operations of the phosphate -industry and will enable replacement to be made by recruitment of contract - fixed term - workers. Many of the Asian residents have greater ties with Singapore or Malaysia than with Australia and are likely to opt to go to those countries if they are accepted. Some 12S0 appear to have clear rights to go to Singapore, Malaysia or Indonesia through their possession of the citizenship of those countries. The remainder have Australian citizenship - about 500 - or undetermined citizenship - about 90. Those Asian residents who are not contract - fixed term - workers and who are Australian citizens will be entitled to residence in Australia on application. Such applicants will be counselled to arrange employment and accommodation before coming here. Those Asian residents who are not contract - fixed term - workers and who are not Australian citizens will be accepted for residence in Australia on application subject to availability of employment and accommodation and to health and character checks where deemed necessary. Those who did not qualify for residence in Australia under these provisions but who were not able to go to another country would be regarded, in principle, as acceptable for residence in Australia. 
Resettlement will be a gradual and voluntary process. Every effort will be made to equip the people for resettlement through education and training on the Island, scholarships, resettlement grants and appropriate reception arrangements. This will be done for all permanent Asian residents, irrespective of the country in which they settle. A resettlement committee comprising officers of the Departments of Immigration, External Territories and Labour, will oversight the arrangements. Subject to negotiations at present being carried out with the New Zealand authorities, the Christmas Island Agreement Act 1958 will be amended to permit the Christmas Island Special Fund to be drawn on progressively to finance measures to facilitate resettlement. As the Act now stands the fund can only be used immediately prior to the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission ceasing to function. This fund is being built up by a levy on each ton of phosphate rock exported from the Island and now stands at approximately $2m. The Christmas Island Act will also be amended to enable young people on the Island who may now under that Act opt for Australian citizenship at 21 years, to opt from 16 years with parents' consent. This would bring Christmas Island into line with 
Australia, where young migrants may become Australian citizens at 16 years with parents'  consent. 
These people have rendered a service to Australia by helping to operate an industry that has been and still is extremely valuable to Australia. The decisions are also in keeping with the spirit of an undertaking given in 1958, when Christmas Island was taken over by Australia, that any applications for entry to Australia by Asian residents of the Island would be given sympathetic consideration. The Australian Government accepts that it must look ahead to the time when the phosphate industry will cease to function and the Asian residents will no longer have a source of income on the Island. It is confident that by giving the Asian residents the opportunity to resettle off the Island in a planned, gradual way. the Government will be discharging Australia's obligations towards these people and will be acting in their best interests. The Government for its part will be making every effort to ensure that resettlement proceeds smoothly without disruption to the phosphate industry or adverse effects on the people concerned. I am happy to say that this policy was endorsed by the former Government, and this ensures a bi-partisan approach to the human problems involved. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
To develop, in a pilot area on the south coast of New South Wales, a technique for assessing land resources and studying land use problems in developed but non-urban areas. This would provide information relevant to land use planning decisions and the resolution ofland use conflicts. This is a cooperative project between CSIRO and the New South Wales Department of Environment. 
The first report on the information systems used and results obtained should be available by the end of  1974,  but a testing and adaptation period will follow before the results can be used with confidence. 
The aim is to develop the information systems so that those who make decisions in land use will have available to them sets ofland use options and predictions of the consequences of these decisions, based on the fullest possible data.It will be indicated what land should be excluded from particular uses, but no attempt will be made to define optimum use for a particular piece of land or to recommend allocation of land for a specific purpose. 
National Commission on Social Welfare  (Question No. 459) 
One of the difficulties that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation had in the project was that no Australian company was prepared to undertake the development. There is nothing that we can do about the past, but we are now reviewing the procedures for licensing and patenting for CSIRO. We hope that the development aspects of CSIRO discoveries and inventions will be undertaken in co-operation with the Australian Industry Development Corporation. It has been a very regrettable, part of previous government policy that sufficient impetus has not been given to the development of CSIRO inventions. I agree with the honourable member that it is a loss to Australian industries that the particular process to which he referred was not taken up by Australians. 
by leave  -  I wish to inform honourable members of recent events in Papua New Guinea of interest to this Parliament. As honourable members are aware, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh),  the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  and I have, since this Government took office, had discussions with the Papua New Guinea Government, both in Australia and in Papua New Guinea, on the development of that country to self-government and independence. The Government has reaffirmed the agreement reached by the previous government with the Papua New Guinea Government on the timing for self-government and has indicated that it will work with all due speed to independence for Papua New Guinea in the closest consultation with the Papua New Guinea Government and the House of Assembly. 
Part of the process of development towards the goals of self-government and independence is the development of organs of government in Papua New Guinea to suit its particular circumstances. Thus the Australian and Papua New Guinea Governments agreed recently to the creation of a Department of the Chief Minister and Development Administration. This Department will combine the former Office of the Chief Minister with the functions of the Division of District Administration, the Local Government Office and the Intelligence Branch, all of which were formerly parts of the Administrator's Department. This reorganisation has resulted in minor portfolio changes within the Papua New Guinea Ministry and after consultation with the Administrator I have agreed to the recommendations put forward by the Papua New Guinea Government for the formal creation of 2 portfolios - that of Chief Minister and that of Minister for State and Minister Assisting the Chief Minister. To date the designation 'Chief Minister' has been an unofficial title that has given recognition to the position within the Papua New Guinea Ministry of the Minister elected by his colleagues, to be  Deputy Chairman  of the 
Administrator's Executive Council. The abolition of the portfolio of Minister for Local Government is consequential. 
On 30th April 1 executed instruments under the Papua New Guinea Act to give effect to these changes and also to give effect to the devolution of authority to Papua New Guinea Ministers which had been agreed on in constitutional discussions last year. 1 have placed copies of these instruments in the Library for the information of honourable members. These instruments devolve the authority of the Minister for External Territories upon Ministers of the House of Assembly over all aspects of government in Papua New Guinea except those matters for which Australia, by virtue of constitutional or administrative reasons, still retains full responsibility and control. The powers transferred by the instruments have been approved by the House of Assembly. Previous instruments had devolved specific powers upon Ministers of the House of Assembly but the position now is that the bulk of the powers lie with Papua New Guinea Ministers and therefore only the powers still retained by Australia are listed. Papua New Guinea Ministers are finally responsible for such matters as education, health, works, finance, labour, agriculture, stock and fisheries, district administration, local government, information, social development and transport and thus now have effective control over virtually all aspects of the internal government of Papua New Guinea. 
The purpose of my most recent talks was to review progress on the various legislative and administrative measures which have to be taken to meet the timing of self-government agreed upon by the House of Assembly and the Australian Government. As the Chief Minister wished to refer the results of the talks to his Cabinet, to the Constitutional Planning Committee and to the Leader of the Opposition, it was not possible to reach any definite decisions. As all constitutional and administrative decisions now made affecting Papua New Guinea must be decided in the light of the rapid approach of selfgovernment and independence the discussions were of value in helping to identify a number of matters requiring early resolution. For instance I expressed the view that the continuation of officials appointed by the GovernorGeneral of Australia as members of the House of Assembly and the Administrator's Executive Council would be an anachronism in a self-governing Papua New Guinea and I proposed their withdrawal. 
A matter for which the Australian Government is reluctant to continue to accept responsibility is the legal system apart from the Supreme Court of Papua New Guinea. There have been many expressions of opinion by Papua New Guineans that the legal system should be one appropriate to conditions in Papua New Guinea. Any changes to the legal system before or at self government must be such as will be acceptable to an independent Papua New Guinea. 1 indicated my belief that responsibility in this field should be assumed by Papua New Guinea at an early date, and the Chief Minister agreed to refer the question of the appointment of a Minister for Justice to his Government after fully consulting the Constitutional Planning Committee and the Leader of the Opposition. 1 stressed at these talks that the movement to self government and the transfer of powers was a continuing process and that the talks were part of this process. I announced, for instance, Australia's decision to transfer authority for formulating the Improvement Program and for final approval of major aid projects to Papua New Guinea as soon as possible. This transfer of authority had been agreed to in principle by the previous Australian Government and is in line with Labor policy on aid for Papua New Guinea.  Mr Somare  will put Australia's proposition to his Government and the Constitutional Planning. Committee. 
The talks isolated those areas of government which for administrative or constitutional reasons might not be transferred until after self government on 1st December 1973. While matters such as defence and foreign affairs will not be transferred until independence for constitutional reasons, some other matters are under consideration by the Constitutional Planning Committee. The review has indicated however that it will be possible for most remaining powers held by the Australian Government to be transferred to Papua New Guinea by or shortly after self government. Where a matter still retained by Australia at this stage falls within the portfolio function of a Minister of the House of Assembly then that Minister has full day to day responsibility for the implementation of policy which had been agreed upon by the Papua New Guinea and Australian governments. Further, there are some matters which do not fall within the portfolio functions of  a 
Minister of the House of Assembly but, at this stage, in accordance with the agreement reached between the Papua New Guinea Government and the previous Australian Government, these functions are exercised by Australia only after the fullest consultation with and advice from the Papua New Guinea Government. Thus by the time of independence Papua New Guinea will be familiar with and have experience in all areas of government. 
For instance, although Australia will continue to be responsible for Papua New Guinea's foreign affairs until independence, Papua New Guinea is beginning to assume a separate international identity. One example of this is that the Chief Minister formally signed the Indonesian Border Agreement in Djakarta earlier this year. A this moment discussions are being held in Papua New Guinea on the development of a regime for this border between Papua New Guinea and Indonesia and it is interesting to note that these events mean that virtually all the recommendations of the Interim Report of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs dealing with Australian Relations with Indonesia concerning the delineation of the border and the development of a border regime have been achieved. This is most satisfactory. As I have indicated, the Australian Government has every intention of seeing through the task which Australia undertook in Papua New Guinea not only in the period up to independence but beyond. 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
No precise up to date estimates are available. Previous estimates made by the ABC of publishing such a journal indicated that the estimated circulation would not cover the basic publication costs. 
1 have asked the  Chairman  of the ABC to consider the honourable member's suggestion. 
by leave - As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has pointed out the Government is examining ways of promoting the interests of consumers. This is a matter which touches everyone in the community. The Government has already initiated action in relation to prices. Proposals will be forthcoming in other aspects such as unfair trading practices, misleading advertising and so on. TonightI want to deal with an important aspect of consumer protection - consumer standards. A consumer standard is an agreed statement of quality and/ or performance that a product should have. It is based on research and takes account of what is necessary for safety and what is realistically achievable in manufacture or production with the current technology. The public can use consumer standards as a guide for purchasing if the goods are properly marked and tested to ensure they comply with the standard. Related to this is the legal enforcement of standards where this is thought necessary. 
The Constitution gives the Australian Government powers in the field of weights and measures. On the advice of the National Standards Commission, which comes within my portfolio, the Australian Government provides the standards in weights and measures. This assists consumers through quantity control. We have amicable relations with the States in dealing with quantity control. We shall be looking to see if we can also make progress with the States in quality control. 
In the packaging field, the Standing Committee on Packaging was set up in 1968 at the request of the States to achieve rationalisation in the requirements for statements on packages offered for sale. The National Standards Commission provides the  chairman  and secretariat for this Committee. The purchaser of a packet of breakfast food can thank the Standing Committee on Packaging for the fact that the weight will be quoted in the same way on the packet, irrespective of the State in which it is purchased. This rationalisation lowers costs by giving larger production runs. 
We shall be inquiring whether uniformity should be sought in areas not covered by States' weights and measures laws, such as in the fields of poisons and agricultural and veterinary chemicals. The success of the Standing Committee on Packaging shows what can and should be achieved in seeking this sort of uniformity. 
Honourable members may already know of the work of the Standards Association of Australia in the field of consumer standards. This is an independent body which receives an annual grant from the Australian Government through my Ministry. In 1971-72 this grant amounted to $687,000, which was 42 per cent of the Association's budget. This body formulates standards in many fields including consumer standards. It operates through a number of expert committees which include representation from all interested groups: Industry, government, and consumer organisations. 
The Standards Association frequently formulates its standards on the basis of research carried out in Government laboratories. For the information of honourable members, I am tabling 3 consumer standards published by the Association. These are for toothbrushes, sunglass lenses and children's night clothes. I mention those items as an example of the sort of work which is being done by the Association and which can prove useful to honourable members also. They illustrate, particularly the last two, the contribution made by research in Government laboratories to establishing standards. The standard for sunglass lenses is based on research conducted in the Defence Standards Laboratories. That for children's night clothes is based on a standard for the flammability of fabrics involving an entirely new method of measuring the ease of ignition of textiles. This method originated in the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation Division of Protein Chemistry. 
I propose that this contribution of research in Governmentlaboratoriesto consumer standards should be developed. CSIRO has an important role to play and I am at present considering establishing a unit within the Organisation to co-ordinate research work into the establishment of consumer standards. The Standards Association has responded favourably to the Government's interest in its work in the consumer field. The Association's Consumer Standards Advisory Committee recently met following our expression of interest and is considering the preparation of standards for the performance requirements of domestic electrical appliances, for detergents and bleaches, dentifrices, colour television, fire guards for heating appliances, child-proof bottle closures, petrol and contraceptive devices. 
The Association is also looking into ways of promoting further the use of its AS (Australian Standards) mark to go on products which pass approved tests. We shall assist this work also, both in promotion and testing. The field of foods, drugs, liquor, pharmaceuticals and other such preparations involves the statutory responsibilities of other areas in the Australian Government and the States. The safety aspect is already covered for many of these products, but much remains to be done in setting quality standards and efficacy standards. The Government intends that its scientific resources and laboratories will contribute increasingly to the establishment of standards. As the Prime Minister has already indicated, we shall be seeking the active cooperation of the States. 
The Analytical Services Branch of my Department, formerly the analytical laboratories within the Department of Customs and Excise, is active in certain fields of product testing. For the information of honourable members I now table reports of the laboratories' tests on: Trace metals in canned fruit and vegetables and microbiological quality of baby foods. I draw attention to the fact that these reports were not prepared with a view to their public release, but they illustrate what my Department can do in the consumer field. We would see the Department continuing in this work, in co-operation with other bodies. We shall publish the results of such tests in an appropriate format, when they can be related to a published standard, so that their significance is easily understood. 
In conclusion, let me emphasise again that we are all consumers, and that the Government accepts a responsibility to protect the consumer. The Government recognises that standards cannot be set overnight. However it is our intention to give a higher priority to such activities than hitherto. I present the following paper: 
Consumer Standards - Ministerial Statement, 9th May 1973. 
Motion (by  Mr Les  Johnson) proposed: 
That the House take note of the statement. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Forbes)  adjourned. 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
, (3) and (4) The Commission is at present considering whether the establishment of a Complaints Commission comparable to the BBC's Complaints Commission is desirable. 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answers to the honourable member's questions: 
Yes. 
, (3), (4) and (5) The ABC informs me that it has no record of any person interviewed during the period mentioned, withdrawing permission for the interview to be broadcast. 
 I have seen the reports. They are serious reports but I suspect they are over-dramatised. The honourable member will know that the only stipulation contained in the relevant Act is that 5 per cent of the broadcasting time should be allocated to Australian composed music. We recently have introduced a stipulation that 10 per cent of the time be by Australian performers. I do not think that this can be regarded as being an unnecessarily harsh requirement. In the future the requirement may be strengthened on behalf of Australian performers. I shall undertake to refer the honourable gentleman's question to my colleague, the Minister for the Media, and let him have further advice. 
 Just very briefly in response to the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)- 
The. honourable member for Kingston raised some questions about currency. The present position is that a banking adviser has been appointed to the Papua New Guinea Government. That Government is going ahead with the establishment of a Papua New Guinea bank and central banking activities and of course it will be the responsibility of that bank, when it is formed, to examine any of the questions that relate to currency. The honourable member for Kingston raised a couple of hypothetical questions. I do not believe that it would serve any useful purpose at this stage to discuss the various options. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
The honourable member was quite right when he pointed out that the full details have not been made public. In fact, the Press reports this morning were both premature and far from complete. The Minister for the Media and the Government are seeking to encourage more Australian content in television and radio programs. T am sure that that is a policy in which all members of this House will concur. The current situation is that the points system devised by the Broadcasting Control Board is under discussion between representatives of the television licensees and the Board. They are expected to meet some time next week. It has been made plain that the proposals are for examination and discussion; they are not inflexible. The points system that finally will be devised and published will be devised and published after consideration and discussion with the licensees. 

 - i move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this legislation is to give effect to a series of decisions reached jointly with the Government of Papua New Guinea. These are to transfer responsibility for the Public Service and for auditing the accounts of Papua New Guinea to local executive authority, to implement the recommendations of a report on the future of overseas officers in the Public Service and to make minor amendments to the description of Papua New Guinea in conformity with the terms of the border agreement between Australia and Indonesia signed in February 1973. 
There are 2 Bills involved. One is to amend the Papua New Guinea Act. The amendments proposed have 4 objectives. Firstly, they will remove the power of the Minister for External Territories under section 30 to appoint officers and engage persons on contract for the Public Service, thus enabling Papua New Guinea to legislate to develop its own national public service - an essential authority for a country approaching full selfgovernment and independence. Secondly, they will repeal section  30a,  which guarantees the payment of certain benefits for overseas officers. This section will be superfluous with the passage of the Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Bill, to which I will refer later. Thirdly, the amendments provide for the cessation of Australian responsibility for auditing the accounts of Papua New Guinea. In this regard it will be noted that the transfer of responsibility is to apply to accounts in respect of transactions occurring after a date to be fixed by proclamation. This will retain authority for the Australian Auditor-General to complete his final audit, and enable the Papua New Guinea Auditor to commence his responsibilities at the beginning of an appropriate financial period. Fourthly, the amendments will give effect to certain provisions of the border agreement between Australia and Indonesia signed earlier this year. The agreement provides for the recognition of the  14  border markers erected by a joint IndonesianAustralian border survey team in  1966-67.  The amendments to the descriptions of the Territories of Papua and of New Guinea are in accordance with the Agreement, concluded with the concurrence of the Papua New Guinea Administrator's Executive Council and signed on behalf of Australia by the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea. It provides that the boundary is to lie along the geodetic lines linking the border markers except where the border follows the course of the Fly River. 
I now turn to the Bill titled the Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Bill. This Bill is complementary to the proposed amendments to the Papua New Guinea Act and is designed to come into operation on the date on which responsibility for the Public Service is transferred to the Papua New Guinea Government. At the present time there are some  5,000  permanent and contract overseas officers of the Papua New Guinea Public Service and the Police Force who were appointed as permanent officers or engaged on contract by the Minister for External Territories. The Papua New Guinea Government has indicated that it wants to retain the services of many of these officers and that it sees a continuing need for staff from Australia for some years beyond independence. The Australian Government has given an undertaking to Papua New Guinea that the help of Australians will be available for as long as that help is needed and desired. The Papua New 
Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Bill provides the framework under which this may be accomplished and gives effect to the recommendations of a report on the future employment security of overseas officers in the Public Service. 
The report on employment security arrangements sprang from an independent inquiry into the employment security of overseas officers and the provision of future staff by Australia. The inquiry was set up by the previous Government in August last year and was carried out by  Mr A.  M. Simpson, C.M.G., a leading Adelaide businessman.  His  report was accepted in principle by both the Australian and Papua New Guinea governments and was published. Copies are available from the Parliamentary Library. The Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Bill, in giving effect to the Simpson recommendations, reflects a decision taken jointly by Papua New Guinea and the former Australian Government and endorsed by the present Australian Government. Its provisions will result in major changes to the existing framework under which the Australian Government provides staff for Papua New Guinea. 
Under the Bill permanent and contract overseas officers and temporary overseas employee superannuation fund contributors in the Public Service and the Police Force, and staff of the Electricity Commission of Papua New Guinea who are supperannuation contributors, will be separated from their respective Papua New Guinea services and will become part of an Australian Staffing Assistance group. The persons in this group will not be members of the national Public Service of Papua New Guinea and they will not compete with local officers for promotion within that service. They will however be made available to occupy and carry out the duties of established positions in the Papua New Guinea national Public Service and in other areas of public employment until there are Papua New Guineans available to fill these positions and their services are no longer required. Their employment under the Australian staffing assistance legislation will then cease and they will eventually rejoin the Australian work force. The Commonwealth Teaching Service will shortly be recruiting teachers for service in Papua New Guinea and for the period of that service they will form part of the Australian staffing assistance group. Similarly, staff seconded from other areas of Australian public employment will also serve in the group in line with Australia's undertaking to provide continuing staffing assistance to Papua New Guinea. The Bill provides for the prescribing by regulation of the terms and conditions of service and the superannuation, retirement and employment security benefits of the overseas officers who will make up the staffing assistance group. Removal of these matters from Papua New Guinea legislation and their prescription under Australian legislation will meet the assurances given to these officers by the Australian Government that their terms and conditions of service would not be altered without the consent of the Australian Government. The Australian Government will, therefore, as part of its aid program be accepting full and direct responsibility for the cost and payment of the remuneration and other benefits of employees in the staffing assistance group. 
Other changes recommended by  Mr Simpson  relate to employment security arrangements for employees in the staffing assistance group. Modifications will be made to the employment security scheme for permanent overseas officers to update its benefits in line with rising costs since 1966 and to provide officers with certain options as to pensions, compensation or alternative employment on premature termination of their careers. A scheme of compensation for premature termination of contracts of employment made by the Minister under the Papua New Guinea Act will also be introduced. These matters will be prescribed by regulation. The Bill itself is designed to provide the basic framework under which the Simpson recommendations may be given effect. Pending the introduction of regulations prescribing terms and conditions of employment it provides for the continuation of the relevant provisions of appropriate Papua New Guinea Ordinances and the regulations and determinations made thereunder. In so far as superannuation, retirement and employement security benefits are concerned the Bill continues certain provisions in the existing Papua New Guinea law and preserves the continuity of pensions and the rights of contributors. The regulations to be made by the Governor-General will provide the detailed mechanism necessary for the effective administration of the Act, and will set out the terras and conditions of employment and other benefits available to persons to be absorbed into the Australian staffing assistance group. It is essential that the provi sions of the Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Bill and the necessary regulations to be made thereunder become operative on the date on which responsibility for the Public Service is transferred to the Papua New Guinea Government. This is scheduled for 1 August 1973. The Papua New Guinea Government is proceeding with complementary Papua New Guinea legislation to establish a national public service and the object is that both the Australian and Papua New Guinea legislation will commence concurrently. I commend the Bills to the House. 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) I am informed by the ABC that it does not keep such records but that as far as can be recalled there was no occasion during the period mentioned when the coverage of a controversial subject was prevented by the refusal of a person or representative of an organisation to be interviewed. The Commission informs me that on one occasion the presentation of an interview for "This Day Tonight' with the Secretary, of the Postal Clerks' and Telegraphists' Union was delayed because a representative of the Post Office was not available to reply to certain statements about the Post Office. However, I am advised that statements by the Union Secretary,  Mr Baker,  similar to those made in the 'This Day Tonight' program, were shown on the ABC TV news. 
The honourable member will be aware it is government policy to guarantee political and programming independence to the ABC However, I have brought the honourable member's suggestion to the attention of the  Chairman  of the ABC for consideration by the Commission. 
The question of the research funds provided through industry levies does give cause for some concern. The efficacy relies on the buoyancy of the industry, so when the industry is enjoying a buoyant time research funds are available. However, when the obverse is correct, I do not think it really relates to the necessity of research. One could well require more research when the rate of development in secondary or primary industry is down. It seems to me that a research program based on the buoyancy or otherwise of an industry is perhaps not the best way of approaching research programs. I can tell the honourable member that the Minister for Primary Industry and myself are now examining the various research programs. The major one that we are looking at is the wool research program. When we have finalised a viewpoint on the future of the research programs, particularly in the primary industries, we will make a proposal to the Government and in due course the House will be informed. 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Details requested by the Honourable Member are shown in an accompanying table supplied to me by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. The Honourable  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will be aware that the Board has determined Australian content requirements calling for 50 per cent of Australian content in overall programming and in peakviewing time, as well as quotas in first-release Australian drama and programs for school-age children. 
It must be understood that compliance with the Board's Australian content requirements is calculated on the basis of an average over 48 weeks from July to June each year. The worst four-week performance in the year is disregarded in the calculation to allow for the efforts of the holiday lay-off period in program production. The residual effect of the 1972-73 lay-off period is reflected in the results shown for some stations in the table. The performance of some stations was effected by a strike by Technicians during the period under review. 
The Board has informed me that according to its calculations national station ABV Melbourne, which is fairly representative of all national stations, during the period covered in the table achieved an overall Australian content figure of 49.6 per cent and 42.8 per cent in peak-time including four hours of Australian drama, and one hour of school-age children's programming. The Board's requirements do not apply to the programs of national stations. 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission has advised me separately in the following terms: 
The percentage of Australian produced television material shown on ABN Channel  2 in  Sydney during February,  1973,  was  44.6  per cent. The percentage shown on other ABC stations throughout Australia was approximately the same. The short fall below SO per cent for the month of February is explained by the fact that the television programs 'Monday Conference' and "This Day Tonight' did not resume until Monday,  12  February, and 'Four Corners' until Saturday,  17  February. Annually, however, the average will exceed SO per cent. The ABC's Annual Report  1971-72  shows the percentage of Australian produced material shown on ABN Channel  2  in Sydney during the twelve months ending  30  June  1972  as  51.41  per cent and this was typical of the percentage shown on other ABC stations throughout Australia for the same period.' 
I share the honourable member's alarm at the growth of pollution in the Georges River. He has discussed this matter with me on several occasions. I am delighted to be able to tell the honourable gentleman that the study of the pollution of the Georges River is regarded as one of the important projects within the total program of the Botany Bay project which is being undertaken with the assistance and co-operation of the 3 learned academics. We are actively involving the local governments in the area. A meeting of the local governments which cover the Georges River, Cooks River and Botany Bay areas will take place some time early in August by which time the director for the Botany Bay project will have been appointed and the program will be under way. 
AUSTRALIAN ECONOMY: GOVERNMENT SPENDING 
There is an apprehension in the community that there could be overcharging and profiteering from the conversion to the metric system. I have taken the. view, as has the Metric Conversion Board, that this is not to happen. I have given directions that in the event of any complaints being made they are to be throughly investigated. I make it known now to honourable members that if any complaints come to their attention I personally will ensure that each and every complaint is investigated and that a report is given to honourable members. I accept the honourable member's proposition that widespread publicity and information should be given to the public. This we are endeavouring to do, and honourable members can be assured of the full co-operation of the Metric Conversion Board and the Government in ensuring that in the process of transfer to the metric system there will be no profiteering in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 2 May 1973, the Prime Minister tabled Reports Nos 4 and5 of the Australian Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee, together with the Report dated April 1973 of the National Radiation Advisory Committee, covering the tests in June-July 1972. He also tabled a report by the Australian Academy of Science. In his statement, the Prime Minister stated that the reports showed that radioactive fall-out had occurred over Australia, had contaminated the Australian environment and that the people of Australia may have been adversely affected by the tests. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(i) The Department of External Territories does not sponsor persons to attend tertiary institutions in Papua New Guinea. 
In the 1973 academic year there are (a) 11 indigenous males and (c) 4 indigenous females undertaking formal tertiary level training courses in Australia. These people are assisted to attend tertiary institutions in Australia through the Commonwealth Practical Training Scheme, which is funded from the budget appropriations of the Department of External 
Territories. No expatriates are assisted under this scheme. 
The Commonwealth Practical Training Scheme was established by the Australian Government in March 1970 to enable Papua New Guinean men and women to develop their skills and so advance more rapidly to positions of greater responsibility. The scheme is conducted under the same conditions as apply to Australia's other international training schemes, such as the Colombo Plan. Training may be approved for any occupation for which there are no training facilities available in Papua New Guinea, or for which the training can be better provided in Australia. 
The cost of assisting the fifteen indigenous students studying at tertiary level under the Commonwealth Practical Training Scheme in 1973 is $52,012. 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Bendigo and Central Victoria Telecasters Ltd, licensee of commercial television station BCV Bendigo wrote to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board on 30 August 1966 indicating the Company's desire to submit an application to establish a translator station on Mount Puckapunyal. 
The Board has conducted technical field investigations in the Seymour-Puckapunyal area and the result of these investigations indicated that the service in the Puckapunyal area was found generally, to be adequate and that although some problems associated with reception of the national and commercial stations from both Bendigo and Shepparton are evident in the Seymour area, the range of signal levels received from BCV Bendigo is considered adequate provided suitable external aerial systems are used. 
-The Minister for Primary Industry, in his reply, asked me to provide an answer to part (4) of the question. The answer is a follows: 
Research by CSIRO against the Queensland fruit fly and the Mediterranean fruit fly has been along the following four lines: 
Biological control 
Several species of wasp parasites have been introduced from Hawaii and released in Queensland, northern New South Wales and Western Australia. One species is well established along coastal Queensland, although so far it is having little effect in reducing fruit fly populations. This is partly because it is not very active in some fruits, such as mango and guava, which are important hosts of fruit flies. The other species of parasites have not established themselves. 
Control by poisoned lures 
Extensive laboratory and field studies have been undertaken by CSIRO and State Departments of Agriculture to assess the effectiveness of two kinds of poisoned lure; namely, a food lure with insecticide, and a male-attracting lure with insecticide. Control methods using these lures can suppress relatively small, isolated fruit fly populations in country towns where sporadic outbreaks occur: they are now the basis of control in New South Wales, Western Australia and Victoria. The pest is far more difficult to control in north-eastern New South Wales and Queensland because permanent populations occur over extensive regions. Rainforests and backyard fruit trees are among the widespread breeding grounds which contribute to the problem. 
The biology and ecology of Queensland fruit fly 
The study of the biological and ecological characteristics of the Queensland fruit fly has provided a greater understanding of the problem and a mote rational basis for devising practicable measures of control. 
Fresh fruit disinfestation 
CSIRO is collaborating with the New South Wales Department of Agriculture in developing methods for disinfesting fruit against the Queensland fruit fly. These methods must meet stringent requirements of some importing countries, covering both effectiveness and safety to the consumer. The methods examined include cold storage, fumigation, and dipping. Queensland and Victoria authorities are also engaged in similiar research. Western Australia authorities are developing methods of disinfestation against the Mediterranean fruit fly. 
Pursuant to section 28 (3) of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942-1973, I present the report and financial statements of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board for the year ended 30 June 1973, together with the report of the Auditor-General as to those statements. 
I move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
I am pleased to introduce these 3 Bills that represent further steps toward the progressive introduction of the metric system. Honourable members will recall that the decision to bring about progressively the use of the metric system as the sole system for the measurement of physical quantities in Australia was incorporated in the Metric Conversion Act which was passed in June 1970. The second annual report of the Metric Conversion Board was 'tabled in this House during October last year. It reported that steady progress had been made towards conversion. The broad plan adopted by the Board was that 1971 should be a year of planning and coordination; 1972 a year of increasing public awareness; and 1973-75 should be years of major implementation. By 1976, 70 per cent of the nation's activities should have been converted to the metric system. Many consumer goods, such as eggs, sugar and bread, already have been converted. Many more are planned for the remainder of this year. 
An interdepartmental co-ordinating committee for metric conversion has established that about 110 Acts contain references to physical units. These need to be converted in step with the programs for conversion. Several Acts relating to the Customs Tariff were amended last year. The present Bills amend 3 Acts. The Honey Levy Bills Nos 1 and 2 provide respectively for a levy to be imposed on all honey produced in Australia and sold, or used in the production of other goods. Convenient rounded metric equivalents have been substituted for existing imperial quantities in the Acts. The maximum levy that can be applied has been converted from lc per lb to 2.2c per kilogram. This is a decrease of 0.2 per cent. At present a person is exempt from the levy if his monthly production is less than 120 lb. The nearest rational metric quantity, SO kilograms, has been substituted. The amendments give effect to the recommendations of the honey industry and reflect its progress towards conversion. Already, bulk export of honey is invoiced in tonnes. Retail packs will be converted during the next 12 months as new jars and tins become available. 
The main purpose of the Egg Export Charges Bill is to convert to equivalent metric measurement the rates of charge imposed on egg exports under the Egg Export Charges Act 1947-1965. Money collected under that Act is appropriated to the Australian Egg Board under the provisions of die Egg Export 
Control Act 1947-1966. The Bill provides for the rates of charge which are expressed in Imperial units to be converted to equivalent metric units. This conversion results in a decrease of about 0.2 per cent in the actual rates of levy. The opportunity has also been taken to make two machinery changes. The first substitutes the word 'Australia' for the word 'Commonwealth' as being more appropriate in clauses 2 and 3. The second deletes the words 'after a date to be fixed by Proclamation'. The date has been proclaimed and the words are no longer necessary. I commend these 3 Bills to this House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Sinclair)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bills be read a secondtime. 

 Mr Speaker, the legislation which I am now introducing is historic. Its purpose is to bring about formal self-government in Papua New Guinea by amending the Papua New Guinea Act and by providing the means by which other Australian legislation may be discontinued in its application to Papua New Guinea. This legislation marks a significant step towards nationhood for Papua New Guinea. In addition there are 2 Bills which amend specific Australian Acts in their application to Papua New Guinea. These amendments result from agreements reached between Australia and Papua New Guinea for the transfer of the function of the Bureau of Meteorology to Papua New Guinea and the exclusion of that country from the operation of the Wireless Telegraphy Act. 
The amendments proposed to the Papua New Guinea Act are certainly historic, but the changes brought about are more symbolic than substantive. In practice Papua New Guinea is virtually self-governing now. Papua New Guinea Ministers are at present exercising full responsibilities for most of the functions of internal self-government. Each action taken by the Australian Government in moving to self-government in Papua New 
Guinea has been a deliberate one in a continuing process of transferring responsibility to where it rightly belongs - with the elected representatives of the people of Papua New Guinea. Neither the formal achievement of self-government nor independence will be marked by an abrupt step or a dramatic change. Australia has involved the Papua New Guinea Government progressively in the full spectrum of government activities - not just in those areas over which final authority has passed. In this way the formal achievement of self-government will merely be the final step in a series. The final step is small but nonetheless historic. It symbolises the completion of the process of self-government. By this smooth and gradual transition, the status of self-government will have been achieved. Self-government is the completion of a gradual and ordered process and is not a sudden break from one status and set of responsibilities to another. 
Turning first to the Bill to amend the Papua New Guinea Act, the amendments contained in this Bill are designed to bring about a formal state of self-government in Papua New Guinea and for the most part will be brought into effect on the agreed date for self-government. The previous Australian Government accepted the wishes of Papua New Guinea that the date for self-government be 1 December 1973 or as soon as possible thereafter. The Labor Party, which had earlier foreshadowed the proposal, welcomed the agreed commitment. The Labor Government has worked towards this objective since taking office. 
There are 2 important points which I would like to draw to the attention of honourable members in the consideration of this Bill. Firstly, the legislation we are considering concerns the structure of government in Papua New Guinea, another country, which has a character and an identity of its own. Secondly, the amending Bill in the main merely enacts in formal legislative form the de facto situation which has already come about with constitutional development in Papua New Guinea. This situation has come about of course by agreement with the previous Government as well as this one that there should be a progressive transfer of power from Australia to Papua New Guinea Ministers. The extent of this de facto selfgovernment will become evident as I run through the more important aspects of the Bill. 
Changes of name which are provided for in the amendments and which come into effect on the date of self-government reflect changes in emphasis already evident in practice affecting that Administration, the Administrator and the Administrator's Executive Council. The Bill provides that the Administration will be known as the Government of Papua New Guinea. Clause 5 also provides that the Papua New Guinea Government is a corporate entity which is able to sue and be sued, and make contracts and agreements by that name. The title of the Administrator of Papua New Guinea will be changed to that of the High Commissioner. The Bill provides in clause 8 that subject to the Act the Government shall be administered by the High Commissioner of Papua New Guinea. During the self-governing period, the High Commissioner will have 2 functions - those of embryo 'Head of State' for Papua New Guinea and those of the Australian Representative. But he will continue to be appointed and instructed by the GovernorGeneral. This accords with the normal constitutional position of Papua New Guinea as a self-governing territory of Australia. Clause 9 of the Bill allows 2 Acting High Commissioners to be appointed by the GovernorGeneral in the event of the absence or incapacity of the High Commissioner. If two arc appointed the commission of each will specify the powers and functions of the High Commissioner to be performed by each appointee. 
The Bill generally provides for the High Commissioner to assume most of the powers now held by the Minister for External Territories and some now held by the GovernorGeneral. The High Commissioner will be able to determine the number of Ministers of the House of Assembly, their designations and functions, as well as appoint them to office. He will also be empowered to transfer Ministers from one portfolio to another. It is intended that the High Commissioner should under instruction from the Governor-General exercise these powers upon the advice of the Executive Council. That is an aspect of the Head of State function of the High Commissioner of which I have spoken. The High Commissioner will also perform some formal functions at present performed by the GovernorGeneral regarding the acceptance of resignations and the filling of vacancies in the House of Assembly. 
Clause 10 of the Bill provides that the Administrators Executive Council will be renamed the Executive Council and that its function will be to advise the High Commissioner on any matters relating to the administration of the Government. Thus it will be able to offer advice on any matter instead of just those matters referred to it by the High Commissioner or by an ordinance. This broadening of its authority reflects current practice agreed by the previous Government and this Government that when independence comes there will be no area of government in which Papua New Guinea will be unfamiliar or lack experience. It is intended that the High Commissioner be instructed by the Governor-General to accept the advice of the Executive Council in all areas which are not reserved to Australia. This also reflects agreed practice. Clause 11 reflects changes requested by Papua New Guinea in the composition of the Executive. These changes have been requested by the Chief Minister to allow him more flexibility in the composition of his Ministry, and clause 40 enables such an increase to take place before December in the number of Ministers on the present Administrator's Executive Council. Clause 1 1 also provides that the Chief Minister will be known by that title, rather than by Deputy Chairman of the Council. Official members will be removed from the Executive Council as well as the House of Assembly. Clause 20 reflects the change in composition of the House of Assembly arising from the removal of official members. 
By agreement with Papua New Guinea, defence and foreign relations will remain reserved to Australia until Independence. However, again in accordance with agreements reached with Papua New Guinea provision has been made for the proclamation at self-government of other functions which it may be necessary to reserve pending completion of any legislative and administrative steps both in Papua New Guinea and Australia. Such functions will be proclaimed only after agreement with Papua New Guinea, and as soon as the administrative and legislative details have been completed these functions will be transferred to Papua New Guinea. Clause 42 of the Bill provides that matters cannot be proclaimed as reserved matters after self-government. Any proclamations made at self-government can only be revoked, cancelled, deleted or reduced in scope in the future. Clauses 13 and 14 deal with functions of Ministers. These amendments allow the High Commissioner to determine the func tions of Ministers subject to the Act and thus do not alter the basic manner by which functions of Ministers are currently determined. However, the arrangements which are approved by the Minister for External Territories and which at the moment apply regarding the extent and manner of performance of functions by Ministers will apply only in the reserved areas and not generally. 
Clause 4 (d) enumerates the reserved areas. As I have mentioned above, the intention is that in all except the reserved areas the High Commissioner will, by instruction, act on the advice of the Executive Council. The High Commissioner's role in the reserved areas will be similar to the Administrator's present role in the government of Papua New Guinea. As such he will be responsible within Papua New Guinea for these functions on behalf of Australia and will be subject to the directions of the Australian Government. Nevertheless, in accordance with the policies of the previous Government and this Government, Papua New Guinea Ministers will be closely and fully involved in the reserved functions. Recently, at the request of the Chief Minister, I created the portfolio of Minister for Defence and Foreign Relations. The creation of this portfolio and the appointment to it of a Papua New Guinea Minister will ensure that Papua New Guinea will have first hand involvement and experience in these key reserved areas, well before independence. Through such actions, Papua New Guinea is already beginning to assume a separate international identity. 
Clause 24 provides that only those laws dealing with reserved matters will need to be reserved for the Governor-General's assent. The authority of the Governor-General to disallow laws not related to reserved matters is removed by clause 25. In the light of these changes and in response to a request by the Papua New Guinea Government, the Bill by clause 23 amends the Papua New Guinea Act to make provision for the laws of the House of Assembly to be called 'Acts' rather than Ordinances' if the House decides to adopt this nomenclature. 
Changes in other areas are proposed. One of these areas is the judiciary provisions of the Act. The Papua New Guinea Government has requested that the qualifications of persons who may be appointed as judges of the Supreme Court be extended. At present only Australian barristers and solicitors are eligible. Amendments under clause 28 will allow lawyers with at least 5-years standing, and judges of courts of unlimited jurisdiction within any legal system similar to that of Papua New Guinea to be appointed. Clause 26 provides for judges to be appointed on contract for a fixed term. Such provisions will allow Papua New Guinea to call on overseas expertise for as long as it takes its own legal profession to provide a sufficient number of judges. 
At present all loans raised by the Papua New Guinea Government are guaranteed by Australia by virtue of the Papua New Guinea Act. Clause 31 of the Bill makes clear that this guarantee will continue for the life of those loans which are raised before independence. The transitional provisions of the Bill ensure the continuity of government and personal actions and the vesting of rights and responsibilities in the new bodies and entities which are established at self-government. 
I now turn to the second Bill we are considering - the Papua New Guinea (Application of Laws) Bill. Honourable members will be aware that there are a number of Acts of the Australian Parliament which have application in Papua New Guinea. Some of these Acts apply because the Australian Parliament has expressly extended them to Papua New Guinea. Other Acts have application insofar as some sections of them apply to people, things or situations in Papua New Guinea. All these Acts form part of the internal law of Papua New Guinea. None of them can be amended or modified without the concurrence of the Australian Parliament. 
During self-government Papua New Guinea should be entitled to have the final say on what laws apply within its boundaries except of course laws in the reserved areas. Thus the application of those Australian Acts which would be inconsistent with the status of a self-governing Papua New Guinea should, so far as practicable, be discontinued. The only practicable solution is to permit the making of regulations effectively to cease the application to Papua New Guinea of Australian Acts. 
It is proposed by this Bill that the GovernorGeneral be empowered to make regulation to Papua New Guinea of Australian Acts, in Papua New Guinea. The Acts to be dealt with are only those which form part of the internal law of Papua New Guinea. To avoid the situation whereby the cessation of an Australian Act would leave a vacuum in the law of Papua New Guinea, it is proposed that the application of an Australian Act, particularly for which there is no Papua New Guinea counterpart, will in general not be discontinued until and unless that cessation has been approved by the Papua New Guinea Government. 
It is not intended that any regulation to cease the application of any Act will actually amend the Act concerned. It is intended that regulations will be interpretative only, and that affected Acts will be read in conjunction with those regulations, to produce together a reduced area of applicability. 
When any Act ceases to apply to Papua New Guinea by regulation, the Act will still apply to Australia. It will still be part of Australian law. It may be that some aspects of that Act, as part of Australian law, but no longer as part of Papua New Guinea law, will require amendment to protect the rights under Australian law of persons, matters or things connected with Papua New Guinea or to make provision for the occurrence of matters in Papua New Guinea affecting Australia but not Papua New Guinea. The Bill enables amendments of this type and other consequential and transitional provisions to be made. 
I now turn to the 2 other Bills which affect Papua New Guinea - the Wireless Telegraphy Bill and the Meteorology Bill. Briefly, both Bills have been drafted to allow for the exclusion of Papua New Guinea from the provisions of the respective Acts by notice in the Gazette'. Papua New Guinea and Australia have agreed that both Acts should be discontinued in their application to Papua New Guinea at a mutually agreed time. The reasons for this are the enactment by Papua New Guinea of a radiocommunications ordinance dealing with matters covered by the Wireless Telegraphy Act and the transfer to Papua New Guinea of meteorological functions formerly carried out by the Australian Bureau of Meteorology. The amendment of the Meteorology Act provides for the Bureau to continue co-operation with the Papua New Guinea meteorological services. 
The Papua New Guinea Bill and the other Bills I have detailed form the first of the 2 stages which will bring formal selfgovernment to Papua New Guinea. The 
Chief Minister and I announced this 2-stage process following discussions in May this year. The second stage which will culminate in May or June next year will be the consideration and adoption by the House of Assembly of a constitution prepared by the Constitutional Planning Committee and the subsequent amendment by this Parliament of the Papua New Guinea Act to make the Act consistent with that constitution. These Bills, the adoption of the constitution and subsequent amendment of the Papua New Guinea Act next year, and the final step of independence are all integral stages in the continuous development of Papua New Guinea from dependency to nationhood. 
The June 1973 meeting of the United Nations Trusteeship Council endorsed the views of the Papua New Guinea and Australian Governments on the role of the House of Assembly in important constitutional decisions. The Council noted the agreement between the Governments of Australia and Papua New Guinea that resolutions in the House of Assembly on important constitutional issues will be by a recorded vote and by a substantial majority representative of the nation as a whole. 
On the timing of independence, the Council noted Australia's view that there are 2 elements involved in the determination of the question of independence: The view of Australia and the views of the people of Papua New Guinea as expressed through their elected representatives in the House of Assembly. The Council noted that Australia expects independence to come by 1975 and that it should be achieved in the closest consultation with the Government and the House of Assembly of Papua New Guinea. I remind the House that the United Nations General Assembly in 1972 asked Australia to fix a timetable for independence in consultation with Papua New Guinea. The Council further noted that Australia did not disagree with the view of the House of Assembly that Papua New Guinea should experience a period of self-government before a date for independence is set. 
The Bills now before the House detail the legislative steps that Australia has to take to enable Papua New Guinea to be formally self-governing before the end of. this year. These measures are in accordance with requests by the Papua New Guinea Government and the House of Assembly and have been accepted by the previous Australian Government. The amendment of the Papua New Guinea Act will formalise the selfgoverning status of Papua New Guinea. The Application of Laws Bill and the other Bills enable that country to be freed from Australian legislation so that it can make its own laws as a self-governing country. All the Bills concern the constitutional development of another country which in the Government's view is entitled to be given control over its own destiny. I commend the Bills to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) All states have enacted legislation  concerned  with the protection of certain rights of the consumer. The major provisions of the legislation are concerned with matters including trade descriptions, false or misleading advertising, marketing practice, price control, consumer credit, consumer education and safety. However, not all States have legislation comprehending all of these matters and the provisions of the legislation are not uniform between States. 
The Australian Government has some power to protect certain rights of the consumer under legislation such as: 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Designs Law Review Committee relating to utility models. 
 The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
The only differences I am aware of are those resulting from the Prime Minister's ins ructions to all Government agencies relating to equal tenders and Australian-owned companies. 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
To the best of my knowledge, there are 168 companies engaged in the production of films or television programs in Australia and, of these: 
5 are more than 50 per cent foreign-owned; 
163 are more than 50 per cent Australianowned. 
The  Minister for  the  Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Government is determined to improve the quality of Australian content and to increase the degree of Australian participation in films and television. In planning the achievement of these objectives, full consideration has been given to the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on the Encouragement of Australian Productions for Television, of which Committee I was a member. Steps have been taken already which should ensure: an early increase in the quantity of local content; a broader range of programming available to viewers; an improvement in the quality of Australian television productions. 
The next stage of our planning in this matter is under discussion with the stations and other organisations involved and it is anticipated that this further stage will become effective early in 1974. 
Australian Army: Future Strength and Structure (Question No. 319)  Dr Forbes  asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
When will the interdepartmental committee set up to advise on future strength and structure of the Australian Army complete its work. 
Will he make available to the Parliament the Defence advice he receives on this matter . 
 The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The question of the Commonwealth Film Unit obtaining Statutory Authority status is one that has been proposed in a number of quarters. I understand a suggestion along these lines was made to the previous Government but not adopted. Due regard has been given to the reasons in support but it has been decided by me at this stage that the CFU has a much better future as a division of the Department of the Media than it may have as a Statutory Authority. Action has been taken to upgrade the Unit in name and status, and give it more independence. It is the Government's intention to see that creative film making in this country is encouraged and that the Commonwealth Film Unit, now known as Film Australia, will have every possible opportunity of becoming a significant example of this development. 
Yes. 
See answer to (1). 
 The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) 1,175 programs in the series 'Adventure Island' were produced for the ABC by  Mr Godfrey  Philipp, a producer engaged on contract using ABC facilities. The ABC does not wish to prejudice  Mr Philipp's  or its own bargaining position by disclosing in Hansard the negotiated contract fees paid to him, or the costs of overseas programs it has purchased in a competitive market. 
The Commission purchased the right to one only repeat showing of 100 episodes of 'Adventure Island1. 
The decision not to renew the contract for the production of 'Adventure Island' was properly made within the Program Division of the ABC, with the concurrence of Management and the Commission, whose Acting  Chairman,  in a public statement, gave the reasons for the decision. &lt;5) It is the policy of the ABC that imaginative material should be a permanent feature of its television for children. The ABC will continue to show in place of 'Adventure Island' and at other times, programs designed to serve a wider age group of young people than was formerly possible. 
Meat Meal: Increase in Costs  (Question No.  476) 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
It is expected that National Television Station ABWS Woomera will commence operation in October 1973. Station ABCS Ceduna commenced service on 16 July 1973. 
Australian Government Land: Use for Tourist Development  (Question No.  680)  Mr Garland  asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has he received representations from the Western Australian Government for land held by the Australian Government for defence purposes to be handed to the State Government for tourist development. 
If so, what is the present position, and when is it expected that a decision will be made. 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Department of the Media - Central Office 
The Department occupies leased premises as under: Central Office: Floors 9, 10, 11 Earle Cameron 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Committee on Banking in Papua New Guinea, dated November 1972. I present also a copy of the statement issued on 10 April this year entitled 'Banking Arrangements in Papua New Guinea'. 
-I  move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide, in  accordance with the Budget speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  for an increase in the payment of fees in respect of licences for commercial broadcasting stations which have not been increased since  1964.  It is not proposed to increase the fees in respect of licences for commercial television stations at this stage pending an examination of the effects on the financial position of stations of the costs involved in equipping them for colour transmissions and the increases in Australian content requirements. There are  118  commercial broadcasting stations presently operating in Australia and it is proposed that the fee payable in respect of the grant or renewal of a licence should be increased from $50  to$200  and that the following scale of rates on gross earnings from advertising receipts should be applied: 1 per cent of gross earnings up to $500,000;1 per cent of gross earnings from $500,000 to $1m; 2 per cent of gross earnings from $lm to $1.5m;  2  per cent of gross earnings from $1.5m to$2m; 3 per cent of gross earnings from $2m to $2. 5m; 3 per cent of gross earnings from $2.5m to $3m; 4 per cent of gross earnings from $3m to $3.5m; and 4 per cent of gross earnings exceeding $3. 5m. 
These proposed rates were announced in a Ministerial statement by my colleague, the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  in the Senate on 21 August. It is estimated that, taking into account the natural past growth rate in the assessable revenue for licence fee purposes of broadcasting stations, the revised scale is expected to raise additional revenue of some $120,000 in 1973- 74. Revenue received from broadcasting stations' licence fees for the year1 972-73 was $491,204. The new fees have been calculated so as to ensure that stations which are only marginally profitable will only need to pay the small increase of $150. The Bill proposes that the new scale of fees will operate from 22 August1973 and therefore the licence fees in respect of the renewal of licences falling due after that date will be assessed on the new scale of fees. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 12.55 to 2.15 p.m. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as  follows: 
Yes. 
Information in respect of the Department of Science and all authorities under the control of the Minister for Science as at 30 June 1973 is: 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Territory of Christmas Island for the year ended 30 June 1972 and the annual report of the Territory of Cocos (Keeling) Islands for the year ended 30 June 1972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The numbers of buildings not owned by the Government but occupied by the Department of External Territories in each State are as follows: 
Minister for Science and Minister for External Territories (2.15)  -  by leave  -  I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent consideration of notice No. 1, general business, being continued. 
I move the motion in the belief that the members of the House would wish to bring to completion consideration of the motion before the House. I believe that honourable members have formulated their viewpoints in this matter and I believe that it is imperative for this House not to leave on the notice paper matters that can be dispensed with. 
Therefore I have much pleasure in moving the motion. 
by leave - I wish to inform the House of the Government's decision to establish an Interim Commission on Consumer Standards. The Interim Commission will be responsible for co-ordination of Australian Government action in the development of uniform consumer standards and for promoting research and development work necessary for the formulation of product standards, codes of practice for testing and evaluating consumer products. In the statement to the House on 9 May I pointed out that a consumer standard is an agreed statement of quality and/ or performance that a product should have. We believe that consumer knowledge of the properties and quality of products will protect the consumer and further that the assessment of the quality and effectiveness and hence the value for money will make a useful contribution in our multi-pronged attack on inflation. 
The Government's decision flows from the promise contained in the policy speech given by the Leader of the ALP that under Labor the national government - itself the largest consumer - will move directly and solidly into the field of consumer protection. The Government is mindful of the acceleration of technical progress, the growth of mass production, the increase of purchasing power and the widening and growing complexity of markets. These developments have brought benefit to the consumer - and we are all consumers - but in the process we have been confronted with a bewildering range of goods, more complex and designed to meet a greater variety of specific Uses, produced in anticipation of demand rather than in response to it, promoted by more vigorous and sophisticated selling techniques and bringing into play a more elaborate range of services. 
Some foreign governments have recognised the extent and importance of these difficulties in both social and economic contexts, and have accepted the need for action to reinforce the consumer's position. Generally speaking, the objectives of such action are accepted to be: 
Protection against hazards to safety and health; 
protection against deceptive and other unfair practices; 
provision of adequate rights and means  of redress; 
provision of information and education  to facilitate sound choice and the  proper exercise of consumers' rights; 
involvement of consumer representatives in the formulation of regulations or Other elements of economic policies which concern them. 
We have all noted the emergence of organisations representing consumer interests. The Government believes that it is not only desirable but also necessary to develop links and means of consultation between the Government authorities and these organisations. For the first time in our country's history representatives of consumer groups were invited this year to participate in the pre-Budget consultations. Views put forward during these discussions are reflected in the Government's decision. 
The Interim Commission will be charged with the task of arranging consultations and developing liaison with representative consumer organisations. 
Because we are embarking on a new area of activity for the Australian Government, we intend that the Interim Commission shall survey the available resources, identify areas of further activity and bring forward recommendations for the establishment at a later stage of a permanent commission. We believe that flexibility at this stage will contribute greatly to the final success of the venture. The terms of reference of the Interim Commission will be: 
To canvass opinions from consumer organisations and consumer affairs bureaux, particularly in order to draw up priorities for actions on development of consumer standards; 
to co-operate with the Standards Associa tion of Australia in giving more consideration to consumer interests in the drawing up of SAA standards; 
to identify areas of need, and encourage appropriate laboratories to undertake research and development work necessary for the formulation of improved consumer standards; 
to encourage, and where necessary to contract with, appropriate laboratories to test consumer products and to publish the results; 
Principal responsibility for coordination of Australian Government action in the development of uniform standards for consumer products, including advisory and policy functions in relation to Codex Alimentarius and Commonwealth food standards, but not including standards based on health criteria on drugs and foods, that would remain the responsibility of the Department of Health; 
To provide representation of consumer interests to Commonwealth departments, such as the Department of 
Health (drugs, and therapeutic materials) and the Department of Transport (motor vehicles); 
To provide support (chiefly through clerical assistance) to encourage the formation of an Australian federation of consumer organisations; 
To explore the needs for consumer education and take appropriate action, such as developing school curricula in consumer education; 
To arrange for meetings of Commonwealth and State officials to discuss consumer matters, and to provide a secretariat for appropriate meetings that may be arranged of Commonwealth and State Ministers on standards for consumer products and related matters; 
To make recommendations to the Government on the permanent statutory body to succeed it. 
The work of the Interim Commission will be greatly assisted by the not often recognised fact that the Australian Government is itself a consumer - the largest in the land - and is already involved in the drawing up of standards and in the testing of consumer products intended for Government use. By building on the established expertise, the Government can make an immediate major contribution to the formulation of soundly based and realistic standards for consumer goods. Government laboratories are well placed to test a wide range of consumer goods against appropriate standards and to publish the results for the guidance of the public. The Government and the housewife have similar interests in 'good buys'. I fully expect that the standards resulting from the work of the Commission will influence future purchases by the Government. 
Until now, many standards for consumer goods have concentrated on safety alone. Domestic electrical goods must meet the safety standards laid down by the Standards Association of Australia. But compliance with these standards does not tell us anything about performance. A petrol lawn mower for instance can meet the currently established safety standards but be unable to cut grass. A consumer standard as we see it involves performance and quality as well as safety. 
We propose that the Commission should encourage implementing a marking scheme so that products which meet the standard can be easily identified by the purchaser. The Standards Association of Australia already has a marking scheme in limited operation. Honourable members may have seen their 'AS' mark, for example, on some brands of car seats for children and on life jackets. One of the virtues of a marking scheme is that it saves deluging the consumer with information about the product which he might not want or fully understand for that mater. All he or she really needs to know whether the product meets the best contemporary standards of quality and performance. A mark backed by an adequate standard will tell him this. The Government has made available a sum of $200,000 to fund the work of the Interim Commission in this financial year. The membership of the Interim Commission will be announced shortly. I present the following paper: 
Interim Commission on Consumer Standards - Ministerial Statement, 13 September 1973. 
Motion (by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
 The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I have been advised that the Reporter Newspaper Co. is registered in New South Wales in the name of  Mr Auburn  Charles Williams and that the registered office of that company is at 9 Apps Avenue, Turramurra. I understand that  Mr Williams  is the sole proprietor of that company and of the publication called 'New Legislation of the Australian Parliament'. (2) My information is that the publishers of that publication draw information from copies of Hansard which are available as a normal press facility. No special arrangements have been made by the Government. 
No. According to the editorial in the issues it is published in an entirely private capacity, financed by subscriptions in Australia and from overseas, and by normal advertising support. 
As it is published in an entirely independent capacity only the publisher can determine its content. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the Executive Agencies' joint report on activities under the United States - Australia Agreement for Scientific and Technical Co-operation during the period October 1968 to June 1972. 
 Mr Speaker,  pursuant to section 78 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942- 1973 I present the forty-first annual report on the operations of the Australian Broadcasting Commission for the year ended 30 June 1973, together with a financial statement for the period and the Auditor-General's report on that statement. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure. It might suit the convenience of honourable members to discuss the subject matter of the 4 Bills listed as Order of the Day No. 9 with the Papua New Guinea Loans Guarantee Bill 1973. Separate questions of course will be put for each Bill. 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
My department has not initiated any such investigation. I would suggest the honourable member make inquiries of my colleagues the AttorneyGeneral and the Minister for Science to see if they have considered such matters. Advertising on radio and television is a matter for the Broadcasting Control Board, which from time to time reviews the standards itdraws up in this area. 
See answer to Question (1). 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. In some Western Australian Provincial areas there are local evening newspapers on some weekdays additional to the Perth evening newspaper. In Kalgoorlie there is also a local morning newspaper. In Perth specifically, both 'The Australian' and 'Financial Review' are readily available on weekdays. These are national newspapers. 
My department has been advised that no higher freight charges are placed on national newspapers transhipped by air from Eastern States to Perth than are placed on other goods carried by air. The Financial Review' is printed in the Eastern States and copies for Western Australia are transhipped by air to Perth. The price of the "Financial Review' in Perth is 7c per copy, the same as for the Perth West Australian' morning newspaper. The Monday and Saturday editions of 'The Australian' for distribution in Perth are printed in Adelaide and the copies for Western Australia sent by air from Adelaide to Perth. On Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays however, the Western Australian copies of 'The Australian' are printed in Perth. The price charged for all editions of 'The Australian' in both Perth and Adelaide is 10c per copy. As  one  national newspaper is readily available at the same price as the local Perth morning newspaper and as the other is available at the same price in both Adelaide and Perth, it does not appear that freight charges have affected availability of these newspapers in Western Australia. It is interesting to note that in no State is the price of 'The Australian' competitive with local daily newspapers even when sold in the city in which it is printed. 
No. In this case, it would be preferable for any interested national newspaper to submit relevant information direct to the Minister for Transport. 
My Department informs me that there is already a choice of both local and national newspapers in Western Australia on weekdays. I understand an independent daily newspaper is about to commence publication in Perth in the near future. 
It is true that I visted Geelong last Friday. The honourable gentleman has asked what the main criteria are for a site for the Laboratory. The main criterion is that the site should be located away from livestock susceptible to disease. The purpose of the Animal Health Laboratory is to prevent the outbreak of exotic animal diseases. The site that has been recommended was chosen by an evaluation team. The site at Geelong meets all the requirements of the evaluation team. Another criterion in choosing the site is that it should be close to tertiary educational institutions particularly concerned with the field of microbiology and veterinary science. The site at Geelong was selected after consideration by the Town and Country Planning Authority of Victoria and also by the Cities Commission. I understand that the Victorian Government has favourably received the notion of a site at Geelong. There are several other matters to be resolved before I can make a recommendation to the Cabinet on the site and the further implementation of the recommendations for a national health laboratory which, I might add, was initiated by the previous Government and which this Government fully supports. I think one of the difficulties in relation to animal health in Australia has been that it has been more by good luck than good management that Australia has been spared the impact of quite serious diseases such as foot and mouth disease. The intention behind the animal health laboratory, is to ensure that Australia will be free from these diseases and, therefore, make a great contribution to the livestock industry of Australia. 
I share the honourable member's concern about the report that was brought down in the last Parliament of the failure of the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission to revegetate the worked out mine area. I will be visiting Christmas Island at the end of next month and one of the purposes of my visit will be to examine this question. I have written to the Minister for the Environment and Conservation suggesting that a term of reference for the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, of which the honourable member for Scullin is the  Chairman,  include the environmental impact of mining operations on Christmas Island. It may well be an opportune time, when I am visiting Christmas Island, for members or a subcommittee of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation to join me in that visit. 
in reply - I believe that it has been encouraging for all of us to see the sense of responsibility with which this House has approached what is in fact an historic act in providing for the self-government and eventual independence of the Australian colony of Papua New Guinea. One of my colleagues referred to my experience in the Australian Foreign Service for some 20 years. Those of us who have had such experience know that decolonisation in other parts of the world has been both depressing and disastrous. I think this flowed from the attitude of mind of colonial powers. Because of this reluctance Indo-China, Algeria and elsewhere throughout Africa were reluctant to give up their position as colonial powers. Because of this reluctance the colonies had to resort to armed conflict and subversion to gain what they considered their inherent right. The people of those colonies considered they had the right to make decisions affecting themselves in their own way. We members of the Australian Labor Party, mindful of this experience, decided not this year but several years ago that our policy would be to bring Papua New Guinea to self-government and independence not through conflict but by the colonial power saying: 'We believe that you have a right to make your decisions in your own way. We will assist you in achieving independence. We will not resist your movement to independence. We will provide all the facilities for you to gain self-government and independence'. 
In 1970 the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  as Leader of the Opposition, went to Papua New Guinea. He went again in 1971 and as a newly elected member of this House I had the privilege of accompanying him. Those visits proved to be the watershed of the development we are witnessing today. We said then that Papua New Guinea was ready for self-government and that independence was not that far off. This was at a stage when the previous Government, although recognising under 
United Nations pressure the possibility of selfgovernment and independence, treated it with no degree of urgency and provided no timetable for the achievement of either self-government or independence. In 1972 there was a change of portfolio - this was another watershed - when the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  became Minister for External Territories. At the same time there was a change of government in Papua New Guinea and  Mr Michael  Somare became the Chief Minister in a national coalition government. We had met  Mr Michael  Somare when he was in Opposition in Papua New Guinea and we were in Opposition in Australia. We talked to him about his hopes, his ambitions and his aspirations in 1971. He campaigned, as the leader of the Pangu Party, for self-government and eventual independence. What happened in 1972 was that the then Government had the presence of mind to accept the inevitability of that which we as the Labor Party in Opposition had put forward and that which the new Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea had put forward. What we are doing today is the logical extension of a process that started many years ago. The process has been followed in a steady, deliberate and determined way. I think that as Australians we can all be proud that we are bringing Papua New Guinea to independence not through conflict or violence but through constitutional procedures in this House and in the House of Assembly of Papua New Guinea. 
Much of the debate on these Bills was very good humoured. There was, I suppose, an element of shadow-sparring on the part of the Opposition, for example, concerning the extent to which we should consult with, take notice of and act in conjunction with the Papua New Guinea Government. I reiterate that all steps taken to date and all steps planned for the future have been agreed between the Papua New Guinea Government and the Australian Government. 
In the period that I have been Minister for External Territories there have been 4 substantial changes in the approved arrangements under sections 24 and 25 of the Papua New Guinea Act. Each of these changes has been at the request of and in consultation with the Government of Papua New Guinea. I have made frequent visits to Papua New Guinea. I will be visiting the country next week. That visit will be my ninth as Minister in the last 9 months. Discussions have been held not only with Government leaders and leaders of the coalition, party, but also with members of the Opposition, members of the Constitutional Planning Committee and town councillors throughout the length and breadth of Papua New Guinea. We have agreed in consultation with the Government of Papua New Guinea that there will be a 2 stage development in Papua New Guinea in which the opportunity would be given to the Constitutional Planning Committee and, through it, the House of Assembly for a home grown constitution. This should come to pass in April of next year. 
Our policy is that the date for independence will be achieved in the closest consultation with the Government of Papua New Guinea. It will be subject to the endorsement of the House of Assembly /as representing the view of the people of Papua New Guinea. I wish to place on record the resolution of the United Nations Committee of Twenty-four, which was agreed to unanimously on 21 August 1973. The Committee had this to say: 
The Special Committee notes with satisfaction that Papua New Guinea is making steady progress towards the achievement of the goals proclaimed in resolution 1514 (XV) and that progressive steps to this end are being taken by the administering Power. 
It went on to say: 
The Special Committee endorses the view that the House of Assembly, as the duly elected representatives of the people of Papua New Guinea, in consultation with the administering Power, should decide the date for the attainment of independence of the Territory in the light of General Assembly resolution 2977 (XXVII) of 14 December 1972. Pursuant to that resolution, the Special Committee calls upon the administering Power, in consultation with the Government of Papua New Guinea, to prepare a timetable for independence. 
Perhaps I might recall the words of a former Leader of the Party which is now in Opposition. I speak of  Sir Robert  Menzies who, back in I960, I think, made the observation that if there is to be independence for Papua New Guinea it is better sooner rather than later. I agree wholeheartedly with that view of a politician whom we all respect. 
The accusation has been made, somewhat lightly, I suppose, as there was not a great deal of sincerity in the viewpoint put by various speakers, that we are rushing into independence and that we are not providing sufficient opportunities and facilities for Papua New Guinea to play its part. It has been our policy, it is our policy and it will continue to be our policy to give Papua New Guinea an international identity not only before independence but also before self government. 
We as a Government have sponsored membership by Papua New Guinea of such international organisations as the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East, the Asian Development Bank, the World Health Organisation, the South Pacific Commission and the International Labour Organisation. The Chief Minister,  Mr Somare  - and we have encouraged him in this - has paid formal visits to Japan, Singapore, Indonesia and New Zealand. In each country he has been accepted as the elected leader of an emerging nation. We have sought to encourage other countries to take an interest in Papua New Guinea. Indonesia has recently established a consulate in Port Moresby; the United Kingdom has done likewise. Other countries such as New Zealand, Germany and Japan are discussing with Papua New Guinea the establishment of representation in Papua New Guinea ahead of independence. We have established also in the last few months a Ministry of Foreign Relations and Defence. 
We have accepted the most urgent need for Papua New Guinea to enter nationhood in a harmonious relationship with its neighbour, Indonesia. I might recall that a Committee of this House in the previous Parliament - the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs through its Sub-Committee on Australia's Relations with Indonesia - recorded in its report the importance of this close relationship being developed between Australia, Indonesia and Papua New Guinea. We said in that report: 
In the determination of the boundary between West Irian and Papua New Guinea and in the negotiations on a border regime, the Committee recognises the importance of the active participation of the representatives of the Government of Papua New Guinea. Australia's role in resolving these two matters is to ensure that relations between Indonesia and the new state of Papua New Guinea are established on a firm and harmonious basis and that Australia in discharging its responsibilities maintains the respect of and cordial relations with both countries. 
Nothing was done by the previous Government to implement those recommendations. But, on assuming responsibility for this portfolio, I immediately put arrangements in hand and the border between Papua New Guinea and Indonesia has now been delineated. The Chief Minister,  Mr Michael  Somare, visited Indonesia and initialled that agreement. Discussions are taking place this very day in Djakarta on the border arrangements between Papua New Guinea and West Irian. 
Throughout the whole range of our activities, we have been planning not just for self- government but for independence. The Prime Minister announced last week the establishment of a Commonwealth aid agency known as the Australian Development Assistance Agency. One of the primary responsibilities and tasks of this aid agency will be continuing assistance to Papua New Guinea. We have accepted the special relationship between Australia and Papua New Guinea. We have expressed our viewpoint that the aid should be over a 3 year period of the improvement program to commence 1974-75. By this commitment to a timetable for assistance, Papua New Guinea will be in a better position to plan its own development. We have stated also that Papua New Guinea will have first call on Australia's foreign aid. We accept the responsibility to ensure that Papua New Guinea is in a position to develop for the good of its own people in the way that the elected representatives of the people of Papua New Guinea, and not of Australia, should so decide. 
Several references were made in the course of the debate to defence. This is one of the reserve powers which distinguishes a self governing country from an independent country. We have made it very clear that, in this period, we will operate in the closest consultation with Papua New Guinea. It was for one of these reasons that the Ministry of Foreign Relations and Defence was established. I might point out to honourable gentlemen opposite that it was because of their complete neglect and their complete incompetence that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  and I have had to put a great deal of effort into ensuring a sensible program in the defence relationships between Australia and Papua New Guinea in the future. In a recent article, Professor J. D. B. Miller of the Australian National University said: 
Australia has been gravely at fault in delaying so long a separation of the armed forces in Papua New Guinea from those of Australia. 
He went on to say that frantic efforts were now being made to separate the 2 armed forces but it was proving to be more difficult than it would have been even a few years ago. But we still accept the responsibility. It was a responsibility that should have been accepted by honourable gentlemen opposite when they had the opportunity to do something about it. But we have moved quickly and one of the first acts of the Government, in January, within a month of taking over power, was to redesignate what used to be called the 'PIR', the Pacific Islands Regiment. 
We called it the Papua New Guinea Defence Force. As my colleague, the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  said on that occasion: 
This re-designation parade is an important and historic occasion in the development of the armed forces of Papua New Guinea and of the identification of the forces within the country. 
We have had these discussions with Papua New Guinea through the Minister for Defence as a result of his visit there within the first month - in January - of assuming office. In these discussions with the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea it was agreed that consultations on defence matters would commence in March between officials of the Papua New Guinea Government and the Australian Government. We have made it our firm view - our firm conviction: - that the ultimate decision concerning Papua New Guinea's defence capability, its structure and role will rest with the Papua New Guinea Government. Our role in these consultations has been to advise and to assist in the decision making processes and to bring to the attention of the Papua New Guinea authorities all factors relevant to the formulation of a suitable defence policy for an .independent Papua New Guinea. So all the questions of organisation, role, size, localisation and training of the Papua New Guinea Defence Force is now a matter for close and continuing consultation with the Papua New Guinea Government. 
In fact in May 1973 the Papua New Guinea Government issued policy guidelines in proceeding with the defence arrangements after the achievment of independence. The Minister for Defence has been in close consultation with the Papua New Guinea Government and we are convinced that this is the right way to proceed because the nature of the Defence Force for Papua New Guinea is primarily a matter for the Papua New Guinea Government itself to decide. So what we have had to do in 9 months was due to the neglect and incompetence of the previous Government in this very important area. 
There is one other point I wanted to mention. It relates to the ministerial arrangements after 1 December 1973 as this is all part of the forward planning to ensure the smooth transfer from self-government through to independence and independence and beyond. I believe these ministerial arrangements are a measure of the degree of forward planning for which this Government has been responsible in the approach to this very important matter of the independence of Papua New Guinea. (Exten- sion of time granted) I thank the House for its courtesy. In this period between selfgovernment and independence there will be a Minister Assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs in regard to matters affecting Papua New Guinea. As of 1 December this year the office of the Minister for External Territories will go out of existence. The Department and the Minister for Foreign Affairs will assume the responsibility for Australia's relations with Papua New Guinea. Because of the importance that we attach to the smooth transfer, the Minister Assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs in regard to Papua New Guinea matters will be given the responsibility for coordinating all the matters relating to Papua New Guinea. Other Ministers who have statutory responsibility in Papua New Guinea, such as the Minister for Defence, have been asked by the Prime Minister to consult with the Minister Assisting in discharging their own responsibilities so as to ensure adequate coordination. The Minister Assisting, in consultation with other Ministers who have a responsibility for particular subjects involved, will co-ordinate the negotiation of such agreements between Australia and Papua New Guinea as may be needed between now and independence. The Minister Assisting will also coordinate the activities of the relevant Australian departments in regard to the final stages of the handing over of powers to the Papua New Guinea Government and the final steps to independence. 
Although the main workload for specific functions will fall on relevant departments and the Australian Development Assistance Agency, the Minister Assisting will have a small unit to assist him in the interim period to independence. This will be known as the Papua New Guinea Office. It will be staffed by officers with experience in Papua New Guinea affairs now serving with the Department of External Territories. It will depend on the Department of Foreign Affairs for administrative support but will not be a part of the divisional structure of that Department. The head of the Papua New Guinea Office, who will serve the Minister Assisting, will chair the standing interdepartmental committee on Papua New Guinea. The High Commissioner in Papua New Guinea will be appointed as at 1 December 1973 to take the place of the office of the present Administrator and during the self-government period he will be responsible to the Minister Assisting for all the matters undertaken by the Minister. 
This concludes the debate on the Bills before the House. As I pointed out in my second reading speech, these are historic Bills but I believe that with the co-operation of all groups within Australia, with the continuing cooperation of the Government, the House of Assembly and the people of Papua New Guinea we can bring about an orderly transfer of authority from a colonial power to its former colony. I believe that if this process is achieved we will all be able to say that this has been a job well done. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills together read a second time. 
Pursuant to section 19 of the AngloAustralian Telescope Agreement Act 1970- 1971, I present the reports on the AngloAustralian Telescope Project for the years ended 30 June 1971 and 30 June 1972. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the results of a survey conducted in Sydney and Melbourne in April and May 1973 by the Audience Research 
Department of the Australian Broadcasting Commission entitled 'Public Opinion of the ABC'. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matters referred to fall within the authority of Ministers in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Ministers for Finance and Foreign Relations and Trade have provided the following information - 
The total direct Japanese investment in Papua New Guinea is currently estimated at $20m. This excludes loans made by Japanese companies to the Bougainville copper project. 
The main geographical areas in which this investment occurs are East and West New Britain, Madang, Morobe and Central Districts. 
Japanese investment is mainly involved in timber utilisation, fishing, agricultural and mining ventures. 
It is understood that Japan introduced during the 1950s a scheme for insurance of private overseas investment against risks of war, appropriation, nonconvertibility of foreign exchange, etc. It is not positively known that Japanese parent companies have taken out such insurance in respect of their Papua New Guinea enterprises although the expectation is they would have done so. 
Japanese enterprises investing overseas have available soft loan finance and infrastructure assistance from Government institutions such as Overseas Economic Co-operation Fund and Japan Overseas Development Corporation provided their projects qualify for assistance under the laws relating to those organisations. OECF interest rates are understood to range from 3-5.5 per cent per annum. JODC provides assistance for infrastructure requirements by extending interest free loans involving only a servicing commission, usually 0.75 per cent per annum. Some Japanese projects in Papua New Guinea have attracted loan funds from both organisations. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Science and Industry Research Act 1949-1968, I present the tweny-fifth annual report of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation for the year ended 30 June 1973 together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on these statements. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
 The Australian Country Party tonight has made a valiant effort to make a mountain out of a molehill. Tonight we are considering a very simple Bill which has been described by the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  as a savage impost. The savage impost amounts to raising the licence fee from $50 to $200. A little later in his remarks he admitted that it was only a very small amount. So one wonders what the charade this evening has been all about. When one thinks of it, a broadcasting station has to pay only $200 for the right to transmit; broadcast listeners have to pay $26 for the operation of a transistor radio. Let us start getting these things in perspective. A licence fee of $200 being paid by a station which operates in a monopoly situation represents $200 being paid for the right to make a profit. This to my mind is a really absurd situation. But in the interests of the country radio stations which the Labor Party has very much in mind we have kept the licence fee payable to only $200. 
One of the interesting features of this whole debate, apart from the contributions made by Country Party supporters, is that both the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  and I as the Minister representing the Minister for the Media have not received one protest about this increase from the Federation of Australian Broadcasting Stations and we have not received one protest from any broadcasting station throughout Australia. One of the reasons for this is that radio broadcasting is a very profitable enterprise. There are some 19 stations which, according to the report of the Broadcasting Control Board, are not making a profit, but 5 of these radio stations are relay stations, the parent companies of which are making handsome profits. Of the others most are new radio stations, and I am sure that our colleagues opposite would realise that in the initial years of operation it is expected that they will make a loss and that they look to three or four years hence when they will make a profit. I can assure members of the Country Party - this is very much in the mind of the Australian Labor Party because' we hold as many country seats as the Country Party - that no increase is proposed in the scale of rates applying to all the country stations. The provision for one per cent of gross earnings up to $500,000 is exactly the same as that contained in the previous legislation, and it covers all the country stations. So we can give the assurance to all country stations that the scale of rates that they have to pay will not change whatsoever. 
The honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  referred to the land lines. On the second occasion that this matter came before the House I cannot recall the Country Party Party opposing the increase in land line charges. 1 think it ought to be recognised that there was no opposition from the Country Party on the increase in land line charges. So this evening we have had this charade on a Bill which is very modest in its provisions. It provides for the raising of an additional $120,000, $60,000 of which would be paid as a normal accretion from the increase in the profits of the broadcasting stations. In view of the lightness of the arguments that have been put against this proposal, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Commonwealth Banks Bill (No. 2), the Reserve Bank Bill and the Papua New Guinea (Transfer of Banking Business) Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 4 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
This evening we are discussing the estimates for both the Department of External Territories and the Department of Foreign Affairs. I thought at this stage that I should make some introductory comments on the Department of External Territories. As has been pointed out by the Deputy Chairman when this matter was called on, Appropriation Bill (No. 1), which we are considering tonight, provides for $193,932,000 for the Department of External Territories. In the financial years 1973-74, Australia will provide economic assistance to Papua New Guinea amounting to $178,527,000. I have circulated for the information of honourable members detailed notes on Papua New Guinea. A breakdown of Australian aid is itemised in Appendix A on page 16 of that document. The aid figure of $178,527,000 for 1973-74 marks a substantial increase over the 1972-73 figure of $143,400,000. In addition the Papua New Guinea Government will receive a grant of$3 6m enabling it to purchase fixed assets such as buildings originally constructed for the use of Australian departments which no longer operate in 
Papua New Guinea. These assets will become the property of the Papua New Guinea Government. 
The level and nature of the aid is evidence that the Government recognises the special place of Papua New Guinea in its policies. Many people in Papua New Guinea had been wrongly led to believe that self-government and independence would mean that Australia would be getting out and leaving Papua New Guinea in the lurch. The Government has demonstrated by its policies and practice that this is clearly not so. The normal grant aid to Papua New Guinea in 1973-74 will be $127m compared with $119,500,000 in 1972-73. This aid will assist the Papua New Guinea Government to finance important development projects as well as to complement vital services such as education, public health, and law and order. 
In addition, $51m has been provided for projects, in the main non-recurring, which are essential to the smooth handover and transfer of powers to Papua New Guinea. A total of $17m will be available to assist in the establishment of a Papua New Guinea Central Bank and a government commercial bank. Other special aid items include S 1,650,000 for the construction of a new runway and associated work at Port Moresby airport; $lm for the cultural development program; and $5m for direct expenditure by Australian departments in Papua New Guinea. A large item in our aid to Papua New Guinea is for emoluments of the Australians who were appointed to the Papua New Guinea Public Service by the Australian Government and whose services will be required after selfgovernment and independence until Papua New Guineans are ready to take their places. The maximum number of Australians in the Public Service reached about 8,000 although from now on the number will decrease as the localisation program gets under way. 
At this stage when Papua New Guinea is in practice self-governing and only awaits amendment to the Papua New Guinea Act to become formally self-governing, it is interesting to recall the origin of Australia's policy for the development of Papua New Guinea. Nearly 28 years ago a former Minister for External Territories,  Mr Eddie  Ward, when introducing the Papua New Guinea Provisional Administration Bill, said: 
This Government is not satisfied that sufficient interest had been taken in the Territories prior to the 
Japanese invasion, or that adequate funds had been provided for their development and the advancement of the native inhabitants. The Government regards it as its bounden duty to further to the utmost the advancement of the people and considers that that can be achieved only by providing facilities for better health, better education and for a greater participation by the people in the wealth of their country and eventually in its government. 
Australian economic aid to Papua New Guinea for the past 10 years was provided largely as backing for development based on the concepts of a World Bank Mission of 1963. These concepts emphasised economic growth as a means of meeting the social needs and raising the levels of living of the people. One of the Mission's basic principles was that expenditure and manpower should be concentrated in areas and on activities where the prospective return was highest and this meant that the benefits of development did not reach quite a large number of Papua New Guineans. The Papua New Guinea Government is now rightly concerned about this and the present inequalities between rural and urban populations, between expatriates and Papua New Guineans, between Papua New Guineans and between districts within the country. It is preparing its own plan for development and has decided that there will be a change of emphasis. The new plan - the basic plan - is to improve the lives of all Papua New Guineans, not merely to increase the gross national product. I support this aim which is consistent with views that we put forward in the Estimates debate on this subject in 1972. I repeat what I said then: 
I think it is about time we measured our achievements in terms of people and welfare and not money and statistics. 
The Australian Government is happy to support this basic purpose of the Papua New Guinea Government with an assurance of continuing economic aid. Our aid program for Papua New Guinea will be developed in cooperation and consultation with the Papua New Guinea Government. It will be worked out in the context of that Government's improvement program. 
It has always been Australia's aim that Papua New Guinea should, as soon as possible, achieve a much greater degree of financial and economic viability than it now has, but the Australian Government has given the Papua New Guinea Government an assurance that, it is prepared to continue providing substantial aid not only up to independence but also beyond. The evidence that the Australian Government will live up to this assurance can bc seen in the estimates which we are considering tonight. 
The degree of economic stability that Papua New Guinea has achieved is such that it was able to overcome the acute problems of the past 12 months caused by the laying off of workers on completion of the construction phase of the Bougainville copper project, the very low world prices for rural products and the effect of the rearrangement of exchange rates of its trading partners and exports competitors. There were also difficulties resulting from hesitancy on the part of consumers and investors. By the second half of 1972-73 the economy had shown that it could withstand these shocks without undue disruption and it could do this relying upon itself without any special outside assistance. With the improvement that occurred in world market conditions for coffee, cocoa and copra and the indications of restored investor confidence economic growth should resume its course. 
It cannot be denied that Papua New Guinea will still face difficult problems as do all other countries. It is the responsibility of any government to make the decisions on priorities and the allocation of its resources. These kinds of decisions are the business of government. The important difference is that the decisions affecting Papua New Guinea are now being made by the elected representatives of the people of Papua New Guinea. We in the Government, and I am sure that here I can speak on behalf of the Opposition, have every reason for confidence that the Government which has emerged in Papua New Guinea has the ability to carry the country forward to viable nationhood. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has agreed in principle to the establishment of a Baseline Atmospheric Monitoring Station which would form one of a network of about 10 to be set up around the world. These stations would be placed in areas remote from all sources of pollution in order to monitor long-term global trends in atmospheric constituents and properties which may cause meteorological changes including alterations to climates. 
The number of regional atmospheric monitoring stations which would be established has not been decided, but preliminary studies have considered a network of nine stations. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my reply to his question No. 718 (Hansard, 26 September 1973, page 1598). 
For the information of honourable members, I present the first annual report by the secretary on the activities of the Department of the Media for the period ended 30 June 1973. 
I propose to make some observations on some of the speeches delivered during the course of the Estimates debate. Perhaps I could start with the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  In his short statement he rather emphasised the obvious. I think that all political parties in the Parliament would accept the proposition that there should be justice in the Middle East, that there should be a settlement of the Palestinian problem and that Israel has the right to exist. This has been a policy of the Labor Party since the time of  Dr Evatt  who played an important role in the establishment of the state of Israel. 
Nobody will deny the proposition that there should be justice in the Middle East, that the Palestinian problem should be resolved and that Israel has the right to exist. This afternoon the right honourable member for Higgins seemed to indicate that these were brand new thoughts that he had conjured up in perhaps the internecine warfare between himself and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  But he raised the possibility of joint enforcement by the United States of America and the Soviet Union in respect of difficulties in the Middle East. There is no doubt that the United States and the Soviet Union have been acting as policemen in the Middle East. The only difficulty is that they have been on different beats. I would have thought that over the last few days there was some earnest of intention on the part of the Soviet Union and the United States to act in a joint manner to resolve the difficulties in the Middle East. I believe that the proposition that they should undertake joint enforcement in respect of violations of the situation in the Middle East could well be a point of discussion between the 2 powers at the present moment. I am delighted that the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  enjoyed his visit overseas; but one wonders, if he can come back only weaving a lightweight web of words without any substance, whether the amount of money that the Parliament pays for these exercises is worthwhile. Is the honourable member for Chisholm suggesting that we unrecognise the People's Republic of China? 
Is he suggesting then that we should put troops back into Vietnam? 
This is the proposition. He is saying that he does not agree with the 
Government's policy; but on each point we bring up, on each of the major things which we have done and which he has sought to criticise, he is not prepared- 
What did the honourable member say? I had the greatest of difficulty trying to understand what he was saying. It is one of the roles of the Minister at the table- 
There we are again. We have these broad, generalised terms. Now let us get down to some specifics. What precisely has the Australian Government done in foreign affairs since taking office, to which the honourable member objects? 
Come, come! We have arrived at the question whether the Liberal Party, if it ever came back to power, would not continue to recognise China. 
All right. Let us leave the proposition there. The great difficulty with Opposition members when they were in government was that they had become so accustomed to being Uncle Sam's nephew or Mother England's son that they forgot what it was like to be a grown up Australia. This is the great difficulty honourable members opposite faced throughout the whole period for which they were in government. What other people said had a great influence on what the then Australian Government should have been able to think out for itself. I do not wonder that Opposition members are so mesmerised by Australian foreign policy because they never knew what an Australian foreign policy was. This Government has brought to foreign policy an Australian content. 
These general phrases keep coming up. I have not heard one member of the Opposition make a statement on what we have done and what actions we have taken in foreign policy which, if they were in government, they would not continue. Let us get to the propositions. Let us stop the generalities. 
Opposition members will continue to recognise China. They will not put troops back into Vietnam. They will not put troops back into Malaysia and Singapore. These are the propositions. Until honourable members opposite are prepared to stand up and specify each item that they are prepared to do when they come into government, if they ever come into government, their generalities fall completely to the ground.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I think that this concludes the debate on the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of External Territories. I must say that I have been disappointed by the standard of comment by members of the Opposition. Very few points that were raised demanded or required any comment from the Government. 
I move: 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
The Government, in the Senate on 24 October, introduced an amendment to the Papua New Guinea Bill (No. 2) 1973, in Committee, which was passed. I have today circulated the text of the amendment to honourable members. The Papua New Guinea Bill (No. 2) 1973 extends the qualifications of persons who may be appointed as judges of the Supreme Court of Papua New Guinea. As explained in my second reading speech, this provision is made at the request of the Government of Papua New Guinea and will enable Papua New Guinea to call on overseas expertise for as long as it takes its own legal profession to provide a sufficient number of judges. The extension of the qualifications, however, will allow persons who are not British subjects to be eligible for appointment as judges. 
The principal Act provides for an oath or affirmation of allegiance to be taken by judges on appointment. But it is considered inappropriate for persons who are not British subjects but who have been appointed as judges to take such an oath or affirmation. The Government's amendment is designed to limit the oath or affirmation to an oath or affirmation of office. This is done by amending the Seventh Schedule to the Papua New Guinea Act 1949- 1973 which is in the form of the oath of affirmation required by section 59 (2) of the Act. I commend the amendment to honourable members. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. However, on 28 March 1973, it was announced that the Division of Land Use Research had been formed from the former Division of Land Research by transferring its crop research functions to other Divisions, in order to free it to concentrate on land use-environment studies. It was also announced that the Division of Land Use Research would be grouped with the Division of Soils and the Division of Land Resources Management to form the Land 
Resources Laboratories, and that a Committee of the Chiefs of these three Divisions would be formed, under a  Chairman,  to co-ordinate their programmes and optimise CSIRO's contribution in this area of environmental study. 
The role of the Division of Land Use Research is to survey and assess the potential uses of land resources and to develop new assessment techniques. The Chief is  Dr R.  J. Millington and the present staff complement is 142. 
The Division of Land Resources Management is concerned with the development of management techniques for achieving optimum productivity consistent with the conservation of land resources, and with the study of the environmental implications of changes in land use.  Mr R.  A. Perry is Chief of the Division and the present staff complement is 167. 
The Division of Soils studies the effects of man's activities on soils, and their management for the production of crops, pastures, and forests. The Chief is  Dr A.  E. Martin and the present staff complement is 179. 
Army Personnel: Married Quarters at Puckapunyal  (Question No. 953) 
-The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The attached statement contains details of applications made for changes in the beneficial ownership of shares in companies holding licences for commercial television and broadcasting stations since 1 January 1972. 
I share the honourable member's concern about what happened with the 'Independent Sun'. I am disturbed that a handful of Press barons can indulge in this form of restrictive trade practice. I am sure that for those who put forth the theory of freedom of the Press this is a very good example of where it merely means licence for the Press barons to do what they wish. If we look for the reasons why the 'Independent Sun' had to close we find from a statement by  Mr E.  A. Wright, who is the joint proprietor, that the 'Independent Sun' was receiving an eastern States service from the 'Age'. Also, the 'Age' receives a Western Australian news service from the 'West Australian'. In Brisbane and Hobart its news services come out of the subsidiaries of the Melbourne 'Herald' similar to the service from the 'West Australian'. 
Last week the managing director of the West Australian',  Mr Keith  Macpherson, blandly told 'Age' executives that if they continued to service the 'Independent Sun', the Age' would lose its Western Australian services. This was a statement made by the proprietor of the independent group of newspapers running the 'Independent Sun'. This ultimatum caused great concern for the 'Age' and ultimately the 'Age' bowed to the ultimatum. This leaves the 'West Australian' as the monopoly newspaper in Western Australia. These are the sorts of actions that the Government wishes to cover by the restrictive trade practices legislation. This sort of action shows why the Opposition is not prepared to support that legislation. I will have much pleasure in referring the honourable member's question to the Attorney-General to see what can be done. 
Earlier this year I released information concerning cadmium and zinc pollution in oysters collected from the Derwent River. The Tasmanian Government has already taken steps to ensure that such oysters should not be harvested. Following this I asked the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to make a detailed study of fish in the estuary. The maximum safe level of mercury is thought to be about 0.5 parts per million. Levels considerably above this in fact between 2 parts and 4 parts per million have been found in the preliminary analysis of fish in the Derwent River. Last Friday I advised the Tasmanian Minister for Agriculture of these findings. It was on the basis of this information that he released the statement yesterday. In consultation with the Tasmanian Government I have arranged for 4 CSIRO scientists to assist the Tasmanian Government's Derwent River Pollution Committee in an analysis of pollution in the Derwent River. They are particularly directing their attention to the cause of the level of heavy metals in the river. There are some views that this level is caused by industry in the area, by the sewage output into the Derwent River, possibly by the run-off from galvanised iron roofs of which there are many in the Hobart area and also a possible combination of these factors with the naturally high levels of metal in the Tasmanian environment. 
I assure the honourable member and the people of Tasmania that this Government will act responsibly in protecting the interests of the people of Tasmania. The announcement made by the Tasmanian Minister for Agriculture followed on the advice that we gave him on the basis of the expert advice available to the Australian Government and despite the difficulties this announcement may cause to the fishing industry in Tasmania I believe - it is also the belief of the Tasmanian Government - that the interests of the consumer must come first. We shall certainly follow up the work that has already been done by the CSIRO and by the Government Analyst in another part of the Department of Science in ensuring that the health and welfare of the people of Tasmania are fully safeguarded. 
 Mr Deputy Chairman,  I suggest that the order for the consideration of the proposed expenditure agreed to by the Committee on 12 September be varied by postponing the consideration of the proposed expenditure for the Department of Minerals and Energy. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Is  the suggestion of the Minister agreed to? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Department of the Media 
Proposed expenditure, $90,040,000. 
 Mr Deputy Chairman,  the time set aside for the discussion of this subject was one hour. As that time has already elapsed, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Luchetti)  - Order! The question is That the question be now put'. Those of that opinion say 'aye'; to the contrary 'no'. I think the 'ayes 'have it. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN - Is a division required? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN - The question now is "That the proposed expenditure for the Department of the Media be agreed to'. Those of that opinion say 'aye'; to the contrary 'no'. I think the 'ayes' have it. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Postmaster-Generals Department 
Proposed expenditure, $18,170,000. 

 Dr FORBES (Barker) .(8.28&gt; - I should like to say a few words about the estimates for the Postmaster-General's Department. Because I was absent overseas at the time I did not have an opportunity in any of the debates on the various Bills implementing the Government's Budget decisions to make my protest at what I regard as a most vicious kind of discrimination in which the Government has indulged against the people who live in country areas. I refer particularly to the increase in telephone rentals, the abandonment of the decision to construct at departmental expense a line up to a radius of IS miles and various other minor irritants, such as the increase in private bag services and that type of thing as well as the decision of the Government on a wholesale basis to downgrade the official post offices to nonofficial post offices and, in some cases, to cut out nonofficial post offices altogether. I want to raise this matter because I do not think that the Postmaster-General or the Government which, no doubt, agreed in Cabinet to his recommendations to do these things, even begins to perceive some of the problems faced by country people in this sphere or that they begin to perceive that there are involved what I would call quite important issues of principle. 
The first of those is that this Government does not appear to recognise that the PostmasterGeneral's Department provides a community service and that community services should be provided to those who need them most. Who can deny that people living in isolation need these services of the PMG Department more than people living cheek by jowl in a suburban street in a metropolitan city in Australia? They need the services for business; they need them in the case of an emergency because of their isolation; they need such services for social contact; and they need them for all the amenities of life which people in the metropolitan cities can obtain in other ways. In this sense, country people are the disadvantaged people in the Australian community. Yet this Government and the Postmaster-General himself, in answer to questions and in other ways in this House, have gloried in emphasising what I would call the cash-nexus approach to the provision of services by the PMG - a sort of approach which would do justice to some of the worst characters out of a Dickens novel or to the traditional American robber barons of the 19 th century. This approach has made it more difficult for people in the country areas of Australia, who suffer from all these disadvantages that I mentioned, to obtain a telephone. The Government's aproach is: To him that hath shall be given. That, in essence, is how I would sum up its approach. 
What would honourable gentlemen opposite, including the Postmaster-General, say for instance if we on this side of the House applied the same system to health insurance and established a system that the greater the risk one was and therefore the more expense that was likely to be incurred on one, the more one would have to pay? They would scream to high heaven, and quite rightly. Yet that is exactly what honourable members opposite are doing to country users of the PMG Department. The Minister says: 'It costs more so you pay more'. That is a principle on which he works. I believe that mine is a valid comparison. It is setting back 23 years of progress by a Liberal-Country Party government which was aimed progressively towards the goal of bringing the amenities of the city to people in the country, of reducing the disadvantages and the dangers of isolation and improving productivity in, for instance, my electorate. When I first became the member for the electorate of Barker 18 years ago, one could not ring on the telephone from where I lived to the other end of the electorate without a delay of eight to ten hours. As a result of the expenditure by the Government to which I had the honour to belong there has been an instantaneous telephone service available for many years. Virtually every telephone exchange is an auto&lt;matic exchange. We brought in improvements, such as providing free to country subscribers 15 miles of telephone line, which concession this Government has now removed. We brought in the extended local services area system, improved the mail runs and introduced new post offices, all moves aimed at reducing the isolation and the disadvantages of people in the country. Now this Government has set out on what appears to be a deliberate attempt to set the clock back. 
The other important principle that I will mention briefly - I believe it to be important but the Government has departed from itis that if one does not get the same services from the PMG Department, one should not have to pay the same amount as somebody who receives more services. That was a principle on which we worked in respect of rentals paid by country telephone subscribers. They paid a rental which was related to the number of people they could reach with local calls. If they could not reach as many people as somebody who was a subscriber in another exchange district, they did not pay as much in rental. That seems to me to be perfectly reasonable. Such people are not receiving as good a service so they do not pay as much. Yet this Government has abandoned that principle. For this reason I want to protest on behalf of my Party and my constituents at the decision. 
The final matter that I want to mention in the few minutes left to me is the wholesale process of which the Postmaster-General has given notice of downgrading official post offices to non-official status. I should like to mention just some of the post offices so affected in my electorate of which I have been notified. They are Goolwa, Kalangadoo, Meadows, Milang, Port Elliott, Robe, Willunga and Yankalilla, all of them vitally important centres to ' the people who use them. Two or three of them are new post offices which have been built only in the last few years and all of them are placed in situations where, if they are downgraded to non-official post offices, the people who at present use them will have to travel 30, 50 or 70 miles to obtain the services that they can obtain only from an official post office. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 154, (b) 211, (c) 280. 
Volunteers serving in Papua New Guinea have been allocated by organisations based in Australia, Austria, Canada, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. Details are set out in the following table: 
It seems to me that inaccuracy has almost become a virtue with the Opposition. The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  has just pointed out that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has not paid visits to this part of the world about which he spoke and in fact all the visits of the Prime Minister have been to countries outside this region. I think we ought to put on record that the first visit that the Prime Minister paid overseas was to New Zealand. The second visit the Prime Minister paid overseas was to Papua New Guinea and he then went on to Indonesia. The reason the Prime Minister went as far afield as Ottawa is very simple. It happened to be the venue of the meeting of Commonwealth Prime Ministers. 
Members of the Opposition have been talking about style. Again they seem to have a very short and convenient memory. I think all of us can recall the style of a former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  We can remember the style of another former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon).  I have mentioned before but I think I had better mention again the style of  Mr Gorton  when he was conducting Australia's foreign relations. I refer to a report in the Australian Press of a discussion that he had with the then Prime Minister of Malaysia, Tunku Abdul Rahman. When asked for an observation on what Australia's involvement would be under the Five Power Arrangement if there were any border dispute the comment of the right honourable member for Higgins was: 
The Tunku said he wasn't sure what I meant when I said Australia wouldn't help. 
Now for the style. The report states: 
Well', I told the Tunku, 'if you get into any sort of border fight you had better cope by yourselves because Australia bloody well won't be there.' 
 Mr Gorton.  That is the grand style of  Mr Gorton.  That is the type of style under which the foreign policy of Australia was run before this Government came to power. The right honourable member for Lowe had discussions in Indonesia about the Five Power Arrangement. The Arrangement was dealt a mortal blow under the leadership of the former Government when the right honourable member for Lowe said that the Five Power Arrangement is not very important; that it is in fact only a forum for consultation. That was in Indonesia. Then he went across to Singapore, a member country of the Arrangement, and spent the rest of that trip trying to get out from under the equivocation and the lack of style and lack of awareness of what foreign policy was all about. 
The honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  made one accurate statement. He said that Australian foreign policy should serve Australia's interests. The concern that the Opposition had for foreign policy when it was in government was not in terms of the interests to Australia, nor was it in terms of the interests of the Australian people. It had only one interest in foreign policy and that was to use it as a tool to organise its re-election. To do this members of the Opposition lied and lied and lied to the Australian people. It became so obvious- 
Very well. The honourable gentleman asks for one example. 
I was rather hoping you would be. I have with me a publication entitled 'Viet Nam Questions and Answers' which was issued under the authority of the Minister for External Affairs, the right honourable Paul Hasluck, M.P. at that time in May 1966. That publication says: 
. while Australia values the closeness and strength of its friendship and alliance with the United 
States, our forces are in Viet 'Nam to help the Government of the South, at its request . . . 
I think we can all recall the Labor Party, which was in those days the Opposition, demanding time and time again that that request be tabled. Late one evening in 1972,  6i  years later, the government of the day, now the Opposition, tabled the letters. These letters nail the lie on which the honourable member asked me to elaborate and I shall do so. There was an exchange of letters between the Australian Ambassador in Vietnam,  Mr H.  D. Anderson, and the South Vietnamese. A letter written to the then Prime Minister of the Republic of Vietnam, dated 29 April, reads: 
I have the honour, with reference to our conversation yesterday, to confirm the Australian Government's offer to send to Viet Nam . . . 
The response - these letters require an acknowledgement in order to make an agreement - which came from  Mr Ky  who was then the Prime Minister of the Republic of Vietnam, says: 
I have the honour to refer to your letter of today's date confirming the Australian Government's offer to send to Viet Nam an infantry battalion of 800 men, with some 100 personnel in logistic support, to serve with United States forces in assisting in the defence of the Republic of Vietnam. 
I wish to confirm my government's acceptance of this offer . . . 
All the time that this Opposition was in Government it claimed that our participation in the Vietnam conflict with hundreds of Australians killed and hundreds more wounded, was because of a request from the Vietnamese Government. 
It was not a request. It was not an invitation. It was an acceptance of an offer - an offer that was engineered by the United States Government. We are talking of the question of style and of how we as Australians relate to our foreign policy. When the present Opposition was in government it not only sold a part of the farm every year but it also sold out in a most blatant way Australia's sovereignty. I go back to the arguments over the North West Cape and the agreement that was entered into. It was one of the most shoddy agreements that Australia has ever been a party to because under that agreement Australia's sovereignty was sold; there was a complete sell-out of Australia's sovereignty. I want to remind honourable members opposite, because they do have a conveniently short memory, that under the North West Cape Agreement Article III provides for an exchange of letters on the basis of consultation on the use of the base. But when those letters were published at the insistence of the United States Ambassador we found in them provision to prevent the Government of Australia from restricting at any time the United States Government's use of the station for defence communication, including Polaris submarines. The exchange of letters said that it was not intended to give Australia control over or access to messages from the station. On Australian soil, in an agreement entered into by an Australian Government the present Opposition when in government sold out Australia's sovereignty. It was always concerned not about foreign policy for foreign policy's sake; nor for foreign policy in the terms of the matter of public importance proposed for discussion by the honourable member for Kooyong which states that 'Australian foreign policy should serve Australia's interests', but it was interested only in how it could utilise Australia's foreign policy to have the Liberal-Country Party Government re-elected. 
We had the sight of an Australian Foreign Minister - that honourable member is no longer a member of this House - going to the United States of America and pleading in public fora for the United States to intervene in the domestic affairs of Australia. In a speech which he made on 5 October 1972 to the AmericanAustralian Association, talking to an American audience, he said: 
Whether you yourselves really wish actively to contribute to this shift of political power, which having regard to the present policy statements of the Opposition would lead inevitably to the imposition of conditions of Australian control of American bases- 
Back to the American bases again. In fact, that former Foreign Minister pleaded with and asked the American public - he made this point in official discussions with the American Administration - to intervene in Australia's domestic affairs. This was a monstrous appeal. There has been no precedent for it in any other country or at any other time. That is what the present Opposition when in Government thought of foreign policy. It was an appalling sell out. This Government believes that we do not need to walk or to march to the beat of another drum. We are capable of measuring our own steps and seeking our own direction. 
We are doing no more than what President Nixon once said, to this effect: 
If domination by an aggressor can destroy the freedom of a nation, too much dependence on a protector can eventually erode its dignity. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Australian Film Development Corporation Act 1970, I present the third annual report of the Australian Film Development Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1973, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
'Four Corners' produced in accordance with the Commission's guide-lines for Public Affairs Programs, details of which have previously been made public. The subjects dealt with in the program are selected on the basis of public interest. 
As I have stated previously, it is the policy of this Government to ensure that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has programming independence. It is for the Commission to decide whether any action needs to be taken in relation to 'Four Corners' or any other ABC program. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The conventions referred to were those conventions which Australia has ratified. 
&amp; (3) The effect of the conventions on the Islands is a complex matter. Clearly, some of the conventions which Australia has ratified have no application to the Islands, e.g. No. 45, Underground Work (Women) Convention, 1935 and No. 123 Minimum Age (Underground Work) Convention 1965. Others however require close consideration. I am at present examining a report containing proposals for declarations prepared after an on-the-spot study of the situation on the Cocos (Keeling) Islands and expect declarations to be made soon after this examinationin complete. 
I expect to make a recommendation to the government on the future of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands at an early date. 
Taxation: Pioneering Industries fin Northern Australia  (Question No. 1021) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As will be known, an Australian Institute of Marine Science is to be developed in North Queensland. Action by the Government to expedite development of this Institute was outlined in my statement to Parliament on 11 April 1973 (Hansard, House of Representatives, pp. 1314-15). Establishment of the Institute is an important step in developing and extending marine science in Australia. A national program in marine science properly balanced in respect of physical oceanography, marine biology, marine geology, etc., and between research in temperate and tropical waters, is sought. Consideration is being given to the desirable nature and timing of further steps towards that goal, including the provision of adequate resources for the purpose. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. Not only have I read articles on the subject, but I have had discussions with newspaper sources and representatives of the unions involved in the industry. 
There is a world shortage of newsprint, and I understand supplies from Canada and the Scandinavian countries are seriously affected. However I understand the Australian Newsprint Mills in Tasmania are the principal suppliers to the Australian market. Newspaper proprietors and trade unions involved in the industry have expressed their concern to me about the shortage and the effect it could have on employment within the industry. Within the Australian Public Service the problem is already serious, and the Australian Government Publishing Service of my department recently distributed a circular to all departments asking for restraint in the consumption of paper. 
It is my, understanding that the newspapers themselves have introduced constraints on their consumption of newsprint. 
It is true that the British Phosphate Commission operates on the basis that phosphate should be extracted at the lowest possible cost. On my visit to Christmas Island recently I was concerned to find that Christmas Island was being run very much as a company town. The workers are principally from Malaysia and Singapore and, although, as an inducement, the wages are better than those paid in Malaysia and Singapore, they are well below Australian awards. Following my visit to Christmas Island I asked for a review not only of wages and conditions but also of environmental matters related to mining and the protection of wildlife. I have also had a government statistician review the cost of living index for Christmas Island on the basis on which the wages are determined. Anomalies have been found in the cost of living index used by the Phosphate Commission. These will be rectified and I hope arrangements will be made before Christmas for an increase in wages paid on Christmas 
Island in accordance with the cost of living adjustments. 
I have seen the reports and on a visit to Papua New Guinea I saw the farms to which the honourable senator has referred. The waste digestion process is very well known. In fact it has been used in certain towns in Australia. It has been estimated that about one per cent of our total energy requirements could be provided by the processing of human waste. The difficulty at the moment under present economic conditions is that it does not provide an economic way of producing energy. I think all of us have to look at this process in terms of the energy crisis and also in terms of getting rid of pollution. It seems to me, with the fuel crisis exacerbating, that this form of waste digestion providing methane gas could be a goer much sooner than most people think. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has a special program on sewage treatment. Following representations by the honourable member for Robertson we are looking, in conjunction with the Cities Commission, at a special program in the Gosford-Wyong area. It is a field in which the CSIRO is doing an increased amount of research. It can provide a form of energy which can be useful, particularly for household consumption, and also is a way of overcoming one of our great problems, which is the disposal of human waste. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Department of Science for the period 20 December 1972 to 30 June 1973. I present also separate reports, for the year ended 30 June 1973, for each of the operational divisions and branches which were transferred to the Department of Science. The units concerned are: The Bureau of Meteorology, the Patent Office, the Antarctic Division, the Ionospheric Prediction Service and the Analytical Services Branch. 
-by leave - This will be the last time that a Minister for External Territories will address this House. On 1 December amendments to the Papua New Guinea Act recently passed by this Parliament will come into effect. Papua New Guinea will become formally selfgoverning. The portfolio of Minister for External Territories and the Department of External Territories will cease from that date. 
This is an historic occasion. Seventy-two years ago this House and the Senate resolved that they are prepared to join in measures for the acceptance of British New Guinea as a territory of the Commonwealth'. Papua was formally placed under Australian administration by the Papua Act 1905 which was proclaimed on 1 September 1906. In 1920 the League of Nations conferred on the Australian Government a mandate for the government of the Territory of New Guinea. Following the Second World War the 2 Territories were unified under one administration. 
In his second reading speech on the Papua New Guinea Provisional Administration Bill on 4 July 1945, the then Labor Government Minister for External Territories,  Mr Eddie  Ward, observed: 
This Government is not satisfied that sufficient interest had been taken in the Territories prior to the Japanese invasion, or that adequate funds had been provided for their development and the advancement of the native inhabitants. Apart from the debt of gratitude that the people of Australia owe to the natives of the Territory, the Government regards it as its bounden duty to further to the utmost the advancement of the natives, and considers that that can 'be achieved only by providing facilities for better health, better education and for a greater participation by the natives in the wealth of their country and eventually in its government . . . 
Today we are witnessing one of the last steps in the fulfilment of that promise. 
In 2 days time Papua New Guinea will have full legal control over its own internal affairs. But less than 4 years ago the then Australian Government regarded self-government and independence as a remote possibility. The visits in 1970 and 1971 of the then Leader of the Opposition, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  broke the nexus.  His  proposal for early self-government and independence was met with official hostility and public dismay. But the course and flow of events in Papua 
New Guinea were dramatically and irrevocably changed. Papua New Guinea has attained self-government and is moving to independence by orderly constitutional procedures. The Labor Party, having noted the reluctance of colonial powers to give up their colonies - a reluctance which led to wars of national liberation, subversion and bloodshed - was determined that the distresing lessons of history should not be repeated in Australia's colony - Papua New Guinea. 
As a political party, we firmly believe that the decisions affecting the people of any country should be made by the representatives of the people of that country. The people of Papua New Guinea will want to measure their own steps and to set their own course. The National Coalition Government, under the leadership of  Mr Michael  Somare, has already re-oriented the economic and social development of Papua New Guinea in line with the 8-Point Improvement Program. I am sure that all of us wish the Chief Minister and his Government well in guiding their own country to nationhood. There are problems, some of them daunting, particularly for a young country; but, in the words of an old Persian proverb, Only your own fingers can find the itch'. 
The character of any nation is determined as much by the manner in which problems are resolved as by the nature of the solution arrived at. Australia will, as the Prime Minister has stated publicly and unequivocally, continue to provide assistance to Papua New Guinea up to independence and beyond. We will not leave Papua New Guinea in the lurch. The assistance will be applied to the objectives and priorities established by the Papua New Guinea Government. By the very nature of our past relations and the agreed tasks, it will be substantial. But I believe it is important for both countries to recognise that the relationship of donor to receiver is just as complex between nations as it is between people. It is a relationship that requires a sensitive understanding on both sides. A heavy dependence on foreign aid can only be acceptable to an independent country if it is not too long lived. The Papua New Guinea Government, in acknowledging this, has ranked self-reliance as one of its major objectives. 
The very closeness of our relations can create problems. The Australian Government recognises that Papua New Guinea will continue to occupy a special position in Australia's policy, but we do not see Australia as seeking or asserting an exclusive relationship with Papua New Guinea. Let me quote another national proverb, this time from Malaysia: Even good friends must keep their distance'. Papua New Guinea will want to find its own place in the international community. It will want to determine its own relations with Australia with due regard to its own national interests. Australia will want to do the same. There could be conflicts of interest, but the test of our friendship will be in the amicable resolution of any such conflicts. 
The attainment of self-government for Papua New Guinea is also the occasion for the disbandment of the Department of External Territories whose staff has worked tirelessly and with dedication in the interests of Papua New Guinea's future. The contribution it has made is without parallel in the Australian Public Service. Officers of that Department have served successive Ministers for External Territories well and I would like to place on record my appreciation for their support and advice during a very demanding year. To the many thousands of Australians who have served and are serving in Papua New Guinea, we extend our appreciation for their contribution to the development of Papua New Guinea. 
At this stage, I wish to read an extract from a letter that I received this morning from His Excellency, the Governor-General. This letter is intended for an occasion that we are to have tomorrow evening - a wake, I suppose one would call it - for the Department of External Territories. In this letter, His Excellency says: 
In the continuing labour of government the ending of one job only means the beginning of a new job. There is still a great need for the Australian Government to draw on the training, experience and knowledge gained by its public servants in handling matters related to Papua New Guinea and I trust that full and intelligent use will be made of this asset in the coming years. 
It is. too early for an historical judgment to be made on what Australia has done in Papua New Guinea. At this time it is enough to remember with pride, and record with honour the patient and devoted labours and the good intention of Australian public servants. The length of their service gave continuity and the depth of their experience gave better understanding of the wide range of problems and the many changes in situations which successive Australian Ministeries had to face. 
That,  Sir, is  a compliment - I believe a well earned compliment - by  His Excellency,  who, for many years, was the Minister for Territories and in charge of the affairs of Papua New Guinea for the Government of his day. 
I think that it would be appropriate for this House, in taking note of a landmark in its own history, to express to the people of Papua New Guinea through the House of Assembly its warm wishes in the form of a resolution. I ask for leave to move a motion accordingly. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Institute of Marine Science. 
For the information of honourable members I table a copy of a letter from 
McKinsey and Co. Incorporated to the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission dated 25 June 1973. This letter takes the form of an outline of proposed areas of study for a diagnostic survey of the ABC and its organisation. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a Question Without Notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular Interdepartmental Committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information (Hansard, page 1317). 
I also refer the right honourable gentleman to the Prime Minister's answer to his further Question Without Notice on this subject on 15 November 1973 (Hansard, pages 3373-4). 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Question Nos 964 and 1057 (Hansard 27 September 1973, page 1714 and 24 October 1973, page 2665). 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. On 20 September 1973, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a Question Without Notice about interdepartmental committees that, if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular Interdepartmental Committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information (Hansard, page 1317). 
I also refer the right honourable gentleman to the Prime Minister's answer to his further Question Without Notice on this subject on 15 November 1973 (Hansard, pages 3373-4). 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answers to Questions Nos. 964 and 1057 (Hansard 27 September 1973, page 1714 and 24 October 1973, page 2665). 
Pursuant to section 24 of the Metric Conversion Board Act 1970-1971, I present the third report of the Metric Conversion Board for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
by leave - The Australian Government will provide a sum of $750,000 over the next 3 financial years to study Australia's wildlife, both plant and animal. Grants totalling $120,000 will be made in this financial year. 
The face of Australia has been changed rapidly by development. But it has become increasingly recognised that development must be guided so that we do not endanger the survival of native animals and plants. Knowledge of our native animals and plants is incomplete. For example, experts believe that possibly only half of Australian insects are known to science and that a quarter of native plants have yet to be described. There are also deficiencies in the publication and dissemination of available information. The most comprehensive set of descriptions of Australian plants was published almost a century agoin 1878. Even less complete is the scientific understanding of the ecological systems within which various animal and plant species evolve. 
A greater effort in taxonomy and ecology is. important for other reasons as well as conservation. Practical benefits could flow to the Australian people through such avenues as forestry, agriculture, pharmacy, recreation and aesthetics. There is also the intrinsic scientific value of such a study. Valuable work in taxonomy and ecology has been performed in the past by museums, herbaria, universities and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, but a great deal must still be done. The need for more intensive study of Australia's biological resources has long been recognised by scientists and has been a plank in the Australian Labor Party platform for some time. In spite of several representations to it over the last 10 years, the previous Government declined to take any action on this matter. 
The House of Representatives Select Committee on. Wildlife Conservation in its 1972 report recommended: 
That a biological survey be established by the Commonwealth Government to undertake on a continuing basis surveys of birds, mammals and reptiles and their ecology  around  to establish a national collection of wildlife species. 
The Australian Academy of Science has made similar recommendations over many years. The Government, by the establishment of the Interim Council, is giving effect to the Committee's recommendation and in fact is going further by including the study of Australia's insects and plants. The membership of the Interim Council will be as follows:  Dr D.  F. Waterhouse,  Chairman,  CSIRO, Division of Entomology, Canberra;  Dr H.  G. Cogger, Australian Museum, Sydney;  Dr L.  A. S. Johnson, Director, Royal Botanic Gardens and Herbarium, Sydney;  Dr K.  H. L. Key, CSIRO, Division of Entomology, Canberra;  Dr W.  D. L. Ride, Director, Western Australian Museum;  Dr L.  J. Webb, CSIRO, Division of Plant Industry, Brisbane; and  Dr P.  Wilson, Western Australian Herbarium, Perth. We invited these gentlemen to serve on the Interim Council both because of their scientific knowledge and to achieve a proper balance between different fields of study. The Interim Council will not merely respond to requests for funds but will give positive leadership in establishing priorities for critical fields of study. 
The terms of reference of the Interm Council are as follows: 
The Council shall be responsible for stimulating the study of the taxonomy, distribution and ecology of Australia's biological resources and for assessing the long-term national requirements in this and related matters. 
The Council shall promote through grants to appropriate institutions or individuals: (i) collection and scientific description of species of animals and plants throughout Australia; (ii) in depth ecological studies. (In promoting the studies referred to in (i) and (ii), special attention shall be given to areas where rapid changes are taking place in the natural environment, and to remote unstudied areas.) (iii) proper maintenance of collections. 
The Council shall consider and, during 1976, make recommendations in relation to: (i) conduct in the longer term of taxonomic and ecological studies; and (ii) permanent housing, maintenance and display of a national biological collection. 
The Council shall be responsible to the Minister for Science, and shall submit an annual report. 
The establishment of the Interim Council marks the beginning of a national effort to investigate our flora and fauna. I am sure the initiative will have the support of the House. 
 The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
No. On 20 September 1972, my colleague, the Prime Minister, informed the right honourable gentleman in reply to a Question Without Notice about interdepartmental committees that if he wished to know the composition and function of any particular interdepartmental committee, and for what period of time it had been active, the Prime Minister would be happy to provide him with that information. 
If the right honourable gentleman wishes to have information about a particular committee on which my Department is represented, I will assist him as far as possible having regard to the Prime Minister's answer to Question Nos. 964 and 1057. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I am unable to give the detailed figures requested, but I understand such prices as are charged by newspapers are dependent upon a number of factors such as the nature of the advertisement, the time of its insertion, and the frequency of publication. 
Newspapers are registered under the various State Acts. It is not possible for me to state what particular situations, monopolistic or otherwise, are pertinent to the advertising policy of each newspaper. This question is more one for my colleague the AttorneyGeneral. 
As the honourable member will be aware, the Government has just brought in an Australian Film Commission. One of the tasks of the Australian Film Commission is to encourage commercial production of films by Australian producers in Australia. Under the terms of reference for the Australian Films Commission is a provision that up to 50 per cent of an agreed budget will be provided through Commonwealth assistance, not only through a financial input but also in the distribution and exhibition of films. Some honourable members recently have seen - unfortunately, I did not see it - a new Australian production called 'Alvin Purple' which has been produced by a group called the Village Roadshow which lias formed Hexagon Productions. Although I did not see the film, some of my colleagues on both sides of  the 
House regard it as a very good and highly entertaining film. This group is producing another film of a story written by David Williamson and has 2 more films on the production line. 
I think that this sort of activity by Australian film producers should be encouraged. But it really is only getting Australia back to the position it held very early in this century when Australia was credited with having produced the first full length film in the world - a film entitled 'Soldiers of the Cross' which was produced in 1900. During the 1920s and 1930s Australia also maintained a very high position in the world in film making. This position has since declined. I think that all honourable members will realise that because of the initiative taken by the Australian Government in establishing the Australian Film Commission we hope to regain the position of eminence that Australia once occupied. 
I think that the question asked by the right honourable gentleman should have been asked of the Premier of Queensland. What has happened is that on 4 September we had a meeting with the Queensland authorities. We said that the site at Cape Cleveland, which had been chosen by the committees looking into the matter, was admirable but we wanted to ensure that unbridled commercial development of the area would not jeopardise the scientific purposes of the Marine Institute. That meeting took place on 4 September. Despite constant reminders to the Queensland Government, there has been no response. I would hope that the right honourable gentleman could prevail upon his colleagues in his own Party in Queensland to try to get a decision so that we can get on with the job of building the Institute. 
Pursuant to section 19 of the AngloAustralian Telescope Agreement Act 1970-71, I present the report on the Anglo-Australian telescope project for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
Honourable members will be aware that the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea,  Mr Somare,  announced in the House of Assembly on 12 March that it was the intention of his Government to move in the April sittings of the House for independence for Papua New Guinea on 1 December 1974. The Australian Government welcomes the initiative of the Papua New Guinea Government in seeking the endorsement of the House to this date and fully supports  Mr Somare  and his Government in this move. The role of the House of Assembly is significant. The United Nations in its resolution of 12 December 1973 noted that 'the House of Assembly has affirmed its right as the duly elected Parliament of the People of Papua New Guinea to decide when independence is to come and that the administering power accepts that the House of Assembly represents the wishes of the people on the question of independence'. 
In foreshadowing his intention to seek independence on 1 December 1974,  Mr Somare  stated that the step to independence was a small one. Transition to independence flows readily from self-government. Today Papua New Guinea is not only self governing but virtually independent. As  Mr Somare  said, the step will involve the assumption by this House - that is the House of Assembly - of control over a few additional powers.  Mr Somare  went on to say: 
We must take control of our defence forces and already we are in fact deciding policy questions regarding those forces. We must take control of policy regarding our own foreign affairs and already we are largely doing this. We are developing our own relations with Australia and our other neighbours already as if we were a sovereign country. 
As I have explained to honourable members on previous occasions, steps have already been taken before self-government to enable Papua New Guinea to assume an international identity. It has participated in international conferences. It has become a member of international organisations. It has taken part in the negotiation of border agreements with Indonesia. On the governmental level it has appointed a Minister of Foreign Relations supported by a department. The results have been impressive. The increasing recognition of Papua New Guinea's international status is indicated by the number of foreign consulates that have already, ahead of independence, been established in Port Moresby. 
Papua New Guinea has been, as honourable members are aware, increasingly involved in the field of defence and Australia has fully consulted it on all aspects of defence policy. A senior Minister in the Papua New Guinea Government,  Mr Albert  Maori-Kiki, is responsible for defence matters as well as for foreign relations. This has not happened by chance. Short of independence Australia must retain authority in these fields, but it has been the Australian Government's policy to devolve steadily increasing responsibility to Papua New Guinea, with the concurrence of the Papua New Guinea Government and consistently with the retention of ultimate authority. We believe that the experience which Papua New Guinea has gained in the exercise of these responsibilities will stand the country in good stead in the years after independence. 
Australia also endorses  Mr Somare's  statement that Papua New Guinea has all the prerequisites of an independent country and has the manpower and economic resources to continue its development. There will be problems but I am confident that by goodwill and application these can be overcome. Australia is backing Papua New Guinea's potential by giving positive manpower and financial support to underpin Papua New Guinea's improvement program and to assist in the early years of independence. As long ago as 18 February 1973, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced that the Australian Government had given an assurance of continuing aid over the period of the program. The Australian Government has now quantified those assurances following upon top level discussions held recently at the Chief Minister's request. 
As honourable members will be aware, the Prime Minister has informed the Papua New Guinea Government that on the basis of present indications, a united Papua New Guinea could proceed on the assumption that the Australian Government will provide a total of at least $500m for its expenditure on economic and social development in one form or another over the 3-year period beginning 1974-1975. The purpose of the commitment is to underpin the Papua New Guinea Government's new improvement program and to assist Papua New Guinea in the early years after independence. As a Government we accept this responsibility. 
I turn to another matter, the question of a proposed constitution for Papua New Guinea. The  Deputy Chairman  of the Papua New Guinea Constitutional Planning Committee recently announced in the House of Assembly a revised timetable for the presentation of the Committee's report. As the Chief Minister,  Mr Somare,  has stated, the earlier agreement on the two-stage self-government proposal cannot be implemented, and therefore no longer applies.  Mr Somare  in referring to the proposed independence date on 1 December has stated that it will give the House ample time to debate fully and to enact a Papua New Guinea home grown Constitution to guide it after independence. Australia agrees that ample time should be devoted to such an important measure. It would seem appropriate that a Papua New Guinea home grown Constitution should come into effect at independence. 
When appropriate, Australia, as required by the United Nations, will commence discussions with the Papua New Guinea Government to determine a timetable for the transfer of the remaining powers and the necessary administrative and legislative action which will flow from that transfer. We will also need to have discussions with the Papua New Guinea Government about our approach to the United Nations in regard to the discharge of the trusteeship arrangements. 
I can assure this House and the Australian people that the Australian Government will devote itself to ensuring that the final steps to independence will be achieved smoothly and in a spirit of goodwill. 
 The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has just finished his comments on the highly successful visit abroad by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  For once the right honourable member was correct when he said that one of the purposes of the Prime Minister's visit was to dispel misunderstandings. It was to dispel misunderstandings created by 23 years of Liberal-Country Party foreign policy. I draw the attention of honourable members to the exact statement made by the Prime Minister in presenting his report to this House. On page 203 of Hansard he is reported as saying: 
I wanted to explain to them- 
That is, the people, the contries and the governments of South-East Asia-  that what had changed was not the degree of Australian involvement in the region but the nature and direction of that involvement. I wanted to make clear that our emphasis had shifted from an involvement based mainly on ideological considerations and military alliances to one based on more enduring ties such as trade, aid programs, regional co-operation, economic co-operation, and the development of a network of cultural contacts and agreements. 
These were certainly not the policies, this was certainly not the emphasis, of the previous Government. The Prime Minister was successful in his visit. Let us not concern ourselves with the words of the Leader of the Opposition because he, like his predecessors, as head of the Liberal-Country Party coalition, did not enjoy any stature or status in the countries of South East Asia. Let us not quote the Leader of the Opposition. Let us look at what the leaders of the countries of South East Asia had to say about the Prime Minister's visit. The Prime Minister fo Malaysia, Tun Abdul Razak, said this: 
In the last year since you assumed that high office, you have been a fresh wind of change in this part of the world and you have brought courage, vigour and a new vision to the problems which have beset us for so long. We welcome you, therefore,  Mr Prime  Minister, not only as an old and valued friend of Malaysia but as a statesman who has made a vivid and constructive impact on the affairs of this region. 
The Prime Minister of Singapore, speaking at a reception in honour of the Australian Prime Minister, said: 
Despite considerable foreknowledge of both your thinking and the Australian Labor Party's established policies, nevertheless I still found the first months of Labor Government in Australia stirring with the drama of fundamental changes carried out with great panache. 
Later in his speech he said: 
The impression your policies have given abroad is one of vigour. 
The optimism and enthusiasm in your dynamic approach to both domestic and external events and forces are widely known. 
The  President  of the Republic of the Philippines,  President  Marcos, said: 
It is a distinct honour for  Mrs Marcos  and I to be able to tender this dinner in honour of one of the most distinguished leaders in our part of the world, the innovating leader of the Australian people, who has brought into the Government of Australia a fresh new wind of innovation and a creative energy, symbolic and representative of the character and the strength of Australia and its people. 
These are the comments made by the heads of the countries of South East Asia. These remarks could never be related to a political party such as the Liberal Party or the Country Party in terms of its foreign policy because when the Liberal-Country Party coalition was in government, it deliberately misled and unconscionably deceived the Australian people. lt went into the 1966 election saying that Australia had been invited by the South Vietnamese Government to commit forces to South Vietnam. This is demonstrably a lie. Australia was never invited by any South Vietnamese government to enter the Vietnam conflict. 
The reason I said it before and the reason I will say it again is that it is completely true and accurate. It was because the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government so misled the Australian people that it is necessary to keep on saying it so that the Australian people will not fall again into the trap of a foreign policy which is based on lies and deception. The history of that event is well known by now. Because the South Vietnam Government was under pressure applied by the Australian and United States Governments, the South Vietnam Government accepted an offer that had been pressed upon it. No country, and certainly not Australia, can afford to have a government which bases its entire policies on outdated myths and fabrications. 
Let us look at ANZUS, which the Leader of the Opposition mentioned today. For so long the ANZUS Treaty was regarded not as a treaty between the people of the United States and the people of Australia; not even as a treaty between the United States Government and the Australian Government. It was regarded by the honourable gentlemen opposite as a treaty between the United States and the Liberal-Country Party Government. There is no wonder that there was confusion and embarrassment following the statement by the  Deputy  Secretary of the State Department,  Mr Rush,  when he was departing Australia after the ANZUS meeting. This is what the United States  Deputy  Secretary of State had to say: 
It has been particularly worthwhile for me to have the opportunity to meet with your distinguished leaders, Prime Minister Whitlam and Deputy Prime Minister Barnard, and with other officials. These talks were conducted in a spirit of understanding, candour and friendship. My visit to Australia impresses me with the vitality of our alliance. There is no need for our views to be identical on all issues, though we must always bear in mind that the bonds are strong, permanent and important. 
One of the things that the Opposition when in government did not know and did not understand is that alliances are not based on the subservience of one partner to another. I can recall a statement made by a retiring Charge d'affaire of the United States Embassy during the period when the Opposition was in government. He had this to say: 
The United States does not want allies who just follow our lead, we want allies who come up with ideas of their own. 
Quite obviously the Opposition when it was in government did not relate to the maxim which  Mr Nixon,  who was then not the  President,  used in 1964 in Bangkok. He said: 
If domination by an aggressor can destroy the freedom of a nation, too much dependence on a protector can eventually erode its dignity. 
The Opposition, when in government, eroded the dignity of Australia. We only have to look at the way in which the agreement. on a communications facility at North West Cape was negotiated. The honourable members opposite sold Australia down the river for one particular reason - to conjure up an electionwinning formula. The then Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr N.  H. Bowen, went to the United States and pleaded with the United States not to support the Australian Labor Party, which was then in Opposition, but to continue to support the Liberal Party as a government. He insinuated - and this was a statement that was made by a representative not just of a political party but of the whole Australian people - that any change in government in Australia would be entirely unacceptable to the United States and he invited the United States to consider for itself whether is really wished to contribute actively to a shift in power. This is an appalling sell-out of Australia which was made on foreign soil to prop up a government which had no pride in either itself or its people. 
That same Minister for Foreign Affairs was in office when we in opposition said that ANZUS could no longer concentrate only on military alliances but had to look more widely to areas of economic and social co-operation. That same Minister for Foreign Affairs who represented the Liberal Party and Country Party coalition opposed the using of ANZUS for justice and peace and political, social and economic development in the Pacific area. How he must now look at the ANZUS communique issued this year and which after a thorough examination of the economic and social conditions in the Pacific area, said that consideration was given to the world economic situation and trade and to the possible effects of recent events upon the economic stability of the Asian-Pacific region. These are the changes in emphasis. These are the important things which we as a Government have brought to the conduct of foreign policy in Australia. 
The Leader of the Opposition is maintaining that the Opposition when in government had taken a number of initiatives. He talked about aid. Let us look at the way in which the Opposition when in government looked at aid, because the Opposition's concept of aid was very clearly spelt out by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  when he was the Prime Minister. In assessing Australia's aid to Cambodia he said: 
The decision to increase our aid has been made in pursuance of our policy of aiding South East Asian nations to resist Communist aggression. 
That was the only intent of the previous Government's aid programs - not humanitarian programs for helping people because people needed help but help because of what they described as Communist aggression. The previous Government was mesmerised in its conduct not only of aid programs but also in its conduct of foreign policy by the technicolour election winning formula of the Red menace and the yellow hordes which regrettably had operated for far too long. 
The Leader of the Opposition talked about the great initiatives that the Opposition when in government had taken in relation to aid for less developed countries. He instanced particularly the tariff preferences which were given to the less developed countries. He voiced his great concern over Indonesia. Bui all that the preferential tariff achieved foi Indonesia during the reign of his Government was to increase the value of the limited range of goods imported under the concessions from $2,500 in 1966-67 to a grand total of $12,600 in 1968-69. I would think that the peanut concession at the Sydney Cricket Ground would be worth far more than that. We as a government have taken initiatives. I can understand why the Leader of the Opposition was so embarrassed when I talked about China. What did the previous Government do about China? What did the Australian Country Party, as part of that Government, do for the wheat and sugar farmers in arranging contracts with China? What did they as a government do about the French testing of nuclear weapons? They sat quiet and did nothing. We have taken initiatives. We have taken the French Government to the International Court of Justice. We have a record in foreign policy of which not only we can be proud . but of which the whole of the Australian people can be proud. The former Government turned a lucky country into a lackey country. We are now getting back to where Australians can hold their heads up and be proud of a foreign policy that is not based on lies, that is not based on myths, but is based on the reality and the understanding of the Australian people. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Solar energy. The CSIRO carried out research mainly on solar water heating, air drying, desalination, and aspects of solar thermal power stations. A Director of Solar Energy Studies has recently taken up duties and will provide advice to the CSIRO Executive on relative priorities of the CSIRO work. Some tertiary education institutions carry out work on selective surfaces, silicon technology, photochemistry, photoelectricity and - organic photovoltaic substances. 
Geothermal energy. Nil.  
Tidal energy. Nil. 
Wine, energy. Nil. 
The CSIRO, the Universities of Queensland, Western Australia, Sydney, Melbourne and the New South Wales Institute of Technology. 
The CSIRO work is being undertaken at Melbourne, Sydney, Griffith, Townsville, Darwin, Muresk and Coober Pedy. The other work is undertaken at the Universities and the Institute listed in (2) above. 
The purpose of the CSIRO work is to arrive at viable designs for equipment to capture and harness solar energy. The Government funding is approximately S350.000 per annum. The other work has the purpose of gaining understanding of scientific fields in the anticipation that results useful in future solar energy technology will arise. The direct Government funding for these projects is $40,000 per annum, channelled through the Australian Research Grants Committee. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
My prediction of increased film production activity in Australia this year is based upon public statements of plans announced either by the Australian Film Development Corporation or the individual producers concerned. 
It is my understanding that more than twenty feature films are being prepared for filming in Australia this year. 
Last year twelve features were made here. 
In 1972 seven feature films were produced in Australia. 
I am also expecting further development of plans for filming in Australia by a number of overseas owned film distribution and exhibition companies operating here. 
Present demand for key personnel in feature film and television program production including directors, writers, craftsmen, technicians and actors is greater than at any time in the recent history of the Australian film industry. 
In addition, the introduction of colour television next year should stimulate the production of television commercials in colour. 
Australian Government Departments and Authorities: Increase in Positions (Question  No. 32) 
For the information of honourable members, I present a report from McKinsey and Co. Incorporated on the use of Australian Broadcasting Commission resources, dated November 1973. 
by leave - I wish to report to the House on 2 developments relating to the administration and future direction of science and technology in Australia. I do this conscious of the fact that in recent years public disenchantment has risen wi:h the part played by science and technology in developments of dubious value to mankind. I am not talking only of the more obvious examples, such as military applications, nor even of space research, which though it has an endless fascination for the man and woman in the street has nevertheless come to be regarded by many as an enormously expensive deviation from the search for solutions to mankind's most pressing problems. In an increasingly environment conscious society, it is now apparent that science and technology have themselves created problems. 
It is my belief that these problems can be solved only by the application of a redirected scientific and technological effort, and the Government is moving on several fronts to achieve this result. The Government recognises that the complexities of science and technology on the one hand and of society on the other will demand in the future a more coherent national approach to the development and utilisation of Australian science and technology than in the past. For this reason, it is the Government's intention to establish an Australian science council, whose broad purpose will be to assist the 
Parliament and the Government on science and technology. 
The governments of many industrialised countries have adopted, during the past decade, machinery through which they have received integrated advice on broad scientific issues of national significance. While the structure of such advisory machinery has varied from one country to another, the common purpose has been to enhance the economic and social gains from the resources that each of these countries devotes to its national scientific program. No comparable step had been taken in Australia until the previous Government, in the last year of its term of office, formed an advisory committee on science and technology. The concept and other factors associated with that committee were not in accord, however, with the approach of the new Government and it was therefore disbanded. Mindful of the problems which have beset similar committees in other countries and conscious of the need to take fully into account the views of interested groups within the community, the Government has moved with care in formulating its plans for the creation of a science council. As a first step, shortly after the Government took office I invited the Australian scientific and technological communities, through appropriate bodies, to offer comment on such aspects as the proposed council's charter, composition and organisation, and the mechanisms through which the council's advice should be conveyed to, and considered by, Government. Much thoughtful and valuable advice was received though, not surprisingly, some differences of view emerged in relation to specific aspects of the proposed council's functions and modus operandi. For example, most of those who offered comment urged the creation of a body with wide-ranging responsibility to advise the Government on policies and priorities in the total scientific' endeavour of Australia. However, in relation to the social sciences, medical sciences and defence science, there were divergences of view as to what the nature of the council's role should be. 
Some of the issues on which no clear-cut guidelines have yet emerged are of sufficient importance to warrant seeking further expressions of view from the community, even though this would entail some delay in establishing the council. In addition to the ambit of matters on which the council should advise the Government, other aspects on which further reflection and comment would be welcomed include: Standing arrangements through which the Government should receive and consider the council's advice; the desirable relationship between the council and other bodies already set up to advise the Government on aspects of the national scientific effort or on closely related matters; whether at least one member of the council should serve on a fulltime basis, and whether Australian Government employees should be eligible for membership of the council; and the desirable mechanism for establishing the council, whether through legislation or by governmental administrative actions. Against the background just outlined, I have decided that the differences of view which have been identified should be publicised for examination and open debate. To this end, I am issuing a discussion paper entitled 'Towards an Australian Science Council', which I now table for the information of honourable members. 
In deciding to follow this course, I have been mindful of the fact that the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development - OECD - is about to make a review of Australia's scientific and technological activities. The decision to invite this review was made public in a statement that I issued in October last. Since the role and structures of science advisory machinery in a number of other countries have been the subject of special studies by the OECD, that body should be well placed to examine and comment, from an independent standpoint, upon the various matters that are traversed in the discussion paper which I have just tabled. I will therefore be inviting the examining panel which the OECD has appointed to undertake the review, to include the question of an Australian Science Council in the matters that it will be addressing in the course of its tasks. For the information of honourable members, the 3 member OECD examining panel will be commencing its discussions in Australia on 25 March. It will comprise  Dr A.  King, formerly Director-General of Scientific Affairs with the OECD;  Dr F.  Schneider, Director-General of the Max Planck Society of the Federal Republic of Germany; and  Dr Wautrequin  of the Prime Minister's Department, Belgium. 
In the period up to 11 April, the examiners will be holding comprehensive discussions with representatives of the Australian and some State Governments, the universities, industry, trade unions, learned academics and professional bodies, on the whole range of scientific effort in Australia. Regrettably the length of time that the panel can spend in Australia will not permit it to visit centres other than Canberra, Sydney and Melbourne, but whenever practicable the groups with which they will be meeting will also include persons drawn from other parts of Australia. During the Easter period, the Panel will be formulating its preliminary views. These will then be the subject of discussion at an assessment meeting to be held in Canberra on 18 and 19 April. Representatives from the sectors already mentioned will be invited to participate in this meeting. The aim will be for the examining panel to gain reactions and comments on its tentative conclusions, which will then be taken into account in writing its definitive report. That report will be discussed at a meeting at the OECD headquarters in Paris later in the year, and I would hope to receive the OECD's final report on the review before the end of the year. 
Since effective chairmanship of the assessment meeting could be a key factor in ensuring a fruitful exchange of views between the examiners and Australian representatives, the Government has invited  His Excellency Sir Mark  Oliphant to chair the meeting. I am delighted to be in a position to say that  Sir Mark  has agreed to assist in this way. While the Government sees the impartial scrutiny by independent experts of Australia's present scientific and technological situations as being of great value, it will be obvious from what I have said that we will not be relying solely on the advice of the overseas experts in developing policies to chart the future course of the development and utilisation of science and technology in serving national needs. The OECD report will however represent the first full scale review of scientific effort in Australia. In that sense it will be a milestone in Australian science and technology. I believe that the House will endorse the action that the Government has taken. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) The purpose of the Northern Prawn Project is to carry out that scientific work which is necessary for the proper development and management of prawn resources of northern Australia. 
Population and migration studies of several prawn species have been conducted and the basis has been laid for an annual stock prediction system for some of the banana prawn fisheries in the north. This service will continue to assist industry with the logistics of its operations and will also help Government authorities responsible for management of 
The second column of the table shows for each year the total of recorded Australian production plus imports less exports as a broad indication of the size of the gross domestic market, and the third column of - the table shows imports as a percentage of the second column. prawn fisheries. Environmental studies of the Gulf of Carpentaria have been completed and a numerical model developed of the tides and tidal currents of the Gulf. A new area potentially capable of sustaining a banana prawn fishery has been located in the Joseph Bonaparte Gulf. 
Some parts of the Northern Prawn Project have been concluded but other parts will continue indefinitely in order to monitor the state of the prawn stocks for the benefit of industry and management. 
Two-monthly information circulars are available to Government and industry and will be made available to the honourable member by CSIRO if be so desires. As sufficient material accumulates, scientific papers will be published. More popular articles are published from time to time in industry journals and the Press. 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Drafting Instructions to draw legislation to establish an Australian Film Commission have been completed and were delivered to the First Parliamentary Counsel on 8 February 1974. 
The first draft of the Bill has not yet been made available to the Minister by the First Parliamentary Counsel. 
The drafting instructions were prepared by the Secretary and officers of the Department of the Media in consultation with representatives of the Attorney-General's Department, the Australian Film Development Corporation and Film Australia, and were approved by the Minister. 
Following their delivery to the First Parliamentary Counsel these drafting instructions have, been the subject of further meetings involving his officers with representatives of the Department of the Media, Attorney-General's Department and the Treasury. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
At the meeting referred to on 23 February 1974, representatives of 27 consumer groups agreed to establish an Australian Federation of Consumer Groups, and elected a steering committee to draft a constitution for further consideration. The proposed Federation will be an independent body and the Australian Government's chief role in relation to it will be in consulting it on matters of interest to consumers. At the appropriate time, the Government will consider the possibility of providing some financial assistance to the Federation. 
The steering committee is working on a draft constitution but has not yet completed it. 
No appointment has yet been made. I expect the question of a permanent executive for the Federation will be a matter for the Federation to consider after it has been formed. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Interim Commission for Consumer Standards convened a meeting in Melbourne on 23 February 1974 which was attended by representatives of 27 consumer groups. They agreed to proceed with the estab- lishment of a Federation and appointed a steering committee to draw up a constitution for further consideration. 
It is envisaged that the proposed Federation would be a focus for consumer opinion and would advise the Government on consumer matters. The Government will provide financial and other assistance to establish the organisation but it will be entirely independent of the Government in its operations. 
 I must say that I am appalled but not surprised by the tactics of the Opposition in seeking the deletion from this Bill of all references to consumer protection. I suppose during the election campaign one had the balmy dawn of the Opposition, for the first time in over 23 years, actually mouthing words like 'consumer protection' and 'the interests of consumers'. It produced in its book called 'The Way Ahead' - obviously it is now 'The Way Backwards' - reference to bureaus of consumer protection and it mouthed words in favour of protecting the interests of the consumer. But today the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  indicates that this was a false dawn. Quite obviously the Opposition is more concerned with the interests and the rights of manufacturers and the people it represents than in protecting the rights of consumers. 
The Government has regarded this legislation as a composite package. Is the honourable member for Wentworth telling me that we can divorce from consumer protection the enforcement and penalty provisions under Part VI, which give consumer protection the powers and penalties that are not in much of the State legislation about which he talks? The Opposition is seeking to take out what we deliberately put in, namely, teeth in the consumer protection provisions. Can he say that the other Parts of the Bill, particularly Part IV, which deals with resale price maintenance and price discrimination, are not in the interests of the consumer? 
As I said, this Bill was framed as the first Bill to be introduced into this Federal House to deal with consumers and consumer protection. The whole concept of the administration was that the Trade Practices Commission would provide the most effective form of administration for protecting the consumers' interests. We have developed a program for the use of the Trade Practices Commission in the interests and on behalf of the people of Australia. By one amendment the Opposition seeks to delete the whole of the consumer protection provisions in this Bill. 
The honourable member for Wentworth talks about confusion. At the moment the 6 States have their own legislation on consumer affairs. We have 6 different approaches to consumer affairs and protection of the individual. Very few of those State Acts have the sorts of penalties that will bring manufacturers and retailers into line. Very few of them give individuals the right to take action for damages. So the Opposition is looking at the confusion of the States and saying to the Federal Government: 'We will not allow you to introduce your consumer protection provisions because your Bill happens to be confusing'. If the Opposition has its way we will have 6 pieces of legislation in the States which have added to the confusion and have affected the rights of the consumers in this country. 
I was not surprised that the honourable member for Wentworth came forward with the old States rights argument. I do not believe that we should be talking about States rights or Federal rights. What we are talking about is the rights of the Australian individual. A Queenslander buys and eats or uses the same sort of product as a Western Australian. Australia is not 6 separate markets but one large market. Consumer protection is a national problem and requires a national solution. Anyone genuinely concerned with the interests of consumers should welcome legislation that will greatly increase the protection available to consumers. That is precisely what the Opposition is not prepared to allow. I am sure that the honourable member for Wentworth has read the appropriate parts of the legislation, but I make the point that where there is inconsistency between consumer protection provisions in this legislation and the provisions of State law, this legislation will of course prevail. But we have provided in the legislation that it will not necessarily displace State legislation in the same field. Clause 75 - I think the honourable member for Wentworth referred to it as clause 74 - expressly provides that the provisions of the Bill are not intended to displace or limit the concurrent operation of any law of a State. 
What we are seeking to do is to reduce the confusion. The enactment of the Trade Practices Bill will provide on an Australiawide basis - not as the sum of the 6 States - for the protection of the individual, the Australian consumer. We look forward to active co-operation with the States in implementing this program. But if we undertook to implement the proposals of the honourable member for Wentworth it would be the year 2001, if we were lucky, before we could get effective representation throughout Australia for the Australian consumer. 
As I mentioned, this is the first legislation at the national level in Australia which is expressly aimed at protecting and reinforcing the individual consumer's position in the market place. The consumer protection provisions will provide a new deal. It is about time we had a new deal, because for 23 years not one word came from the Opposition when it was the government. It is time we had a new deal for consumers throughout Australia. The provisions will provide greatly increased protection to consumers against a wide variety of unfair, misleading and deceptive practices and will strengthen the position of consumers in many of their day to day dealings. It will provide powerful reinforcement for, and give great impetus to, efforts already made to protect consumers and to develop consciousness of consumers' rights. It will give Australia up to date and effective protection on a nationwide basis. The Bill recognises that consumers have a fundamental right to fair and honest dealing in business, with that right to be enforceable by law. The Bill prohibits outright deceptive and unfair practices. It stops businessmen, by using the fine print in contracts, taking away conditions and warranties given by the law to protect consumers. It makes the businessman comply with product safety standards and generally requires him to stand behind and be responsible for his product. 
I think we all know that consumers are the largest but regrettably the least organised economic group in the community. Every one of us, by definition, is a consumer - from when we get up in the morning and squeeze our toothpaste tube until we go to bed at night and turn off the lamp. But more often than not, we are quite ignorant of our rights and privileges as consumers. What we are proposing in this Bill is a consumers' charter, that is, a bill of rights for Australians as consumers. We, as consumers, have first the right to be safe, the right to protection against products which could harm our health or endanger our lives. Secondly, we have the right to know. The march of technology has brought added difficulties as well as benefits to the consumer. The housewife today is required to be an amateur mechanic, electrician, doctor, chemist, food technologist and mathematician, but all too rarely is she given the information she needs to fill these roles. Our consumers' charter gives her the right to have access to the facts, free from fraudulent or misleading information, whether in packaging or advertising. 
Thirdly, consumers should have the right to choose, the right to select between goods and services at competitive prices. Our charter protects the consumer against shady business practices which restrict the basic right to get value for money. Above all, the consumer must have the right to speak and to be heard, where his interests are at stake. The consumer must he certain of full, fair and sympathetic consideration in the formulation of Government policy, and a voice in the administrative tribunals of the Government. To recapitulate, related to this Bill and involved in this Bill are four fundamental rights: The right to be safe, as proposed in clause 62; the right to know, as proposed by clause 63; the right to choose, and the right to be heard. 
The Government has taken action outside the provisions of this Bill, but related to the Bill and predating the Bill, for the consumer to be heard. Last year at the time of the preparation of the federal Budget, for the first time consumers were brought into Budget discussions. The previous Government had brought into earlier Budget discussions manufacturers, retailers, trade unionists and so on. But never once in the discussions that preceded the consideration of the Budget at Cabinet level had the voice of the consumer been heard. The Government proposes to follow that practice which it inaugurated last year. That practice will again be adopted this year. 
The Government has, as the House knows, set up the Interim Commission on Consumer Standards and I will be bringing down the report of that Commission in the near future. One of the functions of that Commission was to ensure that the voice of the consumer was heard. The committees of the Standards Association of Australia, particularly its Consumer Advisory Committee, which had not met under the SAA for three or four years was revitalised and the executive officer of the Interim Commission on Consumer Standards became the  Chairman  of the Consumer Standards Advisory Committee of the SAA. The Government has also arranged for the representation of consumer groups on 12 of the technical committees of the  SAA. 
In consultation with my colleague the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  consumers have been brought into the work of the National Health and Medical Research Council. In conjunction with my colleague, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  there are consumer representatives on the Commission on Vehicle Safety and Standards. 
Consumers are involved in the work of Codex Alimentarius, a body which covers international food standards. The Government has also actively encouraged the establishment within Australia of the Australian Federation of Consumer Groups. 
I hasten to point out that although the Government encouraged the formation of this group we made it clear that the Government does not see this group, or wish it to be regarded, as a Government instrumentality. The Government has provided certain facilities to bring together the consumer groups throughout Australia. The Government met representatives of consumer groups and, after giving them some indication of why we wanted them to give a voice to us when we are framing legislation which is of vital interest to consumers, we left the meeting and the representatives proceeded to draw up the ground rules for the Australian Federation of Consumer Groups. I understand that the constitution of that body will be available in the near future. The Government asked the  chairman  of the drafting committee to appear at the Budget discussions. 
Consumer representatives have also appeared at the meetings of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices. Honourable members will recall that on 10 April 1974 the Prime Minister announced that assistance would be given to consumer groups which wished to present submissions to the Prices Justification Tribunal. These are effective efforts undertaken by this Government to ensure that the voices of representatives of consumer groups throughout Australia are heard. 
I turn to the approach adopted in the Bill. The Bill prohibits a wide range of specific practices which have come under notice, including false representations, bait advertising, referral selling, pyramid selling and the assertion of a right to payment for unsolicited goods. It is not possible however to specify in advance the nature of all undesirable practices, as sharp operators continually evolve new schemes for duping the public. For this reason the broad prohibition of misleading or deceptive conduct in clause 52 is of great importance. That is one of the clauses which the honourable member opposite has suggested should be wiped out. The courts will be able under that provision to take action against conduct which may not fall within the more specific terms of other provisions. This will provide the flexibility necessary if legislation of this kind is to be able to deal with evolving market practices without the constant need for legislative action to catch up, often after much damage has already been done, with new practices that are harmful to consumers. 
In view of its generality, there are no penalties provided in relation to clause 52, but injunctions will be available to restrain breaches of the provision and damages will be available also. Under clause 28 the Government will also be able to require the Trade Practices Commission to inquire into and report on the need for new legislation to protect consumers from a particular abuse. The Trade Practices Commission, with its close contact with trading practices and consumer problems, will be well equipped to assist the Government in this way. That is precisely the way in which the Government intends to work, a way in which it will not be possible for the Government to work if the amendment which is proposed by the Opposition is carried. The Bill also prohibits all deceptive or misleading conduct in trade or commerce. The practice of pacakaging products in enormous opaque cardboard containers and labelling them 'giant size' or 'king size' is common. It is impossible these days to buy anything which is 'small size'. It is also common for a consumer's anticipation of large quantities or bulk within the cardboard container to be completely unwarranted. The implication that the quantity is significantly greater than is in fact true and therefore represents greater value is obviously intended by this type of packaging and labelling. Such deceptive practices will be prohibited. Where the nature of the product is such that it subsides after packaging we propose to have Plimsoll lines on the packets to indicate at the point of sale the level from which the subsidence of the material inside the packaging has taken place. 
We have been concerned also about the extravagant performance claims of manufacturers. We have been concerned also about the type of arrangement where one thinks one is getting a discount because there is a tag showing that the product has been marked down from 50c to 30c when the goods have never been marked at 50c; about the paid advertising; about the offers of gifts or prizes and the general deceptive practices that any Australian housewife is only too familiar with; about the conditions of warranties; and about the occasions when any time anything happens the small print is brought out and one has had it because one has been conned all along the line. Those are the essential characteristics of what we have built into the Trade Practices Bill. Product standards and information standards, as I have mentioned, action against pyramid selling, coercion at the place of residence and referral selling are also matters of concern to the Government. 
One of the important provisions of this legislation is the provision of penalties. Under section 79, which is in another part of the Bill, we have provided for penalties of between $10,000 for individuals and $50,000 for corporations to ensure that they adhere to the standards that we will be setting under the provisions of this legislation. We shall also provide under the Act for legal aid to consumers so that they may have the Government on their side in redressing the imbalance in their great fight against the vested interests that quite obviously still stand behind the Opposition. This Bill seeks to establish the principle that a consumer has a fundamental right to be dealt with honestly and fairly when he does business. He asks for nothing more; he is entitled to nothing less. 
 For the reasons explained in my second reading speech and also in the second reading speech of the Minister for 
Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  the Government strenuously opposes the amendment moved by the Opposition. Perhaps I might enlighten the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  with respect to the consumer protection provided in Part V of this Bill amending the Trade Practices Act. It was always the intention that it be administered by the Attorney-General. The arrangements proposed ensure that the Trade Practices Commission would, in fact, carry out most of the work of a bureau of consumer protection. We strongly oppose the  amendment moved by the honourable member for Wentworth. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 76. 
A person who - 
conspires with others to contravene such a provision, is, if the Court so orders, liable to pay to Australia such pecuniary penalty (not exceeding $50,000 in the case of a person not being a body corporate, or $250,000 in the case of a body corporate, in respect of each act or omission by the person to which this section applies) as the Court determines to be appropriate having regard to all relevant matters including the nature and extent of the act or omission and of any loss or damage suffered as a result of the act or omission, the circumstances in which the act or omission took place and whether the person has previously been found by the Superior Court of Australia or the Australian Industrial Court in proceedings under this Fart to have engaged in any similar conduct. 
That advertisement for the Opposition was brought to us by exactly the same people who opposed the prices and incomes referendum. They talk about national action but every action that we have sought to take has been torpedoed by the Opposition. Perhaps it is time we thought again of the issues that were involved in . the prices and incomes referendum - a referendum that was vehemently opposed by the Opposition and by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in a broadcast to the nation on the subject of the referendum said: 
Don't let us fight inflation with one arm tied behind our backs. The powers we seek are essential powers. The national Parliaments of all comparable countries have these powers - and use them. In Australia, the States have the powers - but they have not used them. They have refused to refer them to the national Parliament. We believe that if such powers are to be effective they must be uniform, immediate and unchallengeable in their application. Only the national Government can act in this way. Inflation is a national problem which demands national answers. 
In response to that appeal from the Prime Minister of Australia to give this national Parliament the powers that are enjoyed - not only enjoyed but exercised - by every other national Parliament in the world, the Opposition successfully sought to defeat the transfer of power. Inflation is a national problem. This national Government has only very limited powers. The State governments have the powers to take action. Apart from action taken in one or two areas - and particularly noteworthy is the action that the South Australian Government has taken in certain areas - the State governments have done nothing but criticise this Government for failing to take action, conveniently forgetting that they, not the national Government, have the powers. The State governments  m  the exercise of their normal powers have added to the increase in the cost of living. 
If one examines the consumer price index one will see that there are sizeable weightings for matters such as fares. The weighting for train, bus and tram fares, for instance, in the consumer price index is 2.483 per cent. Any change made not by the national Government but made by the State governments in fares is reflected immediately in the consumer price index. Other areas of control which come under the State governments are car registration and drivers licences. They are areas over which this Government has no authority and no influence. This Government has been criticised also - certainly it receives the blame - for increases in local government rates and charges. Again, these are areas of the consumer price index which have a very powerful effect on the cost of living. By referendum i his Government sought powers to enable it to pass funds directly to local governments to assist them. Any honourable member who has any direct contact with local governments will realise the difficulties that local governments are having. We cannot blame them for putting up rates and taxes in their areas. We as the national Government sought from the Australian people the power to give funds directly to local governments so as to assist local governments in meeting these costs. But the Opposition went out to the country and asked the people to vote 'No'. This was another torpedoing device used by the Opposition which says it is concerned about national action, but every time we propose national action that will have an effect on inflation, the honourable gentlemen on the other side of this table vehemently oppose it. 
I think we all realise, although the Opposition is not inclined to say it, that inflation is a world-wide problem and that there is no easy answer to it. We on this side of the House do not accept the traditional recipe of the Liberal and Country Parties- 
Before the inspired interruption, I was pointing out that every effort that this Government has sought to undertake in the national field to fight against inflation has been torpedoed by the Opposition. It is impossible for any government to undertake a fight against the challenges of inflation with, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said in the earlier debate on this legislation, 'one arm tied behind its back'. But, in attacking inflation, we are not prepared to accept the traditional recipe of the Liberal and Country Parties of a cool pool of unemployment; nor do we accept as the Liberal and Country Parties did that those who are not able to protect themselves should carry the community burden. 
If one examines the percentage relationship over the years of the pension to average weekly earnings it will be noted that in periods of rising inflation the Liberal and Country Parties required the pensioners of the community to carry the sacrifice of inflation programs. But on Tuesday of last week this Government made it clear in its announcement that in seeking to fight inflation it was not prepared to put the whole burden on those who were unable to protect themselves. For the first time for a quarter of a century, pensioners are now receiving 25 per cent of average weekly earnings in pension payments. 
We have been concerned to ensure also that wage and salary earners are able to keep up with the cost of living. If one relates the increase in the average weekly earnings to the increase in the cost of living over the last quarter, it will be noted that the increase in average weekly earnings has been at the rate of 17 per cent and the rise in inflation or the cost of living as measured by the consumer price index has been 14.4 per cent. In those areas in which the Government has had the authority to operate, it has operated and acted both deliberately and promptly. 
For many months in 1972, before the election of this Government, the Country Party and the Liberal Party were fighting over whether Australia should revalue. Because they postponed that decision they were responsible for the increases in overseas funds which came into Australia and which fed the fires of inflation. But as soon as the Labor Party came into office we realised that there was no way better in the immediate future to cut back inflation than by revaluing. This we did. One of the worries of those of us who are concerned with consumer affairs - let us take the revaluation by itself - is that the exchange rate on goods imported from the United States of America should reflect revaluation changes. Goods costing SI 00 before revaluation should be available on the Australian market for $80 following revaluation. 
This Government also has introduced tariff cuts. When one looks at these 2 actions by this Government one sees that prices in Australia of imported goods should have been up to 20 per cent cheaper. We were most concerned that the savings from both revaluation and tariff cuts were not being passed on to the consumer. No doubt, substantial sections of the Australian business community, particularly importers and retailers, were able to reap tidy, additional and unearned profits by failing to pass on to consumers the savings flowing from the actions taken by this Government. It is in this light that we have proposed that the Prices Justification Tribunal shall launch inquiries as appropriate into the prices of imported goods and, in particular, the extent to which savings from tariff reductions and currency revaluations have been passed on. In order to do this, the Tribunal will obtain necessary information on landed costs in consultation with the Department of Customs and Excise, the Department of Overseas Trade and other relevant departments. In conjunction with the other amendments proposed by this legislation - in particular that whereby the Tribunal will be permitted under section 16 to inquire into and report on its own initiative into all retail prices charged by companies without restriction as to turnover - the new measure will substantially improve the ability of the Tribunal to ensure a fair go for the consumer who purchases imported goods. 
In the context of the amendments that we are making to the Prices Justification Tribunal, we are hopeful that the Federation of Consumer Groups, in the establishment of which the Government has played an important part and which it certainly has encouraged - will exercise a valuable watchdog function. Obviously the Tribunal will not have the resources to inquire at random into the pricing policies of each and every retail outlet at which imported products are offered for sale. It will be looking to direct its energies to where they can most usefully be employed. The Federation of Consumer Groups, by virtue of its specialised interest and the skills of the many well-qualified people whose services will be available to the movement, will be in a unique position to eliminate frivolous or unfounded complaints, to pinpoint cases where there is prima facie evidence of price abuse and to bring these cases to the attention of the Tribunal. 
As announced by the Prime Minister on 10 April, the Australian Government will give assistance to consumer bodies wishing to present submissions to the Prices Justification Tribunal in the public interest. Information and advice will be provided, and where appropriate we shall assist with costs involved in the preparation and presentation of the submission. We are happy to render such assistance in the knowledge that the consumer organisations are not creatures of any political party, and cannot be accused of political bias or the seeking of political favour or advantage in their representation of consumer interest. In short, we believe them collectively to be an impartial and incorruptible instrument in the cause of consumer protection. 
The reputable importer and retailer have nothing to fear from this Bill. They will continue to do as they have always done - to take their fair profit in the market-place without recourse to sharp practice, unethical conduct or exploitation. However, we are determined to stamp out situations such as that which prompted such a reputable journal as the 'Australian Financial Review' to report on 14 June: 
The consumer has received little benefit from the " tariff cut or the revaluation of the Australian dollar. The benefits of cheaper imports are being absorbed along the distribution pipeline in many cases. Australian distributors and retailers expect to add much higher markups than do their counterparts in the United States. 
It is the Government's firm intention that the imbalance in the market place against the consumer will be corrected. We do not regard this Bill as the panacea of inflation, but we regard it as a valuable tool in our fight to stem inflation and protect the consumer. It is in this sense that the Government has put forward amendments to the Prices Justification Tribunal legislation. I commend the amendments to the House. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Interim Commission on Consumer Standards dated 1 1 April 1974. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be now  read a second time. 
The purpose of this legislation is to amend the Parliamentary Proceedings Broadcasting Act 1946-1973 in several major respects* Firstly, it is intended to extend the provisions of the present Act to open up the possibility that the proceedings of a joint sitting of the Parliament convened in pursuance of section 57 of the Constitution may be broadcast. The form of the present Act does not allow for this eventuality. As a consequence of this proposal, it is also intended that the Bill should extend the jurisdiction of the Joint Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings to allow the Committee to make determinations governing the arrangements for the broadcasting of the joint sitting proceedings. Further provisions have also been made to extend to the broadcasts of these proceedings the usual protection afforded to parliamentary broadcasts by the existing Act. 
The second important feature of the Bill relates to the use in the present Act of the term 're-broadcasting'. Honourable members know that it has been the practice of the Parliament that a sound recording is made of question time in either the House of Representatives or the Senate, and this recording is broadcast later that day. The fact that such proceedings are not broadcast 'direct to air' at the time of the original recording has given rise to some doubts about the interpretation of the existing Act. This Bill is intended to clarify the situation so that a reference to rebroadcasting of proceedings shall be read as a reference to broadcasting from a sound recording of proceedings. 
The third main feature of the Bill is that it provides that, in relation to any joint sitting, proceedings may be telecast direct to air or recorded in a visual form for telecasting at a later time. The Government is of the opinion that an event of this nature would be of immense public interest and that it is important that as complete a record as possible should be preserved for the nation's archives. 
The provisions for the televising of proceedings, as proposed in this Bill, run parallel in most instances with those laid down for broadcasting, including those amended by this Bill. I say 'in most instances' here because there are exceptions: Firstly, the provisions for television apply only to the proceedings of a joint sitting - they do not apply to proceedings of the separate Houses. Secondly, it is not proposed that it should be specified within the legislation which of the national television stations should be required to be used by the Australian Broadcasting Commission in televising any joint sitting proceedings. This legislation allows the Joint Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings to determine the arrangements for the televising of proceedings, including the station which shall transmit the television coverage. 
I should point out that the Committee's powers of determination of the dates and times of broadcasting and televising of joint sitting proceedings are a little different from those laid down for proceedings of the separate Houses. In considering the proposed amendments the Government was faced with the dilemma that if it followed the procedures laid down for the proceedings of the separate Houses it would not be possible for the commencement of the joint sitting proceedings to be broadcast or televised until such time as the joint sitting had adopted the general principles for such broadcasting or televising. In the circumstances, the Government determined that the simplest and best procedure to be followed was to allow the Joint Parliamentary Committee to determine the arrangements for broadcasting and televising joint sittings. This will avoid unnecessary elaborate and time-consuming procedures and will permit the compiling of a complete record of the proceedings from the very beginning of a joint sitting. I commend the Bill to the House: 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) adjourned. 
There are 2 PAL sets, one produced by Telefunken and the other produced through the agency in Japan. There is no essential difference in the 2 sets, but I think one should be careful of the PAL bypass system which is not as effective as the full PAL sets. In the course of the next 2 weeks we shall produce a buyers' guide to  colour  television sets. This will set out in detail the technical qualities of the sets. In that sense we are taking every step to ensure that the interests of the consumers in Australia are fully protected. 
For the- information of honourable members I present the following reports; Survey of Technological Significance of Electronic Components Manufactured in Australia; and Identification of Electronic Components Having Technological Significance. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report by the  Mel-:  bourne Institute of Technology entitled The Technological Significance of Electronic Component Manufacture in Australia'. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Administration of Papua New Guinea for the year ended 30 June 1973. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As this Bill and the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Bill 1 974 which I will be introducing subsequently are interrelated, I propose with the indulgence of the House to make a short statement covering both Bills. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Bill 1974 and the Papua New Guinea Bill 1974 is to give effect to a request by the Government of Papua New Guinea that the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly be given authority to legislate with respect to mining for petroleum and other minerals in the territorial sea and the continental shelf within the adjacent areas of Papua New Guinea as defined in the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967-1973. With the advent of self government in Papua New Guinea on 1 December 1973 authority over all functions of government passed to the control of Papua New Guinea with the exception of a small number of functions which were reserved to Australia- the most important of these being defence and foreign relations. 
Authority over the function of off-shore mining passed to Papua New Guinea and Papua New Guinea had the right, consistently with self government,  to  legislate in regard to offshore rnining. As an interim measure, until the necessary legislation could be enacted, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is designated authority in respect of the adjacent areas of Papua New Guinea, under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act, delegated his authority to the Papua New Guinea Minister for Mines and Energy and certain Papua New Guinea Government officials. 
The Australian Government agreed to permit Papua New Guinea to enact its own legislation subject to 2 conditions. These are that: 
It will not, prior to independence, introduce legislation purporting to regulate off-shore mining in areas beyond the outer limits of the continental shelf within the meaning of the 1958 Convention on the Continental Shelf nor will it act inconsistently with any international convention relating to the law of the sea to which Australia is a party; 
Adequate safeguards as to the environment should be applied during the exploration stage, and if oil or gas should be discovered within the 'adjacent areas', it would consult with the Australian Government and seek the advice of an independent authority to ensure that commercial exploitation would not commence until the environment was adequately safeguarded. 
The Papua New Guinea Chief Minister has agreed to these 2 conditions. He has also indicated that the Papua New Guinea Government shares Australia's concern to protect the environment. 
Taking these Bills in turn, the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Bill provides for the repeal from a date to be proclaimed of the provisions of the principal Act that extend to Papua New Guinea. This date will be the date of commencement of Papua New Guinea's own off-shore legislation. Clause 4 amends section 7 of the principal Act by ceasing its extension to Papua New Guinea and clause 5 omits reference to the Australian Minister as the designated authority in respect of the adjacent areas of Papua New Guinea. Clause 6 repeals the section of the principal Act which deals with the payment of fees, royalties, etc., to Papua New Guinea and provides that any moneys received by Australia before the date of commencement of this Act are to be paid to Papua New Guinea. Clause 8 removes the description of the adjacent areas of Papua New Guinea from the second schedule to the principal Act. 
The Papua New Guinea Bill puts beyond doubt the authority of the House of Assembly to legislate with regard to off-shoremining. Clause 3 of this Bill inserts a new section in the principal 
Act to clarify the authority of the House of Assembly to legislate in the offshore area, as defined in the new section, and provides that such authority shall not be construed as limiting by implication any other power of the House of Assembly to make laws under the principal Act. I draw to the attention of honourable members the fact that Papua New Guinea's authority to legislate with regard to off-shore mining is confined to the territorial sea and the continental shelf within the adjacent areas of Papua New Guinea and that Papua New Guinea has agreed to conform to Australia's international obligations in regard to the law of the sea conventions. 
Although the function of Papua New Guinea 's foreign relations is reserved to Australia, the policy of the Australian Government has been to involve fully Papua New Guinea and to exercise that function only after the fullest consultation with and advice from the Papua New Guinea Government. Consistent with this policy Australia has encouraged Papua New Guinea to take its place in the international community and one example of Papua New Guinea's increasing involvement in this community was its participation in the recent Law of the Sea Conference in Caracas. 
The Bills I am introducing are a further step in the devolution of authority to Papua New Guinea so that when independence comes there will not be one aspect of government with which Papua New Guinea will not be familiar and experienced. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 6.13 to 8 p.m. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The honourable the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  referred in his Budget Speech to the Government's decision to abolish broadcast listeners' and television viewers' licences. This BUI contains the necessary amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942-1973. This is an important decision which will place Australia with Canada as the only two major countries whose governments provide a national service without charging radio and television set owners an annual licence fee. It will free close to 3.5 million Australians, including 500,000 pensioners, of any future liability for licence fees which range up to $26.50 per annum. 
The Government believes that the national broadcasting and television service should not be regarded as resembling a business undertaking in which receipts are related to expenditure. The national service provides an information, educational, cultural and entertainment service to the community. The Government believes that all people should have equal access to such services and it is, therefore, proper for the costs of these services to be a charge on the community as a whole through taxation. Licence fees have been a means of requiring radio and television set owners to make a contribution towards expenditure on the national broadcasting and television service. The contribution has been substantial. When licence fees were increased in 1968 and 1971 by the Liberal-Country Party Government, the result was that about 75 per cent of expenditure was recovered through fees. This practice has resulted in annual fees of $26.50 for a combined broadcasting and television licence; $19 for a television licence; and $8 or $4.25 for a broadcasting licence, depending on the zone. If this practice had been followed today, a combined licence fee of at least $40 would be appropriate, an increase of about 50 per cent, with a fee of about $50 for colour television sets. 
Not only have the licence fees been substantial, but they have represented a poll tax applied uniformly throughout the community. Its burden is, therefore, relatively heavier on lower income earners than on the more affluent. This regressive aspect is accentuated by the requirement of only one licence for all receivers in any one dwellingthe affluent are more likely to be multiple set owners. Paying for the service from taxation collections which reflect the capacity to pay principle is more equitable. The licence fee has also become a relatively expensive tax to collect. The cost of administering the scheme in 1973-74 was $3.4m, representing almost 5 per cent of the total licence revenue, compared with a cost equal to about 1 per cent for income tax. Payment for the national service through the taxation system rather than by a special tax is, therefore, much more efficient. 
A considerable proportion of the expenses of administering the scheme was incurred in policing the licence provisions of the Act. Despite the active work of some 80 licence inspectors, evasion has been a substantial problem. It has been estimated that revenue of about $llm annually is lost through evasion, and of course evasions increase as fees rise. Last year, 23,000 people were prosecuted for not having licences. I wish to express appreciation of the staff of the Postmaster-General's Department, past and present, who have been responsible for establishing, operating and policing the licensing system. Often the unpopularity of licences has been taken out on them personally by licensees and non-licensees, but they have gone about their work with commendable efficiency and good grace. The existing staff, numbering 247, are being advised that there will be no retrenchments and that they will be placed in other areas as vacancies arise and after any necessary retraining in departmental time and at departmental expense. 
There will be no refunds on current licences. However, in the case of licensees who have renewed, in advance, licences expiring after 17 September, a refund will be made as soon as practicable after this legislation is adopted. Any payments received subsequently for licences expiring after 1 7 September will also be returned to the payee. The abolition of the licensing system will cost the Government an estimated $50m in 1974-75 and $67m in a full year. This takes account of the saving in administrative costs. Refunds on unexpired portions of current licences would have cost the Government a further $30m in 1974-75 and made abolition too expensive to be contemplated. All licensees have escaped future payments and that should be a cause for considerable satisfaction. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation 26th Annual Report, 1973-74. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Bill as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-in reply- I am delighted to respond to my learned colleague the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock).  On the question he raised as to whether discussions were held with the Queensland Government on this legislation. I point out that the Off-shore Petroleum Agreement from which he quoted does not require consultation with the Government of Queensland on the specific subject matter of this Bill. 
Just one moment and we will come to clause 6. Indeed, to have sought the agreement of or discussion with Queensland would have been opposed to the clauses of the Bill. The honourable member referred to clause 6. In referring to that clause I think his quotation was relatively accurate. But it is a pity that the honourable member did not proceed to read clause 8, which states: 
The provisions of the last two preceding clauses- 
To wit, clause 6- to which he referred- and clause 7-  do not- 
I repeat the word 'not'-  apply to legislation with respect to or in its application to a Territory under the authority of the Commonwealth not forming part of the Commonwealth. 
That territory no doubt the honourable member for Kooyong would agree would be described - 
-Our relationship is with the Territory of Papua New Guinea. 
-The honourable and learned counsel from Moreton might discuss this further. 
-I am sure his fees are getting higher every day. But the basis upon which this legislation is drafted was in the terms of the agreement that was entered into by our forbears in government in 1967. This was the basis of the agreement. The intention of clause 8 was specific and it was reflected in the manner in which we have approached this Bill. 
The honourable gentleman also raised the question of the median line and quoted what the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  said in 1967. 1 might point out that the honourable member for Farrer and the Government of the day- and, of course, we recall that this was in 1967- did precisely nothing about the question. But I might hasten to point out that this legislation relates to the well defined adjacent area. The median concept that was discussed by  Mr Fairbairn  in those days did not relate or was not specific to the adjacent area. Therefore the comments made by the honourable member for Kooyong are not relevant to the measures we are considering tonight. The honourable member also got on to his favourite hobby horse in regard to independence. It is curious that we are being attacked for pushing the pace of independence. 
Each time the honourable member rises he is pushing us faster and faster into the negotiations for independence. We have taken a very relaxed and deliberate attitude in the transfer of authority to Papua New Guinea. Quite obviously we have been less hasty than the honourable member for Kooyong would require of us. 
As I have assured the honourable gentleman on many occasions, I can assure him now that discussions on defence are going on. No doubt he will be aware of a statement made by  Mr Albert  Maori-Kiki, the Papua New Guinea Minister for Defence, Foreign Relations and Trade in April. He may also be aware- if he is not I advise him now- that the Minister made a statement a couple of days ago announcing that a Papua New Guinea Department of Defence would be established on 1 October and that as from 1 December 1974 that Department would administer funds provided through the Papua New Guinea Budget. This is all a reflection of the continuing discussions - 
-We are talking about the transfer of powers and the movement of Papua New Guinea to independence. So I can assure the honourable member for Kooyong and all other honourable members opposite that the transfers and the discussions are taking place with the active participation of the Papua New 
Guinea Government, the Constitutional Planning Committee and the House of Assembly. These discussions which are very pertinent to the points raised by the honourable member are continuing. So for the 1 5th time, I am sure, I can assure him that these discussions are proceeding and that they are proceeding effectively. 
To recapitulate, the basis on which this Bill which contains amendments to the Act was introduced was that from our reading of the 1 967 agreement we did not consider we were required to consult with the Government of Queensland. In fact, any consultation would be inconsistent with the articles quoted in that agreement. But I am glad that the Opposition is supporting this Bill. We are delighted to have that support. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Pursuant to section 28 (3) of the Broadcasting and Television Act I present for the information of honourable members the 26th annual report and financial statement of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board for the year ended 30 June 1974 together with the report of the Auditor-General as to those statements. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Capital equipment cost 18,000 Consumable stores per annum 2,000 Salaries per annum 24,000 
Three persons viz: Chemist Class 2 Technical Officer Grade 1 Technical Assistant Grade 2 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) The Department of Science has not used any management consultant firms in the past twelve months. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government is receptive to any proposals to further scientific and technical cooperation with the United States of America, as with other countries, in fields of mutual interest. On this basis, the Government has entered into a formal agreement with the United States to participate in a study on solar energy. The ultimate objective of the study is to assist in encouraging the use of cost effective and practical solar heating, cooling and hot water systems in residential, commercial and public buildings. 
The U.S./Australia Agreement for Scientific and Technical Cooperation is an existing avenue for cooperation and information exchange in various fields. A seminar on solar energy was held under the auspices of the Agreement from 19 February to 1 March this year. The seminar included a four day meeting in Sydney, a visit to the CSIRO solar energy field station at Griffith, N.S.W., and another meeting in Melbourne. Eleven U.S. scientists and 21 Australian scientists attended the seminar which will provide a basis for promoting future close cooperation in solar energy research and development between the two nations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) , (3) and (5) The annual reports of the Metric Conversion Board have included statements of progress. The report for 1973-74, which will be tabled during the Budget session, will include a detailed progress report as at 30 June 1974. It is estimated that over 50 per cent of the overall conversion operation is completed and much of the remaining activity is already fully committed. Statements of the position in respect of individual industries and products for which conversion is effectively complete, and of programs for which the implementation is in progress or not yet commenced are attached. In brief, some 50 items are on the first list including primary education, most agricultural products, land titles and surveying, most building materials including iron and steel, wall panels and timber, almost all sports, all meteorological reporting, the retailing of textiles, transport freight rates, and most recently road speed and distance signs, Areas of active conversion include the automative chemical, electrical and other engineering industries, building and construction, packaged goods, vegetable packing and marketing, real estate and the retailing of meat, greengroceries and smallgoods. Additionally, almost all technical standards and codes used in Australian industry have now been cast in metric terms as has the majority of the Australian and State legislation. 
The only major activity yet to be commenced is the conversion of petrol pumps, already organised for 1 975. 
, (4) and (6) The Board was charged with stimulating each sector of the community to develop its own conversion program and with co-ordinating those programs. Each sector has developed voluntarily a program that would best suit its needs. All sectors of the community have co-operated well in the change. 
From the outset, industry was keen to achieve early conversion because of the benefits that it expected would result from the change. Already cost savings have been reported from such industries as transport, textiles, building and packaging. These savings will in the long run offset any initial outlay on the change. They result from the simplicity of the system and from the opportunity that the change offered to rationalise sizes and ranges of products. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
and (2) No decision has been taken by the Government to conduct a National Inquiry into cross ownership of the media. As the right honourable gentleman would know, the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts has been enquiring for some time into all aspects relating to radio and television and doubtless this matter would be one of the subjects being investigated and eventually reported upon by that committee. 
Details of multiple shareholding interests of newspapers and others in broadcasting and television stations are published in the Annual Reports of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. 
The Planning and Research Section of my department is currently examining interlocking patterns of media ownership and control that might be exercised by way of shareholdings and directorates. This exercise is being undertaken to provide detailed information for a variety of planning and research projects. Existing public sources of information are used in the compilation of this material, including the records of the Corporate Affairs Commissions and Stock Exchange. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) In the 12 months ending 3 1 July 1 974 the Department of the Media has not utilised the services of any management consultant firms. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to question on notice No. 97 (Hansard 24 July 1 974, page 625). 
Department of Health: Inter-departmental Committees  (Question No. 303) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to question on notice No. 329 ( Hansard 24 July 1 974, page 626). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In principle it is possible for women to join Australian expeditions to the Antarctic Continent. However, this is not the present practice. Firstly, conditions and facilities at our stations are not suitable at the present time for women to spend the winter in the Antarctic. Secondly, for summer visits, whilst it would be possible for women to sleep on board and make brief visits in the vicinity of the stations during the annual relief voyages, the obstacle to this course is the shortage of ship berths and their arrangement in 4-berth cabins. 
Similar difficulties as at stations on the Antarctic continent confront women who wish to winter at Macquarie Island. Berths, however, are sometimes more readily available on the Macquarie Island voyages and women have visited the island for a few days in summer to undertake short-term projects. Priorities for such visits are usually determined by the Tasmanian Government Advisory Committee on Macquarie Island. 
It is unlikely that the situation regarding wintering with Australian expeditions can be altered in the next few years but this will not preclude consideration being given to women making brief visits during the annual summer relief operations if their proposals have sufficient merit on the basis of scientific or other considerations. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The advice of consumer groups will be sought on those items for which they consider booklets should be prepared. 
The method of distribution shall be appropriate to the subject matter e.g. the flammability brochure was distributed through the Royal Melbourne Childrens Hospital and the then Department of Immigration: the buyers guide for colour television will be distributed through the Australian Government Bookshops. 
No estimate of cost can be given until details of the range, quantity and timing of future booklets have been determined. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
to (3) The information required is contained in the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 97 (Hansard, page 625). 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Australian Broadcasting Commission advises me it does not intend establishing a Complaints Commission at this stage. The honourable member will appreciate that the proposal is one that has been raised in proceedings before the Senate Standing Committee which has been inquiring for some time into all aspects of radio and television. I will further consider the matter when any recommendation on the subject is forthcoming from the Committee. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The ABC appoints Advisory Committees to discuss and advise the Commission on matters concerning programming policy and output and related aspects of ABC activities. 
The Commission also appoints specialist committees to advise it on specific program areas such as science, education, music and spoken English. Full details of the Commission's Advisory Committees and their membership are included in the Commission 's Annual Report to Parliament. 
) Members are initially appointed for one year. 
No fees are paid. 
(a) New South Wales Committee- three times; (b) Australian Capital Territory Committees-three times; (c) North Western Regional Advisory Committee- three times. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
and (2) The Commission is considering this matter in conjunction with the Literature Board of the Australian Council for the Arts. No decision has yet been made. 
Department of External Territories: Inter-departmental Committees  (Question No. 281) 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
See (I) above. 
See (1) above. 
Inter-departmental Committee on Publicity Co-ordination (Question No. 309) 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Yes (during the Minister's A. N. Smith Memorial Lecture given at the University of Melbourne on 26 October 1973). 
(a) The Committee is chaired by the Director of the 
Australian Information Service. Other members are the Assistant Director, AIS and representatives of the Departments of Foreign Affairs, Overseas Trade, Education, Labor Immigration, Aboriginal Affairs, Film Australia, QANTAS, Australian Tourist Commission, Australian Government Publishing Service and Radio Australia. The Department of External Territories was represented up to 30 November 1973. 
The Committee which was formed in 1958 meets six times a year on the last Wednesday of the first, third, fifth, seventh, ninth and eleventh months. 
The Committee has no formal charter. It came into existence in 1958 on the initiative of the then Department of Trade which saw merit in regular discussion of matters of mutual concern to those Government agencies with responsibilities in the field of overseas publicity and information. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. This is essentially the situation. The Chinese Ministry of Information (within the Foreign Affairs Department), has arranged trips for foreign correspondents in Peking to selected communes and other areas. In recent months however, the invitations to the ABC Representative have been fewer than those offered to other foreign correspondents. 
Yes. 
No. 
The ABC intends to make a complete review of the value of its Peking office in October, when the office will have been in operation for one year. The General Manager of the ABC,  Mr T.  S. Duckmanton, informs me that despite the difficulties encountered, the ABC's Peking Representative has provided a regular flow of voice reports for ABC News Bulletins and Public Affairs programs as well as cable stories.  His  work has however been made more difficult by the failure of the Chinese authorities to provide the ABC office in Peking with the HSINHUA News Wire Service- the principal source of official news in China. The ABC has been requesting this service for some time. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
The use of the services of advertising agencies by Government departments and instrumentalities is best classified under the following two headings. 
ADVERTISING ARRANGED THROUGH THE AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT ADVERTISING SERVICE 
All Advertising arranged for all departments and for some instrumentalities is placed and then charged for through the same range of Sydney-based central placing agencies and other State sub-placing agencies. The firms and the known percentage of foreign-ownership related to them are: 
There is no question of cutting down on weather forecasting or the broadcasting of forecasts. The intention is to rationalise present programs. There is no question of charging broadcasting companies for the material they use. If the honourable member has any particular questions that he wants pursued I shall be happy to oblige him. 
Pursuant to section 44(3) of the Australian Institute of Marine Science Act 1972 I present the report of the Council of the Institute of Marine Science for the year 1973-74 together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Examiners' Report on Science and Technology in Australia, together with a statement by the Minister for Minerals and Energy on the subject. 
In accordance with the provisions of section 78 of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1 942-73 1 lay upon the table the forty-second annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
In accordance with the provision of section 28 of the Australian Film Development Corporation Act 1970 I lay upon the table the fourth annual report of the Australian Film Development Corporation. 
For the information of honourable members I lay upon the table the second annual report of the Department of the Media. 

 - Senator McClelland, the Minister for the Media, has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) Three (3) in the period 30.6.73-1.7.74. 
Third Division-One (1) Clerk, Class 9; Two (2) Clerks, Class 8. 
Nil. 
Sydney, New South Wales: Grants under Australian Assistance Plan  (Question No. 539)  Mr Connolly  asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1) Will he list the grants that have been made to municipal bodies in the Sydney metropolitan area under the Australian Assistance Plan since 2 December 1 972. 
) What were these grants for, and in which suburbs were they used. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Set out are answers to the points raised in the question as they refer to my Department, the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Australian Broadcasting Control Board respectively. The Australian Film Development Corporation has one officer employed on research. 
Officers of the three organisations consult in order to provide each other with any useful research information and also to provide an avenue for a creative exchange of ideas. Co-operation also is taking place in the purchase of syndicated audience survey information. 
My Department also is having discussions with the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations and the Federation of Australian Commercial Broadcasters with respect to new approaches to research in the relevant areas. 
Department of the Media 
13 
Head Office, North Sydney 
The planning and Research Section is concerned with anticipating the scope and direction of changes in the overall media field, including broadcasting, television, film and audio-visual means of communication. 
The section provides me with advice on a great variety of subject matters. 
Specific project areas for governmental planning purposes and for all media forms, are as follows: 
Audience Studies 
a ) Qualitative measures of audience reaction 
Monitoring of commercial research surveys 
Theatre audience testing 
Audience research advice to the Government of Papua New Guinea 
Automatic metering of television receivers. 
Sociological Studies 
Public access, accountability and participation 
Uncatered for musical needs for under 25 year olds 
Role of broadcasting 
Communication needs of communities 
Aboriginal communication program. 
Ownership, Control and Trade Practices Studies 
Interlocking Patterns of Media Ownership and Control: Schematic and narrative descriptions of interlocking patterns of shareholdings and directorships are being produced for public information. 
Comparative Study of Media Ownership in the U.S.A. 
Assessment of 'Top 40' popular tune charts: An examination of the process which determines the 'Top 40 'records. 
Broadcasting Planning 
Radio planning 
b ) Newcastle TV reception study 
Media industry statistics 
Media data bank. 
v) Australian Government Advertising Evaluation 
Studies of the effectiveness of Government advertising campaigns have been designed and are about to be carried out for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and for the Department of the Australian Capital Territory. A series of such studies is being negotiated with the Department of Labor and Immigration. 
$156,172 (including salaries and allowances). 
) The Secretary of the Department. 
Pursuant to section 24 of the Metric Conversion Act 1970 I present for the information of honourable members the fourth report of the Metric Conversion Board for the year ended 30 June 1974. 

 - Senator Douglas McClelland, the Minister for the Media, has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
There are no formal committees, councils, etc that have been established by the Department to maintain contact with State Government Ministers or officers. 
Not applicable-see part 1 above. 
Not applicable-see part 1 above. 
Not applicable-see pan 1 above. 
The honourable gentleman has raised an interesting proposition. It is true that we have access to a large and natural deep freezer in that southern region. The honourable gentleman will also be aware that there are certain difficulties of access to that deep freezer which do not apply to local deep freezers either in homes or in country towns. The only opportunity of getting to the natural deep freezer he mentioned would be during the summer time so that meat taken there would have to remain there for at least a year. The suggestion holds some promise and I assure the honourable gentleman that I will make inquiries and let him know the results. 
We have just listened to a speech by a representative of a party that plunged Australian into the Vietnam conflict. He is a representative of a party that during its whole period in office continued to ignore one quarter of the world's population- the People's Republic of China or communist China as members of the Opposition still prefer to call it. This was the foreign policy adhered to by the Government of which the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  was a member. Honourable members opposite talk about inconsistencies and they talk about unrealism yet they plunged Australia into a futile bloodshed of the Vietnam war and completely ignored one quarter of the world's population because they were not prepared to accept the consistency and the realism of one quarter of the world's population. 
The honourable member for Kooyong has made no propositions about what the Opposition would do if it ever came to power. Will it revoke Australia's recognition of communist China? Will it send forces back into Vietnam? Will it proceed with the bungling on the five Power arrangement which the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  when he was Prime Minister and the right honourable member for 
Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  when he was Prime Minister perpetrated on the foreign policy of this country? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! The Minister for Science is the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs and is therefore the Minister in charge of the legislation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  In the Committee stage the Minister in charge of the Bill has unlimited time to speak. In the circumstances the Minister for Science, who is in charge of the legislation at this stage, has unlimited time. 
Thank you very much,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I hope that the honourable member for Kooyong will check the Standing Orders in future. The honourable member mentioned South Africa, but he did not seem to expound on it to the extent that he had indicated he might. The decision made by the Australian Government to vote against the continuing membership of South Africa in the United Nations was a decision that gave the Government great concern. We accept the proposition of universality of membership of the United Nations, but it is important in any organization that the concept of membership also involves the concept of responsibility. The United Nations Charter is very clear. One of the reasons why article 6 was written into the United Nations Charter was that members of the United Nations which have persistently violated the principles contained in the present Charter may be expelled by the General Assembly upon the recommendations of the Security Council. 
The honourable member for Kooyong has already pointed out- I believe that all honourable members opposite share his view- that the Opposition rejects and deplores South Africa's apartheid and racist policies. Article 1, section 3 of the United Nations Charter states that one of the purposes of the United Nations is to promote and encourage respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion. That is one of the fundamentals of the United Nations Charter. Yet South Africa, in the words of the Opposition, has violated the United Nations Charter. South Africa has violated it not once but persistently in the 25 years that the United Nations has existed. The Australian Government had to decide whether the United Nations could continue to have as one of its members, a country that does not respect, and in fact violates the basic purposes of the United Nations Charter. Its decision on this question was not a precipitate decision. South Africa has violated that Charter for 25 years, not only in terms of its attitude to race but also in terms of its attitude to Nambia and to Southern Rhodesia to which it has supplied arms in direct violation of decisions made by the United Nations. Taking into account the sum total of the irresponsible attitude that South Africa has taken to the United Nations we regrettably- I accept it was regrettably- came to the decision that after 25 years some stand had to be taken. In the Security Council, of which Australia is a member, the Australian delegation has been instructed to vote for the expulsion of South Africa from the United Nations. 
We have a situation where members of the Opposition for reasons of which I think many of us are well aware because there a lot of apologists in the Opposition for the apartheid policy of South Africa and for the policies of the Smith regime in Rhodesia, have stood up- admittedly one can respect those who stand up- and have condoned the policies of South Africa and Rhodesia. But let them stand up and say what they would do. Do they defy the principles of the United Nations Charter? Do they not believe that South Africa, over 25 years, has had an opportunity to undertake modifications of its policies? Yet South Africa has done no such thing; in fact, the suppression is worse than it was before. It is only through the actions of the United Nations in expelling South Africa that the world will appreciate, and I trust that some members of the Opposition will appreciate, that South Africa has violated and acted against the purposes of the United Nations. But we will maintain our dialogue with South Africa in the hope that this action will bring it to its senses and that it will modify its policies so that it will be able to rejoin the United Nations in the future. If South Africa does undertake reforms in its internal policies which are acceptable in terms of the United Nations Charter, the Australian Government will be one of the first to ensure that South Africa is readmitted as a responsible member of the United Nations. (Quorum formed). 
The honourable member for Kooyong also made some outrageous assertions about what he considered to be Australia's position on Portuguese Timor. For the benefit of the honourable member for Kooyong, who is no longer in the chamber, might I indicate the views and the attitude of the Australian Government towards Portuguese Timor. Again, they are based on the principles of the United Nations and Australia's support for the right of self determination for all colonial people- and this is an attitude that has guided us in our policy towards Papua New Guinea. The Government does not seek any special position in Portuguese Timor and it believes that the views and the attitudes of the people of Portuguese Timor that should be decisive. The Government has indicated that if the people of Portuguese Timor wish to associate themselves in some way with Indonesia, Australia would welcome this provided- and I repeat 'provided'- that the decision were based on an internationally accepted act of selfdetermination. In short, the Government believes that the Timorese people should be allowed to proceed deliberately towards a decision about their own future, and in discussions the Government had with the Portuguese Minister for Overseas Territories this viewpoint came through. In fact, the Government believes that the attitude that is now being taken by the new Portuguese Government in relation to Portuguese Timor is one that is based upon sensitivity for the needs and the ultimate aspirations of the people of Portuguese Timor. 
Again, the honourable member for Kooyong raised the question of the Baltic states. What humbug and hypocrisy is the attitude of the Opposition. 
The honourable gentleman says rubbish. Let us take a count. I had the privilege of serving Australia in the Soviet Union from 1952 to 1954 and from 1961 to 1963. As part of my function as a representative of the then Liberal-Country Party Government I was required to go into the Baltic states. The very movement of an accredited diplomat into any area of the Soviet Union is in reality an acceptance of the control of that country over the various territories of that country. The attitude of the Opposition is hypocrisy and humbug. It will be noticed how carefully the Opposition stated it would agree only to review the recognition. This is all it has said, but the Government has never said that it agreed with the manner in which the Soviet Union brutally took over the Baltic states. But as to the matter of the Opposition talking about consistency and realism, where is the reality in not recognising the control, irrespective of how the Russians got it, because our attitude on that is well known. During the war the Soviet Union had direct control over those territories, and the only way Australia can operate in those territories on behalf of the Baltic people in Australia is through the recognition of that control. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)-I  have to inform the Committee that there is present in the Gallery this afternoon a delegation of members from the Pakistani Parliament led by Sahibzada Farooq Ali, the  Speaker  of the National Assembly. On behalf of the Committee I extend a very warm welcome to the members of this delegation. 
Honourable members- Hear, hear! 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to establish the Australian Development Assistance Agency to administer the provision by Australia of aid for developing countries and to advise the Minister on matters relating to aid. The Minister for Foreign Affairs Will be responsible for the Agency. Honourable members will recall that this Bill was introduced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and passed by this House in the second session of the last Parliament. It is gratifying to note that the Bill received support on both sides of the House, and indeed more generally in the community. There are no changes in the Bill which was reintroduced in this Parliament- in the Senate- on 22 October. The reasons for the Government's decision to unify the administration of Australian aid within a separate statutory corporation were outlined fully in the Prime Minister's second reading speech on this Bill in the House on 12 March 1974. This is recorded in Hansard of that date and there is no need for me to go over the same ground in quite the same detail on this occasion. I propose, however, to cover the main points and to make one or two additional observations. 
Over the years there has been a great increase in the volume and complexity of Australia's development assistance. The Government has decided that it is necessary to consolidate the organisational arrangements which have developed in a largely ad hoc fashion over a quarter of a century since Australia's first involvement in aid as a founder of the Colombo Plan. The solution which was appropriate in 1953-54, to distribute between various departments with related interests the administration of a program of less than $20m in aid, is clearly inappropriate to the complex program of 1974-75, which totals $341m. The Government decided that improvements must be effected in all aspects of our aid endeavours- in the machinery for formulating policy, in ensuring greater attention to the welfare and distributive effects of our aid, in evaluating the effectiveness of our various programs, in bringing greater expertise into our staffing arrangements and in more directly associating the community with the Government's aid efforts. 
Because of the inadequacy of past arrangements, also recognised by the Joint Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Committee's 1972 inquiry into Australia's foreign aid, in March of last year the Prime Minister commissioned a task force 'to examine all the options for a unified aid administration to administer all aid including multilateral aid, all bilateral aid and aid to an independent Papua New Guinea'. This task force considered a number of possible structures for aid administration. In the Government's view, the form which will best meet Australia's needs is a statutory corporation, under a Director-General responsible to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Bill now before the House is designed to implement these decisions. 
Honourable members will be aware that, as an interim measure, pending legislation, and in order to provide continuity in our aid arrangements, an office of the Australian Development Assistance Agency was set up on 1 December last within the Department of Foreign Affairs to bring together existing aid functions previously carried out by a number of departments. The Agency has since been functioning in that form.  Mr L.  W. Johnson, former Administrator and High Commissioner to Papua New Guinea, was appointed on 8 April of this year as its DirectorGeneral. 
Parts I and II of the Bill provide for the establishment of the Agency and set out its functions, . which are to administer Australia's aid to developing countries and to advise the Minister on these matters. Pan III of the Bill provides for the appointment by the Governor-General of a Director-General of the Agency, for a term not exceeding 5 years. Part IV of the Bill covers the establishment of a Development Assistance Advisory Board, to advise the Minister and the Agency in respect of matters relating to aid to developing countries. The Board will normally include members of the public, the trade unions, the business community and voluntary organisations, in addition to public servants. An interim committee of the Board has been established under the chairmanship of  Sir John  Crawford and has already done valuable work in clarifying the approach which should be adopted on the complex issues of aid. 
Part V of the Bill covers staff matters and provides that the permanent staff of the Agency shall be public servants. Part VI of the Bill provides for moneys appropriated for aid projects to be paid to a Development Assistance Fund which will be non-lapsing. This will avoid the difficulties which have been encountered in meeting aid commitments and will ensure continuity of aid activities. Part VII of the Bill provides, inter alia, for the Agency to submit an annual report to the Minister for presentation to Parliament and to furnish financial statements to the Auditor-General. 
In deciding that the Agency should be responsible to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Government has recognised the close connection between aid and foreign policy. Development assistance lies within the framework of Australia's foreign relations and our aid objectives must be consonant with our national policy objectives in our relations with other countries. We attach great importance, therefore, to the establishment and maintenance of a close and effective working relationship between the Agency and the Department of Foreign Affairs. Practical liaison arrangements have already been established between the Agency and the Department to ensure consultation on a daytoday basis. Submissions to the Minister on policy and other matters of substance will indicate that such consultation has taken place. 
Similarly, Aid Agency personnel serving overseas, who will be under the direction of the head of the Australian mission, will have the normal responsibility to keep heads of mission informed of their activities and to consult appropriate mission staff on matters which have foreign policy implications. Heads of mission, or their designates, will be given an opportunity to comment on proposals for new forms of aid or significant modifications to existing aid activities. In addition, the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs,  Mr Renouf,  is at present a member of the interim committee of the Development Assistance Advisory Board and will be a member of the Board to be established under this legislation. The Department of Foreign Affairs will also be represented on the interdepartmental committee on external aid, which will ensure the co-ordination of aid policy matters with other areas of Government policy, including our foreign relations. 

 Mr Speaker, an important consideration which has influenced the form of this Bill has been the Government's recognition of the growing awareness in our community of Australia's place in the world and in particular its role in our region. Australians appreciate that we are among the more fortunate nations of the world and that this fact has important implications for our attitudes towards assisting developing countries. The Government, in setting up the Development Assistance Advisory Board and by its assistance to non-government agencies, has indicated that it welcomes community participation in Australia 's aid efforts. Many Australians understand that changes have taken place in the philosophy underlying international aid and they are conscious that Australia must adapt its aid policies to the needs of the future. The Government looks to the new Agency to devise aid initiatives which will help to raise the living standards of the majority in developing countries, to ameliorate population pressure, to create wider employment opportunities and to strengthen the rural sector. These are aspects of development which have sometimes been overlooked, but which are now being recognised as key areas in the effort to assist developing countries. To ensure that Aus.tralian aid takes these directions there will be a comprehensive review of existing programming and a greater emphasis in future on critical analysis and evaluation. The Government expects that the Agency established by this BUI will further the new directions in our aid policies ensure greater benefits to those who receive our aid and devise effective programs which will gain the support and sympathetic involvement of the Australian Community. I commend the BUI to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Killen)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
On 2 October 1974 a BUI was introduced in another place by my colleague the Minister for the Media,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, which was designed to establish an Australian Film Commission. This body will administer the principal forms of assistance to be provided by the Australian Government for the development of the film and television program production industries in this country. The BUI was intended by the Government to provide the best combination of features to achieve the advancement of these industries and to serve best the interests of Australia though a broad answerability to Parliament for the public funds entrusted to the Commission. However, the BUI now before this House is an amended version of the Bill originally introduced in the Senate on the 26th September. By the original Bill's nature, the Government thought it would have enjoined the cooperation of aU. But this was not the case and the passage of this BUI through the Senate has seen the real effectiveness of the proposed Commission reduced as an instrument for the regeneration of the Australian Film Industry. I will deal later with some of these matters in greater detail but at the moment I will set out the intentions of the Government when introducing the BUI. 
The broad functions of the Commission are intended to be as follows: 
To encourage, whether by the provision of financial assistance or otherwise, the making, promotion, distribution and exhibition of Australian films and television programs; 
To make, promote, distribute and exhibit any films and television programs or commission these activities on its behalf; 
Through Film Australia, the Australian Government's film production arm, to make, or commission the making of films, meeting the requirements of a Department of State or authority of Australia, films dealing with matters of national interest to Australia, and films designed to illustrate or interpret aspects of Australia or of the life and activities of the Australian people; 
To assist a State or State authority to purchase Australian films of an educational nature and of national interest or importance; and 
To encourage the proper keeping of films in archives in Australia, providing financial assistance, if necessary, for this purpose. 
The Bill provides for the repeal of the Australian Film Development Corporation Act 1970 and the Australian Film Development Corporation Act (No. 2) 1970. Upon repeal of those Acts the Australian Film Commission will assume as part of its functions, but in broadened and strengthened form, the role and responsibilities of the Australian Film Development Corporation which, within its restricted franchise, has assisted considerably the development of local film and television production. The Bill also makes provision for the transfer of Film Australia, at present a branch of the Department of the Media, to the Australian Film Commission where it is intended that it will continue to produce excellent films of world standard for Australian Government purposes. I stress the word 'continue' because the Opposition in the other place appeared to convey the impression that this was some Machiavellian new function which was designed somehow to enable the Government to begin flooding the country with propaganda. 
It should be noted unequivocally that the previous Australian Government had been having films made, with the approval of the Minister of the day, by a branch of a Department of State, over which it had total control, for 23 years. Similarly the present Government has had such similar control over the Government's film making organisation for nearly the past 2 years and I challenge anyone to name any one film produced by the film production unit which can be considered to be in any way a propaganda film. Surely it must be obvious that it would be unworkable if the Government were not to have any say whatever in the making of films for national purposes, as the Opposition in the Senate sought to provide for. This would be tantamount, in a commercial context, to preventing the freedom of a person wishing to commission a film organisation to make a film, expressing his opinion on how the film should be made. 
The Government realises, however, that it has a responsibility to assist in the development of the talents and abilities of Australian filmmakers, through the Government's film production unit and the Bill thus provides Film Australia with a fresh and expanded opportunity to develop and apply its creative potentialities. Similarly the Bill provides for the freedom and flexibility in financial operations which Film Australia has not had in the past and will enable the Commission to co-ordinate and operate in the closest of harmony with the demands of the industry. 
The Bill is an earnest of the Government's determination to establish a viable local film and television production industry. The Minister for the Media said, at a gathering of motion picture industry executives on 2 February 1973, that the Labor Government has 'undertaken as part of our nation building, to encourage an increasing participation by Australian artists, producers, writers and technicians in developing a local feature film industry and in the production of Australian programs for television'. He also pointed out on that occasion that it was tragic that film, one of the greatest forms of mass communication in history, was not fostered and protected by Government during Australia's promising early film beginnings. Twice the Australian film industry has had the ground cut away from under it. He pointed out that vested interests had been allowed to largely destroy the industry through greater access to the capital necessary to such an industry and through the stranglehold obtained on the channels through which films reach their audience. 
In 1963 the Senate Select Committee Report on the Encouragement of Australian Productions for Television- known as the Vincent Committeepointed out that, in the case of an industry with a strong cultural element, there is a great responsibility to protect it. That report also recommended a loan scheme of subsidy and this was implemented to a degree with the introduction by the Gorton Government in 1970 of the Australian Film Development Corporation Act. However, the Act did not go far enough in setting out the functions of the Corporation. The Tariff Board was requested, on 20 March 1972, by the then Minister for Trade and Industry in the previous Government, to inquire into and recommend on the assistance needed for the production in Australia of motion picture films and television programs. The Board made its report in June 1973 and after detailed consideration of the report the Labor Government accepted most of its recommendations with respect to the measures considered necessary to encourage a local film production industry. The Government also approved of the establishment of an Interim Board to advise the Minister on policy matters associated with the formation of the Commission and to carry out some preliminary planning tasks. The Interim Board has been functioning efficiently since February of this year. It is representative of the industry and the public and has been examining a wide range of important matters. 
During the period since this Government came to office in December 1972 we have done much to encourage the industry and to stimulate fresh ideas and new initiatives. As a consequence there has been a new surge of hope throughout the industry. Feature film production has risen to levels not known for many years. Television programs of a distinctively Australian character have reached new heights of public acceptability and popularity. In all, there has been a heartening upswing in creative and technical opportunities and in the influence on the industry of Aus.tralian producers, artists, writers, actors and technicians. The development of the Australian film and television industries under the Labor Government has been outstandingly successful. 
The enactment of this BUI to establish the Aus.tralian Film Commission is now a vital and historic step in the process of further developing a viable Australian film and television program production industry. The BUI introduced in the other place provided for the Commission to have the power to do all things necessary for the performance of the functions set out for it. Provision was made for the Minister to be able only to give general directions to the Commission in respect of the overall performance of its functions, except in those functions relating to the making of films for Australian governmental purposes out of funds directly appropriated by Parliament for these purposes, where it was proposed he should have a power of specific direction. The power of specific direction was retained merely to ensure that the Government's film program was carried out in accordance with the situation which has existed for some thirty years now, whereby the Minister is immediately accountable to Parliament for the way in which those funds are expended. 
However, the Senate Opposition sought the deletion of the Minister's general power of direction, ostensibly for the noble purpose of ensuring the complete and absolute independence of the Commission. This attitude was taken despite the fact that a considerable number of legislative enactments under the previous Government contained analagous provisions. 
For example, section 17 of the Australian Tourist Commission Act 1967; section 13 (3) of the Australian Wheat Board Act 1970; section 7 (3) of the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation Act 1973; section 19 of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission Act 1966; section 10 ( 1) of the Australian Institute of Marine Science Act 1972; and in section 14 of the Commonwealth Scholarships Board Act 1945. Under the Bill as initially presented any such directions, whether general or specific, would have to be given by the Minister in writing and be set out in the Commission's annual report. 
The BUI also provided for the Australian Film Commission to have power to direct exhibitors that a specified portion of the screening time given to short films must be devoted to films certified by the Commission to be Australian short films. The Opposition in the other place again sought to vitiate these provisions by deleting Film Australia films from eligibility for consideration as quota films. This further demonstrated the Opposition's lamentable understanding of the issues involved. They criticised and had deleted from the Bill a provision giving the Minister power to direct the Commission to observe Australia's international treaty obligations. Their reasons were that it should be left to a statutory body, quite independent of the Government, to interpret and implement the Australian Government's obligations under an international agreement; a ludicrous proposition in the extreme. 
The financial affairs of the Commission will be conducted under two broad categories. As a trading corporation in respect to all of its general activities, other than the special film-making functions of Film Australia, the Commission will apply the accounting principles generally followed in commercial practice. Film productions at Film Australia, on the other hand, will be financed from moneys specifically appropriated for this purpose by the Parliament and will therefore be treated as a non-trading type of activity. Nevertheless, as I mentioned earlier, the Treasury regulations will not apply to the operations of the Commission and it will be able to devise financial systems appropriate to its special needs. The Bill does provide, however, for strict accountability in the management of the Commission's affairs. The Auditor-General is given full powers to inspect accounting records and is required to audit the Commission's accounts and to draw to the attention of the Minister any irregularity of importance. 
The BUI makes proper provision for the transfer to the Australian Film Commission of the assets, rights, etc., of the Australian Film Development Corporation and also from Film Australia. It deals with procedural matters involved in employment by the Commission of people now on the staff of the Australian Film Development Corporation and in the winding down and final reporting upon the operations of that Corporation. As is the normal practice for statutory authorities, the Commission is required under the Bill to report annually to Parliament through the Minister. As indicated before, financial statements accompanying the annual report will be reported upon by the Auditor-General before the report and financial statements are placed before each House of the Parliament. The Commission will be required to furnish such reports as the Minister requires and it may furnish such other reports as it thinks fit. 
The Bill also provides for the GovernorGeneral to make regulations under the Act. The Bill as amended by the Senate and now presented to this House has a considerable number of weaknesses in it which have been forced upon the Government by the Senate Opposition. The Government therefore intends to introduce amendments to the Bill which will correct certain deficiencies that have resulted from the provisions deleted from the Bill. This Bill has the potential to be the cornerstone on which a healthy and viable film industry may be built and I commend the legislation to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Katter)  adjourned. 

 - Senator McClelland, the Minister for the Media, has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) No grants are made to any organisation or individuals from moneys appropriated to the department. 
Not applicable- see part 1 above. 
Postmaster-General's Department: Inter-departmental Committees (Question No. 394) 
-Somebody once observed that freedom of the Press constitutes a situation where a millionaire owns 10 newspapers and a million people own none. I believe there is cause for concern by the general public at the type of reporting that occasionally takes place. But I believe that this Government conforms very strongly to the concept of freedom of the Press. Honourable members will be aware also that the platform of the Labor Party calls for the establishment of a newspaper commission. I understand this is being considered by my colleague, the Minister for the Media. I will undertake to advise the honourable gentleman on the progress of that consideration. 
I think that the reason is fairly obvious. Several Opposition speakers today pointed out their concern about control by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. We felt that 'Australian Broadcasting Authority' was a much more apt title. I am sure that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  will agree that any organisation which is called a 'control board' is not the sort of organisation to which he would like to place his name. So the concept of an authority is much more neutral than the concept of a control board. I should have thought that the honourable member for Moreton would have been the first to praise us for this decision. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Australian Broadcasting Authority). 
May I make a general observation about the amendments that have been moved by the honourable member for Moreton. 
The Committee is still considering clause 6, which reads: 
Section 1 6 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting from sub-section (3) the words 'The Board shall have power' and substituting the words 'The Authority shall have power to do all such things as are necessary for the effective exercise of the functions of the Authority and, in particular, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Authority shall have power'; 
by inserting in paragraph (c) of sub-section (3), after the word 'programs', the words ', or programs containing matter of any class or character specified in the determination,'; 
by omitting from paragraph (d) of sub-section (3) the word 'and'; 
by inserting after paragraph (d) of sub-section (3) the following paragraph:  '(e) to determine rules and standards to be observed by licensees in relation to the broadcasting of programs from commercial broadcasting stations or to be observed by licensees in relation to the televising of programs from commercial television stations, including rules or standards with respect to the nature and content of programs; and'; 
by inserting after sub-section (3) the following subsection: '(3a) Rules determined by the Authority in pursuance of paragraph (e) of sub-section (3) may incluide requirements, being requirements approved by the Minister, with respect to the broadcasting of programs or with respect to the televising of programs that are, as denned in the determination, programs of Australian origin, '; and (0 by adding at the end of sub-section (4) the words 'and such other persons as the Authority considers appropriate.'. 
I move: 
In paragraph (e), after proposed sub-section (3a) insert the following sub-section: - ' "(3b) Rules and standards determined by the Authority in pursuance of paragraph (e) of sub-section (3) shall be of general application and shall not be expressed to apply to a particular commercial broadcasting station or particular commercial broadcasting stations, or to a particular commercial television station or particular television stations, but rules that include requirements of a kind referred to in sub-section (3a)- 
may authorize the Authority to exempt, in whole or in part and unconditionally or subject to conditions specified by the Authority, any station that has been established for less than 3 years from any requirement of that kind; and 
may specify requirements that differ according to the different locations of stations, but so that different requirements shall not be specified with respect to stations in the metropolitan area of a capital city of a State, that is to say, an area prescribed as the metropolitan area of that capital city." ' 
Some concern has been expressed at the Bill in the sense that it may involve a discrimination against individual stations or even individual programs. That is drawing a long bow in the interpretation of the amendments which we have introduced and which are the subject of the consideration at the moment. In order to ensure that the clarity was above exception we have introduced this amendment. Its purpose is to make quite clear that the Authority cannot discriminate against stations. I think there was, for example, a fear that the Authority could direct a television station in a particular area to televise Bugs Bunny when another television station was televising a high rating news service. This sort of fear is quite unfounded. We have sought in this amendment to make the matter even more obvious than we had thought it to be. 
Honourable members will notice also that we have introduced a new sub-section (3b) (a) which continues a practice and gives the Authority permission to exempt a television station from the Australian content requirement for the first 3 years of its operation. The reason for subsection (3b) (b) is that the Authority's Australian content requirement provides that stations in a single market area are not eligible for full points value for programs which are obtained from other sources. Similarly, in the case of Perth stations where 2 stations have access to the output of 3 major metropolitan program networks the stations are not eligible for the full points value in respect of the programs so purchased. That amendment covers those eventualities. I note, for instance, that the amendments are very close in content and certainly in purport to the amendment introduced by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  in relation to section 134. 1 presume, seeing that we both have the same objective and the phrasing has a certain similarity, that this amendment will be agreed to by the Opposition. 
I hate to disappoint my worthy friend from Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  but the Government opposes the amendment that he has moved. The Board, or the Authority as it is to be known, does of course canvass opinion outside the very restricted gentlemen's club that was operative under the Liberal Party in which were only representatives of the stations. It always seems to me rather odd that when one brings in the concept of consultation and the fulfilment of democratic processes, members of the LiberalCountry Party Opposition are the first to oppose it. There is nothing tremendously exciting in the proposition that we have put forward, apart from the fact that the Authority should be empowered to consult with those organisations and interest groups that have some relevance. Obviously they will have some relevance to the television and broadcasting industry, otherwise the Authority would not be interested in them. We see no reason why we should limit the power of the Authority just to talk to people that the Opposition may have in mind. What we are seeking to do is to broaden the contact and formalise the relationship under the Act for the Authority to contact and talk with people. 
I want to make one point very clear. The honourable member for Lilley is not correct in what he said. The section of the principal Act to which the amendment relates is section 16 in division 2. Subsection (4) very specifically uses the words: 'In exercising its functions and powers under this section '. I would just like to spell out in words of one syllable that this section does not include licensing. I think that once that point gets across to the honourable member for Lilley he probably will not be so anxious to protect his station friends, because this bit of protection is not necessary in relation to licensing. What we are seeking is a broadening of the democratic process. I know that my colleague the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  will be only too anxious to support the broadening of democratic processes. 
-For the benefit of the honourable member for Moreton, the Government will be opposing this amendment. 
Br GUN (Kingston) (4.52)-Once again I would ask the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  to respond to the question that I asked him before. The honourable member had the good grace to suggest that there was nothing wrong with my cerebral processes. From what he said before, I do not think there is anything wrong with his. I suspect that he is perfectly well aware of the fact that what he proposes is a very significant watering down of the present legislation. Let us look at the Act as it is at the moment. Section 1 7, sub-section ( 1 ) says: 
For the purpose of exercising its powers and functions under this Act, the Board shall have power to make such orders, give such directions and do all such other things as it thinks fit. 
The Bill that we are now discussing does not propose any amendment to this sub-section, but the honourable member for Moreton wants to alter it by adding a provision to make this power subject to regulations. I would have no quarrel with that if the regulation making power enabled the Authority to make the appropriate regulations to allow the Board to determine the standards observed by the commercial television stations. I repeat the point I made before, that if one looks at the regulation making power foreshadowed by the later amendment of the honourable member for Moreton, those powers at present in the Act are not conferred by regulations. Section 16 in its present form provides that the Board shall have power to determine the hours during which programs may be broadcast or televised. Under the proposal of the honourable member for Moreton the power will not be there to determine. All he says is 'empowering the Authority to give or issue a direction', and then later:  . . . directions with respect to matters affecting the hours during which programs may be broadcast'. In other words, rather than power to determine the hours, the amendment provides that the Authority will now, subject only to regulation, have power to determine directions with respect to 'matters affecting,' and I would suggest that there is a very wide difference between the power to determine such matters and the power to determine with respect to matters affecting those matters. 
The honourable member for Moreton and I have served together on a committee of the Constitution Convention. He may recall that a very long debate took place in that committee in relation to the final paragraph of section 128 of the Constitution. If I could use this as an analogy, the honourable member will recall that that paragraph relates to alterations 'diminishing the proportionate representation of any State in either House of the Parliament, or the minimum number of representatives of a State in the House of Representatives, or increasing, diminishing or otherwise altering the limits of the State'. It then goes on to say: 'or in any manner affecting the provisions of the Constitution in relation thereto'. In other words, provisions affecting the preceding clauses, which is a completely different matter from the clauses themselves. I would suggest that the same distinction must be drawn here in the amendment suggested by the honourable member for Moreton where he proposes that the regulation making power will no longer enable the Authority to have power to determine those matters at present in clause 16, sub-section (3) (c) and (d), of the existing Act. That power will be taken away. The only residual power will be power to give directions with respect to matters affecting those mentioned. Therefore I would suggest as strongly as I can that when the Minister and the Government consider what sort of suitable amendment might be made to this proposition they reject the proposals of the honourable member for Moreton. I believe that the honourable member for Moreton is perfectly aware of the situation and that he has taken a conscious decision on the matter. When he rose to speak earlier I think he did say that he did not favour allowing the Authority to have those powers to determine directly those matters which it has had power to determine in the past. I would say that this is not just a question of syntax; this is a very important question of philosophical difference between the 2 sides of the Committee. I ask the Government to bear this in mind when considering the proposed amendment of the honourable member for Moreton. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1), proposed new paragraph (b), omit '3 months ', insert ' 6 months '. 
Honourable gentlemen will be aware that my colleague in another place has had discussions with interested groups. The viewpoint was put during those discussions that the period of 3 months created difficulties for them. Therefore we are quite happy to introduce this amendment which in fact is the amendment which was brought in previously by a Liberal-Country Party Government. This amendment was introduced in 1972 and it flows from a recommendation in the second interim report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts which indicated that the Board should be empowered to recommend greater renewal periods to the Minister. In introducing the Bill into the Senate at that stage  Senator Cotton  pointed out that licences may be renewed for a period of not less than 6 months or more than 3 years on the basis that the period of a normal licence would be 3 years instead of 1 year after the initial introductory period following the approval of the new provisions. I might mention that the reasoning behind this proposal is that there are now something over 200 licences in existence. Many of them are translator licences. There is a great burden on the Broadcasting Authority to handle the licensing arrangements, and the purpose of the renewal amendment that we have introduced is to allow the Authority to operate in a much more effective way by bringing together the licensing of the major or parent station and the licensing of the translators. This amendment, as I have said, is identical with an amendment introduced by the previous Government. In those circumstances I am sure that it will meet with the applause of the Opposition. 
Perhaps I could recall for the benefit of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  the views expressed on precisely the point that he has raised by bis colleague,  Senator Greenwood,  in another place on 7 March 1972 in his capacity as Minister representing the Postmaster-General. On that occasion he said: 
If any honourable senator examines the case put forward in support of that proposition - 
That is, a 6 months to 3 years licence renewal period - . . . he cannot but be impressed - 
I am sure that the honourable member for Moreton cannot but be impressed - with the fact that there is merit in getting rid of the one-year renewal period. There is the problem, of course, that certain stations may be in some form of technical breach at the time when their licence next comes up for renewal at the end of the year and it is advantageous for the licence to be renewed for a short period, say 6 months, on the condition that there will be a longer renewal if the omissions are repaired. 
I make the observation for the honourable gentleman opposite that this was a statement made by  Senator Greenwood  who at that stage was representing the Postmaster-General. This is one of the very few points on which I find myself in agreement with the honourable gentleman. 
I move: 
In paragraph (a), omit 'or less'. 
This amendment is consequential on the one just  approved of by the Committee. I think it will appeal to the logic of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  as we have now amended the provision by taking out the figure and word 3 months' and replaced them with the figure and word '6 months', that there is therefore no necessity for the words 'or less '. It is purely a consequential amendment to the last amendment passed by the Committee. 
I must say that it is encouraging to see that the honourable gentleman from Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has put that proposition on this legislation. I must say also that on the first occasion when the Opposition's spokesman on the media was asked to comment on this legislation, her argument was that television stations should practise their own ethics without government enforced standards. Of course, this becomes the whole crunch. I think that  Senator Guilfoyle  was not expressing her own point of view. I have far too great an estimate of her ability and also her attitude to such matters. What she really was doing was expressing the viewpoint of those whom the Opposition parties represent. Therefore it was refreshing when the honourable member for Moreton put forward a series of proposals. As I have already indicated, we understand the general intent of what he is seeking to achieve. Unfortunately we did not have sufficient time to consider his amendments in detail but, as I also said earlier, the Government will give his suggestions consideration when the matter is taken up in the other place. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I should like to suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Broadcasting Stations Licence Fees Bill and the Television Stations Licence Fees Bill, as they are related measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore, that the House permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procudure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the loans (Qantas Airways Ltd) Bill and the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (6) The Australian Government is not providing any specific financial support to research in this field. The opportunity exists, however, through the Australian Research Grants Committee and the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board, for support of work in this field should acceptable applications be received. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (6) The Australian Government is not providing any specific financial support to research in this field. The opportunity exists, however, through the Australian Research Grants Committee and the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board, for support of work in this field should acceptable applications be received. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (6) The Australian Government is not providing any specific financial support to research in this field. The opportunity exists, however, through the Australian Research Grants Committee and the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board, for support of work in this field should acceptable applications be received. 
Department of the Special Minister of State: Management Consultant Firms (Question No. 804) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 964 on the 1973 notice paper (Hansard, 27 September 1973, page 1714) in which he drew attention to the impracticalities of attempting to list all the consultations in which departments are engaged with other departments. My Department keeps me properly informed of all important developments- this is a satisfactory procedure for the purposes of my Ministry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)1 understand that this is correct. 
The University of Sydney has submitted such a proposal. 
A grant to allow design studies for a new interferometer to proceed was announced in the Budget Speech on 17 September 1974. 
Australian Council for the Arts- Assistance For Katanning Arts and Crafts Society (Question No. 1007) 
It is rather remarkable that the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  has raised a number of issues, each one of which- and I would be very happy to take him through the Hansard records of both the House of Representatives and of the Senate- has been discussed in this chamber or in the other place in the course of this year. The honourable gentleman of course will be aware that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  is a member of another place. I shall subsequently go through the details of the debates and the opportunities for debate that have been presented to the House of Representatives and to the Senate and which have not been taken up. 
But I should like to make one observation. There has been some criticism of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for not having made statements after his return from overseas visits. Of course there is not the same necessity for the Prime Minister to make statements after his return as there was in the case of former Liberal Party Prime Ministers. Having bungled their overseas visits through monumental ineptitude they raced back to Australia and took the opportunity to make statements in this House to rewrite the record so that they would appear in a much more favourable light. I am sure the honourable member for Kooyong, along with every other parliamentarian, every member of this House, can recall and in fact recoil from such statements as those made by Prime Minister Gorton when he was overseas- that memorable question: 'Who is General Seato?'- and by Prime Minister McMahon who made a statement in Indonesia about relations with Malaysia? When he got to Singapore he was absolutely astonished that the world media was so quick that the statement was reported in Singapore before he got there. He spent the rest of the time he was in Singapore and Malaysia trying to dig himself out of the bog that he had put himself into. Each time the previous Liberal Prime Ministers had to come back and make what was not really a statement to this House but merely a re-writing of the record so that they would not appear to posterity, at least as far as the Hansard records of this House are concerned, as the monumental bunglers that they were. 
In no case has the honourable member for Kooyong made any point of criticism of the statements that have been made overseas by the Prime Minister of Australia. The Prime Minister of Australia has gone to many countries, and there has been a necessity for him to go to many countries, in order to put the record straight about the changeover from a Liberal-Country Party foreign policy to the foreign policy that is carried out by this Government. It is a foreign policy that is consistent and sound and one that all Australians can be proud of. But the Opposition certainly has not shown any great interest in foreign policy debates. 
The record of the Senate shows that in the course of this year there have been 12 opportunities for debate on this subject. In the Senate statements have been made or tabled, and in the Senate it is quite possible, if the Opposition is interested, to rise and debate the issues. On 5 March 1974 a communique on the ANZUS Council was tabled. There was no effort to debate what used to be the great subject for the Liberal Party-the ANZUS Council. On 20 March a statement by the Prime Minister was tabled. The debate was adjourned. There was no effort at all to bring that debate back on again. On 10 April the proposed joint Soviet- Australian space observation station was raised. There was a debate and the motion that the statement be noted was resolved in the affirmative. On 10 April the report on the Fifth South Pacific Forum was tabled. There was no effort, intention or desire to discuss what we regard, as a Government, as a very important area for Australia- the South Pacific. A statement on the visit of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to Latin America was tabled. Subsequently there was a tabling of the texts of treaties to which Australia is a party. There was no attempt to debate them. The Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty was raised. Again there was no attempt on the part of the Opposition to debate or to raise these matters. 
The honourable member for Kooyong mentioned the Ermolenko affair. The debate on this went on and on and on in the Senate. Likewise there was a discussion of the statement about the Baltic States which went on and on in the Senate. But look at the points that the Opposition raises. Are these the real fundamental issues of Australia's foreign policy- the Ermolenko affair which the Opposition built up into a great storm, the recognition of the Baltic States, in respect of which the policy and attitude of the previous Government was consistent, in terms of operation, with the decision that we made? There was no attempt to have a debate on the Law of the Sea Conference or on the Bauxite Agreement or on the report of the United Nations General Assembly under which heading any matter could be raised and discussed. 
Likewise, in this House there have been 4 occasions- I must say the honourable member for Kooyong has participated on two of them- on which matters of this nature could be raised. The honourable member also mentioned the defence debates. There have been several debates in this House on defence. I was a little disappointed in the remarks my good and learned colleague made in relation to the Australian Government's attitude towards food and the humanitarian aspects of a problem that I believe every member of this House should be gravely concerned about. He erroneously criticised us for our failure to spell out our policy towards food aid. In the short time I have been a member of this House I have found it curious that the Opposition, particularly the Australian Country Party, interest in humanitarian ideals is directly related to whether there is a surplus of Australian agricultural products. 
When food markets are buoyant the Opposition conveniently forgets about the starving millions in this world. But if the honourable gentleman, who talked about the information that is available to this House, had directed his attention to Budget Paper No. 9, Australia's External Aid 1974-75, which has been circulated to every member of this House and to every member of the Senate, he would have found out that this Government does not judge its humanitarian interest on the basis of whether there is a food surplus in Australia. It is a consistent policy that we have adopted to ensure that the Australian Government's action is in response to need, not in response to whatever surpluses we may have. Obviously the honourable gentleman has not directed his attention to this document that is made available to Parliament, a document that is comprehended in the discussion of the matter of public importance that he has put forward. The document states: 
Australia will provide 225,000 tonnes of wheat or flour equivalent as food aid under the International Wheat Agreement in 1974-7S. . . . Most of this food aid will go to developing countries in the Asian and Pacific regions, although a gift of 7,000 tonnes of wheat will be made to help overcome food shortages in drought affected countries in the Sahelian region of northern Africa. 
In addition . . . Australia will make $40 million available towards the proposed United Nations Special Program to assist developing countries which have been seriously affected by the recent sharp increases in oil prices and other related international developments. Of this total, $20 million will be spent on additional food aid and associated freight costs, as well as on contributions to certain international agricultural research institutes which are striving to boost the production of foodstuffs in developing countries through the introduction of new techniques and improved seed varieties, etc. The uses to which the remaining $20 million will be put have yet to be determined. 
I was rather disappointed in my honourable colleague criticising the Australian Government's role in the World Food Conference which is now taking place. At that Food Conference 
Australia made the most forthcoming statement that it has ever made in terms of assisting the underdeveloped countries in this world in a problem that we all recognise and appreciate. He seemed to make light of that Conference because Australia was represented at it by the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt).  He seemed to be saying that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should have been there. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was at another meeting. But because this is a matter of concern related to food it was quite appropriate- in fact, in the Government's viewpoint it was essential- that Australia should be represented by the Minister for Agriculture, and that we were. We are taking an important and positive role in that World Food Conference. Apart from the claim that is made in the terms of this matter of public importance, I have yet to hear a comment from the Liberal Party Opposition about the utilisation of food surpluses. Plenty of comments are made by members of the Australian Country Party about how to get rid of their food surpluses to the benefit of the Country Party representatives. 
I will take up another point. My honourable colleague also referred to Papua New Guinea. Of all the members of the House and of all the members of the Senate not in government the honourable gentleman is one who would be only too well aware that in the course of this year the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly has been occupied- some may say preoccupied- with the report of the Constitutional Planning Committee which was set up by the honourable member. That Committee is now reporting on a home grown constitution. The debate on the Committee's report in the House of Assembly is one for the people of Papua New Guinea and one for the House of Assembly to consider and make their own judgment upon. My action- I am sure that outside this debate the honourable member for Kooyong would agree with it- has been to resist making any statement that could be interpreted or misinterpreted as intervention of interference in the very proper role of the House of Assembly in establishing, developing and enacting its own constitution. This has been a difficult period, but it is a difficult period that we recognise. It is a period in which we have desisted from making any statement that could seem to be or could be seen to be an interference in the affairs of Papua New Guinea. 
The honourable member will also be aware that we have had a series of debates on enabling legislation relating to Papua New Guinea that I have brought into this House. I have been most appreciative of the understanding displayed by the honourable member for Kooyong in these debates. So I think it is absurd for him now to say that he has not had an opportunity of discussing these matters. He has had an opportunity of debate on a series of Bills on Papua New Guinea which were discussed this year and last year. He also knows very well that discussions are continuing with the Papua New Guinea Government on the arrangements for devolution of powers arrangements for independence at a time which both Australia and Papua New Guinea decide upon and also for post-independence arrangements. I stress this point once more: Any action by us to make a statement that is relevant to the discussion by the House of Assembly, which is an autonomous body, could be seen and could be interpreted as an intervention in its affairs. 
One of the other propositions put to the public by the honourable member for Kooyong relates to the Australian Government's attitude to South Africa. During the debate on the Estimates the honourable member for Kooyong raised this matter. In that debate, in response to the honourable member for Kooyong, I put forward very clearly the attitude and the reasons for the attitude of the Australian Government towards South Africa in the United Nations context. I believe that that attitude has paid dividends in its results. I am sure that honourable members will have seen the statement made by  Mr Vorster,  the Prime Minister of South Africa, following the action by Australia in the United Nations under Article 6 of the United Nations Charter to support the expulsion of South Africa from the United Nations because of its consistent and persistent breaking of the spirit of the United Nations.  Mr Vorster  made a plea for the world to give him 6 months to produce changes in the international standing of the Republic of South Africa. This followed from a deliberate decision of the Australian Government made in the light of the persistent violations by South Africa of the United Nations Charter. 
If the Opposition had been the government, it would not have had- I use the word advisedlythe guts to make such a proposition. I am not saying this is so of the honourable member for Kooyong, but he knows as well as I do that there are many members sitting behind him who are pro-South African and pro-Rhodesian. We made our view known and we made a statement in the United Nations condemning South Africa for persistent violations. Now we are starting to see the results of that action that we had the fortitude to take. We as a Government which believes in the basic freedoms of all people cannot continue to maintain within the United Nations a country that violates every one of those freedoms. This is the strength of our foreign policy. For the first time Australia is making its own voice heard. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2), (3) and (4) The Kimberley Research Station was operated as a joint CSIRO and Western Australian State Department of Agriculture field research station in the Ord Valley from 1 946 to 30 June 1 974. The research objectives of the Station were to study potential crops for the area as a basis for land development and diversification, and to carry out research on improved production methods for beef cattle and crops that have been grown commercially in the area, particularly cotton and sorghum. 
The findings relating to the wide range of crops tested cannot be summarised briefly, but research results have been published in appropriate scientific journals and summarised in the Annual Reports of the Station. 
At the request of the Australian Government, a Kimberley Research Station Review Committee was established last year. It comprised the existing Kimberley Research Station Policy Committee (made up of representatives of the Australian Department of Northern Development, the CSIRO and the Western Australian Departments of Agriculture and Public Works), together with representatives of the Australian Departments of the Treasury, and the Environment and Conservation. 
The Review Committee considered objectives, programs and arrangements for research in the Ord Region, with particular reference to the Kimberley Research Station. It recommended the termination of the arrangement for joint operation of the Station by the Western Australian Department of Agriculture and CSIRO, and proposed the following division of responsibility between the State and Australian Governments: the State Government to be responsible mainly for research aimed at increasing production efficiency, solving the immediate problems of farmers, and developing viable agricultural systems for the whole of the irrigable area. the Australian Government to be responsible mainly for longer-term research aimed at improving resource utilisation throughout north-western Australia, bearing in mind environmental and social considerations. 
The Review Committee further concluded that the Australian Government could most effectively implement its role as defined above by having CSIRO operate the Kimberley Research Station as part of its Division of Tropical Agronomy, carrying out research concerned largely with integrating the beef cattle industry with irrigated agriculture and increasing productivity through improved cattle nutrition. 
The Western Australian State Government and the Australian Government accepted these recommendations, appropriate financial arrangements were agreed, and they have been implemented. The State Department of Agriculture is operating a separate Research Station concentrating on the shorter-term problems of existing farmers and the development of viable agricultural systems for the Ord irrigation scheme. 
Progress with CSIRO's research program will be reported regularly in the Annual Reports of the Division of Tropical Agronomy. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) (a) The censorship of films imported for use in the cinema and on television, and programs recorded on videotape imported for television, is carried out by the Film Censorship Board. The operations of this Board fall within the ministerial responsibility of the Attorney-General. 
Television programs produced and shown by Australian stations are subject to provisions in Television Program Standards laid down by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board for which I have ministerial responsibility. The relevant standards specify certain times during which young people are likely to be viewing and programing shown during these times must be appropriate for this type of audience. 
The Broadcasting Control Board, therefore, in exercising its censorship power under Section 101 of the Broadcasting and Television Act, does so in order to establish whether a program or portion of a program is suitable at all for television, or whether it is suitable for a particular time of transmission having regard to the nature of the known audience at the time. 
Since 2 December 1972, 31 separate Australian produced programs have been subject to censorship by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board because they contained elements of sex or violence which were considered to be contrary to the Board 's Television Program Standards. 
(a) 36 excisions, totalling approximately six minutes, were made from television programs by the Board because of sex; and 
16 excisions, totalling approximately  T-h  minutes were made from television programs by the Board because of violence. 
As I have indicated above, for the most part, these cuts were made to render the programs concerned suitable for times of presentation when the audience was likely to contain large numbers of young viewers. 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
As announced on 10 December 1973, Cabinet agreed to the drafting of legislation to establish an Australian Film Commission. 
This decision incorporated acceptance of the principal recommendations made in the Tariff Board Report on Motion Picture Films and Television Programs. It did, however, reject the Tariff Board recommendations to establish a pool buying' system for television programs and to restructure the exhibition sector of the industry. 
A Bill giving effect to Cabinet's decision has been drafted and is before the Parliament at this time. 
Cabinet also approved of my recommendation that an Interim Board of the Australian Film Commission be established to advise me on policy matters associated with the formation of the Commission and to carry out some of its preliminary tasks. I have appointed this Interim Board, with wide representation from throughout the Australian film industry, and it has begun its consideration of matters necessary to the earliest possible establishment of the Commission. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) and (2) There were no Government publications and inquiry centres as such prior to 2 December 1972. However, there were four Publications Sales Offices, at that time, under the control of the Department of the Treasury, located in the following cities: 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
8 February 1974. 
The officers and employees of the Australian Government Printing Office. 
695. 
The exercise was to evacuate the Australian Government Printing Office to evaluate the efficiency of procedures in the event of fire. 
See the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 1 130 on 17 October 1974 (Hansard, page 2583). 
Food Testing: Co-operation between Departments (Question No. 1206) 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. However, it must be remembered that the four Sydney stations transmit different programming for a combined total of some 20,000 hours each year, and the period of two hours on 2 1 September, during which there was no alternative programming for those not interested in the grand final, falls into its proper perspective. 
Under the provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act, two independent statutory bodies, the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Australian Broadcasting Control Board are charged with certain programming responsibilities. The Commission is required to televise adequate and comprehensive programs, while the Control Board has the authority to ensure that adequate and comprehensive programs are provided by commercial television stations. 
Whilst there are no provisions in the Act to compel national and/or commercial television stations to provide a choice of programs during a given viewing period, I agree this is desirable. 
In this particular case the Rugby League Grand Final is an annual event, and this year it seems that all Sydney television stations considered that the match had generated considerable public interest. Following successful negotiations with the New South Wales Rugby League, therefore, Channels 2, 7, 9 and 10 televised the match live from the Sydney Cricket Ground. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
None. 
See(l). 
For the information of honourable members I present a discussion paper prepared by the Department of the Media entitled 'The Public and the Media' dated August 1974. Due to the limited number of copies of this paper available at this time I have arranged for reference copies to be placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Papua New Guinea Act 1949-1974 to enable Australia to transfer to Papua New Guinea responsibility for those matters which at present remain reserved to Australia, as soon as their transfer is requested by the Papua New Guinea Government. This is in line with Australia's policy of ensuring that Papua New Guinea exercises final responsibility in all matters of government before assuming full independence. It is also in line with a recent statement by the Opposition spokesman on Papua New Guinea matters, the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  who argued that it would be wise 'To settle all areas prior to independence so that on independence the Papua New Guinea Government would not just be governing in all areas but would be doing so at law.' 
Clause 3 of the Papua New Guinea Bill (No. 2), amends section 5(lA) of the Papua New Guinea Act which deals with reserved matters. The matters presently reserved to Australia are defence, foreign relations and certain matters specified by proclamation under the Papua New Guinea Act. These matters are the Supreme Court of Papua New Guinea and all other courts established by Papua New Guinea enactment, authority in relation to legal aid, responsibility for instituting prosecutions, House of Assembly and electoral policy matters. Honourable members will recall that authority over these matters was reserved to Australia at self government at the specific request of the Papua New Guinea Government. These matters will be deproclaimed when Papua New Guinea requests their transfer. 
Clause 3 of the BUI provides for the omission of paragraphs (a) and (b) of sub-section 5 ( 1  a)  of the Papua New Guinea Act. These paragraphs reserve to Australia the matters of defence and foreign relations. When Papua New Guinea requests the transfer of authority over these matters the repeal of those paragraphs will be proclaimed. 
Papua New Guinea has already introduced its defence legislation in the House of Assembly and when this has been enacted Australian defence legislation will need to be amended to enable the completion of the transfer of authority. The exercise of responsibility by the Government of Papua New Guinea in the areas of defence and foreign relations until formal independence must be subject to Australia's treaty obligations and responsibilities in international law and to the United Nations under the Charter and the Trusteeship Agreement. However the transfer of final control to Papua New Guinea within this framework will allow Papua New Guinea to give effect to its own policies and priorities in these matters, policies and priorities which in fact it is already formulating. As I have said, Australian policy is to enable Papua New Guinea to exercise authority in all matters of government before the formal step to independence, and these amendments are designed to give effect to this. 
Clauses 4 to 9 of the Bill relate to Part VI of the Papua New Guinea Act- the judicial system. With the transfer of authority over the Supreme Court of Papua New Guinea, Part VI of the Act will be amended to provide for the functions now assigned to and powers held by the GovernorGeneral under sections 58 to 61 of the Act to be conferred on and exercised by the High Commissioner of Papua New Guinea. The High Commissioner will have responsibility for the appointment of the Chief Justice and such other judges and acting judges as are required and for other decisions relating to the qualifications of judges and to the tenure of judges' appointments. In line with these amendments the Governor-General's instructions to the High Commissioner will require him to act on the advice of the Papua New Guinea Government in exercising his functions under Part VI of the Act. 
Sub-section 62a (6) of the Papua New Guinea Act at present authorises the Governor-General to disallow rules of court. The Bill in clause 8 makes provision for such rules of court in future to be laid before the House of Assembly within 15 sitting days after their making. Disallowance, if considered necessary, will be by resolution of the House of Assembly. 
The Papua New Guinea Government has requested that when the transfer of authority over judicial matters takes place section 64 of the Act should be repealed and clause 9 of the Bill provides for this. Section 64 of the Act provided that the Australian High Court has jurisdiction to hear and determine appeals of all judgments, decrees, orders and sentences of a Full Court of the Supreme Court of Papua New Guinea. Clause 10 of the Bill amends section 73 (2) of the Act to empower the High Commissioner to grant pardons or remissions or commutations of sentence to offenders sentenced to death by a court exercising criminal jurisdiction in Papua New Guinea. 
Clause 1 1 of the Bill provides for transitional provisions necessitated by the amendments. Paragraphs (1), (3), (4), (5) and (6) provide that action taken or commenced under the existing provisions of the Act shall not be affected by the proposed amendments. Paragraph (2) provides that persons holding office as judges or acting judges cease to hold office on transfer but are eligible for appointment under the amended Act. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Judges' Pensions Act 1968-1973 to provide for the payment of pensions to persons who are or have been judges of the Supreme Court of Papua New Guinea (Papua New Guinea judges). This Bill has been prepared after consultation with the Papua New Guinea judges. By arrangement with the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy),  I am introducing this Bill so that it can be considered at the same time as the Papua New Guinea Bill (No. 2), which I have just introduced. Amendments of the Papua New Guinea Act to be made by the Papua New Guinea Bill (No. 2), which I have just introduced, will, amongst other things, transfer to the Papua New Guinea Government control over appointments of judges to the Supreme Court of Papua New Guinea. 
The Supreme Court will continue to exist by virtue of Part VI of the Act, but appointments of judges made by the Governor-General under section 59 of that Act will cease to have effect on and after the date of transfer of the Supreme Court to Papua New Guinea. At present, pensions are payable to those judges and to former judges and their dependants by virtue of the Judges' Pensions Act 1969 of Papua New Guinea. These pensions are in fact being paid by the Australian Government. 
The effect of the Bill will be to bring those of the present judges who were appointed before 1 December 1973, the date on which Papua New Guinea achieved self-Government, under the Australian Judges' Pensions Act, so that their pension rights are guaranteed by Australian legislation. Existing pensioners under the Papua New Guinea Judges' Pensions Act will also be brought under the Australian legislation. Clause 4 provides that a Papua New Guinea judge appointed before 1 December 1973 who has attained the age of 55 years and who retires after serving as a judge for not less than 10 years will be entitled to a full pension at a rate equal to 60 per centum of. the 'appropriate current judicial salary'. Such a judge who, not being otherwise entitled to a full pension, ceases to hold office as a judge because his services are no longer required by the Papua New Guinea Government will receive a full pension irrespective of his length of service. If a judge leaves voluntarily before completing the qualifying period of service, the judge will receive a pro rata pension based on the total of the years that he has served as a judge and the period of leave due to the judge on his retirement. If special circumstances exist, the Governor-General may determine that a judge who would otherwise be entitled to a pro rata pension is nevertheless to receive a full pension. 
Clause 5 ensures that a judge will not receive 2 pensions in respect of the same periods of service. It brings the existing provision in the Judges' Pensions Act up to date. Clause 6 is a parallel provision to the existing section 18. It applies the Bill to Papua New Guinea judges who may have retired or died before the commencement of the clause, so that they or their dependants will receive pensions under the Bill. 

 Mr Acting Speaker, the enactment of this Bill and the Papua New Guinea Bill (No. 2) will enable Australia to respond to the wishes of the Government of Papua New Guinea in the transfer of authority to that country. I commend them to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
I move: 
Insert in paragraph (b) of sub-clause (2) before paragraph (i) the following sub- paragraph: (ia) is not, by virtue of section 17a, eligible to remain as a full-time member; ' 
This is a consequential amendment and I commend it to the House. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 20 agreed to. 
Clause 21. 
The validity of an act done by the Commission shall not be questioned in any proceedings on a ground arising from the fact that the occasion for the appointment of a person purporting to have been appointed under section 17 had not arisen or that the appointment under that section had ceased to have effect. 
I move: 
Omit the clause, insert the following clause: 
The validity of an act done by the Commission shall not be questioned in any proceeding on a ground arising from the fact that- 
a person purporting to be appointed under section 12 or 17 was, by virtue of section 17a, not eligible to have been so appointed; or 
the occasion for the appointment of a person purporting to have been appointed under section 1 7 had not arisen or that the appointment under that section had ceased to have effect. 
This amendment is consequential to the insertion of clause 17 a. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
I move: 
After clause 36, insert in Part VII the following clause: 36a. ( 1 ) Subject to sub-section (2 ), the Commission is not subject to taxation under any law of Australia or of a State or Territory. '(2) The regulations may provide that sub-section (1) does not apply in relation to taxation under a specified law '. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Remainder of the Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
I move: 
After clause 7 insert the following clause:  '7a The Minister may, by writing under his hand, give directions to the Commission with respect to the exercise of its powers or the performance of its functions but, except as provided by sub-section (2), shall not give such a direction with respect to a particular project. '(2) The Minister may give a direction to the Commission with respect to a film, or proposed film, of a kind referred to in sub-paragraph 5 ( 1 ) (b) (i) (ii) or (iii). '(3) Where the Minister gives a direction under this section, he shall, within 15 sitting days after giving that direction, lay before each House of the Parliament a copy of the direction together with his reasons for giving the direction '. 
The purpose of the amendment is to reinsert into the Bill a clause that was omitted in the other place. The clause relates to the power of the Minister in relation to the functions of the Australian Film Commission. The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  who has just finished his remarks on this legislation, sought to make a case of the powers of the Minister. But this is a very simple proposition. The Minister has exercised this authority not only during the 23 years in which the Liberal-Country Party was in office but also prior to and after it was in office. We are not seeking to change the mode of operation in any way whatsoever. Quite clearly some members of the Opposition are guarding a guilty conscience, but fortunately we on this side of the House are not so affected. 
I would just like to reiterate the position that was outlined in the second reading speech. Provision is made for the Minister to be able only to give general directions to the Commission in respect of the overall performance of its functionsthe Minister can act only in that sense- except in those functions relating to the making of films for Australian Government purposes out of funds directly appropriated by Parliament for these purposes, where it is proposed he should have a power of specific direction. What is unusual about that? What is unusual about a Minister being responsible to this Parliament for the expenditure of funds voted by this Parliament? Surely any Minister under ministerial responsibility has the right, and in fact the obligation, to report back to this Parliament on what he has done. So what we are seeking here is not unusual. It is exactly the same type of provision as appears in a multitude of Bills. 
Parliamentarians and democrats have always been faced with the problem of the power that any government can give to a statutory corporation. They are faced with the problem of how much power they, as the elected representatives of the Australian people, should give to such bodies. Surely it is a power, as I have said, that has been reflected in a large number of Bills and Acts of this Parliament which were passed when the Liberal-Country Party was in power and when the Labor Government was in power. It is a democratic power, and the rights of the Minister who is responsible through this Parliament to the Australian people should be safeguarded. There is nothing unusual about that. 
The Opposition certainly seems to be developing an inconsistency in regard to this matter. This legislation was introduced in the other place where concern was expressed about how it was to be interpreted. The Government offered an elaborating or clarifying clause to make sure that the points that had been raised would be met. Sub-clause (3) of the amendment which I have moved states: 
Where the Minister gives a direction under this section, he shall, within 15 sitting days after giving that direction, lay before each House of the Parliament a copy of the direction together with his reasons for giving the direction. 
The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  said: 'That is fair enough, but why was it not done before'. The reason it was not done before was that we did not have the advantage of a precedent that had been set by the honourable member or by any member of his Party. This proposition was not supported by the Opposition in the other place. Therefore I have moved this amendment which intends to bring to this Parliament the power that Parliament must exercise. It is a power that Parliament can exercise through a Minister. 
I fail to see the difficulties that are foreseen obviously by the Opposition in regard to ministerial power over prescribed sections. I wish to read part of clause 5 ( 1 ) of the Bill which relates to functions of the Commission. This is the only clause in the Bill which gives a specific direction in regard to what the Minister can do. It states: 
films that serve the purpose of a Department of State or an authority of Australia; 
Any client in commissioning a film quite obviously has the right to determine the broad parameters of the film, the general methods of treatment and the things that he wants covered. The client would not want to get behind the camera. However, any client who is commissioning a film obviously has that right, and that is all that is involved in this part of the clause. The clause continues: 
films that deal with matters of national interest to Australia; and 
films that are designed to illustrate or interpret aspects of Australia or of the life and activities of the Australian people; 
This part of the clause relates to all films that are being commissioned by the Government. Are honourable members opposite trying to tell me or the Government that anyone who wanted to make a film on Dame Nellie Melba would not have some broad concept of what the film was to be about. Such a person probably would indicate that the film would be shown at a festival of arts overseas. The person drawing up the criteria or requirements of the film would know where it would be shown and would have some idea of what the local audience would be interested in. This comes down as a direction of the client who has commissioned the film. Therefore the amendment which I have moved provides for full parliamentary supervision of a statutory authority. Let us not forget that it is very strange that the Opposition all of a sudden has put forth the proposition that any statutory corporation should have full and ultimate powers. This is not the nature of statutory corporations. If this Parliament loses the control and hands over complete power to any statutory corporation we are denying the democratic rights of this Parliament, and that is why I have moved the amendment. 
I move: 
After clause 8, insert the following clauses: 8a ( 1 ) For the purpose of carrying out its functions of encouraging the making, promotion, distribution and exhibition of Australian films, the Commission or an authorized personmay serve, either personally or by post, on- 
a foreign corporation or trading corporation formed within the limits of Australia that carries on the business of exhibiting films in a theatre or theatres in Australia; or 
any other person who carries on the business of exhibiting films in a theatre or theatres in Australia, a requirement in writing in accordance with this section. 
A requirement referred to in sub-section ( 1) shall- 
specify- 
the period to which it relates, being a period commencing not earlier than the date on which the requirement is served; and 
the theatre or theatres to which it relates; and 
require that- 
a specified proportion of the number of short films exhibited by the person on which or on whom the requirement is served in the specified theatre or theatres during the specified period the films certified by the Commission to be Australian short films; or 
a specified proportion of the time devoted to the exhibition of short films by that person in the specified theatre or theatres during the specified period be devoted to the exhibition of films certified by the Commission to be Australian short films. 
) A requirement referred to in sub-section ( 1 ) may be so expressed as to include both a requirement of the kind referred to in sub-paragraph (2) (b) (i) and a requirement of the kind referred to in sub-paragraph (2 ) ( b) (ii). 
A person shall comply with a requirement served on him under sub-section ( 1 ). 
Penalty: $200. 
It is a defence if a person charged with an offence under sub-section (4) proves that he had a reasonable excuse relating to the availability of Australian short films for not complying with the requirement to which the offence relates. 
A requirement shall not be made under this section unless there is in force a regulation declaring that such requirements may be made on or after the specified date and such a requirement shall not be made before the specified date. 
The regulations may make provision, not inconsistent with this section, with respect to any matter in relation to the exercise of the power to make requirements under this section (which may include provision with respect to the proportions that are to be, or may be, specified in such a requirement), and that power shall not be exercised otherwise than in accordance with any regulations so made and in force. 8b The Minister shall give such directions to the Commission or an authorized person under section 7a as he thinks necessary for the purpose of ensuring the observance, in the exercise of powers under this section. of the obligations of Australia under the Code of Liberalisation of Current Invisible Operations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, and the Commission or the authorized person shall comply with those directions. 
At this stage 1 foreshadow further amendments as follows: 
After clause 17, page 8 insert the following clause: 17a. A person having a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in a business or other undertaking involving the making, promotion, distribution or exhibition of films is not eligible- 
to be appointed under section 12 as, or to remain, a full-time member; or 
to be appointed under section 17 to act, or to continue to act, in the place of the  Chairman  or another full-time member. 
Because of the important role which the production of non-sponsored shorts can play in developing an efficient film industry. the Board has recommended that locally produced short films intended for theatrical release be submitted to the a fa for certification that they are not sponsored and are thus eligible for commercial exhibition under the proposed quota. 
The Tariff Board realised, in relation to the development of the film industry in Australia and the training of cameramen, technicians and producers in the short film industry, that there had to be some sponsorship and there had to be some Government intervention in order to ensure that the short film industry was not only developed but also able to get under way and become an important pan of the film industry in Australia. So we, as the Government, have introduced the notion that there should be a film quota for short films. 
This part of the legislation was defeated in the Senate. But because we have followed the recommendations of the Tariff Board and because we strongly believe that the short film industry in Australia, which is the cradle of film makers in Australia, has to be assisted we are insisting upon this provision being reinstated in the Bill. The philosophy of the Liberal and Country Parties is: 'You can go ahead and make films but it is not necessary that you should be able to show them and not only is it not necessary that you should be able to show them but also we will not provide you with any assistance or the conditions under which they can be shown'. It is simply ludicrous to suggest, first of all, that we should just let films be made and not shown. That is why we have put forward the requirement that there should be a quota for them to be shown. It has also been suggested that the films made by Film Australia should not necessarily be shown. That, to my mind, is ludicrous because the amount of money which has been spent over the last few years on films sponsored by the Government for a variety of reasons adds up to some $4m. It seems to us that the use of that money can be displayed in the form of short films that can be seen. So we insist that we should be able to legislate to ensure that the Film Commission, which will be sponsoring short films, will be able to have those films shown and that the quota provisions, which provided the teeth of the Film Commission and which the Opposition has quite deliberately taken out, should be reinstated. 
I am afraid that in any language the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  could not be sufficiently plausible to persuade the Government not to insert the amendment. But I do believe, becoming more serious, that it ill behoves the shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs to make light of an Australian treaty obligation particularly an Australian treaty obligation that was entered into by the previous Government. We accepted the responsibility, we a government, to ensure that any of the treaty obligations entered into by a previous government will continue to be respected. I must confess that this particular treaty obligation does have a curious title but then many treaty obligations have had curious titles and there have been more curious titles in the international field as the honourable gentleman will be aware. Irrespective of that, the Government firmly believes that any responsible Minister has the responsibility of ensuring that an agency or a statutory authority, in the discharge of its responsibilities, conforms to the international treaties to which Australia is a party. 
I would hope that the frivolous attitude of the honourable member for Kooyong is soberly noted. Considering any pretentions he may have to be the voice of Australia in the future, those who have just heard his frivolous comments this afternoon may be able to discount these pretentions. We adhere to the amendment that we have introduced. We believe that it is an essential amendment to ensure the strength and vitality of the Film Commission. I am sure that these arguments put by the Government are arguments that are essential to the effective operation of the Film Commission which, of course, is what we want. But to judge by the amendments that were introduced into the Senate by representatives of the honourable gentlemen opposite, it is not obvious that they have the same intent or purport. 
For the first time in the course of this debate I am inclined to agree with the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  The reason I agree with the honourable member is that of clause 11 in the old Bill which was debated in another place all we have left after the ravages and devastation of the Opposition in the Senate is the first part of what is now clause 9. If the honourable member means by his observations that he would like to reinstate paragraphs (2) and (3) of old clause 1 1, we would be very happy to accede to the argument that he puts forward. But the reason that clause 9 stands so naked lies with the operations of his worthy colleagues in another place. If the honourable member would like to move for the reinstatement of paragraphs (2) and (3) as originally proposed by the Government we would be happy to accept the Opposition's amendment. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 10 to 17- by leave- taken together. 
I move: 
After clause 17, insert the following clause: '17a. A person having a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in a business or other undertaking involving the making, promotion, distribution or exhibition of films is not eligible- 
to be appointed under section 12 as, or to remain, a full-time member: or 
to be appointed under section 17 to act, or to continue to act, in the place of the  Chairman  or another full-time member'. 
The purpose of this amendment is to reinsert the provision to ensure that full-time members of the Commission should not be open to the charge of conflict of interests in carrying out their responsibility in the service of the Australian Film Commission. The Government accepts the need to involve in the Commission the talents, skills and knowledge of people with experience in the film industry. I remind honourable members that such a provision was specifically excluded when the Australian Film Development Corporation was established. In Part II of the Australian Film Development Corporation Act, clause 6 (3) states: 
A person shall not be appointed as a member if he has a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in a business of making. distributing or exhibiting films or in a corporation carrying on such a business. 
This points out the monumental inconsistency of the Opposition. The Bill that it introduced relating to very much the same sort of thing as the Bill we are now considering specifically excludes anybody with a pecuniary interest being appointed as a member of that Corporation. Then, in the other place the Opposition argues that there should be as members of the Australian Film Commission people who have a pecuniary interest in the film industry. We accept this argument. I think that this is one of the major criticisms of the Australian Film Development Corporation which members of the Opposition brought in when in government. We accept the argument that it is necessary to have on the Commission people who have an interest, experience and expertise in the film industry. But what we say- this is the point I must stress- is that a fulltime member cannot have a pecuniary interest. It is a very simple proposition. 
We say that a part-time member of the Commission can have a pecuniary interest. If the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  would read the Bill he would find that this was the case. So the clause that we are seeking to reinsert by way of an amendment really contains the sort of philosophy that one assumes the Opposition had in this context. We just make the differentiation that we hope that full-time members would be full-time members and would not be running Hoyts or some other outfit in their spare time, that they would devote themselves entirely to the functions and operations of the Commission. We accept the proposition which was contained in the original Bill, which unfortunately the Opposition in the Senate deleted, namely, that part-time members can have these interests as long as they declare them in the consideration of matters that come before the Commission. 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Honourable member's question obviously is related to the machinery of Government advertising campaign, which was introduced last financial year. The advertising has been placed in print and electronic media and has been directed at informing people about the functioning of Government and the rights and entitlements of people. 
It is not intended that the advertising will be directed towards or against political parties. The purposes of the advertising are set out in ( 1 ) above. 
No Ministers have been used in the advertising to date. 
In 1973-74 there were two parallel phases for the campaign relevant to the working of Government; the parliament series and the series of advertisements that dealt with the mutual responsibilities of Government and the people. 
The cost of production, space and time used in 1973-74 over and above what was spent for early preparatory work and for Flood Relief advertising in New South Wales and Queensland was as follows: 
PARLIAMENTARY SERIES: 
Press space-$ 144,200 
Press Production-$ 13,600 
Television Time-$30 1,300 
Television Production-$20,800 
MUTUAL RESPONSIBILITY SERIES: 
Press space-$533,000 
Press Production-$53,000 
Radio Time-$139,100 
Radio Production-$5,000 
The estimated cost for the 1 974-75 campaign is $800,000. 
The advertising agency to which the Government assigned the task of planning and producing the advertisements in these campaigns is George Patterson Pty Ltd, Sydney, Print media advertising is placed through Berry Currie (N.S.W.) Ltd (Sydney), Hayes Advertising Ltd (Melbourne), Le Grand Advertising (Brisbane), Taylor O'Brien Ltd (Adelaide), Berry Currie (WA) Ltd (Perth) and Leo Burnett Ltd (Hobart). 
Provincial Press advertising is placed through N.S.W. Country Press Ltd (Sydney), Victoria Country Press Cooperative Ltd (Melbourne), S.A. Country Press Ltd (Adelaide), Australian Advertising Co. (Brisbane), and Marketforce Pty Ltd (Perth). 
Radio and television advertising is placed through George Patterson Pty Ltd (Sydney) and duties for checking of its local appearances are performed by Best and Co. (Melbourne), John Clemenger Advertising (Melbourne), Adcrafi McCann Erickson (Perth), Leo Burnett (Hobart) and George Patterson Pty Ltd offices in Brisbane and Adelaide. As from I December 1974 media placing will be arranged by some newly appointed advertising agencies. 
Officers of the abovementioned advertising agencies, working under the supervision of the Director and officers of the Australian Government Advertising Service, are the persons connected with these campaigns. 
This is a hypothetical question. 
Responsibility for preparation of the script rests with the creative advertisers, but bearing in mind the doctrine of Ministerial responsibility, ultimate responsibility for the production will be with the Minister. 
The electronic and newspaper media were used for the series of advertisements dealing with Parliament. Combinations of television, radio, newspaper and magazine media will be used for other phases of my Department's campaign. 
Film prints of television segments planned and produced for use on commercial channels have been and will be supplies also to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Their use by the Commission will then be at the discretion of the Commission program planners. 
1 ) All the material used in the 1973-74 campaign to explain the workings  or  Parliament, was issued in the name of the Australian Government. 
In an answer to Question No. 757, which  Mr Snedden  asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, the ' known percentage of foreign ownership ' in John Clemenger  (Vic) Pty Ltd was given as 65 per cent in one section of the answer and 35 per cent in another. 35 per cent is the correct known extent of foreign ownership in that advertising agency. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Yes, I have seen the report. 
I am advised that the report in the journal Channel referred to is taken out of context. 
I am told in an informal meeting with members of the This Day Tonight staff in Sydney on 5 June,  Mrs Edwards  was asked what was the worst thing that might happen to  Mr Raffaele. Mrs Edwards  replied that 'the worst thing was to be killed' but not implying that there was any possibility of this in this case, which fact was accepted by the staff members themselves. 

 Mrs Edwards is surprised that a remark made ironically in a private and informal conversation should have been so twisted out of context and published in the ABC Staff Association Journal. 
For the information of honourable members I present the first annual report of the Australian Biological Resources Study Interim Council for the financial year 1973-74. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 refer the honourable member to the Annual Reports of the Australian Film Development Corporation. 
and (3) The Corporation receives confidential information on the profitability, or otherwise, of individual projects in its normal course of business. It would be improper for the Corporation to disclose individual cases without the express consent of each of the other parties involved. 
As to 30 June 1974 the Corporation has fully recovered its investment in one feature film and four documentaries, including profits: this amounts to $466,972. At the same date, the Corporation has had fully repaid, loans totalling $533,505 on four feature films, six television series and two animated television series. 
The Corporation has functioned for approximately four (4) years and, I am informed, at a total cost to the Australian community of $261,528. The Corporation is not merely concerned with financial profits, and the fact that some film producers are now sufficiently established to obtain finance totally from private sources is, in another sense, another measure of profitability of the Corporation. 
The Corporation has published its investment criteria in the Annual Report for 1 974, and in this regard, I would refer the honourable member to the paragraphs dealing with the Selection of Projects, Pre-production Finance and Financial Policy and Terms of Assistance. 
This information comes to the Corporation on a confidential basis and therefore must be so treated by the Corporation. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (6) A complete answer to the question is not possible because of difficulties in denning the limits of solar energy research, and because of the mechanisms by which some research funds are allocated. Such information as is available, relating to projects supported by the Australian Research Grants Committee, by CSIRO and in some of the Universities, is attached. 
In addition to the support listed, it is recognised that some part of the research funds allocated by the Australian Universities Commission and the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board are used to support solar energy research, however the way in which those funds are allocated does not permit identification of projects directed to particular areas. 
-The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answers to the honourable member's question:  (1)No. 
I am advised by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board which is the independent statutory body established by Parliament under the Broadcasting and Television Act that Ravensthorpe is on the Board's program for investigation, but having regard to existing commitments it is not expected that investigation and planning will commence before 1976. 
I am also informed that there is some doubt that a service could be provided to the Ravensthorpe area at an acceptable cost, bearing in mind that there are only 225 people in the Ravensthorpe rural area and it is 100 miles from Esperance and 150 miles from Mount Barker. If a service was approved, it would probably be installed some three years after the investigations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) During the last two years the only request was one from the Ecological Society of Australia. 
No support could be provided. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The possibility of using the Island Lagoon Tracking Station to receive 'real time' data from the ERTS was considered last year. It was found that considerable modification and additional equipment would have been necessary. The cost of these alterations would have been prohibitive. Members of a team of Australian scientists have recently visited the United States, Brazil and Canada to study ERTS technology and shortly will report on its application to Australia. I envisage that, when these reports are available, the fullest discussion will be encouraged with those agencies likely to be concerned with any application of ERTS data so that a sound basis will be available for decision on any future involvement in ERTS programs. 
The Island Lagoon Tracking Station was dismantled in late 1 973 as the interest shown by the scientific community did not warrant its retention. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Bureau of Meteorology provides a complex and costly range of services for the community, public authorities and commercial organisations. Since its budget, manpower and operations have increased markedly in recent years, I want to be assured that its services are timely and efficient, that they meet contemporary needs and that they represent the most effective utilisation of the funds provided. 
I have therefore arranged for a comprehensive review of the Bureau's operations and services to be carried out, starting with an assessment of community needs. Arrangements with the States for the provision of forecasts and warnings will be closely examined, as will arrangements for services to Australian Government departments including Transport, Defence and the Australian Post Office. Also coming under scrutiny will be special arrangements with particular bodies, e.g., that with the Australian Water Resources Council in respect of hydrometeorology. The circumstances under which the Bureau provides special forecasts, data and advice to industry, other commercial organisations and private consultants, will be reviewed as will the scale of charges for those services. 
The reviews which I have called for will not be limited to consideration of the expressed needs of those requiring meteorological services, but will also encompass examination of the Bureau's more costly operations. Three particular items for study are: 
the international commitments associated with membership of the World Meteorological Organisation and the running of a World Meteorological Centre in Melbourne; 
the extensive weather observational infrastructure supported by the Bureau including the weather watch radar and the automatic weather station networks, conventional Bureau-manned stations and the use of non-Bureau observers for rainfall, river heights, etc.; and 
the large data bank which is maintained on meteorological and climatological variables. 
I would not wish to pre-empt the results of the review to which I have referred. However, if there are changes of any son in the number and/or type of weather forecasts for the aviation industry, and I have no reason to believe there would be, this would come about solely because a more efficient and economical service could be provided with no detriment to safety. 
Some changes are already made, as they have been for many years. For example the Department of Transport finances the Bureau's services to aviation and makes recoveries from airline operators to offset these charges. Total revenue for meteorological services for 1974-73 has been estimated at a little over $ 10m of which approximately $8. 5m will come from the Department of Transport. We will be reviewing, with Australian Government Agencies, the costs that should be recovered for services provided to them. Such agencies include the Department of Transport, the Department of Defence, and the Department of the Environment and Conservation. We will also be reviewing the scale of charges for services to commercial organisations to align them with commercial rates. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian patent system, like all overseas patent systems, does not guarantee the validity of patents granted under it. However, by conducting searches of material published in Australia and by requiring amendments to be made to applications and complete specifications, the Patent Office is able to reject applications for clearly invalid patents or amend invalid claims in appropriate cases. A system of opposition proceedings by interested persons before grant, with the oportunity of appealing to the High Court, further reduces the number of invalid patents granted. The question of the validity of a patent is ultimately a matter to be determined by the High Court but there is strong evidence that the validity of a patent is rarely attacked once the patent has been granted. It is estimated from Patent Office records that since 1901 there have been only about 20 instances where the validity of a granted patent has been successfully attacked, in whole or in pan, in the COUrt. This would indicate that there is a general acceptance of a patent by the public once it has been granted. In view of the opportunites that exist to prevent the grant of invalid patents and the general acceptance by the public of patents that are granted, the present system is considered to be satisfactory. 
and (3) Under the Patents Act, Examiners of Patents, who are specially trained in patent law and searching techniques by the Patent Office, are required to conduct a search of Australian specifications and, when directed by the Commissioner of Patents, other documents published in Australia. No search is required to be made of overseas specifications or documents not published in Australia. Individual patent attorneys may, and I understand frequently do, conduct wider searches and often invoke the services of overseas searching organisations. Australia is one of the few countries in the world that provides searching facilities at sub-offices for use by applicants and patent attorneys. The sub-offices are located in each of the various States. 
and (5) It is not possible to estimate the validity of patents recently granted. It is unlikely, judging by past experience, that the validity of many of the patents will ever be tested in the Court. Of the patents that are tested, it is unlikely that many would be held to be invalid in their entirety, although one or more claims of the complete specification of a patent may be held invalid. It is not considered that the Australian patent system is inefficient in providing adequate protection to the Australian inventor. 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the right honourable member's question:  ( I ), (2) and (3) The investigation by the Priorities Review Staff into all aspects of the allocation of FM and AM channels was commissioned by the Prime Minister. Ministerial responsibility for the Priorities Review Staff rests with the  Deputy  Prime Minister and any inquiries on its report should be directed to  Dr Cairns. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Judges' Pensions Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at 'he conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I am indebted to the contributions of my good and learned friends from the Opposition on the subject to which I believe this House has shown great responsibility now and also in the past. I would like to follow on from the point of order that I made to elaborate a little on the thinking of this Government and also of the Government of Papua New Guinea and the House of Assembly of Papua New Guinea in relation to the movement from self-government to independence for Papua New Guinea. For the information of honourable members I should like to quote, perhaps a little more accurately than the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  was able to do- I presume he quoted a distorted Press account of my speech- from the statement which I made in Manus at the decommissioning of HMAS 'Tarangau' a couple of weeks ago. I said: 
As with defence so too with your country generally. Papua New Guinea is now exercising the rights of nationhood. Your Government has authority for formulating its policies and putting these into effect. As I have said, rights, authority and power create responsibilities and obligations. However at the moment Australia remains internationally responsible and liable for Papua New Guinea but it no longer exercises authority in Papua New Guinea. This unique situation which is unsatisfactory both to Papua New Guinea and Australia will not and cannot continue for very long. 
The purpose in making that statement was to repeat the fundamental policy of this Government which we have stated publicly and which is well known to the honourable member for Kooyong and the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  I would like now to give 3 quotes. I will give the source of the quotes after I have given them. The first is:  ... the period between self government and independence, was one that the western powers would not have inflicted upon their territories if they had experienced it themselves. 
The second quote is: 
The self governing period is a difficult one for both Papua New Guinea and Australia. While Australia understandably  wishes to end its responsibility for a people now finding their own future in their own way the Papua New Guinea Government is equally keen to finish with the frustrations of a self governing period and stand as an identity in its own right in world affairs. 
-Actually they are not, but I will let the honourable member into the secret a little later. The third quote is: 
Those who argue that there should be a long gap between self-government and independence are more than anything else mis-informed about the essential character of each concept. Self-government means independence of action on all domestic matters. This is the great step. 
The quote concludes: 
You will have deduced from what I have said that the Australian Government does not favour a long interval between self-government and independence. 
We will deal with the last quote first. It is from a statement I made 18 months ago in April 1973. The second quote can be ascribed not to the honourable member for Kooyong but to the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea. The first quote is from a statement made by the Prime Minister of Fiji,  Sir Ratu  Kamisese Mara. What we are dealing with here is not a question of pressure; it is a very sensitive stage of the development of one country into nationhood and independence. As the honourable member for Kooyong is well aware, this is a very sensitive period and one which requires a great deal of diplomacy and understanding on both sides. Might I pay a tribute to the understanding that has been shown by the honourable member for Kooyong and other members of the Opposition in making this very sensitive transfer so much easier. I can assure the honourable member for Kooyong, the honourable member for Lyne and other members of the Opposition that there are certain responsibilities that any Minister who has this fascinating role must undertake. There are certain decisions that have to be made in bringing a country to nationhood. I suppose in many ways that it could be likened to driving a car. Sometimes one has to put one 's foot on the accelerator and other times one takes the foot off the accelerator. I believe that we are all motivated by a very high instinct to ensure that we as one of the last colonial countries in the world are able to transmit the power, the authority and the responsibility to a former colony so that this transition can be undertaken without hardship, without catastrophe and without disaster to the colonial country. I believe that this is happening. 
As I say, it is a very sensitive period. The Opposition has made many points but they are not novel points. The honourable member for Kooyong has raised a number of issues and he rightfully raised them. But to give a definitive reply to them, I think he more than anyone else will understand the complexities at this stage. At the very moment we are talking here the Papua New Guinea defence legislation is before the House of Assembly. I think it was only this morning that the House of Assembly in Papua New Guinea was discussing one of the chapters of the Constitutional Planning Committee's Report which also deals with defence. The Papua New Guinea House of Assembly- not just the Government but the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly- is giving very detailed and very thoughtful consideration to how it sees defence relations between Australia and Papua New Guinea, how it sees the defence of Papua New Guinea- the defence forces, the structure and the role of the defence forces of Papua New Guinea. I believe that this is a period when all the sensitivity that the House has shown in the past should be maintained. I am happy to say that after some of the conversations we had this morning this sensitivity is being maintained. But the important point is that the views that have been put forward by the Opposition are not novel. They are ideas that we have had under very detailed and active consideration since we came to office. 
I would like to make a couple of observations. In taking over this portfolio and in co-operation and discussions with the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  we had to make some very drasticchanges in the thinking that was prevalent In our relations with Papua New Guinea. One of the basic concepts and attitudes that we had to change was the view that was held that Papua New Guinea's defence forces- the indigenous platoons and companies, the Pacific Island Regiment- were in fact a part of the Australian defence structure. This view was very prevalent and was maintained for some time. It took quite a lot of effort to change that point of view. The Government moved very rapidly and in January 1973, just a month after it took office, renamed the composite group the Papua New Guinea Defence Force. The quotation I just read was from the decommissioning of HMAS 'Tarangau' and its recommissioning as the Papua New Guinea Defence Force Patrol Boat Base. We have now reached the situation in Australia where there is no longer the old attitude that the Papua New Guinea Defence Force was an integral part of the Australian Armed Forces. 
The second point, which concerned me greatly, was somewhat more insidious. This was the proposition that the internal security of 
Papua New Guinea was more a matter for soldiers than for police. I exclude my colleague, the honourable member for Kooyong from these remarks because he was not the Minister at that stage, but we had the spectacle of the former Liberal-Country Party Government- a gunhappy government- talking about and preparing for the call out of forces to aid the civil power in the Gazelle disturbances in July 1 970. There was the very easy assumption- an assumption which the present Government found very difficult to remove- that the soldiers were a line of easy resort in a call out to the civil power. The Government did not accept that proposition and I as the Minister responsible certainly could not accept it. We sought the best and most effective ways possible of building up the police so that they and not the defence forces would play this role- I think it is a role that the police must play in any democracy- of the control of the internal security situation. 
So the Government started from behind scratch. It had to change the philosophies it inherited and that it believed were very dangerous. In doing this perhaps the Government has passed on its philosophies and concepts to the Papua New Guinea Government which it has applied in developing its concepts and attitudes towards the role of a defence force in a democratic country. I am sorry that the honourable member for Kooyong should have denigrated the views expressed by my colleague, the Minister for Defence, in his statement. He put very clearly some of the basic propositions by which the Government is guided. I am sure that the honourable member for Kooyong is aware of the statement made in August 1973 by  Mr Maori  Kiki, who is now the Papua New Guinea Minister for Defence, Foreign Relations and Trade, when he said that the Papua New Guinea Government has repeatedly stressed its view that the Papua New Guinea Defence Force should be used as a last resort for the maintenance of internal security. A number of other propositions have been explained very carefully to this House. I am sure honourable members understand from the background in which we have been operating, with Papua New Guinea finding its own way to its own point of view and its own attitude, that we have not been able to make definite statements but I can assure members of the Opposition that as soon as we possibly can make public the results of the continuing discussions we have had with Papua New Guinea these matters will be the subject of a statement in the House. 
The honourable member for Kooyong referred to a resolution before the United 
Nations. One of the points he omitted to stress was that this was a resolution which, although it had the full support of the Australian Government, also had the full support of the Papua New Guinea Government.  Mr Maori  Kiki in his statement to the Trusteeship Council said: 
I am of the firm opinion also that it will go down in history that this meeting of the Trusteeship Council will be the lust council meeting in which Papua New Guinea appears on the agenda as a Trust Territory. 
So there is no dichotomy between the attitudes and the views of the Australian Government, the Papua New Guinea Government and many of the leaders of Papua New Guinea on that resolution that went to the United Nations General Assembly through the Trusteeship Council. It is a viewpoint that Australia has put. It is a viewpoint that Papua New Guinea has put. I believe that it will be a viewpoint that will be endorsed almost unanimously by the United Nations General Assembly. 
So these points have been covered. I accept that many of the points are grounds for concern and because they are grounds for concern the Government is giving them continuous undivided attention in its discussions with the Papua New Guinea Government and in its discussions with the leaders in Papua New Guinea. I believe that Papua New Guinea will be moving towards independence certainly before the end of 1975. The statements that have been made by  Mr Maori  Kiki,  Mr Somare,  myself and the Government are all in complete harmony. Papua New Guinea is virtually independent now. All we are seeking to do in this legislation is to provide through this Parliament the opportunity for Papua New Guinea to assume these powers and responsibilities when Papua New Guinea asks for them to be transferred. The Papua New Guinea defence legislation is now before the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly. It could be passed tomorrow. By that stage Papua New Guinea will be prepared and will be organising itself in January or early February next year to ask the Australian Government to transfer these responsibilities. The Government has acceded to that request. That is why the legislation is now before us. We will be in a position to say: 'When you have your legislation organised we also will be in a position for you to undertake your rightful responsibilities as a country which is very soon to be independent.' It is in that sense that the Government has brought forward this legislation. I am happy to know that the Opposition will be supporting the legislation in this House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) The Orchestra was presented by the ABC jointly with other artists of world renown. It is therefore not possible to apportion the total concert receipts between the performances of the Orchestra and those of the assisting artists. The net cost to the ABC was $2,5 1 1 after crediting receipts against expenses and taking into account contributions from the Australian Council for the Arts which provided a grant, and the Sydney Opera House Trust which also helped to subsidise the visit 
4 ) The Orchestra gave 1 1 concerts- one in each of the following cities: Brisbane, Canberra and Adelaide; four in Melbourne and four in Sydney. 
5 ) Prices ranged from $2.00 to $ 1 5.00 per ticket. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australian Institute of Marine Science (l)-(4) I refer the honourable member to the Report of the Council of the Institute for the year 1 973-74. 
Within the framework of general principles approved by me, the research program is approved by the Council and the Director of the Institute. 
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization (l)-(4) I refer the honourable member to the Annual Report of the Oranization for the year 1973-74, and to reports of the Organization 's various Divisions. 
Within the framework of general principles approved by me, specific research programs are approved by the Executive of the CSIRO and by the Chiefs of the Organization's Divisions. 
Department of Science 
Analytical Services Branch 
1 ) One hundred and thirty-one, for all or part of their time. 
) Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart. 
Development of analytical techniques, particularly in regard to food contaminants and drugs of abuse. 
$250,000. 
Antarctic Division 
Sixty-two. 
Melbourne, Hobart, Macquarie Island, Antarctica. 
Research in upper atmosphere physics, cosmic ray physics, glaciology, biology and medical sciences. 
$3.7m for research and essential support activities. 
Bureau of Meteorology 
1 ) One hundred and twenty-three, for all or part of their time. 
) All State capital cities, Darwin and Canberra. 
Research in atmospheric sciences. 
$695,000. 
Ionospheric Prediction Service 
1 ) Thirty-six, for all or pan of their time. 
Sydney, and 12 field stations in Australia, Papua New Guinea and Antarctica. 
Improvement of methods for predicting the behaviour of the ionosphere and the sun. 
$200,000. 
Within the framework of general principles approved by me, specific research programs are approved by senior officers of the Department. 
National Standards Commission 
Eight. 
Sydney. 
Development of methods for assessing the suitability for use in trade of weighing and measuring instruments. 
$185,000. 
Within the framework of general principles approved by me, specific programs are approved by the Commission. 
Anglo-Australian Telescope Board 
Three. 
Canberra, Siding Spring, Sydney. 
Commissioning of Anglo-Australian Telescope and development of instrumentation. 
$280,000; this expenditure is shared equally by Australia and the United Kingdom. 
Anglo-Australian Telescope Board, which is responsible to both the Australian and United Kingdom Governments, and the Telescope Director. 
Pursuant to section 19 of the AngloAustralian Telescope Agreement Act 1 970- 197 1 I present the annual report of the AngloAustralian Telescope Board for the year ended 30 June 1 974. Due to the limited number of copies available at this time I have arranged for reference copies of this report to be placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
I) , (2) and (3) In answer to a similar question (Hansard, page 462 of 4th April, 1963), the then Prime Minister, the Right Honourable R. G. Menzies indicated that publications of Australian Government departments are listed in the National Library serial 'Australian Government Publications '. This is still so. The most recent full year listings were for 1973 and two further quarterly issues have been published covering January to March 1 974 and April to June 1 974. The quarterly issue for July to September 1 974 will be issued shortly. 
Broadly, the publications are produced for the purpose of informing the Australian public and interested overseas organisations and individuals of the policies, programs and activities of the Australian Government. The publications vary widely from annual departmental reports to documents on specific subjects relating to the functions of departments. 
to (9) The information sought is not recorded centrally and 1 am reluctant to authorise the time and expense which would be involved in gathering it. 
Where applicable, selling prices of publications are shown in 'Australian Government Publications'. The main retail outlets are the Publications and Inquiry Centres of the Department of the Media supplemented by mail order sales. Some publicatons are also sold by commercial booksellers. A few departments hold small stocks of their own publications for sale to members of the public who ask for them. 
I) See answer to parts (5) to (9). 
Ministerial Councils: Contact with States (Question No.  51) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) I refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question on Notice No. 41 (Hansard, 30 October 1 974, pages 2233-2239). 
Foreign Investment in Australia (Question No. 667) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) The attached schedule shows the form and (5) I refer the right honourable member to part (3) of the Science. f ^ Department f Prime Minister's answer to Question on Notice No. 548. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
At the commencement of each financial year the CSIRO Executive recommends to the Minister financial allocations for the various research programs which it proposes to carry out during the new year. These proposed allocations may be amended, rejected or approved by the Minister. The approved allocations for 1974-75 are shown in Table 14 of the budget document titled 'Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure. ' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Laboratories of the Australian Government Analyst conduct analyses and microbiological examinations on an Australia wide basis and in response to requests from various sources. In accordance with this role, the Laboratories have undertaken surveys of particular foodstuffs from time to time. 
Similar surveys were initiated in other State captials but the results are not yet to hand. However, some 1,500 samples from a range of sources and for various clients have been analysed in the last three years and some of these have contained high levels of mercury. 
The tests were undertaken at my direction without prior advice to the Victorian Department of Health. Results were communicated immediately to that Department 
The samples were fish fillets of undisclosed variety purchased at representative retail outlets; hence, it was not possible to determine their origin.  35-Hour Week  (Question No. 1377) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (11) I refer the right honourable member to the information provided by the Minister for the Media in reply to Question No. 1581 (House of Representatives, Hansard 4 December 1974 page 4590). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Copies of my press releases are distributed by hand to the Press Gallery from my office, by dissemination from the Ministerial Document Reproduction Unit, by publication in the Australian Government Digest and by mail from my Department and the CSIRO. 
A list is maintained of people who wish to receive copies of my press releases on a regular basis. Broadly, this includes media organisations, Government Departments, Embassies, political party organisations, libraries and individuals. In addition press releases are distributed by the Ministerial Document Reproduction Unit to, among others, all Senators and Members. 
) About 1200 copies of each release are circulated. 
Part of the cost of producing and distributing my press releases is included in costs relating to salaries and administration of my office. Other costs are borne by the Ministerial Document Reproduction unit, which is pan of the Department of the Media. The costs attributable to Ministerial press releases have not been separately identified and it is not. therefore, possible to give a precise answer to this pan of the right honourable member's question. 
5 ) One officer on a pan time basis only. 
n- Department of Manufacturing Industry 

 Mr P. W. Alexander (Secretary); Department of Manufacturing Industry 27 September 1974 

 Mr D. J. O'Connor  (Chairman)- Department of Manufacturing Industry 
MrG. Butcher;ACSPA 
Department of Manufacturing Industry 

 Mr P. W. Alexander (Secretary) Department of Manufacturing Industry 
The purpose of this meeting was to consider reports from the five working groups appointed at the first meeting and to reach a consensus on a final report by the Committee. 
All members of the working groups were invited to attend this meeting to present their reports and consequently, in addition to those above, both employee organisation and departmental memberships of the working groups were represented at this meeting. 
The  Chairman  of the Committee kept me informed of the work of the Committee during the period of its investigations, which commenced on 24 July 1 974, and as a result, opportunities which arose for increasing workload in the factories were acted on promptly. Some of the potential workload is, of course, of a longer term nature and my Department is continuing to investigate all sources of suitable work identified by the Committee. 
, (5) and (6) The final report of the Committee was made available to me on 31 October 1974. The findings of the Committee are to be considered by Cabinet shortly. The matter of tabling the report can then be considered. 
Refer (4) and (5). 
If the report is tabled it is of course made public. However, as the report is essentially a working document for informing the Government it is unlikely that it would he made public without first being tabled. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows- 
1 ) Two consumer advice publications have been published to date. 
the Buyers ' Guide to Colour Television: and 
a multi-lingual pamphlet on the flammability of children 's clothing entitled 'Clothes Burn-So Do Kids '. 
The total cost of each was $27,334 and $ 1 . 440 respectively. 
3 ) $0.20 per copy and gratis respectively. 
No. 
) (i) Buyers' Guide to Colour Television 
Nil 
98,000 have been distributed to various outlets for sale. No actual sale figures are available. 
Flammability pamphlets 
9,050 were distributed, free of charge, through the Department of Labor and Immigration to Good Neighbour Councils and ethnic groups throughout Australia. 
30,000 went to the Royal Children's Hospital. Burns Unit, Melbourne, which contributed $3 10 to the cost of printing. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Environmental Physics Research Laboratories were instituted in July 1971 under the Chairmanship of  Dr. C.  H. B. Priestley FRS, with the object of strengthening the CSIRO research effort concerned with studying the physical processes controlling weather, the experimental modification of weather (as in rainmaking), the interaction of plants and the environment, and the atmospheric effects of pollution. The EPRL complex currently comprises the Division of Atmospheric Physics, the Division of Cloud Physics, and the Division of Environmental Mechanics. Although the activities of these Divisions are basically directed towards acquiring a better understanding of the natural environment, much of their work has indirect commercial consequences. Thus, successful "cloud seeding" experiments have been carried out by the Division of Cloud Physics in the catchment area of the Hydro-Electric Commission of Tasmania. Similarly, basic research in the Division of Atmospheric Physics is enabling improvements to be made in the accuracy and timescale of weather forecasting by the national meteorological services. A report published by the Division of Atmospheric Physics in 1972 entitled "Environmental Research- Practical Contributions from a Fundamentally Oriented Group" lists a large number of contributions of commercial importance that have been made by the Division since its inception in 1946. 
The Minerals Research Laboratories were formed in January 1971 under the Directorship of  Mr. I.  E. Newnham MBE, MSc., with the object of improving both the coordination of minerals research activities within CSIRO and the communications between CSIRO and the mineral exploration, extractive, and processing industries. The MRL complex currently comprises the Division of Chemical Engineering, the Division of Mineralogy, the Division of Mineral Chemistry, and the Division of Mineral Physics. 
The commercial consequences of work carried out by the MRL complex have implications for all sectors of the mineral industry ranging from exploration through to process metallurgy and minimising the environmental impact of mining and mineral processing. More detailed information on the various projects is contained in the Annual Reports published by MRL 
The National Standards Laboratory was established in 1939 and changed its title on 1st July 1974. On that date. the Division of Applied Physics and the Division of Physics, which comprised NSL, were amalgamated into the National Measurement Laboratory under the Directorship of  Mr. F.  J. Lehany MSc. 
Since its inception, the Laboratory has been responsible for maintaining standards of measurement of physical quantities and providing a calibration service. As a consequence, its work has had far-reaching effects, particularly in those sectors of industry, commerce and scientific research where measurements of high accuracy are required. Although the Laboratory would not claim to have a special relationship with any particular industry and has not set out to develop specific materials, equipment or processes for commercial application, much of its work has had direct or indirect commercial consequences. 
A detailed account of the Laboratory's activities is contained in its Annual Reports and in the Laboratory's most recent Biennial Report for 1 97 1 / 1 973. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The information hereunder relates to grants for research from appropriations to the Department of Science since its formation to the end June 1974 and to grunts for research from July 1971 through organisations or bodies now under the Science Ministry either as part of the Department of Science or as separate entities. 
States Grants (Research) Act-1965-66 
The following documents published by the Australian Government Publishing Service, provide information relating to grants made under the States Grants (Research) Act-1965-66 for the years 1970-71 to 1973-74. 
ARGC Reports 1970-72 
ARGC Grants Approved for 1 973 
ARGC Grants Approved for 1 974 
In addition, the following grants for marine science, upper atmosphere studies and interdisciplinary research were approved in 1973. 
For the information of honourable members I present a White Paper entitledScience and Technology in the Service of Society- the Framework for Australian Government Planning'. 
For the information of honourable members I present a working paper on public broadcasting prepared by the Department of the Media. 
It is understandable that the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock),  has succeeded the Honourable Nigel Bowen as foreign affairs spokesman for the Liberal Party. He clearly agrees with the statement that the Honourable Nigel Bowen made some years ago in New York that Australia was an insignificant country. The whole proposition that was put forward in the speeches of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the spokesman on foreign affairs for the Liberal Party was that Australia has no right to send a Prime Minister overseas to an area from which most newcomers to Australia in the last 15 years came. Let us go through the record. How long is it since an Australian Prime Minister paid a visit to Europe which, I think, would be commonly conceded as a very important part of the world? Prior to the Prime Minister's visit an Australian Prime Minister had never visited Ireland, Italy, the Soviet Union or Yugoslavia. It is 15 years since an Australian Prime Minister visited France, Germany and Greece. 
The honourable member says: 'So what', and it stands to indicate the level of ignorance and the degree of isolation which this Party opposite is prepared to inflict on Australia. The first point is that Australia for the first time in 23 years does not have an independent foreign policy.  Mr Rohan  Rivett, a journalist of some note, had something to say about the Prime Minister's visit last year to Asia. He started off by saying that that visit was a tour de force. He continued:   . . and the response in Asia today is spectacular. 
But what he went on to say was this: 
For 23 years Australia was ignored or bypassed in the thinking of most Asian governments. She rated merely as another American satellite blindly following what to most Asians seemed the inexplicable vagaries and miscomprehensions of American policy in Asia. 
For the first time in 23 years Australia has now  got a foreign policy not only in relation to Asia but also in relation to Europe. I can understand the frustrations of the honourable gentleman opposite when the Australian Prime Minister goes overseas and is received by heads of government and by organisations which have a direct and powerful influence in world relations. But what happens when the Leader of the Opposition goes overseas- and he does go overseas? He was recently in the United States. I have here a list of the people whom the Leader of the Opposition, the leader of an alternative government, saw. He saw the  Deputy  Secretary of Treasury; the Assistant Secretary for International Affairs (Treasury); the Acting Secretary of State; the  Deputy  Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund; the Assistant Secretary of State, Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs; Representative Pierre Dupont, member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee;  Dr Wade, Deputy  Assistant Secretary of International Security Affairs, Department of Defence; and William Clements, Acting Secretary of Defence. They are all estimable gentlemen but all very much a second eleven politically. 
The Leader of the Opposition is a man who may at some stage be the leader of the government, yet the attitude taken by the United States to his visit was one which resulted in his receiving the second-class treatment that any member of this Parliament could receive on going to the United States. The performance overeseas of representatives of the Opposition when they were in government is, I think, highly illustrative. One point that the Leader of the Opposition tried to make overseas when he was invited to speak to the Council on Foreign Relations was made in a speech which he had already drafted. In that speech he followed the precedents of one of his predecessors in seeking to bucket Australia in foreign lands. But he did not understand that there is more protocol associated with Americans than obviously there is with members of the Opposition, because it became known to him that the Council on Foreign Relations was not a platform in which they would allow any visiting dignitary to bring into the United States any domestic wrangles. So the right honourable gentleman had to go off and re-cast his speech. It is very unfortunate that one of his ex-colleagues  Mr Nigel  Bowen, speaking in 1 97 1 - 
-We had the appalling example of a most blatant piece of seeking to involve a foreign country in the domestic affairs of Australia when  Mr Nigel  Bowen spoke to the American- Australian Association in 1971. He set out to invite the United States to intervene in the domestic politics of Australia. On that occasion he said:   in the interests of our  2  countries . . . you- 
He was talking to the American people-  should consider whether you yourselves really wish actively to contribute to this shift of political power which, having regard to present policy statements of the Opposition, would lead inevitably to the imposition of conditions of Australian control of American installations in Australia which would be, asI personally am inclined to think would be intended to be, entirely unacceptable to the United States. 
Here is an example of a Minister of the Opposition Parties when they were in government, the Foreign Minister, while overseas seeking the involvement of another country in the political affairs of Australia. Members of the Opposition have reached their height of frustration. If one examines the overseas visits of Prime Minister Gorton and Prime Minister McMahon- they did undertake overseas visits- one sees the perpetual run of incomprehensible statements and monumental gaffes. The main reason that they produced reports when they came back was to explain away the gaffes that they had made while they were away. There was always the proposition that the Australian Labor Government would follow policies that were inimical to the interests of the Australian people. But the previous Prime Ministers went further. They always associated the policies of the Australian people with the policies of the United States Government. We became a pale and feeble echo ofthe United States. 
The one thing we have earned in these 2 years of government is the respect of the United States Government and the respect of the Soviet Government because we are prepared to stand up and put our point of view without fear or favour. Honourable members may have seen the report in the 'Age' which was headed: 'Kosygin rebuffs Whitlam'. It was part of this very subtle campaign to denigrate the Prime Minister when he was overseas. But what was the point of the rebuff? The point was that the Prime Minister had raised with the Prime Minister of the Soviet Union the question of Jewish emigration and the question of the emigration of Soviet citizens to Australia. Can honourable members tell me that any predecessor of the Prime Minister from the other side fo the House would have gone to the Soviet Union and- I will put it in pretty blunt Australian terms- had the guts to raise in that environment the issue that Prime Minister Whitlam raised? When he went to the Philippines and when he went to Indonesia he raised the humanitarian questions of Amnesty International about the imprisonment of political prisoners. Again I ask that question: Which of his predecessors from the Opposition as Prime Minister would have dared to raise these questions? Prime Minister Whitlam is a man of substance. Prime Minister Whitlam was not afraid to put what he knew would be an unpopular proposition to the people with whom he was speaking. Because we have raised these matters after 23 years in which such propositions were not put by the former Australian governments we have earned respect. I shall quote a statement which reads: 
Australia is understandably aware of its own strength and resources. It has assumed an increasingly important role in international bodies. It has an independent stance in world affairs which comports not only with Australia's dignity and importance, but it serves everyone 's interests for Australia to exercise a greater influence on the world scene. We in America have no quarrel with this natural phenomenon and indeed we see it as potentially strengthening our relations with Australia. 
That statement was made on 29 March last year by the United States Ambassador to Australia,  Mr Marshall  Green. It is because we can put propositions and we do put propositions- on Diego Garcia, on Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union- that we have rightfully earned the respect of the world powers. 
I turn to the propositions that were just put forward on Diego Garcia. The Leader of the Opposition admits that there are dangers in competition. I think we have to go back a little further than the honourable member for Kooyong mentioned. There are such things as Polaris submarines in the Indian Ocean, so arranged there that they constitute a threat not only to the Soviet Union but also to China. We put a very simple proposition to the Soviet Union and to the United States. We accept the view of the Leader of the Opposition that there is a danger in competition. We said that if there is an escalation, if one side does something there the other side will do something there and there will be a spiralling and a build-up of preparedness. Preparedness, as we saw through the Vietnam War, leads only to war. That proposition was put to both countries. We did not put it just to the Soviet Union and forget about the United States, nor did we put it to the United States and forget the Soviet Union. This proposition has earned us the respect of the countries of the Indian Ocean. It was discussed between the Prime Minister and Madam Bandaranaika, the Prime Minister of Sri 
Lanka. The proposition has earned us respect because for the first time other countries see an Australia that is prepared to stand up and put its view clearly and concisely to the 2 great powers in this world. 
The Australian Prime Minister has undertaken a mission abroad. It was a mission that was long overdue. The Opposition can talk about its interest in foreign policy, but how can it maintain that when certain countries the Prime Minister visited in 1975 and late 1974 had never been visited by an Australian Prime Minister? Many of these countries are vital in terms of our trade and as the source of a number of our Australian citizens from overseas. Some had not been visited by an Austraiian Prime Minister for 15 years. The Prime Minister carried out this task as a man of dignity and was received by the leaders of the European countries. He had the capacity and the ability to talk to them on equal terms and what he said was understandable and understood. Now members ofthe Opposition come in their flocks to try to denigrate the very first time that Australia has been able to walk tall in Europe. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
CSIRO is conducting research on the sheep blowfly. To CSIRO 's knowledge, other organisations conducting research are the New South Wales Department of Agriculture, Queensland Department of Primary Industries and Victorian Department of Agriculture. 
For the current financial year, CSIRO will be spending approximately $73,000 direct from Treasury sources and $180,000 from the Meat Research Trust Fund administered by the Australian Meat Research Committee. The New South Wales Department of Agriculture will receive $ 1 8,600 from the Fund. The Department will also receive $11,100 from the Wool Research Trust Fund administered by the Australian Wool Corporation, and the Queensland Department of Primary Industries will receive $9, 100. 
The CSIRO Division of Entomology is pursuing the following lines of research: 
control of the sheep blowfly by genetic methods. 
the biology and ecology of the sheep blowfly. 
the genetics of resistance to insecticides. 
the resistance levels of blowfly populations in the field to insecticides. 
in collaboration with the CSIRO Division of Applied Organic Chemistry, the testing of new chemicals for their possibilities for control. 
The CSIRO Division of Animal Health is studying the incidence and nature of flystrike in sheep to determine the predisposing factors favouring flystrike and devise control measures accordingly. 
Progress is as follows: 
CSIRO Division of Entomology: 
the first of five possible strains of genetically manipulated flies with compound chromosomes has been synthesized, thus confirming the theoretical basis on which the work began. 
A great deal of information on the biology and ecology of the sheep blowfly has been gathered which is vital to the application of the genetic control methods. This includes information on natural population densities, rates of dispersal, mating and egglaying habits, and the influence of heat, moisture and other environmental factors on the formation and development of each stage in the life cycle. 
The knowledge of the genetics of resistance to insecticides has led to the development of a new sex-killing system which will greatly simplify the mass rearing of one sex only. This facility will be of great value whenever large numbers of males or females are required in connection with the genetic approach to control. 
The latest tests on blowfly larvae show that resistance to organophosphorus insecticides is increasing. 
A new chemical compound with a novel mode of action (inhibiting egg laying rather than killing the larvae) is being tested for its potential as a commercial product. 
CSIRO Division of Animal Health: 
From more than 4000 recorded cases of flystrike in New South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania and South Australia, it was concluded that tail strike is the most common form of flystrike and is influenced by the length of the tail, the manner of tail docking, and the severity of scouring. It occurs in mulesed sheep, but radical mulesing reduces the incidence in this regard. The field work will extend to Western Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) CSIRO is conducting research into clover infertility in sheep. To CSIRO 's knowledge, other organisations conducting research are the Universities of Western Australia and Melbourne, and the Departments of Agriculture in Western Australia, South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales. 
For the current financial year, CSIRO will be spending approximately $143,000 from Australian Government sources. The Australian Wool Corporation will be making available $79,000 to the Western Australia Department of Agriculture and the University of Melbourne, $20,800 to the University of Western Australia, and $15,300 to the South Australia Department of Agriculture from the Wool Research Trust Fund. 
The CSIRO Division of Animal Health has a group in Western Australia studying the pathological effects of phytoestrogens on various organs and body functions in ewes. Development of diagnostic tests to give early identification of clover disease in ewes is also being undertaken. 
The CSIRO Division of Animal Physiology is studying the possibility of immunizing sheep against clover disease by vaccination. 
Progess is as follows: 
CSIRO Division of Animal Health: 
A survey of reproductive organs collected from grazing properties and abattoirs established that clover disease was the main cause of infertility in sheep in Western Australia. It appears that ewes affected with clover disease may be more susceptible to bacterial invasion and inflammation of the uterus and cervix than unaffected ewes. Ovulation is reduced, ewes are in heat less frequently, and the oestrous cycle is more irregular in length. Organs other than those in the reproductive tract are also affected. Efforts to develop diagnostic tests are continuing. 
CSIRO Division of Animal Physiology: 
The development of vaccines for clover disease involves the production of 'synthetic' antigens capable of producing adequate levels of antibodies in sheep. The antigens and antibodies must be specific to each phyto-oestrogen. Encouraging results have been obtained from an antigen developed from a derivative of the phyto-oestrogen genistein. The production of antigens to the other phyto-oestrogens remains a major objective. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
CSIRO is undertaking research into ryegrass toxicity. To CSIRO 's knowledge, the other organisation doing research on control of the disease is the Western Australian Department of Agriculture. Research has also been recently conducted at the Waite Agricultural Research Institute in South Australia. 
For the current financial year, CSIRO will be spending approximately $2,500 from Australian Government sources. 
The CSIRO Division of Animal Health is attempting to isolate and identify the toxic agent (toxin) involved and to characterise the nature of the disorder in sheep. 
Work is still proceeding on the identification of the toxin. The disorder is associated with the consumption of Wimmera ryegrass seedheads infected with a nematode and a pathogenic bacterium, Corynebacterium. The toxic agent is thought to be a product of the metabolism of the bacterium. 
The CSIRO Division of Land Resources Management in Western Australia has a project in hand of relevance to the problem. This is the evaluation of possible alternative grasses to Wimmera ryegrass. Results to date indicate that some of the grasses may be at least equal to ryegrass in terms of sheep production although less persistent. They do not have the toxicity problem. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
CSIRO is conducting research into certain aspens of wool harvesting. To CSIRO 's knowledge, other organisations doing research include universities, State Government departments, industrial firms and the Australian Wool Corporation. The work is co-ordinated and partly funded by the 
Corporation under the Australian Wool Harvesting Program. 
) For the current financial year, CSIRO will be spending approximately $276,600 from Treasury sources and the Wool Research Trust Fund. The Australian Wool Corporation will be making available $357,400 to other bodies from the Wool Research Trust Fund. 
The CSIRO Divisions of Animal Physiology and Applied Organic Chemistry are conducting research into chemical defleecing along the following lines: 
the potential of agents that act by preventing cell division in the wool, 
the potential of agents known to inhibit wool growth by other (unknown) mechanisms, 
fundamental studies of the mechanisms of wool growth, follicle function and the action of the defleecing compounds, 
the supply of defleecing compounds from natural sources and by organic synthesis. 
The CSIRO Division of Textile Industry is investigating the use of rugs to protect the fleece from dust and vegetable fault and as an adjunct to chemical defleecing. 
The CSIRO Division of Animal Genetics is studying the wool and body characteristics that make for easy and fast shearing, particularly those that are highly heritable. 
Progress is as follows: 
Chemical defleecing: 
cyclophosphamide was found to be effective as a defleecing agent but has undesirable side-effects, including the permanent inhibition of some wool follicles. 
Steroids such as Cortisol gave unpredictable and variable effects, not only on different sheep but on different body regions of the same sheep. Some animals were defleeced, while others merely grew a band of weakened wool. The amino acid mimosine has given the best results to date. Commercial application is not envisaged at this stage because much more work must be done to determine whether it would be effective under farm conditions, whether it could be produced in adequate amounts at acceptable costs, and whether it would be acceptable to regulating authorities. 
Mimosine is being used as a model compound to gain a better understanding of the biochemical pathways involved in defleecing. The active components of the wool follicle have been isolated and used to synthesise the components of the wool fibre under laboratory conditions. Tests to screen and assess potential defleecing agents have been developed from the follicle components. 
A readily-available natural source of mimosine has been identified and a method of extracting mimosine developed. The laboratory synthesis of other (analogous) agents is in its early stages. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
Nil. 
to (18) See (1) 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The form of the Bill before the House Will be familiar to honourable members. Its purpose is the same as the purpose of a Bill introduced in the Senate last year. It is brought forward by the Government early in the parliamentary session in an attempt to deal with major problems developing in the Australian film and television industries. Honourable members will know of the significant boost the Australian film industry has experienced in the last 2 years, with the emergence of a level of feature film production that has not been seen in this country since the heyday of the industry more than 40 years ago. They will also know that this level of activity cannot be maintained without a continuous flow of support from Government sources- at least until such time as the industry can generate its own adequate sources of investment and marketing expertise. 
The previous Government made it plain, when it established the Australian Film Development Corporation, that the powers and functions of that body would be limited almost entirely to financial support, and that that support would itself be limited. That view has since been examined by the Tariff Board, and found wanting. The Board recommended in its report on the motion picture and television industries that Government support should not be limited to financial support, but that it should extend to a whole range of forms of assistance. It also recommended what was, in effect, a 100 per cent increase in the level of financial support available. That level of support, and those new forms of support, were both urgently needed late last year when the Government introduced the legislation for the Australian Film Commission. They are even more urgently needed today to maintain and increase production levels, and to provide and ensure employment opportunities. Without some form of urgent assistance, there is a grave risk that not only will the industry become static but that it will even begin to flag. 
This Bill provides what is, in the Government's view, the only sensible approach to this problem. It has been brought forward early in this session to allow for the earliest possible application of the support the film and television industries so desperately require. Its main differences from the Bill previously introduced in the Senate last year are ones which stem from Opposition criticism of that previous Bill. It contains provisions which are directly in line with amendments that were moved by the Opposition in the Senate or which indicate the Government's intention to accommodate some Opposition and industry suggestions. It cannot be stressed too strongly that in economically difficult times the viable future of the film production industry in Australia to a large degree is dependent upon this Bill. I commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has two agreements solely concerned with scientific exchanges. The details of these agreements are: 
(a)U.S.A.and(b)U.S.S.R. 
(a)October 1968and(b)January 1975. 
(a) and (b) To exchange ideas, information, skills and techniques and to collaborate on problems of mutual interest in civil science. 
(a) Collaboration under the U.S.Australia Agreement for Scientific and Technical Co-operation has included exchanges of information, visits by scientists, joint research projects, and binational seminars. These activities have covered a wide range of fields, e.g. plant photosynthesis, drugs of dependence, biomedical research, atmospheric sciences, rangelands science, and solar energy. 
The Australia/ U.S.S.R. Scientific and Technological Co-operation Agreement was signed on 15 January 1975 during the recent visit of the Prime Minister to Moscow. A visit to the Soviet Union by a group of Australian scientists to discuss earth sciences has already taken place. Visits by Australian scientists to discuss entomology, plant industry, radio astronomy and textile technology are planned to take place within the next six months. 
In addition, there exist a number of cultural agreements, administered by the Department of Foreign Affairs. Those countries whose Cultural Agreements with Australia include mention of scientific exchanges in their texts, and dates of signature, are: 
Indonesia ( 1968) 
India (197 1) 
RepublicofKorea(1971) 
Iran (1974) 
Thailand (1974) 
Italy ( 1975) 
The purpose of each has primarily been cultural. 
No  scientific exchanges have been recorded under any of the above Cultural Agreements. 
As well, Australia has been visited by: the Minister of Science and Technology, the Republic of Korea,  Dr Hyung-Sup  Choi, in December 1973, and the Minister in Charge of Research, Indonesia, Professor Sumitro Djojohadikusumo, in July 1974. 
The honourable gentleman may be aware that back in the 1 9th century there was in the State of Queensland a very unfelicitous concept of naming cyclones after politicians. I suggest that the honourable member may be seeking a return to those days. But it is one of the conventions of meteorology that cyclones are named after women. I think that perhaps in this year, International Women's Year, when so much devastation has taken place through cyclones, just the women of the community should not be so readily identifiable with that devastation, and I believe that the honourable member has made in this particular year a very sensible suggestion. I think that both sexes should bear the odium of the devastation caused by cyclones. 
in reply- I take it from the perambulations of the last 7J minutes that the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  is not opposed to the Bill. We are also delighted that the Opposition has withdrawn or abandoned its more extreme amendments to the Bill and is supporting the Government in the passage of the Bill. I believe that the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin),  in pointing out the amendments that were made by the Opposition in the Senate, was perhaps a little closer to the truth than the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  about the manner in which this Bill has had quite a rough passage. It seemed to us, and we were very concerned about it, that the intention of the Opposition in the Senate was to mutilate the Bill. As the honourable member for Ballaarat pointed out, we have re-inserted a number of the clauses that were taken out in the Senate. We are glad that the Opposition has now seen the light and is supporting the Bill in the form in which we have introduced it. 
The Government has accepted a number of the observations and amendments made by not only the Opposition but also people in the industry. I sat on the other side of the House for 3 years but I cannot recall one occasion on which the then government accepted very sensible propositions put forward by the then Opposition. One of the curious things about politics is that there is always a tendency to believe that a government which believes in dialogue and discourse on its Bills is showing a sign of weakness when it accepts an amendment. I hope that the honourable member for Kooyong and the other members of the Opposition will accept the observation that we are prepared to accept amendments and advice from those who are specialists in the field. Not only are we prepared to accept them but also to incorporate them in legislation. 
The honourable member for Kooyong made the observation that he was concerned about the powers and authority of the Minister. The Australian Film Commission is a statutory organisation. I want to say again that whenever a statutory organisation is set up it is set up under a statute of this Parliament and it draws on funds from the Australian taxpayer. Any organisation set up by this Parliament that operated on the taxpayers funds must be responsible through a Minister, because that is the only way in which it can be responsible, to the Parliament. So we make no apologies for the fact that the relevant Ministerin this case the Minister for the Media- has supervisory authority, not direct administrative authority, over the policies of the Film Commission. That is a proposition that the Opposition accepted when it was in government. There are a number of statutory authorities. They include the Australian Tourist Commission, which was set up in 1967, the Australian Wheat Board and the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation. There is a multitude of them. They have the same requirement for a supervisory authority by the Minister. That is still the position. I think it is a very important part of the democratic process that we do not have any governmental organisation which is dependent upon the taxpayers funds not being responsible to this Parliament as the representative of the people. We are glad that the Opposition has withdrawn its more extreme amendments to this Bill. We have been deLighted to accept the more sensible ones. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The Minister for the Media has. provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The initial Budget allocation to the Australian Film Development Corporation for1974-75 was $364,000. That allocation was based on the assumptions that there would be a sizeable return of funds to the Corporation from earlier investments, and that it was possible the proposed Australian Film Commission could be in operation early in1975. It was agreed at the time of the decision on this allocation that further funds would be provided if it was considered that the level of activity in the industry was at risk. 
After the failure of the Senate to pass the Australian Film Commission Bill 1974, the Treasurer agreed to my request that the Corporation should be provided with a further $450,000, and that the position should be further reviewed early in 1975. It is not possible to give any further indication of developments in this area until the fate of the Australian Film Commission Bill 1 97 5 has been determined. 
) The funds allocated in previous years are as follows: 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
) I refer again to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Parliamentary Question No. 97 (Hansard, page 625, 24/7/74) and in particular would draw attention to the 1974  Annual Report of the Public Service Board, tabled in Parliament on 17 September 1974, pages 162 and 237, where statistical information on the women employed in the Australian Public Service may be found. 
Yes. 
Yes; three. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) The total cost of Australian Government advertising placed with trade union journals in each of the last 5 years was: 
That was one of the most extraordinary speeches that I have heard from the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock).  He began by asserting that the purpose of his speech was not to disrupt Australia's very close relations with Indonesia. Yet the rest of his speech was designed to create a barrier to these very close relations and the continuing discussion that Australia has had with Indonesia and Portugal over this very question. It is a great pity when any member of the Opposition, in order to substantiate his own position in the party, seeks to create in the public mind a difference of opinion between Australia and Indonesia and between the countries in this area that are vitally concerned with the future of Timor. 
The honourable member mentioned that he has raised this question before, and indeed he has. In a debate in this House last October he did raise the question of Portuguese Timor. But I might remind him- and he can look at page 3046 of Hansard for 30 October 1974- that he did not even have the courtesy to wait until a reply was forthcoming. He argued in his introductory statement what the Australian position was in regard to Portuguese Timor. Having made the assertion for the public galleries and the Press, he promptly, like a prima donna, departed the chamber and did not wait for what was said subsequently. What was said subsequently is in fact Australian policy and it continues to be Australian policy. On that occasion I said: 
The Government - 
That is the Australian Governmentdoes  not seek any special position in Portuguese Timor and it believes that the views and attitudes and of the people of Portuguese Timor should be decisive. The Government has indicated that if the people of Portuguese Timor wish to associate themselves in some way with Indonesia, Australia would welcome this provided -and I repeat 'provided'- that the decision were based on an internationally accepted act of self-determination, (n short, the Government believes that the Timorese people should be allowed to proceed deliberately towards a decision about their own future . . . 
It is quite clear that the honourable gentleman did not even bother reading Hansard. He certainly was not in the chamber when the statement was made. 
The honourable member talked about a lack of discussion between Australia, Indonesia and Portugal. Perhaps 1 could remind the honourable gentleman that very intensive discussions have taken place on this very subject. The honourable member alluded to discussions between the Prime Minister and  President  Suharto in September. These discussions put forward the Australian viewpoint that self-determination was a principal issue, a principal concern, for the Australian people and for the Australian Government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  had discussions in New York in October with  Mr Soares,  the Portuguese Minister for Foreign Affairs, and  Dr Adam  Malik, the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Indonesia. A considerable amount of the time taken up by these discussions dwelt on this very subject, a subject which the Opposition had not even worried about to that stage, a subject that we saw was going to be vital in our relations with Indonesia, vital in terms of the peace and stability of this part of the world. This matter has been a cause of concern to the Australian Government for a long time. 

 Dr Santos, the Portuguese Minister for InterTerritorial Co-ordination, visited Australia on 13-16 October. He came to Australia because he knew of our concern and because he knew of the role that Australia could play in discussions with Indonesia. On that visit  Dr Santos  saw the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He also saw me in my capacity as Minister Assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Matters Relating to Papua New Guinea. Since that date there has, in these top level discussions with the Portuguese and the Indonesians, been intense diplomatic activity taking place in Lisbon, Jakarta, New York and Canberra. All of these discussions reiterated the Australian viewpoint and the Australian viewpoint is well known in Indonesia not only amongst the Ministers and the Cabinet in Indonesia but also amongst the Indonesian people. If I may I will quote to the House from an article in one of the Indonesian newspapers, the New Standard', which came out yesterday. It states:   . . although Indonesia makes no legal claim whatsoever to Portuguese Timor, it regards the Territory as geographically a part of the Indonesian world. For cultural, ethnic and historical reasons an integration of the territory into Indonesia would represent valid decolonisation and the most natural source to that end. Australia which has been following the developments in the Territory with concern, has no ambitions in the area. It is however firmly committed to the principle of self determination of all remaining colonial territories. 
Honourable members will notice that it is a repetition throughout of the propositions and the statements that have been made by the Australian Government. We have come out very clearly before any action may be contemplated or may be taken by either the Portuguese or the Indonesians. And what a change this is. The honourable member for Kooyong talks about influence in world affairs. If he looks back through the record to see what his predecessors in foreign affairs said on the subject when India moved into Goa he will see what the comment and response was then. Australia had no influence at that stage on India or any other pan of the world. When India moved into Goa with forcible aggression and took over Goa there was a plaintive statement by the then Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Menzies,  to the effect that Well, we do understand India's reasons and it is rather bad that it happened that way'. That is the type of dynamic politics in foreign affairs that was conducted by honourable gentlemen opposite when they were sitting on the Government benches. 
We on this side have taken every opportunity for discussion- high level discussion. I want to make it very clear because obviously the honourable member for Kooyong and other honourable members opposite find it very difficult to understand clear and concise terminology. The Australian Government's position in relation to both Portugal and Indonesia is clear, has been clear and it is well understood by both the Portuguese and the Indonesians. We support a measured and deliberate process of decolonisation in Portuguese Timor through arrangements leading to an internationally acceptable act of selfdetermination. We do not believe that political development in the Territory has yet reached a stage at which such an act could take place. We look to Portugal to maintain its responsibilities in the Territory in order to bring about the necessary conditions for it. We do understand Indonesia's substantial interest in the future of the Territory. Is this so remarkably odd when Indonesia and Portugal have half of the island of Timor and the island of Timor itself is part of the geographical entity of the Indonesian Archipeligo? Quite obviously Indonesia does have a very close and concerned interest in the future development of Portuguese Timor. We believe that there is time and opportunity for a political solution to be found which will meet the proper aspirations of the people of the Territory and also the natural interests of Indonesia. 
We have made it very clear to the Indonesian Government that we would be seriously concerned if there were to be any unilateral action on the part of Indonesia which would prevent an act of self-determination in Portuguese Timor. The Indonesian Government is aware of the Australian attitude and of the importance which the Australian Government attaches to an internationally acceptable act of self-determination. The honourable member for Kooyong has followed up Press reports and has indicated that there is a possibility, so he says- or some pundit of the Press likes to think there is- that there may be some Indonesian military activity in the area. I should like to quote from a statement that was reported last night from Jakarta. It says: 
Indonesian Defence Ministry officials today dismissed as totally untrue Australian newspaper reports that Indonesia planned to invade Portuguese Timor within the next few weeks. An official in the Defence Ministry said in reply to a question that the reports were false and totally without foundation. 
The honourable member for Kooyong has always recognised- he even restated it todaythat the basis of these discussions that take place at the top level between Foreign Ministers, Ministers and the Prime Minister and senior representatives of the Indonesian Government and Portuguese Government, the views that are expressed and a lot of the things that make the diplomatic worlds turn round, must remain secret and must remain confidential. The honourable member pointed out that that was one of the propositions to which the former Government, a government of which he was a Minister, adhered. In all these discussions we have put very forcibly the Australian viewpoint. Because of the position that Australia has now reached in international affairs throughout the world, because we de undertake a policy that is essentially Australian, a policy which owes its influence to no other country but Australia, because we have been accepted in the international community as people who can stand on their own feet and are recognised and appreciated for doing exactly that, we have a degree of influence to which the Opposition when it was in govern- * ment could never aspire and we have been exerting that influence, not from yesterday when the honourable member for Kooyong happened to read a Press report or receive a telegram from somewhere in Timor which he is not prepared to table. It is only when he can see an opportunity for some short term political capital, when he is thinking about tomorrow's headlines rather than the future of the People of Portuguese Timor or the future of Australia's relations with Indonesia that - 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable members 's question: 
1 ) There have been no field studies carried out in the area yet; however, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board is aware that a television reception problem exists in the area. 
Above paragraph refers. 
Every effort is being made by the Board to effect improvements wherever these are technically and economically feasible. The rate at which plans can be developed and implemented must be related to the financial and manpower resources available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (5) I refer the honourable member to the information provided by the Special Minister of State in reply to Question No. 1862, House of Representatives, Hansard, Thursday  5  December 1974 page 4841. However, since that question was answered the following staff changes have occurred in my office. 

 Mr W. F. Dominguez, Administrative Officer, Class IV $ 1 2,2 1 8-$ 1 2,72 1 , has replaced  Mr T.  J. Healy as my Departmental Liaison Officer. 

 Ms S. L. Wurfel has been seconded from the Department of Overseas Trade as a Steno-secretary Grade 1 $6,382-56,741 , 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board advises me that the figure of 225 population of Ravensthorpe was obtained from the latest figures provided by the Bureau of Census and Statistics. It is acknowledged that the Ravensthorpe Shire population includes an additional population of about 900, but it must be pointed out that these people are dispersed throughout a total Shire area of some 5000 square miles. 
In examining the possibilities for the provision of television to Ravensthorpe, the Board is, of course, obliged to take into account only the population of the Ravensthorpe town, since the very high costs which would be involved in providing a service throughout the Shire would make any such project quite impracticable from the economic point of view. 
Interdepartmental Committee on International Conferences  (Question No.  1975) 
For the information of honourable members I present a statement and an exchange of letters relating to the transfer to Papua New Guinea of authority over foreign affairs. 
For the information of honourable members I present volume 1 of the report of the advisory committee on Antarctic programs, dated December 1974. Copies of volume 2 have been placed in the Parliamentary Library and the Bills and Papers Office. I also present a discussion paper entitled: 'Towards New Perspectives for Australian Scientific Research in Antarctica'. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
A Bill to amend the Broadcasting and Television Act was introduced into this House on 3 October 1974. The Bill was designed primarily to ensure that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board had adequate powers to carry out its functions effectively to ensure that adequate and comprehensive programs are presented by the licensees of commercial broadcasting and television stations. On the legal advice provided to the Government the Board appears not to have sufficient power to carry out the functions entrusted to it by Parliament. The Government regards this situation as most unsatisfactory. It now submits the Bill in the form in which it was transmitted to the Senate on 12 November 1 974. 
Clauses 6, 1 1, and 12 of the Bill were amended by the Government during the Committee stages of the Bill in this House, but I indicated at that time that there has been insufficient time to consider the impact of amendments proposed by the Opposition. I informed the House that the amendments moved by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  would be given full consideration when the Bill was transmitted to the other place. 
This was done in accordance with my undertaking and in fact the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  in his second reading speech on 14 November, foreshadowed that he would propose an amendment to the Bill in the Committee stages of the debate in the other place. 
The Minister informed the Senate that the Government saw some merit in the apparent intention of an amendment proposed by the Opposition. The intention of the amendment appeared to have been to subject the powers of the Broadcasting Authority to the scrutiny of the Parliament insofar as they deal with the regulation of the hours of transmissions, of programs and of advertising. The Minister, in his second reading speech in the Senate, said: 
This Government's policy has always been to provide for adequate parliamentary supervision of the activities of government bodies and agencies. 
The Minister then went on to explain that the program and advertising standards of the Broadcasting Control Board have never been subject to full parliamentary scrutiny in the past, and that the previous Government had made no provision for this in the Broadcasting and Television Act on any of the numerous occasions when it had sought to amend the Act in its 23 years in government. He said that the Labor Government accepted the desirability of parliamentary scrutiny and would propose it during the Committee stages of the debate. That debate did not eventuate. The Senate refused the Bill a second reading, and gave no opportunity for the Government to introduce its amendment. The Minister had explained the purpose of the proposed amendment in the following terms: 
The amendment will require the Authority's determinations to be tabled in both Houses of Parliament, and subject to the same treatment as regulations . . . 
I do not propose at this stage to move the amendment proposed by the Munster in the other place. The Government believes that it is the Senate's responsibility to allow the Minister for the Media the opportunity which was denied him last year, to propose the amendment in that place. Nor do I propose to canvass the provisions of the Bill. These have been explained adequately in both the second reading speech on 3 October, 1974 and the debate on 12 November, 1974. 
Isimplywishtoremindhonorablemembers thatcaluse6wasamendedtomakeitquiteclear thattheAuthoritymaynotdiscriminateagainst individualstations.Therecoulddiscriminate againststationsinaparticulararea.Theamend- mentwasdesignedtoensurethatthiscouldnot happen.Clause11wasamendedtoextendthe periodsforrenewaloflicencesforcommercial broadcastingoffrom3monthsto3yearstoaperiodof from6monthsto3years.Theamendmentto clause12wasconsequentialupontheamend- menttoclause11.IcommendtheBilltothe House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) Of the total number of Australian Government advertisements placed since October 1974 only five have been noted which included photographs of Ministers. 
On the occasions on which photographs of Ministers have appeared in advertisements I understand this has been particularly specified by the originating departments. 
No. In most cases the size of the advertisement is governed largely by the volume of text required. If a photograph or an illustration is also required, it would not be necessary to increase the size of the advertisement. 
No. It is a matter for each originating Department. 
As far as I am aware, I have not received one single complaint. 
The advertisement in question was the first major advertisement on relief to Darwin cyclone victims. The inclusion of the photograph of the Minister for Social Security was requested by the Department of Social Security. The aim of the advertisement was to communicate the fact that emergency benefits were available to cyclone victims, who might more quickly respond to such a message if identified with the authority of the Minister concerned. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) None in 1 972 and 1 973. Fifteen in 1 974. 
Details of applications to join Antarctic expeditions are treated as confidential and it would not be appropriate to name those who were unsuccessful. 
Details of positions sought, the number of women who applied and their qualifications are as follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question on notice No. 1764 (Hansard, 19 February 1975, page 520). 
Indonesian Fishermen in Australian Waters (Question No. 2162) 
-The honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  regrettably has learnt very little from his visit to Indo-China. I am absolutely staggered that anybody who pretends to comprehend Indo-China would come back with the old Democratic Labor Party statement, the League of Rights statement, the point of view that has been held by reactionary forces in Australia and throughout the world, that old tired cliche about people voting with their feet. 
Those people in Vietnam who have been caught up in the war that has been going on now for 38 years are not voting for or against communism; they are not voting for or against the Saigon Government; they are voting against war and hoping desperately for peace. What they have been doing is moving away from a war zone. 
Let us remember one basic fact: The only combat aircraft that have ever been over South Vietnam have been South Vietnamese aircraft or American aircraft. I defy anyone here, and those who went on that visit, to show that there have ever been any North Vietnamese combat aircraft or any Chinese communist combat aircraft over South Vietnam during the war. I can tell honourable members that the reason that people moved out of the way is that every time the communists overtook a village the Americans used to- the South Vietnamese now do- come in and blast hell out of it. The people of Vietnam have learnt after 38 years of war what to expect. Let us just take the recent example of Nha Trang. The South Vietnamese armies scuttled out of Nha Trang. There was not even a North Vietnamese or Vietcong force coming into Nha Trang. The soldiers were so demoralised that they moved out ahead of the Vietcong and North Vietnamese armies and left the town. I am sure that the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese were as much surprised as anybody by the rapidity of their advance because they were not fighting; they were moving into a vacuum that was left by the demoralised forces of South Vietnam. 
The South Vietnamese forces tried to go back and before they did- this is a report carried by all newspapers- -Nha Trang was bombed with what are called, euphemistically, daisy cutters. Perhaps the honourable member for Kooyong and the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  did not see the daisy cutters. They are anti-personnel bombs which when exploded give out thousands of pieces of shrapnel. The South Vietnamese in fact were bombing their own people. Now members of the Opposition ask me why people vote with their feet. They vote with their feet for one very simple reason- to get out of war zones. They know perfectly well that if they stay with the communist group they will be bombed. This has been going on for 38 years, but they still do it. There are reports from reliable correspondents that when Hue and Da Nang were no longer under attack but under communist control the people moved back. When writing about Nha Trang a French National Press correspondent wrote: 
It was easy to see why people were scared. Government soldiers who quit the abandoned central highlands and the others recently arrived from Da Nang roamed the streets, armed and hard faced. They plundered and looted shamelessly. 
This was the South Vietnamese army. The honourable member for Kooyong has made great play about compassion and sought to show himself as a humanitarian. But he was the very man who was the Minister for the Army when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was the Minister for Defence. Most of us recall what happened then because we were members of the Parliament when it occurred. The right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  would remember only too well the dispute over the civic action group of the Australian Army in Vietnam. What happened? I do not think we need go through the history of the fight between  Mr Gorton  and  Mr Fraser  at that time, but the end result was that the honourable member for Kooyong as Minister for the Army and the Leader of the Opposition as Minister for Defence stopped the civic action in Vietnam- the group of Army people who were building schools, providing water supplies and teaching the kids. That is one of the humanitarian actions of the honourable member for Kooyong and the present Leader of the Opposition. 
When we come to the concept of humanitarian aid let us look at the Opposition's record when it was the Government. What did it do after the Tet offensive in 1968? I have here a list of what the previous Government sent in as humanitarian aid at a time when South Vietnam was recovering from the shock of the Tet offensive. It sent in $487,000 worth of relief supplies. This showed its great humanitarian instincts in this period. We are not concerned about the politics but about the people. The Australian Government has already contributed $3.4m in relief funds. This is not just something that has emerged recently, as would seem to be imputed by the honourable member for Kooyong. In November 1974 we supplied UNICEF-I doubt whether the Opposition would understand what UNICEF is, but it deals with children- with $1.5m. We have provided $200,000 to the Red Cross. We have provided $lm to the United Nations High Commissioner on Refugees. Let me explain that this money is spent in IndoChina. Wherever there is a problem these international organisations move in and provide assistance without the politics, which is the only thing that the Opposition seems to concern itself about. This is our record of providing assistance to international organisations which are capable of doing a job for humanity- not for politics. We have provided $3.4m. Compare that with the humanitarian instincts of the Opposition when it was in government after the Tet offensive in 1968. 
I do not wonder that the Leader of the Opposition wants to dismiss or evade the past. He said that the past cannot be changed. But I believe that we should all remember the lessons of the past because the very men who are leading the Opposition now were then leading the Government. I have said in this House before and I will repeat it in this House as long as I stay here that the Opposition when it was in government lied and lied and lied about Australia's involvement in Vietnam. The first lie was that Australia was committed to Vietnam because of the South-East Asian Treaty Organisation. That was a deliberate lie because there was never a decision by the South-East Asian Treaty Organisation that involved the commitment of its members to Vietnam. The three founder members- France, the United Kingdom and Pakistan- never went into Vietnam in combat force. The only 2 members that did do so, apart from Australia and the United States, were Thailand and the Philippines. They went in for one very simple reasonthe same reason that Australia went in- because they were told by the then American Administration to go in. But not only did Thailand and the Philippines go in under the direction of the United States Government; also they were rewarded handsomely by the United States Government for their involvement. 
Then we had the lie- I say it again, the liethat Australia was invited to go into Vietnam. When we were in Opposition, after many years of asking the then Government to table the documents that related to our involvement in Vietnam, in 1972 it tabled them. I can see why it was so obviously reluctant to do so. What emerged from that tabling of the documents was that Australia was never invited into Vietnam at all. What happened was that under pressure from the United States Government we were asked to go in. Saigon was offered our assistance. There was a proposal: 'If you agree, we will get the Australians in'. There was an acceptance of an offer made by the Australian Government to Vietnam and our involvement there was not as a result of an invitation from the Vietnamese authorities. 
Honourable members opposite have referred to the violation of the Paris agreements. I am not here to argue the case for one side or the other, but one thing that can be said is that both sides have violated the cease fire provisions of the Paris agreements. Bombing and strafingremember that only one side has an air force operating in the South Vietnam area- continued after the Paris agreements and in violation of the Paris agreements. There were occasions when both sides sought to extend their territorial boundaries, their territorial controls, and this was in direct contravention of the agreements. I think it is important to recall that the agreements had not only military provisions but also political provisions and these have been steadily undermined. In the discussions that took place between the Opposition's delegation and President Thieu I doubt whether President Thieu would have spelled out his position. These provisions have been undermined by the refusal of President Thieu to allow any moves towards the establishment of the National Council for National Reconciliation and Concord, which is the cornerstone of the agreements. So, as in the old days with Diem and the Geneva Agreements, when the important thing was the elections throughout the whole of Indo-China which Diem, with the support of the United States and the Australian Governments, did not allow to come to pass, exactly the same thing has happened with Thieu, who has argued against the National Council. These are all matters of fact, not matters of a fleeting visit to Indo-China. What has happened is that both sides- I state this clearly- have not sought to implement the Paris agreements. We had hopes- they appeared to be vain hopes, but hopes nevertheless- that the Paris agreements would work and that there would be an end to the bloodshed, but this has not come to pass. I think it is a matter of regret for all of us that the people of Vietnam are still suffering. 
Members of the Opposition have been talking in cliches. They keep rolling out the cliches of the past. But the whole basis of their foreign policy was fear and it was implemented by lies. We come back to the hardy annual of the domino theory. I am pleased to note that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has moved slightly. The great danger of the domino theory, and this affected the Opposition when it was in government, is that it blinds us to realities and leads to the formulation of completely wrong policies. The domino theory puts forward the proposition that if one country goes, all the other countries in Asia will go, and the next thing is that we will have invaders on our Australian shores. I gather that what is meant by 'go' is that these countries go communist. There is behind that sort of proposition the old thesis that communism is a monolith run from some room or outfit in the Kremlin. The folk who put forward that proposition completely ignore the fact that there is probably as much difference between the Soviet Union and the United States as there is between the Soviet Union and Communist China. This has been overlooked. Even  President  Nixon - I am not accustomed to quoting  President  Nixon - said that the solidarity of a once unified bloc had been broken by the powerful forces of nationalism. 
When we look to the future, let us look at the position of the Communist Party forces in Laos and Cambodia. There has been a traditional enmity between the Cambodians and the Vietnamese. The Khmer Rouge is a national communist group, and although during the period of fighting the North Vietnamese have had to make their accommodations with the Chinese communists and the Soviet Union, the differences are fundamental. I predict that there will be an upsurge of these differences. We have made the great mistake of assuming that all communists carry out the same policies. Nationalism is one thing that nobody in the Opposition ever accepted. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following programs administered by my Department and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization (CSIRO) enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants for a specific purpose. This information supplements that provided in my reply to Question on Notice No. 95 (Hansard, 5 December 1974, pages 4854-59). 
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE 
Australian Research Grants- made in support of high level research projects by individuals and groups. 
) Australian Biological Resources Study- made for the study of the taxonomy, distribution and ecology of Australia's biological resources. 
Crown of Thorns Starfish Research Grants- made for research into the problem caused by the crown of thorns starfish. 
US/Australia Agreement for Scientific and Technical Co-operation- made to provide additional opportunities for the United States and Australia to exchange ideas, information, skills and techniques and to collaborate on problems of mutual interest in the field of civil science. 
Details relating to the above programs may be found in the following 'documents published by the Australian Government Publishing Service: 
Department of Science. Report for the period 20 December 1972 to 30 June 1973. Department of Science Annual Report 1 973-74. ARGC Report 1970-72. ARGC Grants approved for 1973. ARGC Grants approved for 1 974. Australian Biological Resources Study Interim Council. Report 1973-74. 
US /Australia Agreement for scientific and technical co-operation. Report on activities to 30 June 1972. 
COMMONWEALTH SCIENTIFIC and INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATION (CSIRO) 
1 ) Grants to research associations, e.g. Sugar Research Institute, Bread Research Institute of Australia. 
) Grants to other national bodies where support by the Australian Government is channelled through CSIRO, i.e. 
Standards Association of Australia (SAA) 
National Association of Testing Authorities (NATA) 
3 ) Extra-mural grants to universities and similar bodies. 
Grants from the Science and Industry Endowment Fund (SIEF) 
The purpose of these programs, which have been in operation for many years, is to foster and stimulate scientific research. They have as their authority the Science and Industry Research Act 1949-1973 and the Science and Industry Endowment Act 1926-1949. 
Grants under these programs are not publicised in detail but by reference to CSIRO Annual Reports and from general knowledge within the scientific community, interested parties would be aware of the existence of these programs. 
The amount paid under each program in each of the last three years is provided in the following table. 
Records of unsuccessful requests for grants are not maintained for the first three programs and it is only in respect of SIEF grants that applications from individuals are considered. As shown in the table below (see (4) Science Industry Endowment Fund Grants) relating to these grants, the majority of SIEF grants are made to individuals. 
All applications for grants are considered by the Executive of CSIRO, acting either in that capacity or as Trustees of the Science and Industry Endowment Fund. In some cases it is necessary for the Executive to seek the approval of the Minister for Science and the Treasurer for grants to e.g., research associations. 
As CSIRO is represented on the managing boards of research associations, the SAA and NATA, it is in a position to influence decisions on the purposes for which grants are to be used. Similarly CSIRO is able to assess the use of grants. In these and other cases, CSIRO receives annual reports covering both the financial and research aspects of the grants. 
The Executive of CSIRO, through liaison with other grant agencies, attempts to avoid any possibility of duplication of grants and, as an additional safeguard against this possibility, applicants are required to state in their application whether funds have been sought from other sources. 
Further details on each of these programs follow: 
Grants to research associations. 
To be eligible the association must demonstrate that sufficient financial support is available from industry for its establishment and operation and it must have as its objective the undertaking of scientific research and such associated activities as are approved by CSIRO. 
Grants to other national bodies. 
The Standards Association of Australia and the National Association of Testing Authorities were formed as a result of policy of the Government of the day in the 1 920 's and 1 940 's respectively. 
The Standards Association of Australia brings together representatives of industry, commerce, government, the professions and other interested parties to develop detailed standards specifications and provides facilities for review and revision of standards from time to time. The resulting standards are published in the 'Standards Association of Australia Monthly Information Sheet' and the 'Australian Standards Annual List of SAA Publications '. 
The National Association of Testing Authorities was established to organise a national service to provide testing facilities to meet the demands of Government, industry, and commerce and thus assist in maintaining the products of industry at a high standard. 
Extra-mural Grants. 
These grants are made to support research in university departments and similar institutions when that research is of interest to CSIRO and can more profitably, both for CSIRO and the university, be pursued by taking advantage of the facilities and staff availability in the university concerned. 
Science and Industry Endowment Fund Grants. 
There are no formal conditions attached to the grants, however the Executive of CSIRO, as Trustees of the Science and Industry Endowment Fund, allocates grants from the Fund to provide assistance: 
to retired professional scientists, for individual work in an area in which they have demonstrated their competence and standing; 
to gifted amateurs recognized by professional scientists as being competent workers in their field; and 
for activities encouraging greater interest in scientific research among young people e.g. school science competitions. 
The Trustees rarely approve support from the Fund if assistance might be given by existing institutions (e.g. applications from members of staff of universities or other institutions having research as one of their functions). 
Some statistical details on the Fund for the last three years follow: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question No. 1762 (Hansard, 6 March 1975, page 1236). 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I do,  Mr Speaker.  I was misrepresented this morning in this House by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan).  I have been trying to get in touch with him so that he might be here. He did not allow me the same courtesy this morning. He made a number of unfounded and completely inaccurate remarks about the arrival in Australia of the Vietnamese war orphans. He said: 'What a cheap and nasty political trick to have his photograph taken with babies'. As far as I am aware there is no such photograph and certainly no such photograph has been published. I certainly did not pose for any such photograph with the Vietnamese babies on arrival in Sydney. I was fully engaged in ensuring that the children- particularly those who had been critically ill on the flight, who were taken to the Camperdown Hospital- were moved from the plane as quickly as possible. I may have wept, but that was after all those things had been accomplished and I make no apology for it. On the very next morning I visited the North Head Quarantine Station and the Camperdown Hospital. Had I conducted myself in the manner in which presumably the honourable member for Riverina might have conducted himself, I would have contacted the Press. I am sure that a number of journalists and Press photographers would have been only too happy to accompany me. I went with only my wife; I did not inform any of the media that I was visiting the hospital and quarantine station. The purpose of my visit was to see how the childrenparticularly those who had been very ill on the flight- had fared during the night. 
I have also been misrepresented by the Premier of New South Wales. At a news conference on 8 April, as telecast by Channel 7 in Sydney that evening,  Mr Lewis  claimed that the children who were flown out from Bangkok were denied adequate care. I wish to make this personal explanation because I was in charge of that flight. He said that four nurses from the World Vision organisation were refused permission to assist the orphans on the aircraft.  Mr Lewis  further contended that the World Vision nurses were told not to help the children at all. 

 - Mr Speaker, I acknowledge your ruling, but the statements which were made are a direct reflection on me. I shall not take very long,  Mr Speaker. 
-I shall adhere to your ruling,  Mr Speaker  and be very brief. I categorically deny the allegations, and the representatives of the World Vision organisation in Australia have denied them. I am very concerned that the only people who appear to be seeking to make political capital out of this issue are the Opposition and the Liberal Premier of New South Wales. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) (i) Australian Health Insurance Program 
Attitudinal/Motivational Research 
ANOP Market Research carried out an attitudinal/motivational research project at a cost of $ 14,500. 
Market Facts Pty Ltd had carried out a study along similar lines but in a simpler format and at a different time, at a cost of $1,880. 
A payment of $ 1 ,000 was made to Spectrum International Marketing Services Pty Ltd, for an advertising effectiveness study. 
Advertising Testing Progam 
ANOP Market Research have carried out an assignment pre-testing advertisements for the program and this research will cost $9,900. 
and (iii) Nil in all cases. 
Army General Enlistment Program 
Attitudinal/Motivational Research 
Army GE program, arranged through George Kelly &amp; Co. Pty Ltd at a cost of $16,000 
Follow-up study, September 1974, through George Kelly &amp; Co. Pty Ltd at a cost of $4,000 
An in-depth attitudinal study of the Medical, Legal, Teaching and Engineering professions was carried out through George Kelly &amp; Co. Pty Ltd in respect to Direct 
Entry of these professions into the Defence Force at a cost of $5, 100. 
A small research study among service members in the professions outlined above was carried out by Insight Advertising at a cost of $ 1 ,405. 
A study on behalf of Service Colleges was conducted in September 1 973 by Michael Brownlee at a cost of $ 1 ,960. 
Advertising Testing Program 
A study of post advertising attitudes was carried out in November 1974 by Masidan Research at a cost of $4,800. 
Treasury Loans Program 
Attitudinal/Motivational Research 
ANOP Market Research have been commissioned to supply a syndicated report called 'ANOP Continuous Savings and Investment Survey' for 12 months from September 1974 at a cost of $1,000. 
Advertising Testing Program 
An advertising testing project for the Treasury Loan Program was arranged through Market Facts Pty Ltd, at a cost of $750. 
The information required has been incorporated in the answer to pan ( 1 ) above. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Government has for some time considered that while much of the work done by the Australian Film Development Corporation has been of great assistance to the Australian film industry, and has been done in the taxpayer's interests, there has been a need to revise and improve arrangements for Australian Government assistance to the film industry. With this in mind, the Government presented to the Parliament a Bill to establish an Australian Film Commission. The Bill having been passed, and having received assent, arrangements are now being made to establish the new Commission, and disband the Australian Film Development Corporation. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 have received a number of recommendations from various community organisations requesting that a ban be placed on all forms of drug, cigarette and alcohol advertising. 
My comments on these forms of advertising are limited to their exposure on radio and television, the control of which is administered by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, an independent statutory authority within my ministerial responsibility. 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
I am informed by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, which is an independent statutory body established by Parliament under the Broadcasting and Television Act, that limited field strength measurements in the Lake Grace area have been made. There are no immediate plans to improve the service in the area, but it will be added to the list of areas which will be investigated in the future with a view to determining whether an improvement in the service would be justified, bearing in mind the cost of this improvement and the number of people that would benefit from it. The Wagin translator which went into operation on 20 December 1 972 serves part of this area.  (Civil Defence) (Question No. 1148) 
The Minister for the Media has  provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
1 ) to (3) I refer to the Prime Minister's answer to Question 1629 (Daily Hansard, 19 November 1974, page 3726). 
The cost of producing and distributing press releases is -. shared between the Minister's office and the Department's salaries and administration costs, but these costs are not separately indentifiable 
The Ministerial Document Reproduction Unit has a staff of four whose functions include the distribution of the weekly consolidation of all Ministerial press releases, on a list provided by the Prime Minister, and the distribution of Ministerial statements to all parliamentarians. The number of persons employed on this work has not increased since this Government assumed office. The total time involved in he distribution of press releases issued by the Minister for Media amounts to no more than one-sixth of one person's time. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
340. 
352. 
$3,989,500. 
There were 77 journalists employed in the Information Service of the former Department of the Interior on 2 December 1972. 
114. The Australian Information Service has assumed responsibility for Immigration publicity functions and 27 journalists were transferred from the former Department of Immigration (9 overseas, 18 in Australia). The number of overseas information posts has been increased from 20 to 25. 
Apart from the Australian information Service, 1 only at Film Australia (previously the Commonwealth Film Unit). 
In addition to the total for Australian Information Service in (5) above there are four other journalists employed s follows: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question on notice No. 1570 (Hansard, 8 April 1975, page 1322). 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
On the basis of information provided to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board by licensees of commercial broadcasting stations, commercial television stations and the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the following tables set out the position. It should be noted that, in regard to the Australian Broadcasting Commission stations, a summary is only available in respect of the 1972 House of Representatives election and the 1 974 double dissolution election. Information is not available for the previous elections in a form which would allow such a dissection. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Broadcasting Stations Licence Fees Bill 1974 (No. 2) and the Television Stations Licence Fees Bill 1974 (No. 2) as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply- I was rather disappointed in the speech of my colleague, the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  because the last dme he spoke on this subject we had a very colourful- I might even say very humourous- account of his lifelong love of films such as 'Tom Mix*. But on this occasion he deprived us of those comments. I would like to take up a couple of observations that were made. I find it very difficult to understand the viewpoint put by the Opposition. We have just heard an harangue about control, balance and supervision of television. The honourable member picked out the Australian Broadcasting Commission, but I am sure that he would be the first to agree that this applies to many television stations. He argued for more control and more balance. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  said that the television proprietors should have full freedom to put on whatever they believe is right. So we had two completely contradictory propositions coming from the Opposition. 
I think we have to look- this Parliament is required to look- at the question of the monopoly power of television stations. A television station is not like a newspaper. Anybody who has sufficient money can go out and start a newspaper. But the television channels are limited. They are public property. So the licences are granted to people. There is a process for the granting of licences. When a licence goes out to a television station owner it becomes a monopoly, but it is a monopoly of a public facility. Previous governments- not just this Government- have laid down certain standards by which the owners of this public monopoly must abide. I am afraid that I will have to go over the same arguments again because they do not appear to have sunk in. The reason why the Government is seeking clarification of the powers of the Broadcasting Control Board is that these powers are under legal challenge. I want to say that again: The reason why the Government is seeking these powers in this amendment to the Act is that the powers in the existing Act are under legal challenge. So, to put the matter outside the possibility of legal challenge the Government is amending the Act. That is the basic proposition. 
I was fascinated to hear the honourable member for Maranoa, who has left the chamber, say that he did not agree with the 6 months period. In fact he was talking about a gestation period of 12 months or even longer. This is fairly remarkable because the 6 months period is exactly the same proposition as was put forward by the Liberal Party when it was in government and amended the Broadcasting and Television Act in 1972. All we are seeking to do here is to accept the proposition, which was put by the previous Government but which did not get on to the statute books, that the licence renewal period should be 6 months. I find it very difficult to comprehend the arguments that have been put forward tonight by the Opposition. 
As I have mentioned, it is strange that anything that appears to damage the interests of the great and powerful friends of the Liberal and Country Parties in the media world is seized upon as being undemocratic. I am reminded- I have used this expression before- that freedom of the Press for the Opposition is when one man can own 10 newspapers but 10 million people own none. I accept that there is a fundamental difference in philosophy between the Australian Labor Party and the Liberal and Country Parties. 
-I thank God for it, too. We believe that this Parliament, being representatives of the people of Australia, has certain rights and responsibilities on behalf of the people of Australia. We are introducing this Bill into the Australian Parliament. We hope, despite the opposition that has been indicated by the Opposition, that the provisions of this Bill which state the rights of Parliament in the control of monopolies that are handed over to private groups will be exercised in the interests of the Australian people. That is a very simple proposition. That is the view of the Government and it is the view that the Government will take on this occasion. The simple reason we have had to introduce the Bill again is that the Senate threw it out the last time it was introduced without even a debate. The Opposition voted against the motion that the Bill be read a second time forthwith and the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  who is a member in another place, had no opportunity to put the Government's case. We are now introducing the Bill again and it will go to the Senate again. In fact, this is the third time we have had to do this. We hope that some rationale, some understanding, will come from the members of the Opposition. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
No. 
No. 
The former Immigration Information Branch now transferred to my Department is producing booklets of information in a range of languages for the benefit of migrants. These are being produced on behalf of the department of Social Security and will presumably be distributed in the Parramatta region by means available to that Department 
In addition, my Department plans to open a Publications and Inquiry Centre in Parramatta when accommodation and resources are available. This centre will provide factual information on Australian Government policies and activities to the Australian public generally including migrants and the publications available from the Centre will include those of particular interest to migrants. 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
The question was answered on 10 April 1975 (Hansard, page 1561). 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
The question was answered on 10 April 1975 (Hansard, page 1562). 
Department of the Media: Appointment of Women (Question  No. 2020) 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
The question was answered on 20 February 1975 (Hansard, page 624). 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
The question was answered on 20 February 1975 (Hansard, page 623). 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
The question was answered on 10 April 1975 (Hansard page 1562). 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
My Department has certain general responsibilities in relation to the production of publications prepared by Australian Government departments, including arrangements for their printing, standards of presentation, sale and the provision of a distribution service. It is the responsibility of each Minister to determine what his Department will print, including the adequacy and extent of the information contained in any publication produced by his Department, whether copies will be made available for free distribution and, if so, how many. There is therefore no requirement for the information sought in parts (5) to (9) of question No. 1586 to be centrally recorded. 
For the information of honourable members I present an interim report by staff members of the Bureau of Meteorology titled: "Cyclone Tracy". 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Interim Board of the Australian Film Commission dated February 1975. 
I am sure that all honourable members have become accustomed to the kind of speech made by our learned colleague, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  He rather reminds me of the song about the French from the play 'My Fair Lady'. The song goes that the French do not mind what they do as long as they pronounce it correctly. The honourable member for Moreton does not mind what he says as longs as it sounds good. I defy any honourable member who heard the speech of the honourable member for Moreton- the Opposition shadow Minister for Defence- to define for me what constitutes the Opposition Parties' views on defence. Was there any glimmer during the 34 minutes in which the honourable member spoke of propositions being put forward by the Opposition in relation to a defence policy? I am glad that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has come to the table to join this debate. The only positive statements that he has made on defence have admitted his own mistakes. Let us recall that he was the last Minister for Defence of the former Liberal-Country Party Government. On the television show 'Monday Conference' which was broadcast last Monday night he admitted that he was wrong to insist as he did in a speech to the Western Australian branch of the Liberal Party of Australia in 1970 that conscription would have to be continued after the Vietnam conflict. He now says- at least this is one glimmer of hope and I compliment the honourable gentleman on it- that his Party would introduce conscription only in the case of a dire emergency and probably a clear and apparent threat to the mainland of Australia. How far has the Opposition come from the days of that extravagant attachment to a notion of forward defence? Five years ago he was prepared to continue a divisive policy of conscription claiming that it was essential to national security. Today he says that it is no longer necessary because- and I quote the honourable gentleman: 
Circumstances have clearly changed. 
Yet when he was asked what had changed, all he could say was: 
Oh well, I am five years older and five years wiser. 
This was said by the honourable gentleman who in the previous Government was the Minister for Defence. My colleague, the honourable member for Moreton, has indicated great activity in his speech.  His  own definition of great activity was that this also denoted grave errors. He quite blithely asserted that the relationship between defence and the gross domestic product, expressed in a percentage term, was 2.75 per cent. I would like to clarify this point and I hope that the honourable member for Moreton is listening. 
Thank you. The actual percentage for the relationship between defence and GNP is 3 per cent. Is the honourable member really suggesting- I think that this is the proposition we have to examine- that the commitment on funds and the level of forces in the Australian defence area should be maintained at exactly the same level in peacetime as the level maintained in a period of war? We will not go into the argument about the commitment to Vietnam. My views and the views of the Government on this subject are well known and have been well known for 10 years. But let us examine what the level of expenditure on the defence forces were when the Opposition was in Government prior to the Vietnam commitment. In 1962-63 the level of expenditure on defence in relation to the gross domestic product was 2.6 per cent. In 1963-64 it was 2.9 per cent. The expenditure was increased with the involvement of Australian forces in Vietnam. What we are talking about is the comparative relationship between the Australian armed forces in a period of peace and in a period of war, irrespective of how we might regard the virtues for the justification of that war. I believe that this whole notion that has been put forward- it is only one of the very few notions that the Opposition has been able to put forward- is completely irrelevant. The size and structure of the armed forces depends upon our strategic considerations. I will deal with that aspect a little later. 
The honourable member also made reference to the rate of resignations from the Services. I may say that there are more colonels and majors in the Army today than when we took control of the Government. But there have been a number of resignations for one reason. I think this reflects great credit upon the Minister for Defence who, in the period when he was in Opposition, placed great emphasis on the terms and conditions of members of the armed forces. For years there was a requirement from the military forces for an updating of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act. The previous Government did precisely nothing. This Government introduced the defence forces retirements benefits scheme which was effective back to October 1972. Previously, in most cases under the old scheme officers who resigned more than 3 years before their retirement for rank age forfeited completely their pension. Under the new arrangement an officer can retire after 20 years service. For instance, if an officer joined the Royal Military College at the age of 17 he can now retire at age 37 and still receive, in relation to calculations that have to be made, a fairly substantial pension. 
I will give another example because I notice that we have some warriors present in the House today. A major who has had 20 years effective service can receive commutation of a sum of approximately $18,000 and also receive a residual pension of $4,000 a year at the age of thirty-seven. This was impossible under the previous Government. I do not think that members of the armed forces are not prepared to accept the possibility that their positions can be made much better by retiring at the age of 37 and getting a civil job. They would be fools to do otherwise if they believed they had better opportunities. We have not insisted on the matter. We have said that this is a volunteer defence force. There have been a number of resignations but the reasons for the resignations are very clear. They are financial ones. The proposition that has always been put forward by the Opposition is that such resignations show a lack of morale and that we are losing our best officers. I wish to quote to honourable members what was said by the Chief of Naval Personnel. He said: 
Resignation by officers with good career prospects are not frequent. There is no large body of disgruntled officers. 
What we are seeking to do is to build up a force in Australia that is capable of expansion in the event of any threat in the defence of Australia. Those people who believe that their profession or role lies in the Royal Australian Army are staying. Those people who have opportunities in civil life who believe they can make a way in civil life against the background of a reasonable pension can proceed to follow that course and that is quite acceptable to the Australian Government. 
I want to indicate the sort of situation that we, as a government, inherited when we came to power. I quote from a document entitled 'Australian Defence Review'. I think that the Leader of the Opposition would be well aware of this document because it was published when he was Minister for Defence. The document states: 
The Vietnam deployment demonstrated our ability to sustain a force in the field over a protracted period, but it revealed also that we were dependant in many respects on logistic support from our allies. 
We were incapable of fielding a task force that could also maintain its own logistic support. That is one of the problems that we have inherited and it is one of the problems that we have sought to rectify. I shall quote further from the document. At page 26 it states: 
Opportunity to give greater weight to long term strategic considerations in the shaping of our forces has until recently been restricted by the immediate demands of our combat deployment in Vietnam. That opportunity is now restored. 
What it is saying is that our involvement in Vietnam had in fact affected, distorted, our strategic considerations in the shaping of our forces. These are the problems- they are very real and very basic problems- that we as a government inherited as a result of the policies of the former Government. These are difficulties that we have overcome or are seeking to overcome. 
I said that I would give some indications of our strategic considerations. There have been, as we all know, important changes in Australia's strategic situation since the days of forward defence policy. There have been changes in the regional situation itself as well as in the attitudes of allies. There is no requirement, and certainly no regional demand, for forward Australian strategic deployment. The scope for Australian involvement in any regional situation, such as the conflict in Vietnam, has been largely eliminated by the withdrawal from the region of the major allies on whom Australia's earlier involvement depended. Defence policy- I want to stress this point- is now focused primarily on the defence of Australia and Australia's interests. The natural primary responsibility of any government is one that, in Australia's long history of particpanon in military operations around the world, has until now received comparatively little attention. 
The shift from a forward defence posture to a more national defence posture has very substantial implications. It means that we must now look to handle our defence affairs with greater independence and be more self-reliant in our defence effort. We must be prepared, first and fore-' most, for military commitment in the Australian environment rather than in the forward areas. We must examine and master our own national defence involvement. We must examine the implications of a defence posture based primarily on the defence of Australia, its Territories and the sea and the air space around us, for training, equipment and the deployment of our national forces. We must develop and practice an operational doctrine suited to this environment and to a national defence task. This amounts to a major change in emphasis in our national defence planning. Focus on these matters gives us different priorities for shaping our force structure. There must be a higher priority for development because the changed emphasis now tends, for example, to relate to surveillance. The orientation of the ground forces has been changed from a counter-insurgency role related to the jungles of South East Asia to roles more specifically related to the defence of Australia in the Australian environment. As I said, that has involved a radical change in the nature of equipment. As the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  has indicated, we have placed on order 2 patrol frigates, 8 long range maritime patrol aircraft, and the medium tanks. 
-I notice that the Leader of the Opposition is interrupting again. He made a claim- this is one of the grave errors that is so obvious in the Opposition's statements on defence -that by 1981 we will be able to deploy only 3 destroyers with operational capability. If the honourable gentleman was prepared to listen he would know- if he will make a note of it he will not make that same mistake again- that by 198 1 the Royal Australian Navy's destroyer strength will be eleven, of which a minimum of two and a maximum of four will be undertaking refitting at any one time. Therefore the minimum operational deployment out of the 1 1 destroyers, allowing for their refits and so on, will be 7 destroyers. 
But what concerns me is the extraordinary facility that the Opposition has for not putting a point of view but for putting a whole series of errors, and that is all that the Leader of the Opposition has done. I would be very happy to table the record of his interview on the television program 'Monday Conference'. Time after time he hedged; time after time he refused to answer a question. From the statements made by the Leader of the Opposition and by the shadow Minister for Defence, nobody could even get the vaguest glimmer of what constitutes the defence policy of the Liberal and Country Parties. The statement made today by the Minister for Defence, the statements that he has made previously and the action that is being taken by the Australian Government revolve around one thing, and that is the responsibility that we as a government are prepared to undertake for what is the basic responsibility of any governmentthe defence of Australia. 
The guilty men have raised themselves from the bloody mire of Australian involvement in Vietnam to point their fingers. But have the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Fraser)  and the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  forgotten the appalling My Lais of the Vietnam War, the searing deadliness of the napalm bombs, the deathdealing bombs that were dropped, not only on Hanoi but also on the rest of Vietnam by the United States of America? Their memories are conveniently short. Not once did they protest, and now they talk of humanitarian principles. These men who plunged Australia into war, these men who applauded killing, these men who applauded violence, these men who supported the United States' invasion of Cambodia and of Vietnam, not once protested about United States transgressions when evidence showed that both the Americans and the North Vietnamese had transgressed the 1954 Geneva agreements. Yet they talk about even-handedness. Not once was a protest made by them. They talk also of deception and of lies. These people belong to the very Parties that lied and lied and lied to the Australian people about Australia's involvement in Vietnam. 
I turn now to the statements that were made for the benefit of the Australian people about why Australians were in Vietnam. Infamous documents were distributed to con the Australian people. They were deceitful and lying. One of these documents states: 
Australia values the closeness and strength of its friendship and alliance with the United States. Our forces are in Vietnam to help the Government of the South at its request to resist a military campaign against it. 
I emphasise the words 'at its request'. Honourable members may recall the words of  Sir Robert  Menzies. Many honourable members in the chamber were in this Parliament in 1965. 1 shall quote what the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, said on 29 April 1965 because it indicates the deception and the lies upon which Australia's involvement in Vietnam was based. He said: 
The Australian Government is now in receipt of a request from the Government of South Vietnam for further military assistance. 
He went on: 
I think I should say that we decided in principle some time ago- weeks and weeks ago- that we would be willing to do this if we received the necessary request . . . 
I see that the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  is now in the chamber. He will recall very well the events I am relating. Repeated requests were made by the Australian Labor Party, then in Opposition, for letters that were exchanged with Vietnam to be tabled. Many years later they were. It is very obvious from those letters that what was involved was not a request from the South Vietnamese Government but the acceptance of an offer that was made under the sponsorship of the United States by Australia. If one wants to go into the details of how that particular offer to the South Vietnamese Government was manipulated, one can find it all in the Pentagon papers and the exchange of telegrams with Ambassador Maxwell Taylor. To save the time of the Parliament I refer honourable members to details on page 330 of the Hansard of 19 August 1971. The South Vietnamese Government was not anxious to have other military forces operating in South Vietnam but the United States, for its own purposes, wanted to have a broadening of the alliance so that the United States  President  could tell his own people that there was a wide support for United States policies. 
So things were engineered. But the important thing is that that exchange of documents which led to Australia's involvement in Vietnam took place on 29 April, that the then Prime Minister made his statement on 29 April that the Aus.tralian forces were ready for embarkation several weeks earlier. It is the very same man, the right honourable member for Lowe, as then Prime Minister and before that as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who was always maintaining that the Vietnam war was winnable. 
The Opposition when it was in government was not interested in the concept of negotiationof a negotiated settlement to the Vietnam conflict. It believed this great mystique generated by the propaganda machines of the Pentagonthat the war was winnable. What did the right honourable member say on 22 March 1966? I quote from Hansard. He said: 
The only other point that I want to mention is the argument of the Leader of the Opposition - 
Who is now the Prime Minister - that the war in Vietnam is unwinnable. That may have been the case a year ago when it looked as though it could have been a long drawn out struggle ultimately leading to a stalemate and possible compulsion at the conference table. That is not the case today. 
This is what the right honourable gentleman said on 22 March 1966. From that time on there was no effort and no sincere attempt by the Opposition when it was in government to reach a negotiated settlement on the Vietnam war. Yet members of the Opposition come here today and criticise the Labor Government for seeking even at the eleventh hour- we have been doing this ever since we came to power in 1972- a negotiated settlement of that war. These men who believed that the war was winnable have now found out that the war was winnable. This is the hypocrisy that motivates honourable gentlemen opposite. 
I now come to the telegrams and to the letters of 13 March that the Prime Minister tabled today. I hope that representatives of the 'Age' and the 'Sydney Morning Herald' are listening very carefully to this because there was never such an orchestrated response to the headline hunting statements of the Leader of the Opposition than the way that the 'Age' and 'Sydney Morning Herald' took up the case and ran with it. I will read the 2 letters of 13 March which the Prime Minister tabled today because I think they should be read. They will appear in Hansard tomorrow but I think it important that everybody listening, especially the few members of the Opposition in the chamber at the moment* note them. The letter to the Foreign Minister of North Vietnam states: 
I have the honour to reply to Your Excellency's letter . . . concerning ... the implementation of the Paris agreement. 
Although the Australian Government was not one of the signatories to the Paris agreement we have constantly supported its implementation and have looked to all of the parties to the Paris agreement to abide by its terms and to ensure that another opportunity to achieve an enduring peace in Vietnam is not lost. Unfortunately, Australia's hopes have not been realised. There has been continued lack of progress in the implementation of both the political and military provisions of the Paris agreement, now more than 2- years-old, and continued fighting in South Vietnam. 
I want honourable members to listen very carefully to this statement because this was a statement made to the Foreign Minister of North Vietnam. The Prime Minister said: 
The responsibility for this situation cannot be placed on South Vietnam alone. 
In identical words in a letter to President Thieu the same paragraphs appear but the wording then becomes: 
The responsibility for this situation cannot be placed on North Vietnam alone. 
As the Prime Minister has pointed out, the intent and the purport of the letter of 13 March followed up by the telegrams were to bring about negotiations. Is that such a bad thing? I know that for years the Opposition denied any attempt at meaningful negotiation. But the Prime Minister, in putting forward the proposition, allocated blame both to North Vietnam and to South Vietnam. Where, in an opposition, would one find men who would have the guts- just the plain ordinary guts- to make a statement like that to both sides? For so long the Opposition refused to accept the existence of China. It refused to accept the existence of North Vietnam. As a matter of prime Australian interest we have sought to ensure that the Australian viewpoint is put in those capitals which matter. 
If the Opposition Parties had been in Government it would have been impossible to send even a communication to North Vietnam because they would have continued to hide their heads, ostrich-like, as they did for over 2 decades in relation to China. So the Prime Minister put these viewpoints. He put them strongly. I believe the Parliament will support the proposition that the Prime Minister acted with great courage and in the interests of the Australian people in seeking to reach, even at that late stage, a settlement by negotiation of this long drawn out conflict. This is what the Opposition is seeking to criticise. The fact is that the Prime Minister sent very explicit messages. I hope that people will stop and read the messages and not read just the headlines which flow from the comments of the Leader of the Opposition. 
-I have read the cables. I trust that the honourable member for Moreton might, one of these days, sit down and read the cables. They put forward both propositions. The cables were sent on the same day to both North Vietnam and South Vietnam. The substantial difference was that in the case of South Vietnam we were urging them to adopt a policy on the political side of the Paris agreements and to establish a national council. On the other side we drew attention to the violation by North Vietnam. Obviously the 2 messages were similar in substance in the sense of what they were seeking to achieve. They were obviously different in the points which they brought up because there was an essential difference between the violations of both sides. These were the statements made by the Australian Government. I find it absurd that the Parliament has to waste its time with a repetition of the old catalogue, trying to substantiate the errors and the lies of the Opposition when it was in Government. We have conducted our policy in relation to both North Vietnam and South Vietnam. It is a policy which those guilty men opposite could never have sought to adopt because at the stage when they had the opportunity to protest and to make their views known, not one word was ever said. What monumental hypocrisy. 
-As the honourable member well knows, there have been incidents in which the Trade Practices Commission has taken up cases of misleading advertising and where appropriate action has been taken by the Trade 
Practices Commission. I can assure the honourable member that any cases of misleading advertising will be taken up by the Trade Practices Commission. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
I refer the right honourable member to the reply to Question No. 1916(21 April 1975, Hansard pages 1917-1937) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Within the Department of Science, the Australian Government Analytical Laboratory and the Metric Conversion and Standards section are involved in activities which bear directly or indirectly on consumer protection. 
All Divisions within CSIRO may contribute at one time or another to work which bears directly or indirectly on consumer protection. Groups particularly involved are the Divisions of Textile Industry, Textile Physics, and Protein Chemistry, which together form the Wool Research Laboratories; the Division of Food Research; the National Measurement Laboratory; and the new division of Human Nutrition. 
The Australian Government Analytical Laboratory is involved in activities such as the testing of foodstuffs for freedom from harmful micro-organisms and contamination by pesticides and heavy metals, and the testing of imports for compliance with import standards. The Laboratory is involved at the present time with a survey of the biological and chemical quality of cheese. Assistance in the survey is being given by Divisions of CSIRO. The laboratory is starting a survey of the tar and nicotine content of cigarettes, and I refer to my reply to parliamentary question No. 590 for further details. 
The Metric Conversion and Standards Section acts as a coordinating centre for co-operation between federal and State bodies and commercial organisations on matters relating to consumer affairs. 
The activities of CSIRO I have referred to briefly in ( 1 ) above. Enlarging on these for the Divisions which I have detailed, the National Measurement Laboratory is responsible for the Australian standards of physical and electrical quantities, that is to say, standards of length, mass, volume, time, voltage, current, and so on. As well as maintaining the primary Australian standards, the Laboratory offers a calibration service to industry and the Australian and State Government Departments to ensure that measurements throughout Australia are in agreement. The Division's officers are heavily involved with the activities of the National Association of Testing Authorities (NATA), a body which registers testing laboratories which meet certain specified requirements in terms of equipment, staff and procedures as being competent in the measurement for which registration has been granted. NATA itself receives a Government subsidy through CSIRO. 
The Division of Food Research studies factors which affect the quality, preservation, storage and processing of meat and the quality, fermentation and processing of dairy products; and pursues product and process research relating to fruit, vegetables, poultry and fish. 
Recently a new food information service aimed specifically at the consumer was established within the Division. The service will answer consumer inquiries and provide a number of free leaflets giving expert guidance on food subjects. The first two leaflets deal with the safety aspect of buying, storing and handling of food in the home, while other leaflets are planned on the art of bulk buying and storing meat, hints on handling milk and dairy products, and how to take advantage of a market glut of oranges. 
The Wool Research Laboratories study all aspects of the use of wool. These include dyeing treatments, moth proofing, permanent press, and fire proofing. The work of the Division of Protein Chemistry in relation to flammability has received world-wide recognition, has formed the basis of four Australian standards, and will certainly affect forthcoming international flammability standards. 
On 1 January 1975, the Division of Human Nutrition was established. Currently the Division is engaged in research projects commenced in the former Division of Nutritional Biochemistry, relating to the basic biochemistry of nutritional processes. Final decisions on the research programmes to be undertaken will be arrived at after discussions between the Chief, when appointed, and the CSIRO Executive. However, at this stage, the Executive considers that appropriate areas for study might include trace elements, minerals and vitamins; nutritional status and energy metabolism under varying environmental and socioeconomic conditions; the impact of tehcnological and social developments on dietary patterns and nutrient intakes; nutrient values of foods; and biochemical aspects of nutrition in relation to growth and development. 
Within the Department of Science approximately eight officers are engaged full time on activities of direct interest to the Australian consumer. 
Reference to the reply to pan 1 of the right honourable member's question will make it clear that because of the varying commitments of CSIRO Divisions to consumer protection activities it is difficult to provide a valid estimate of CSIRO personnel either directly or indirectly involved at any one time. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to both parts of this question can be found in my reply to Question No. 264, which also relates to consumer activities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. CSIRO 's fisheries research program is concerned with marine species. The Organization has no particular expertise in freshwater fisheries, which are the responsibility of State fisheries authorities. 
There have been no requests for research on European Carp from State or Australian Government bodies. 
The following Members of Parliament have enquired about research on this species: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
CSIRO has examined various possible approaches to control of water hyacinth, and concluded that biological control has the best prospects, especially as the United States of America has already carried out fairly extensive studies in this area. CSIRO will introduce organisms that have shown promise in the United States and study their suitability for the Australian situation before their release at field sites is contemplated. The work will be based at Brisbane. 
CSIRO has received no requests for research from 
State Departments. Approaches have been made by the following private organisations: North Rockhampton Branch of the Australian Labor Party, Grafton Branch of the Aus.tralian Country Party, Capricornia National Park and Wildlife Preservation Association, and Capricorn Conservation Council. 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the right honourable member's question: 
The question was answered on 14 May 1975 (Hansard, page 2296). 
SEATO Naval Exercise (Question No. 2241) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The list of outlets is as follows: 
Collins Ltd, Vic. 
J.Fairfax,N.S.W. 
Advertiser Ltd, S. A. 
W.A. Newspapers Ltd. 
Qld. Newspapers Ltd. 
Davies Bros. Ltd, Tas. 
Australian Government Publications and Inquiry Centres in each State Capital. 
The Australian Government Publishing Service estimates that approximately 84 000 copies of the booklet have been sold to date. 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
In consultation with the Presiding Officers of the Houses of Parliament, the Government made a decision to implement recommendations of the Joint Publications Committee, made at a time when the Liberal Country Party coalition was in power, with respect to the pricing of Hansards. 
The resulting prices took account of some, but not all, of the costs involved in the production and distribution of the Hansards and which had been considered by the Committee in reaching its recommendations. The cost elements in the pricing calculations were as follows: 
The Minister for the Media has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) It is a fact that on the 7.45 a.m. A.B.C News on Monday, 14 April, 1 10 words were devoted to a speech made by the Prime Minister to an A.L.P. meeting in N.S.W. on the previous day. 
It is not a fact that no words were devoted on A.B.C. News to items contained in speeches made during that period by the Leader of the Opposition. 
The A.B.C. 's National News Bulletin on 13 April at 12.30 p.m. carried a statement made by the Leader of the Opposition in Brisbane concerning the Opposition's foreign policy (110 words), and at 7 p.m. reported the 12 point aid plan for Inod-China released by the Leader of the Opposition (229 words). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) (a) Aircraft lost or written off: 
Summer season 
The answer to both parts of this question can be found in my reply to Question No. 1788 (Hansard, 14 May 1975, page 2298), which also relates to European Carp. 
Department of Special Minister of State: Grants for Programs (Question No. 1559)  Mr Snedden  asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
What programs does his Department or statutory authorities under his control administer which enable individual groups or people in the community to apply for grants from the Australian Government for a specific purpose. 
What is the name of each program. 
What is the purpose of each program. 
What are the conditions surrounding eligibility for a grant under each program. 
When did each program commence. 
What is the legal authority for the existence of each program. 
How is the community informed of the existence of each program, and its entitlement to apply for a grant. 
How many applications for grants under each program have been received in each of the last 3 years or for the period of operation of the program if it has been in operation less than 3 years. 
Who decides which applications for grants should be accepted. 
What percentage of applications for grants under each program have been successful in each of the last 3 years or in each of the years in which the program has been operating if it has been in operation for less than 3 years. 
What proportion of total funds allocated under each program in each of the last 3 years, or in each year the program has been operating where it has been in operation for less than 3 years, have been allocated to individuals as against groups. 
12) Are any attempts made to assess the extent to which the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the program, and the means by which applications can be submitted; if so, what attempts. 
What checks are made once applications are received for each program to determine if the attempts to widen access to the funds have been successful. 
Is he confident that the widest cross-section of the community is aware of the existence of the programs, and is aware of the application process. 
What procedures exist to assess the use to which the grams are being put, and to attempt some accountability for the money granted. 
What is the total amount that has been paid out under each program in each of the last 3 years or in each year of the operation of the program if it has been operating for less than 3 yean. 
What is the total amount of money paid out for all such programs administered by his Department or authorities under his control. 
What attempts are made to ensure that the same individual organisations or persons do not receive several grants under different programs which he or other Ministers are responsible for and which, when added together, may be unwarranted. 
-As the honourable gentleman will be aware, there are difficulties in the Crown versus the Crown in terms of court cases. But I can assure the honourable gentleman that the Government operates on the basis of the same sorts of ethics as we hope to be able to expect from the private sector. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill gives effect to an exchange of notes concluded on 2 1 March 1974 between the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  as Acting Foreign Minister, and  Mr Marshall  Green, the United States Ambassador, acting on behalf of our respective Governments. The exchange of notes was tabled on 20 November last. It amends the Agreement of 9 May 1963 between the Government of Australia and the Government of the United States of America relating to the establishment of a United States naval communication station in Australia. 
The exchange of notes followed discussions which the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  had in Washington in January 1974 with the United States Secretary of Defence,  Mr Schlesinger.  As they stated at the time, they agreed that the exchange of letters of 7 May 1963 between the United States Ambassador,  Mr Battle,  and the Australian Minister for External Affairs,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, relating to this subject was no longer necessary. 
The new exchange of notes provides for 3 amendments to the 1963 Agreement. An amendment to article 1 of the Agreement provides that the station at North West Cape shall be operated jointly while amendment to article 2 limits United States Navy exclusive occupation to a national room and provides for a similar Australian national room. The land use arrangement under the 1963 Agreement is amended to reflect the changed conditions of use and occupancy. An amendment of Article 14 of the Agreement provides that the Australian Government will meet only the costs directly associated with the location of the Royal Australian Navy at the station, such as salaries, allowances and accommodation. An Australian Deputy Commander took up duty at North West Cape on 19 July 1974 while a Royal Australian Navy contingent of 47 officers and men will be posted to the station before the end of next month. Fourteen of these will man the Australian communications centre. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
The Minister for the Media has supplied the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Because the very detailed information sought by the honourable member was not immediately available to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, it was necessary for the Board to obtain information from the two industry bodies- the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations and the Federation of Australian Commercial Broadcasters. The Board has now provided me with the information which the Federations have supplied concerning the activities of their member stations. I incorporate in my answer the results of the reports, which are in the form of detailed lists covering 103 appeals conducted by radio and television stations during the past two years. 
The Board has advised me that it understands that in many cases the precise sum donated to particular charities is not known, either because the appeals have not yet closed or because the stations are not necessarily the collection centres to which the donations are delivered. In the latter situation the station may be only one of a number of collection centres or else the money may be delivered direct to the charitable organisation concerned. I am advised that in these cases the charitable organisations have provided the stations with an indication of the total amount received. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question on notice No. 264 (Hansard, 14 May 1975, page 2296). 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the right honourable member to my answer to question on notice No. 1763 (Hansard, 14 May, 1975, page 2298). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I will be prepared to discuss further with the Minister for Health the possibility that the National Association of Testing Authorities might be responsible for accreditation of pathology services. 
The Commission for Consumer Affairs which the Australian Government has decided to establish will no doubt wish to make use of NATA laboratories in appropriate cases for testing of consumer goods. I recently proposed that firms should regard NATA registration of then- laboratories as a recognition of having reached a standard of quality control acceptable to the Association; such use of NATA registration would assist the public to identify those firms that have established adequate quality control. 
-I share the concern of the honourable member for Shortland about the collection and disposition of funds collected by television stations. I personally was not aware that deductions were made by television stations from the sums that they collected. These funds in fact can be quite substantial. Some television stations do not make any deductions, but other television stations make deductions up to $27,000. 1 regret to say, in response to the question that the honourable member has posed, that under the Broadcasting and Television Act the Australian Government has no powers whatsoever in respect of the matter raised. 
I think this is a cause for disquiet. We certainly believe that there should be accountability for the funds raised through telethons. I believe that the people who so generously donate funds have every right to expect that the funds which they donate will be made available for the purposes for which they are being collected. The Minister for the Northern Territory has made a number of observations concerning the funds that have been raised for the Darwin appeal. In a report that the Minister tabled I think there is a further area for disquiet as he pointed out that a number of organisations were holding relief moneys and that, due to the fragmentation and the lack of one consolidated fund, there had been duplication of relief payments and an inequitable distribution of funds. 
In response to the question, I think there is a capacity for a gigantic rort on the part of the television stations collecting funds. There must be accountability. Their accounts must be audited. I will take up the suggestion coming from the honourable member for Shortland that the Broadcasting and Television Act be amended to provide for this type of responsible control. I hope that Opposition members will support this sort of amendment to give the necessary powers to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. I will refer the question that has been raised by the honourable member for Shortland to the AttorneyGeneral for any action that he may see fit. 
-As the honourable member will be aware, the Minister for Police and Customs and I issued a statement which advised that there is now a curtailment of the import of the sort of sets referred to by the honourable member. I might say that the sets, which are of West German origin, are perfectly safe for use in West Germany. When the normal Australian earthing systems are applied, the television sets are highly dangerous. The company involved in a West German company called Graetz. I want to underline that not all the sets produced by that company have this dangerous capacity. Unfortunately the Australian Government is not empowered under any existing legislation to require the recall of the sets. We have to use the customs powers to prevent the importation, of such sets. But under the legislation that will be introduced in regard to the Consumer Affairs Commission, which it is hoped will be introduced in the Budget session of the Parliament, we will be making provision for the recall of any equipment that is deemed to be unsafe. I hope that when that legislation is introduced the Opposition will give it its full support. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Committee of Inquiry into the Citizen Military Forces did recommend a computer system for personal and pay records for members of the Army Reserve. In making this recommendation, the Committee recognized that the proposed system would be a long term major undertaking. 
The Committee's recommendation is being studied by the Department of Defence with a view to implementation as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-As the honourable member will be aware, my predecessor asked for further actuarial examination. I have now received that report. Unfortunately, there is a dissenting report. This matter is now being examined by the Government. As far as the updating of benefits is concerned, the Government has said that it will update benefits. We had hoped to establish permanent procedures but this was affected by the defeat of the Superannuation Bill in the Senate. I hope to bring into the House legislation which will provide, in this financial year, an updating of the benefits but the establishment of permanent procedures will have to await the attitude of the Opposition to the Superannuation Bill. 
We have heard this evening from the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  I am sure that we all have a great admiration for the 19th century eloquence of the honourable member. Regrettably, his thinking and that of the Opposition on defence is of exactly the same vintage. One of the great problems that I have found on sitting through this debate is that it is quite obvious that the members of the Opposition have not read the legislation and have not read the Tange report. Fortunately for every member of the Opposition who has made a speech tonight,  Dr Millar  produced an argument in a series of articles that was published very recently in the newspapers. Those articles, of course, were central to every point that was made by the Opposition tonight. Let us look at what has really happened with respect to the reorganisation that has been recommended by the Secretary of the Department of Defence and that has been supported by the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff. 
-It has been supported by the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff.  Mr Deputy 

 Speaker, I would be delighted to table documentation from the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff, who wrote to  Dr Millar  putting forward the points of view that he very sincerely and according to his professional judgment supported the recommendations contained in the Tange report and the legislation that is before this House. The question that should be asked is whether we should take account of the advice of those people. I did not appoint  Sir Arthur  Tange as the Secretary of the Department of Defence. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The Minister suggested that he would table some documents. I ask the Minister whether he wants to do so. 
-I would be delighted to do so,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if I could be given leave to do so and if, having gone through the documents I have before me tonight, I can find them. 
The Secretary of the Department of Defence was appointed not by the Labor Government but by the former LiberalCountry Party Government. The  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff was likewise appointed not by the Labor Government but by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. Those two men, who have the expertise in the actual administration of departments and the actual command of forces, have put forward this proposition, which is a proposition that the Government has supported. Let us look at what is the proposition. First of all it is the abolition of the 3 Service boards. I did not hear one argument advanced by the Opposition to the effect that that was not a good thing. One just cannot run any form of defence force by a committee structure of boards. I will speak about Army generals if the honourable member for Moreton wishes. When  Sir Thomas  Blarney became the supreme commander of the Australian forces in 1942 the very first act that he undertook was to abolish the Army Military Board. What we are proposing is the wiping out of the anachronistic boards. There are 3 boards- the Army, Navy and Air boards. That is very important and very central to the legislation. Not one criticism of that decision has come forward. What we have done is to imbue the man who is the commander of the defence force with a statutory authority. The  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff- the present No. 1 serviceman in Australia- has no statutory authority. He occupies his position by convention. I am sure that the honourable member for Moreton and the other honourable gentlemen who sit opposite do not believe that the commander of an Australian force should be there by a convention but believe that his position should be there by a statute of this Parliament in which his powers are laid out by the elected representatives of the Australian people so that in the event of a crisis he may thoroughly command the Australian forces. 
The positions of the Chiefs of Staff-of the Chief of Air Staff, the Chief of Naval Staff and the Chief of General Staff- also do not involve, because of the existence of the boards at present, the powers that we will be giving them under this legislation whereby they will be given by statute the direct command- not a command shared by a statutory committee but the direct commandover each of their services. I ask members of the Opposition: Where have they tonight come up with one suggestion, one recommendation, that seeks to improve this legislation. 
-I will come to the Defence Council in a moment. No, members of the Opposition have adopted a policy of obstruction; a policy of delay. They are holding the defence organisation of this country to ransom for just petty party political purposes. This is an Opposition which shows no concern at all for the defence of this country. The Opposition is made up of the very people who sent Australian defence forces to Vietnam; the very people who wasted hundreds of millions of dollars in defence establishments overseas and completely ignored the defence of Australia. These are the people who are now trying to delay and to obstruct a reorganisation of the Australian defence forces- a long overdue reorganisation because of their utter neglect. 
Let me deal with a couple of the points that were made. The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  talked about the position of a Minister. I was glad to hear the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  point out that under a democratic system any person who occupies the position of Minister for Defence has an authority from the elected representatives of the people through this Parliament. That will always be the position. The honourable member for Kennedy seemed to think that just because he did not happen to be the Minister for Defence, any powers given to the Minister were completely undemocratic or completely against the Services. But when he was Minister for the Army the power that he had under the legislation which specifically related to him was as follows: 
Each Service board has the control and administration of all matters relating to its services . . . 
As far as the Army board is concerned this control and administration is'in accordance with the policy directed by the Minister'. When the honourable member for Moreton was the Minister for the Navy, exactly the same thing occurredthe Service Board under his administration acted upon the policy directed by the Minister. 
So there is nothing unusual in the legislation which lays down that the direction of the Services is under the control of an elected representative of the Australian people who sits in this Parliament and who is a Minister of the Crown. 
Let me get down to a question on which the honourable member for Moreton and also the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  invited me to comment, namely the question of what constitutes command. The honourable member for Moreton in his days as a Minister should have been aware of the Joint Services concept of command because it is a very precise concept. The concept is as follows: 
Command is to be taken as meaning the authority -  Mr Killen-  Is the Minister being precise? 
-Will the honourable member for Moreton allow me to answer the questions which he raised during the debate? As I was saying, the concept is as follows: 
Command is to be taken as meaning the authority which a commander in the military service lawfully exercises over his subordinates by virtue of rank or appointment. Command includes the authority and responsibility for effectively using available resources and for planning the employment of, organising, directing, co-ordinating and controlling military forces m the accomplishment of assigned duties. It also includes the responsibility for the welfare, morale and discipline of personnel under command. 
That is particularly clear. That is the concept and I am sure that the honourable gentlemen on the left of the honourable member for Moreton would believe that is the accepted concept. However, I cannot help it if he does not know military terminology. I have just stated this in words of one syllable because the honourable member for Moreton asked what was meant by 'command'. That is precisely what ' command ' means. 
The honourable member has asked about administration. The administration of the defence force is to be the joint responsibility of the Commander of Defence Force and the Secretary of the Department of Defence except- I will spell this out clearly- in relation to matters coming within the command, going back to the definition, vested in the Chief of Defence Force Staff and the Chiefs of Staff or in relation to matters specified by the Minister to be the responsibility of either the Secretary or the Chief of Defence Force. 
There seems to be a great deal of concern about the position that is occupied by the Secretary of the Department and by civilian interests. 
-I am delighted that the honourable member did not have the opportunity to write it. Let us take the position of the Secretary of any department in the Public ServiceI will use the phrase 'Commonwealth Public Service' because I know that it is particularly appropriate to the honourable member for Moreton. The Secretary of a Commonwealth department has complete authority of the matters for which his department is responsible. Under this legislation the power of the Secretary- the Permanent Head- of the Department of Defence is read down because part of the powers that would be exercised under the normal Public Service concept of a Secretary or Head of a department, such as powers in the field of administration, are exercised by the Commander of the Defence Force. 
Let me refer to  Dr Millar  and the arguments he used. Members of the Opposition seem to have read only the remarks of  Dr Millar  on this subject. I must ring Tom Millar tomorrow to congratulate him because if members of the Opposition has read his remarks they would have had very little to say.  Dr Millar  forgets in the arguments that he put forward that under the restructuring proposals there is right throughout the Defence Department an intermingling and an interchange of the positions. In each of the sections of the Department, in each of the branches of the Department, there are civilians and there are military people for the first time involved in strategic assessments. There are people involved in materials, in appropriations and in the whole range of matters concerned with defence. The Army, Navy and Air Force people are sitting down and working side by side with civilians. In certain cases they have responsibility over civilians; in other cases civilians have responsibility over military people. But there is necessary interweaving to provide an effective defence force, an effective defence back-up for our defence force in Austrafia. 
Another matter to which I want to refer is the Defence Council. The honourable member for Bradfield put forward another  Dr Millar  proposition for a Defence Council. On one hand, the honourable member complained about too many committees and, on the other, he said: 'Let us have at least another committee'. If he reads the legislation he will see that apart from the Chiefs of Staff Committee, which provides for the military side under the chairmanship of the Commander of Defence Force, there are a number of other committees. But the important thing is the access directly to the Minister that is provided in the legislation for each Chief of 
Staff-the CNS, CAS and CGS-and the type of liaison and control that is contained in the Bill. It is a very effective form of liaison. The British have a Defence Council that never meets. 
Let the honourable member table the minutes of the last meeting of the British Defence Council. The organisation is I believe based upon the wisdom and the expertise of Australia's chief defence experts. These are people whom members of the Opposition, in government, appointed. The present Government is prepared to take their advice on the basis of the expertise that they have. But what has the Opposition done tonight? It has come in blindly. Members of the Opposition have even gone back to Plato and Greece. They have gone back 3000 years, which is just about their concept of defence structuring, and they have sought to create obstacles and to postpone and delay the provisions that we have put forward in this legislation. The Australian Government will not put up with this obstructionism. This Government thoroughly opposes the amendment. We will oppose it here and I hope that a little common sense will prevail with the colleagues of honourable members opposite in the Senate and that they will not seek to delay this very important measure which is designed to ensure that the defence organisation of this country has the improvements that are very necessary and long overdue. In short, we oppose the amendment moved by the Opposition and we regret that honourable members opposite saw fit to move it. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Killen's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
I very much regret that tonight the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has sought to make a mockery of a piece of legislation that is very relevant to the defence of this country. May I just take up a couple of points he made which are not relevant to the defence of this country but which were raised because the honourable member for Moreton has had little else to do but to pick up a few scant phrases in his preparation for this debate. The reason why the definition of Commonwealth is excluded from the new Bill is that the definition of Commonwealth in the old legislation said: 
The Commonwealth' includes the territories of the Commonwealth to which this Act extends. 
The honourable gentleman would be very much aware that Christmas Island is not a territory of the Commonwealth. If he had been in the House this morning, he would have realised that the main territory for which the Commonwealth was responsible, Papua New Guinea, moves to independence in less than a month's time. The honourable gentleman also talked about the Royal Australian Air Force. Nowhere in the Bill and nowhere in the old Defence Act is there any reference to the Royal Australian Air Force. The whole of the Air Force is dependent upon Acts. The main Act is not called the Royal Australian Air Force Act 1923-1973; it is simply called the Air Force Act 1 923- 1 973. 
Clause agreed to. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. A report on the activities of the Chemical Defence Board is given in Chapter 17 of 'The Role of Science and Industry-Australia in the War of 1939-45' by D. P. Mellor. Attention is also drawn to the answers given by my predecessor in the House of 26 February and 15 April this year to related questions. 
Locations of trials were Townsville, Singleton, Forbes, Grafton, Innisfail, Tully, Cairns, Humpty-Doo, Darwin, Port Wakefield. 
Trials took place at various times in 1943, 1944 and 1945. It is not known for how long individual servicemen took part in the trials. 
Total not known, but it appears that at least 400 volunteers participated in trials. 
According to the records only two men who took part in the trials are known to have come from a Wollongong unit- the 34th Battalion. 
It is assumed that they did act as volunteers since the records examined show no evidence to the contrary. 
The records examined showed no evidence of their having done so for these experiments but it is expected that those volunteering would have been required to give undertakings not to divulge information to which they might obtain access. This procedure would conform to the normal and necessary Defence practice of holding individuals responsible for protecting information, the release of which would be prejudicial to national security. The requirement for those concerned in the chemical warfare trials to give security undertakings would have been no different from similar requirements in many other operations affecting national security. 
The term 'guinea pig' does not appear in any Departmental (including Service) records that have been examined, except when referring to the rodent of that name. However, the term is used by the author of the official War History (reference in ( 1 ) above, on page 378) as follows: 
When Gorrill moved to Townsville the physiologists became their own guinea pigs . . . '. 
No. It is understood, however, that all volunteers who participated in gas warfare trials were awarded commendation cards in recognition of their loyal and unselfish services. The Department of Repatriation and Compensation considers all cases impartially. Like my predecessor, I invite all who believe they are suffering from any disabilities resulting from chemical warfare trials, and have not already done so, to make applications to the relevant Deputy Commissioner for Repatriation in the State or Territory in which they live. 
Not known. 
Probably. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Britain and Australia are developing the BARRA sonics system through a collaborative arrangement in which Australia is developing the sonobuoys and Britain the airborne processing equipment. The Minister for Defence in the House of Representatives on 9 April 1974 stated that it was intended that Australia would fit the system to the LRMP replacement aircraft. This intention was reaffirmed in a statement by the Minister for Defence on 28 May 1975 on the selection of the Lockheed P3C Orion aircraft. That statement noted that the BARRA system promises to be superior to any other equipment of its type now available overseas or under development. Development in both countries is proceeding satisfactorily. 
Sales of the BARRA sonobuoy have not yet been made, however, under the terms of a Memorandum of Understanding about to be signed between Australia and Britain, orders will be exchanged between the two countries for sonobuoys and processing equipment. 
There have been no press releases on Project BARRA apart from that made by the Minister for Defence on the LRMP aircraft on 28 May 1975. Brief statements concerning the project have been made in the documents 'Supply 1973 ' (page 6) and 'Supply 1974'(page 5). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Committee recommended 'That administrative procedures be simplified, with greater delegation of authority to commanding officers'. Investigations into means of simplifying administrative procedures are proceeding concurrently with the reorganisation of the Army Reserve. The Army Reserve is currently being reorganised in accordance with the recommendations of the Millar Report. Admendments to delegation authorities will be necessary when the new organisation has been implemented. 
The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  will be very much aware of the drafting practices of the present Government which relate definitions to 'Australia'. For this reason and the reason I gave hitherto, we do not consider it necessary to hold the term 'Commonwealth ' in every part of the Bill. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 7. 
Last evening, as the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  pointed out, I gave a definition of the concept of command. I think the essential feature there is the words 'which a commander in the military service lawfully exercises over his subordinates by virtue of rank or appointment '. This is a difficult area as the honourable member for Moreton himself would have recognised having at one stage exercised the position of Minister for the Navy. Under the Constitution, any Minister is responsible for the administration of a Department of State. One cannot be a Minister under the Constitution unless one has a Department of State to administer. The manner in which that administration takes place comes under the various rules and regulations which have been established by precedent- the Public Service Act and so on. In this area of command and administration, the Bill provides that the Minister shall be responsible for the administration of the department and the defence forces under the Act. This provides, as any Bill provides, for the Minister to have the opportunity to decide to allocate these functions. I am sure that the learned and honourable member for Moreton will recognise the very great difficulty- I am sure that he felt this himself when he was administering a Department of State- in defining precisely concepts such as administration. What the Bill seeks to do- this was on the advice of the Parliamentary Counsel who recognised the great difficulties associated with precise definitions- is to ensure that the Minister has the responsibility under the Act. Two people would assist him in that administrationone being the Chief of the Defence Force Staff and the other the Secretary of the Department. Perhaps here there is the element- I agree with the honourable member for Moreton- of the way that the defence re-organisation must be administered. I should like to draw on a comment made by  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral because I believe that it is pertinent to the whole notion of making any administration work. In December last year, the GovernorGeneral said in his speeches at Duntroon and Point Cook: 
It has, for as long as I can remember, been a problem to persuade military people and civilians that they must cooperate with one another if both groups are to make a significant contribution to the formulation of defence policy. It is simply the case that neither purely military officers, nor purely civilian officers, can provide the country with what it needs in the defence field. Only by co-operation can this be done. 
In this field of distinguishing as between concepts of command and concepts of administration, I know that the honourable member for Moreton, having had to face up to this himself as a Minister of State, will recognise the supreme difficulty of drafting a watertight definition. What we are being guided by here is the element of co-operation, the element of commonsense, and the notions of command and of administration that have applied in the defence forces structure. I recognise the difficulty that the Parliamentary Counsel had. He, in his wisdom, decided that this was a matter for the administration. We accepted his advice in this. 
In the spirit of courtesy that prevaileth today- there was not quite so much last night- may I make the observation that the Air Force Act until 1964 contained the following words in section 3(1): 
There shall be an Air Force, to be called the Royal Australian Air Force, which may be raised, maintained and organised by the Governor-General for the defence and protection of the Commonwealth and shall be part of the Defence Force constituted under the Defence Act. 
Section 3 was repealed in 1964, not by a Labor government but by a Liberal government, by Act No. 94 of 1964. A new section 4a was inserted and it read: 
The Air Force of the Commonwealth consists of three parts, namely, the Permanent Air Force, the Air Force Emergency Force and the Citizen Air Force. 
There is no reference at all in that Act to the Royal Australian Air Force. The drafting change we have introduced here is to call it the Australian Air Force, but I want to assure the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  I want to assure the Australian public at large, and particularly do I want to assure the members of the Royal Australian Air Force that the nomenclature 'Royal Australian Air Force' will be maintained. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 113 to 187- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Remainder of the Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
in reply- In response to the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  let me say that the reason that there are so many amendments- I apologise for it- is that, as he will be aware, on 6 March my colleague the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  introduced the Ombudsman Bill, which I suppose is the civilian equivalent of this Bill, to establish the office of the Australian Ombudsman. A number of amendments were made to that Bill, and because the Defence Force Ombudsman Bill follows very closely the Ombudsman Bill we felt it necessary to make the same amendments to the Defence Force Ombudsman Bill as were made to the Ombudsman Bill. That is the explanation for the amendments. The honourable member for Moreton also raised a question relating to the amendment to clause 5(4). That sub-clause has been the subject of public criticism on 2 grounds. The first is that there is no similar limit on the  powers of State ombudsmen. The second criticism is that, if the intention is merely to exclude cases where no independent discretion at all is exercised in giving effect to a Cabinet or ministerial decision, it is too wide and is unnecessary having regard to paragraph (a) of clause 5(3) of the Bill which excludes actions taken by a Minister from investigation by the Defence Force Ombudsman. In addition, the clause is inconsistent with sub-clause 1 7( 1 ) of the Bill which contemplates that the Defence Force Ombudsman can investigate actions taken in accordance with an ordinance or regulation, in which case he can call into question the reasonableness of a decision of the Executive Council. So on these grounds and in responding to what we thought were very justifiable criticisms of the original clause we now propose in the amendment to omit the clause. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee 

The Bill. 
Clause 3. 
1 ) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears"authorized person" means- 
a person appointed by the Defence Force Ombudsman to be an authorized person for the purposes of this Act; or 
a person included in a class of persons appointed by the Defence Force Ombudsman to be authorized persons for the purposes of this Act; 
Department' means a Department of the Australian Public Service other than the Department of the Senate, the Department of the House of Representatives, the Department of the Parliamentary Library, the Department of the Parliamentary Reporting Staff and the Joint House Department; dependant of a member of the Defence Force' means- 
in relation to action taken under an enactment- a person who is, or is claiming to be, a dependant of a member of the Defence Force for the purposes of that enactment; or 
in any other case- a person who is wholly or partly dependent on a member of the Defence Force; enactment' means- 
an Act; 
an Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory or of the Northern Territory; or 
an instrument (including rules, regulations or bylaws) made under an Act or under such an Ordinance; officer of a public authority' means- 
in the case of a Department- 
a person (including the principal officer of a Department) employed, whether in a permanent or temporary capacity, in the Department; or 
any other person (not being a Minister) authorized to exercise powers or perform functions of the Department on behalf of the Department; and 
in the case of any other public authority- 
the person who constitutes, or is acting as the person who constitutes, the authority; 
a person who is, or is acting as, a member of the authority or is a deputy of such a member; 
a person who is employed in the service, or is a member of the staff, of the authority, whether or not he is employed by the authority; or 
a person authorized by the authority to exercise any powers or perform any functions of the authority; 
Ordinance', in relation to the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory, includes a law of a State that applies, or the provisions of a law of a State that apply, in the Territory by virtue of an enactment; principal officer' means- 
in relation to the Defence Force- the  Chairman,  Chiefs of Staff Committee; 
in relation to a Department- the person holding, or performing the duties of, the office of Permanent Head of the Department; or 
in relation to a public authority other than a Department- the person holding, or performing the duties of, the office declared by the regulations to be the principal office in respect of the authority; public authority' means- 
a Department; or 
an authority or body (not being a court) established for a public purpose by a law of Australia, by a law of the Australian Capital Territory or by a law of the Northern Territory other than- 
an authority or body that is declared by the regulations to be an authority or body to which this Act does not apply; or 
an authority or body that is constituted by, or includes among its members, a Justice or Judge of a court established by a law of Australia or a person who has, by virtue of an Act, the same status as a Justice or Judge of such a court; responsible Minister' means- 
in relation to action taken by the Defence Forcethe Minister for Defence; 
in relation to action taken in relation to a matter for which a Department is responsible- the Minister administering that Depanment; or 
in relation to action taken in relation to a matter for which a public authority other than a department is responsible- the Minister administering the enactment by which the authority is established, or another Minister acting for and on behalf of that Minister. 
For the purposes of this Act, action that is taken by a member of the Defence Force shall be deemed to be taken by the Defence Force if the member takes, or purports to take, the action by virtue of his being a member of the Defence Force, whether or not- 
the action is taken in connexion with, in the course of or as incidental to his service as a member of the Defence Force; or 
b) the taking of the action is within his duties as a member of the Defence Force. 
Subject to sub-section (4), for the purposes of this Act, action taken by the Governor-General to appoint a person to be an officer of the Naval Forces, the Military Forces or the Air Force, to promote such an officer, to terminate the appointment, or cancel the commission, of such an officer, to accept or refuse to accept the resignation of such an officer, to transfer such an officer from one branch or part of the Defence Force to another branch or part of that Force or to place such an officer upon an unattached list, a reserve of officers list or a retired list shall be deemed to be taken by the Defence Force but any other action taken by the GovernorGeneral in relation to the Defence Force shall be deemed not to be action taken by the Defence Force. 
Action taken by any person or persons by way of, or in connexion with, the appointment of a person to be the  Chairman,  Chiefs of Staff Committee, the Chief of Naval Staff, the Chief of the General Staff or the Chief of the Air Staff is not action taken by the Defence Force or the Department of Defence for the purposes of this Act. 
For the purposes of this Act, action that is taken by an officer of a Department shall be deemed to be taken by the Department- 
if the officer takes, or purports to take, the action by virtue of his being an officer of the Department, whether or not- 
the action is taken for orin connexion with, or as incidental to, the performance of the functions of the Depanment; or 
the taking of the action is within the duties of the officer; or 
if the officer takes, or purports to take, the action in the exercise of powers or the performance of functions conferred on him by an enactment. 
For the purposes of this Act, action that is taken by an officer of a public authority other than a Department shall be deemed to be taken by the authority- 
if the officer takes, or purports to take, the action by virtue of his being an officer of the authority, whether or not- 
i) the action is taken for or in connexion with, or as incidental to, the performance of the functions of the authority; or 
the taking of the action is within the duties of the officer; or 
if the officer takes, or purports to take, the action in the exercise of powers or the performance of functions conferred on him by an enactment. 
In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears, a reference to the taking of action includes a reference to- 
the making of a decision or recommendation; and 
the failure or refusal to take any action or to make a decision or recommendation. 
A reference in this Act to the international relations of Australia is a reference to the relations of Australia with the Government of another country or with an international organization. 
In this Act (other than in sub-section (2)), unless the contrary intention appears, a reference to a member of the Defence Force or of a part of that Force includes a reference to a person who has been a member of the Defence Force or of that part of that Force. 
10) For the purpose of this Act, a report shall be taken to have been made or furnished to the Defence Force if it is made or furnished to the principal officer of the Defence Force. 
Clause 5. 
Where, at any time during an investigation into action taken by the Defence Force or a public authority, the Defence Force Ombudsman becomes of the opinion that the action was taken in the course of giving effect to a decision of the Cabinet, of a Committee of the Cabinet or of a Minister and that the Defence Force or the public authority, as the case may be, did not act improperly in the course of giving effect to that decision, the Defence Force Ombudsman shall not investigate the action further. 
Clause 9. 
A complaint shall be made to the Defence Force Ombudsman in writing. 
Clause 1 1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of any other enactment, a person is not excused from furnishing information, producing a document or other record or answering a question when required to do so under this Act on the ground that the furnishing of the information, the production of the document or record or the answer to the question would contravene the provisions of any other Act, would be contrary to the public interest or might tend to incriminate him or make him liable to a penalty, but his answer to any such question is not admissible in evidence against him in proceedings other than proceedings for an offence against section 35. 
Subject to this Act, a person attending before the Defence Force Ombudsman has the same protection, and is, in addition to the penalties provided by this Act, subject to the same liabilities, as a witness in proceedings in the High Court. 
Clause 16. 
An authorised person is not entitled, by virtue of this section, to inspect documents on premises occupied by the Defence Force or a public authority except by arrangement with the principal officer of the Defence Force or authority. 
A reference in this section to an authorised person includes a reference to the Defence Force Ombudsman. 
Clause 20. 
The first report under this section shall be submitted as soon as practicable after 30 June 1 975, and shall relate to the operations of the Defence Force Ombudsman during the period that commenced at the commencement of this Act and ended on that date. 
Where the Defence Force Ombudsman refers in a report prepared by him in pursuance of sub-section ( 1 ) to an investigation made by him under this Act, the Defence Force Ombudsman shall not, in referring to the investigation, set out opinions that are, either expressly or impliedly, critical of the Defence Force, a public authority or a person unless the Defence Force Ombudsman had complied with sub-section 10 (5) in relation to the investigation. 
Clause 33. 
The Defence Force Ombudsman may, by instrument in writing, delegate to a member of the staff referred to in sub-section 30(1), or, with the consent of the Minister, to any other person, any of his powers under this Act, except this power of delegation or the power to report under section 17,18, 19 or 20. 
Clause 34. 
In this section, 'officer', means- 
the Defence Force Ombudsman; 
a person who is a member of the staff referred to in sub-section 30 ( 1 ); or 
another person, not being a person referred to in paragraph (b), to whom the Defence Force Ombudsman has delegated any of his powers under section 33. 
Subject to this section, an officer shall not, either directly or indirectly, except in the performance of his duty as an officer, and either while he is, or after he ceases to be, an officer, make a record of or divulge or communicate to any person, any information acquired by him by reason of his being an officer, being information that was disclosed or obtained under the provisions of this Act. 
Penalty: $500. 
Clause 35 (Offences). 
I ask for leave to have the amendments that have been circulated in my name taken together and voted on in globo. 
in reply- Tonight in this debate we have heard the echoes of the aroused passions and the emotions of over a dozen years ago. The debate, in which most honourable members have spoken, recalls that which took place in this place some 12 years ago. I want to try to look at this matter dispassionately. What concerned me were 2 misconceptions. The first was a misconception about what constitutes an ally and the sort of stance which partners in an alliance should take. The other misconception concerns the nature of the negotiations that are contained in this BUI. 
Let us take the concept of alliances. All of usparticularly members of the Opposition- can recall the days of 'AH the Way with LB J' when Australia was an obsequious satellite of the United States of America, when what was the lucky country had become the lackey country. This position that was occupied by Australia throughout the 1960s was not a credit to Australia or to the Australian Government and neither was it of advantage to the United States Government. I can recall just before I came into Parliament the words of a departing United States diplomat, an old colleague of mine, Ed Cronk, who was the United States charge d 'affairs in Australia. On his departure not only from Australia but also from the foreign service of the United States State Department he was quoted in the Australian Press as saying: 
The United States does not want allies who just follow our lead. We want allies that will come up with ideas of their own. It is much healthier than one leader and a lot of followers. 
That is a very important concept of the role of an ally in a healthy alliance. Now let me quote President Nixon- not that I am given to quoting him- in his balmier days when he was VicePresident. He said this in 1964: 
If domination by an aggressor can destroy the freedom of a nation, too much dependence on a protector can eventually erode its dignity. 
I do not think that in any alliance we have to boast or act as though we are going through some boy scout ceremony of crediting our allegiance by lying flat on the floor and saying: 'We are your ally. We are prepared to do everything you want us to do'. I think it was this unhealthy nature of the alliance during the period of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government that affected the very real and basic relationship that exists between the people of the United States of America and the people of Australia. 
I want to make a couple of statements and I want to make them slowly so that they are understood completely. In terms of the global deterrentthe global nuclear balance- Australia is fundamentally aligned with the United States. This United States Naval Communications Station Agreement Bill fits into that alliance. I want to say that again: The Australian Governmentthe Australian Labor Party- in terms of the global balance, the nuclear deterrent- the big league, if you like, of nuclear balance between the Soviet Union and the US- is fundamentally aligned with the US. We can regard that alliance as the wood. But within the wood there is a variety of trees. It would be very strange indeed if I, as an Austraiian Minister, did not from the Australian point, see issues in a perspective different from the way my counterpart in the USA, the Secretary of Defence, would see them. This is important. Australia, because of its position, has an attitude of mind; it should have an attitude of mind. Because of its position Australia should have an orientation and outlook that is not necessarily- why should it be?- exactly the same as that of the US. I believe that it is the role and the responsibility of an ally when he does see things differently to make that point of view known, and if not convince his ally of his point of view, at least to ensure that the ally is aware of what that point of view is. That is the nature of a healthy relationship between the Australian and US partners in ANZUS at the present time. 
I want to take up the misconceptions that flowed from some speakers in the debate about the nature of this legislation and of the previous legislation. The previous legislation which dealt with the establishment of a naval communications station at North West Cape was introduced in 1963 by  Sir Garfield  Barwick. It was- I state this quite deliberately- a blatant and deliberate abdication of our sovereignty. Let me quote from the speech of  Sir Garfield  Barwick delivered at this table in this place in 1963. He said: 
By the agreement- 
He is talking about the United States Naval Communication Station Agreement Bill - the Australian Government permits the American Government to establish, maintain and operate for a minimum period of 25 years a naval communications station at North West Cape in Western Australia. The North West Cape is the north-western most point of Australia seaward of" the Exmouth Gulf. The station will be a United States communications station under the sole control of the US Government. 
The obnoxious part- I repeat that word 'obnoxious'; the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has used it and I agree with the use of the word- was not the actual terms of the agreement but the accompanying exchange of letters between the then Ambassador Battle, the U.S. Ambassador to Australia, and  Sir Garfield  Barwick. Article 3 of the Agreement spelt out the need for consultation. But in what I regard as the infamous exchange of letters which accompanied that Agreement - 
-Infamous exchange of letters. 
And obnoxious exchange of letters. 
They are very strong words and I use them quite deliberately. In the letter which was concurred in by an Australian Minister for External Affairs it was said: 'Let us constrict the interpretation of consultation under Article 3 '. The letter, referring to Article 3, said: Whereas this construction is not intended to restrict the Government of Australia's rights of consultation, it is intended to spell out clearly that consultation does not carry with it any degree of control over the station or its use'. What we sought to do in the renegotiation was to establish the dignity of Australia as a partner or, as I have sought to express it, as an ally of the United States. In that we were successful because we did not, and there was never any intention to, renounce the Agreement. But we were concerned that the station was exclusively a United States concern save for the presence of a single Royal Australian Navy officer. We were concerned to change this and to secure effective Australian participation in the management and operation of the base as we considered benefitted our national status. In the arrangements which were entered into by my predecessor and  Dr Schlesinger,  the United States Secretary of Defence, in January 1974 these things were achieved: Agreement that the station would be operated as a joint facility; the appointment of an Australian  deputy  commander with status in the management of the station; the posting of Australian servicemen to key operational posts in the station. At this date there are 47 Australian servicemen at the base whereas, under the previous Government, there was one. 
A lot has been said about the concept of control. The North West Cape station is not an originating station. The messages that go out to the United States fleet in the Indian Ocean or to wherever the transmitter can contact it are in terms of transmission. I repeat that it is not an originating station. It is only a monitoring and repeating station. So this is not where the concept of effective co-ordination and consultation comes to pass. Of course the practical, realistic and effective mode of monitoring and control is certainly not a matter of intervention in the operations of the station. The proper focus of our effort is the United States global policy. If we know what that is about, we will have an accurate understanding of the type of message being transmitted through North West Cape. To this end what we set out to do was to establish, to regain and to get effective consultation with the United States which, by this exchange of letters, had been denied to the Australian Government. Through discussions with the United States which form the basis of the legislation which we have before us tonight we made that consultation explicit. The substantial features are to ensure, to quote from the document: 
. that the Australian Government would have full and timely information about strategic and operational developments relevant to the station and their significance for Australian national interests. 
That is contained in a document signed by my predecessor and by the Unites States Secretary of Defence. So what we have achieved is effective consultation. I was just recently in the United States where we had the types of consultation that are important and necessary for the effective control of the operations of the station at North West Cape- through Ministerial level, through normal diplomatic consultations. This was a form of consultaion that the previous government was even boasting that it no longer wanted. I think it is of great concern that through nearly 2 decades of debate in Australia it seems from the Liberal-Country Party point of view that one could not really be pro-United States unless one was anti-Australian. The Opposition was antiAustralian in the attitude that it took to the derogation of sovereignty of the North West Cape transmission station. The Bill has been debated at length. I understand that the Opposition, despite all its verbosity this evening, is not opposing the Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-It is true that the Army Cadet Corps is to be disbanded.  (Opposition members interjecting) 
-I am certainly not aware of any invitation having been extended by the Defence Council or defence group to serving members of the armed forces. I am certainly not aware of any invitation having been extended to me as Minister for Defence to participate in the conference, but I would be very happy to do so if such an invitation were extended to me. As for the last observation made by the honourable member, this Government is prepared to stand by its defence policy. It is a defence policy which is making up for the neglect of the previous Government in running down the expenditure on capital equipment. The Australian defence position requires a greater investment in capital expenditure at the present stage- I will be informing the House about this matter tomorrowbecause of the lack of decision on equipment by the Liberal-Country Party Government 4 or 5 years ago. At the present stage the Army is at the highest level for a volunteer force in peace time. The rate of retention in the armed forces is at a record level. The recruitment into Duntroon, the Air Force Academy and the Naval Academy is the highest on record. I believe that the observations made by the honourable member denigrate the members of the armed services of this country. They are quite capable of putting their point of view. They have put their point of view, and it just so happens that their point of view and the point of view of the Government are in harmony. 
-As the honourable member will be well aware, the memorandum was signed last year which made the final purchase arrangements contingent upon a report by the United States Government on the acquisition by the United States Government of the patrol frigates for the United States Naval program. That report will be made available to the United States Administration next month. It will then be forwarded to the Australian Government. We will have precisely 10 weeks in which to make up  our mind and to make our decision upon whether we will join the United States naval program. 
I think that the interesting feature of this method of approach can be compared with the rather unusual commercial arrangements that the previous Government made in relation to the Fill aircraft. On this occasion we will ensure first of all that the pricing is not an open-ended commitment as was the case with the Fill arrangement. We will also ensure that the United States Navy will be taking a minimum number of ships. We are also making sure that if we decide to go ahead with the program the Australian ships will be built in shipyards where United States naval ships are being built and that both our ships will be built in the same shipyard. 
In the talks that I had with the US Secretary of Defense, I asked for and received an assurance from the US Defense Department that if there were any major modifications to be carried out on the patrol frigates after the beginning of construction, not only would we be consulted but also we would have to agree to those modifications which might increase the final purchase price. I am very happy to have this opportunity to reply to the honourable member for Moreton and to state that the procedures we are undertaking in relation to the patrol frigates are completely different from the rather extraordinary arrangements that the previous Government undertook in relation to the Fl 1 1 aircraft. 
I am not aware of any alternative defence program being put forward by the Opposition. I am also not aware of any costing of the Opposition's defence proposals. The views that I have seen expressed about the Government's policy of increasing equipment for the armed forces indicate that it has the general concurrence of the Opposition. I have certainly heard nothing to the contrary so, in response to the honourable member's question, I can say only that in the absence of any alternative program, in the absence of any alternative costing, in the absence of any explicit criticism of the Government's defence program the Opposition must be supporting the Australian Government 's defence program. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes; the recommendation was accepted. 
The Council has yet to be formed. A number of persons who are considered to be eminently suitable to serve on the Council have been approached and invited to be members. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The recommendation by the Committee on the extension of the Defence Services Home Scheme to members of the Army Reserve is under consideration and an announcement will be made when a decision is reached. 
Criminal Code for the Australian Capital Territory (Question No. 2651) 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The general position is that officers and other ranks who leave the Defence Force after twenty or more years service with a pension entitlement (other than an invalidity pension) are eligible to receive a lump sum equal to four times their annual pension on exit; but, of course, payment of the lump sum results in a reduction in the amount of pension otherwise payable. 
The Government has no plans to vary the current arrangements for separation from the Defence Force. Nor are there any definitive proposals before the Government to remove or modify the lump sum pension provisions. These provisions are being examined jointly by my Department and Services and I will be considering in due course the results of that examination. 
The first point that the Government would like to make is that it welcomes public debate on the issues confronting Australia in the defence area. One of the strange things is that many of the participants in this Defence Council held very high office during the early 1960s, when Australia's defences were down. At that stage they were strangely silent or, as the honourable member for Mackellar tried to imply yesterday, strangely silenced. We hope that the discussions that will be held will be objective. However I think that there are certain grounds for concern. For instance, one of the participants is Air Vice-Marshal (Retired) I. D. McLachlan. He is the Australian representative for the Northrop Corporation. As honourable members will be aware, it is this Corporation against which allegations have been made in the United States of America concerning corruption and bribery on a large scale in its operations in the Middle East. Of course, it is only incidental that the Northrop Corporation is interested in the replacement for the Mirage aircraft to which the Australian Government is giving consideration. 
Another representative on the Defence Councilagain a retired gentleman- is Air Marshal  Sir Alister  Murdoch. He happens to be on the board of Philips Industries Ltd. Philips Industries Ltd has under its control the manufacture of a wide range of equipment with military sales potential. This equipment ranges from computer software to communications equipment, from radar and fire control systems to patrol boats. It is quite obvious that these gentlemen have more than a passing interest in defence matters. But I want to assure honourable members that this Government will not be stampeded by yesterday's  Colonel Blimps.  We have within the Department of Defence and within the Australian Services to-day's men, men who have the experience and the expertise and who are in a position in 1975- not in 1965- to tender advice to this Government. It is on the basis of that expert advice that this Government will formulate its defence policies. 
by leave- The defence of Australia rightly occupies a high priority in the thinking and planning of the Australian Government. It is a priority reflected in the defence outlay in this year's Budget. The amount of this year's defence outlay- some $ 1,800m- represents a proper and just acknowledgement of the importance of maintaining a meaningful defence capability; it is a carefully thought out response to the needs of the defence community, taking into consideration the necessary containment of public expenditure in the current economic climate. It is based on a realistic assessment of the international situation and not on a resort to deliberately generated appeals to fear and panic which in the long run can only distort the nature of our defence preparedness. Unlike the wasteful expenditure on foreign adventures undertaken by our predecessors, this is a defence budget designed explicitly and expertly for the defence of Australia and its direct interests. It demonstrates beyond aU doubt Australia 's intention to defend herself and her vital interests.This concept of continental defence is reflected throughout the details of expenditure. 
Defence capability is a matter of well trained men, modern equipment and adequate support. We must ensure that the defence force, its equipment and its logistic, industrial and technological support provide an adequate base from which to expand in a timely fashion should the need arise. Costs of defence manpower, both Service and civilian, have been rising very rapidly. At the same time, largely because of the failure of the previous government to take sound equipment decisions in its last years of office, the resources devoted to capital items in the defence vote, namely equipment and infrastructure, have been falling. As a result of these 2 trends the proportion of the defence vote devoted to capital items had fallen to a quite unacceptably low level. 
The present government has already moved to reverse that trend in 2 ways. Firstly we have controlled manpower growth and indeed made substantial manpower savings particularly in the civilian sector in our period of office. This has been in support areas where we have brought to bear a fresh organisational approach and sharper business management. Secondly, we have initiated a new program of major equipment acquisitions. The first series of decisions was announced last year by the then Defence Minister,  Mr Barnard,  namely negotiations for the purchase of 2 patrol frigates for the Royal Australian Navy, now known as guided missile frigates, and the purchase of 8 Orion long range maritime patrol aircraft for the Royal Australian 
Air Force and 53 Leopard tanks for the Army. It was made clear that these were only the initial steps to ensure that our Services have the modern conventional equipment they need, and that further decisions would be made each year as part of the five-year rolling program of the Defence Department. 
Uninformed critics of Australia's defence have sought to question the morale and capacity of our defence forces. These people have misinterpreted and distorted figures to imply that the forces are not adequate for their task. These charges cannot be sustained. At the 30 June the permanent volunteer forces totalled 69 154. This was an increase of 1700 or 2.5 per cent over the previous year. The Army reached the highest volunteer strength ever maintained in peacetime at 31 514. All signs indicate that the standing of the defence forces is high and the armed Services are regarded as a worthwhile career. During the last year recruiting has been particularly satisfactory. There were 9388 enlistments in all categories. Applications for entry into officer training colleges remained high. From 1971 to 1975 the number of applications to enter the Royal Military College Duntroon has increased by 30 per cent. Re-engagement rates for other ranks during the last financial year were 70 per cent for Navy, 74 per cent for Army and 82 per cent for the Air Force. These compare with reengagement rates of 44 per cent, 69 per cent and 66 per cent respectively, for the year 1971-72. Nothing could more conclusively prove the validity of the Government's policy of a justly rewarded, all-volunteer Defence Force. 
The free movement of officers back into Clvilian life has not impaired the efficiency of the Services. Not one of the 3 Service chiefs of personnel has advised that resignations have prevented his Service from carrying out its functions fully. Furthermore, officer resignations have not significantly reduced the level of experience or expertise in the Services. The present proportion of officers to other ranks is higher than ever occurred under the Liberal-Country Party Government. All objective data therefore indicates that our nation is well served by a skilled, highly motivated defence force. The size of our aU volunteer Services reflects the great improvements in pay and conditions since this Government came to power. As I indicated earlier, more attention must now be paid to giving the Services the equipment they need to develop new skills and become familiar with new technologies. The emphasis from now on must be on the more efficient use of manpower. Pending the completion of a major review of ground  force capability, the size of the Army will not be increased during 1975-76. This year a further 120 soldiers will be released from duty in Papua New Guinea under the localisation program. The recently announced decision to end the School Cadet Corps will free a further 330 Regular Army personnel and 35 civilians. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  my statement of 26 August concerning the disbandment of the Army Cadet Corps. 
The strength of the Army Reserve is now almost 20 000. The Citizen Military Force's component of the Reserve is being re-organised and revitalised as a result of the Government's decision to accept in principle the recommendations of the Millar Committee, which are aimed at improving the standard of training and conditions of service in the Army Reserve. The CMF component of the Army Reserve will increase by 1000 this financial year. This more efficient use of defence personnel is paralleled by strict economies in civilian manpower, which will see a reduction of 230 employees in the coming year. These steps have succeeded in reducing the proportion of the defence vote allocated to manpower from 6 1 per cent in the 1973-74 financial year to 56 per cent in this Budget. This increased efficiency has contributed towards the Government's dramatic increase in the proportion of expenditure devoted to equipment in this Budget. 
There are other matters to which I have given particular attention. I have given particular attention to increased training exercises. By careful management of resources it has been possible to provide this year for increased levels of Service activities- in steaming time for the Navy and in mileage for Army tanks and fighting vehicles. These increases will in turn increase scope for training exercises and other activities and contribute to the maintenance of high levels of Service skills. Our primary responsibility must always be the security of our own territory and linked with this the surveillance and patrol of surrounding maritime areas. The effort devoted by the Royal Australian Air Force to aerial surveillance of the Australian coast was more than doubled from the beginning of last year. It has since been supplemented by extensive naval patrols off Queensland and north-west Australia. We need to build up the self-reliance of our forces so that they have a better capability for independent action. Logistics has been a  neglected area, primarily because of our past dependence in combat situations on the logistic support of others. We must build up our own capabilities. 
Expenditure on capital equipment in this year's defence outlay covering continuing payments on equipment approved last year and in earlier years, as well as initial payments on proposals approved this year, will be $182m. This represents approximately an 80 per cent increase on the spending on equipment last year, which was $102m. The first major decision in this area is to build a modern transport ship. The Royal Navy has an excellent and well-proven class, the  Sir Bedivere  landing ship logistic. We plan to build an improved version in an Australian dockyard. This amphibious ship will have a displacement of 6000 tonnes and Will provide a long range lift capability of some 2000 tonnes. It will be capable of discharging men and equipment, including tanks and other heavy items, across the beach or by cargo helicopter carried on board. It will be able to operate in undeveloped areas, such as the more remote parts of the Australian coast and off-shore islands. There has not hitherto been a capability of this kind in the Aus.tralian defence force, or in the civil fleet. This versatile ship could also be used for civilian emergency tasks such as rescue work and the evacuation of refugees. 
There are several other new decisions in the maritime area. We have 4 Oberon submarines and two more are being built in the United Kingdomunfortunately with delays beyond our control. The capability of our 6 submarines will be greatly enhanced by new fire control systems which are to be ordered this year from the American firm Singer Librascope. In antisubmarine warfare, Australian defence science and industry are developing a new active sonar, called Mulloka, especially for operation in Aus.tralian waters. Subject to successful sea trials of a prototype, this new sonar will be produced and fitted in the Navy's 6 River class destroyer escorts. 
In addition to these improvements, the destroyer escorts Will be equipped with new electronic warfare equipment. For effective training with this new equipment, aircraft must be fitted with electronic systems that can simulate a threat and be flown against the ships. I shall be announcing shortly the letting of a contract for electronic systems to be fitted into two HS-748 aircraft which were acquired for this among other purposes. Still in the maritime area but looking more to the future, there are 3 further proposals which are being actively developed. 
The efficient surveillance of our coastline requires the deployment of patrol boats. 
As announced previously, we intend to introduce a new class to supplement, and eventually replace, the existing fleet of 12 Attack class patrol boats. Some months ago we circulated the characteristics sought for the replacement class with a widespread invitation to ship builders in Australia and overseas to register interest in design and construction. We are looking for improvements over the Attack class in range, speed and sea-keeping qualities. The responses to our invitation to register interest are now being examined closely and I expect shortly to let tenders for project definition studies that will enable us to decide on the precise type and characteristics of the new patrol boats which we should construct. 
Studies are also in progress to assess the later requirement for a higher capability patrol craft, possibly missile fitted, that Will complement the destroyer force in the 1980s. The previous Government had decided to proceed with the constuction of an underway replenishment ship, but with some imprecision on design characteristics. The estimated costs had risen sharply by August 1973. The Government decided to postpone construction of this ship as there was no need to commission a new ship until at least 1 980 when HMAS  Supply is  due to be paid off. We decided that a less sophisticated and less costly ship would be more suitable to Australia's needs. Tenders have been called for the submission of a design for a new ship and I expect to make a decision on the particular design next year. 
Finally in the maritime area, I am pleased to report that earlier this month I inspected the guided missile frigate project in the United States of America and discussed its progress with the United States Secretary of Defense and his officials. We now await a United States Department of Defense decision- expected shortlywhich Will provide us with the necessary information on which to determine our position. To provide our forces with a more independent capability there is a need to rectify some deficiencies in operational equipment in areas where Australia has fallen behind. For many years, Army has had to make do with an air defence capability based on the Bofors gun. I have decided that this capability, which dates back to World War II, will be updated by the introduction of the Rapier surface-to-air guided weapon system. The choice of an air defence missile system for Army has been a lengthy and arduous process but I am now satisfied that the selection of Rapier is right in the Australian context. 
Rapier is operational, is highly mobile and can be readily transported in Hercules and Caribou aircraft and by the medium-lift Chinook helicopter. Trials have indicated that it is a highly effective system. 
The Army's Centurion tanks are out-dated; they were ordered by the Chifley Labor Government in the 1940s. The Government took a decision last year to acquire 53 German Leopard tanks. Examination has led to a decision to acquire an additional 34 Leopard tanks. These 87 modern high performance tanks will provide Army with a significant capability to maintain and develop skills needed in armoured warfare. Army mobility will be further enhanced by the purchase of new trucks to replace the present Landrover vehicles, which are due to be phased out beginning next year. The initial order will involve more than 2000 trucks, which will be procured in Australia at a cost of some $14m- a valuable contract for Australian industry. 
Turning now to air transport, I am pleased to announce a significant addition to the heavy airlift capability of the Air Force. The RAAF presently has 2 squadrons of Hercules transports. The older of these, the C130A aircraft, are due to be phased out in 1978, and will be replaced by a squadron of medium range transport aircraft. Together with the existing C130E squadron, this will give the Air Force an effective strategic and tactical air-lift capability, both for the necessary support of the Services and in national tasks of a civil nature. I shall be announcing the type and numbers of the new aircraft later this year. The further priority need for the RAAF at this time is to modernise its radars. The RAN air station at Nowra has a similar need. It is proposed to acquire eleven new radars to replace existing lowperformance equipments that are reaching the end of their economic lives. 
I am ensuring that the scope for participation of Australian industry in the projects under consideration is being fully explored, so that industry can make a positive contribution to employment. In particular, it is planned that the heavylift ship be built in an Australian dockyard, and that industry make a large contribution to the manufacture of the light trucks. The Australian electronics industry will be involved to some extent in the radar projects. There will be local involvement in production work for the mediumrange transport aircraft, the medium tank and the air-defence weapon, but in these projects more emphasis will be placed on offsets. I have dealt with areas of manpower and equipment. Details of the third important component of the defence vote, namely defence facilities, are given in a document which I ask the permission of the House to have incorporated in  Hansard. 

 - Mr Speaker, in the last, dying years of the Liberal-Country Party Government, the essential needs of the defence forces of this country were ignored or neglected, largely as a result of false perceptions of Australia's national interest. The Labor Government, on the advice of its senior military and civilian defence planners, has the task of shaping the defence force to sharpen its capability to provide a strong and valid defence of Australia, and to demonstrate beyond all doubt Australia's intention to defend herself and her vital interests. This year's defence budget demonstrates clearly our determination to carry out this task. I present the following paper: 
Australian Defence- Ministerial statement, 28 August 1975. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker - 
-No, I am not closing the debate. For those with a sense of history the Papua New Guinea Independence Bill, is an historic event. For those with a sense of justice, for those who believe in the exercise of political rights by all people irrespective of race or creed it is a moment of achievement. As the Papua New Guinea Independence Bill simply states: 
On the expiration of the day preceding Independence Day, Australia ceases to have any sovereignty, sovereign rights or rights of administration in respect of or appertaining to the whole or any part of Papua New Guinea. 
The Bill also states:  . . . on 16 September 1975 Papua New Guinea is to become an independent sovereign state by the name of the independent State of Papua New Guinea, having a constitution established, adopted and given to themselves by the people of Papua New Guinea acting through their Constituent Assembly. 
The Bills we are now considering bring to a close a chapter of Australia's history that is as long as Federation itself. Nearly three-quarters of a century ago this Parliament began its direct involvement in the affairs of Papua New Guinea. I suppose that this is one of the occasions on which those of us who have been associated with the movement of Papua New Guinea through self-government and on to independence may reflect on the things that have happened to us in our administration. I would like to recall a statement that was made 30 years ago by  Mr Eddie  Ward, a Minister for External Territories. On 4 July 1945 in introducing the Papua-New Guinea Provisional Administration Bill he had this to say: 
This Government is not satisfied that sufficient interest had been taken in the Territories prior to the Japanese invasion, or that adequate funds had been provided for their development and the advancement of the native inhabitants. Apart from the debt of gratitude that the people of Australia owe to the natives of the Territory, the Government regards it as its bounden duty to further to the utmost the advancement of the natives, and considers that that can be achieved only by providing facilities for better health, better education and for a greater participation by the natives in the wealth of their country and eventually in its government . . . 
So today we are seeing the very last step in the promise that was made some 30 years ago by a former Labor Party Minister for External Territories. 
I do not wish to dwell on the past, but I want to raise some of the problems- and they are problems- that will confront the relationship between Australia and Papua New Guinea. I believe that it is the very closeness of our relations that can create problems. The Australian Government recognises that Papua New Guinea will continue to occupy a very special position in Australia's policy but we do not see Australia as seeking or asserting an exclusive relationship with Papua New Guinea. There is an old Malaysian proverb which says that even good friends must keep their distance. Papua New Guinea will want to find its own place in the international community. It will want to determine its own relations with Australia, with due regard to its own interests, and Australia will want to do the same. There could be conflicts of interest, but the test of our friendship will be the amicable resolution of those conflicts. 
I regret to say that there has been a difference of opinion that has been exploited for very narrow political purposes. I do not want to be churlish on this occasion but I believe that the Opposition was excessively churlish in seeking to exploit a situation of only a couple of weeks ago when Australia quite properly had to make a decision in terms of its entire Budget and as part of that decision on parts of that Budget. One of our concerns- and these are the areas that any 2 countries will get into a difference of opinion about, and I think it is important that any responsible member of this House should seek not to exacerbate such differences- is that we have provided and will continue to provide Papua New Guinea with a very substantial and very significant amount of aid. No country receives more aid per capita than Papua New Guinea. 
One of the areas of difficulty has been in interpretation of a very generous offer that the Australian Government made to Papua New Guinea in 1 974 when we said that we would provide $500m over 3 years. We expressly pointed out that $500m would be aid in one form or another over the 3-year period commencing in 1974-75. I want to make it very clear to the House and to the people in Papua New Guinea who have been deliberately misled by the intervention of the Opposition on this issue that we have maintained that promise. In fact, to date- in 2 years of the 3-year period- we have provided two-thirds or $38 1.3m worth of economic and social aid. In addition to that, of course, there is defence aid which is not included in the figure of $500m. What I want to point out, and what I want to make clear, is that we regret that there has been a misunderstanding between our governments over this matter. We have always considered the $500m to be an all-up sum for social and economic aid in one form or another. With the permission of the House I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a letter from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  dated 28 February 1974 to the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea which spells out very clearly the nature of the commitment of Papua New Guinea. 
-I understand that the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea,  Mr Somare,  said in the House of Assembly last week that the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  had assured his Government that the employment security payments were never considered as aid by the Liberal-Country Party Government when in government. If  Mr Somare  was correctly reported, and if the honourable member for Kooyong in fact gave him that assurance, I regret that the honourable member is apparently trying to make short term political capital and is indulging in cheap grand-standing over the situation.  His  assurance is certainly not borne out by the facts. In a statement that he issued as Minister for External Territories on 27 October 1972 he said that both the then Australian Government and the Papua New Guinea Government had accepted the Simpson report, the report which gave rise to the employment security scheme, in principle and, with minor exceptions which do not concern us today, the whole of the reports recommendations. 
I would like to refer to some of the recommendations contained in the Simpson report, which was accepted by the honourable member for Kooyong and by the Chief Minister at that stage. s Paragraph 102 (1) (d) refers to payments of emoluments to former Commonwealth employees in Papua New Guinea and says: ... it would be reasonable that such payments be taken into account for fixing the level of Australia's future aid to Papua New Guinea. 
Further on in the cost considerations, in paragraph 108, it says: 
As I have said elsewhere in my report, it would be reasonable for the Commonwealth to take into account in fixing future aid to Papua New Guinea the costs involved under the employment security and future staffing arrangements I have recommended. 
So the statement made by the honourable member for Kooyong in supporting the recommendations of the Simpson report is very clear. 
Moreover, the government of the day, of which the honourable member for Kooyong was the Minister for External Territories, in laying down its Budget for 1972-73 included the total sum of $ 143m- I am taking this from Table 3, expenditures on aid to Papua New Guinea- an item entitled 'termination and retirement benefits of overseas officers formerly employed by the Papua New Guinea Government' for the sum of $2. 8m. I mention this because it is a matter of regret that short term political advantage was sought to be made out of exploiting the situation. I might say as the person who was responsible for the offer of $500m at Kirribilli House meeting in 1974 in the presence of the Prime Minister, the Treasurer, the Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea, the Minister for Finance of Papua New Guinea, and the Minister for Foreign Relations of Papua New Guinea as he then was, when I put forward that figure of $500m it was very clear in my mind, on the basis of the precedents that had been established by the previous Government, that the employment security scheme that the payments were included in the aid. So that is the background. That is our very firm belief. It is a firm belief based of facts that had been provided in the aid programs of the previous government and also in the statements that were made by the previous government, and certainly in statements made by us. 
We come now to a point at which Australia is no longer a colonial power. I suppose we can look back a little at the people- not just the politicianswho have striven to make this possible, to provide the people of Papua New Guinea with the opportunity to measure their own steps, to decide their own fate in their own way. I mention an old Persian saying that only your own fingers can find the itch. Every country will go about finding its own itch in its own way. We may think that they do not do it terribly effectively. Equally they may think that we do not find our itch effectively. But it is a vital part of the role of mankind to be able to make his own mistakes in his own way, if that is the way it goes, but certainly to try to find his own destiny in a way that suits his judgment. 
As of the expiration of 1 5 September Australia will no longer be a colonial power. I believe that this is a very significant moment for all of us as Australians and particularly for those of us who have played a part in the evolvement of an independent state of Papua New Guinea. I would particularly like to mention a number of Australian public servants who over the years as members of the Papua New Guinea Public Service have dedicated themselves to working for the good of a people of another country. I suppose that this always smacks of paternalism and that in many ways there was a large element of paternalism about our colonialism. There is always an element of paternalism about colonialism. But this vast line of people was dedicated to the objective of bringing about economic and social developments in Papua New Guinea for the benefit of the people of Papua New Guinea. 
It is impossible to name all of them. I think that I can say on behalf of both the Government and Opposition that we thank them for their contribution to the vitality and viability of a Papua New Guinea entering into independence. Personally I think that I can associate the honourable member for Kooyong with this- I would like to thank a gentleman who is in the House this afternoon for his continued dedication. I refer to  Mr Alan  Kerr who has followed through from the Department of External Territories to the Papua New Guinea Office of the Department of Foreign Affairs and who has worked closely with me over the last 18 months. I thank him for his dedication and for his deep and abiding interest in the problems of Papua New Guinea. I thank also those who left in the normal effluxion of time; John Greenwell who is now in the Attorney-General's Department; Miss Douglas who is still in the Papua New Guinea Office; and a lot of people who have put their all into making all these things come about. This House has a debt of gratitude to pay to the public servants who have acted in this way for so long. 
We are moving through the list of Bills. I am very glad that the Opposition has seen fit to support the Bills. I believe that all of us wish the people and the Government of Papua New Guinea health and strength in undertaking the enormous task of being responsible for their own government and their own administration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
4April 1975. 
Yes. 
Yes. Acceptance of the recommendation was indicated by the then Minister for Defence in his statement when tabling the Report in the Parliament on 4 April 1 975. 
The role of the Army Reserve is under consideration by the Defence Force Development Committee- the most authoritative source of advice available to the Minister for Defence on defence capability matters. Complex issues of a military, social and legal nature are involved in the determination and implementation of role for the Army Reserve and the Reserves of the Navy and the Air Force. It is essential that these issues be properly examined before a decision is made. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. This recommendation is under examination by the Defence Force Development Committee as part of its consideration of the roles of all Reserve Forces. See my answer to Question 2633. 
The speech on immorality, the speech on humanitarianism, we have just heard was brought to us by the very people who applauded the bombing of Vietnam, the people who condoned the use of the napalm bomb. 
-I would like to take up that statement and make sure the observation is carried into  Hansard.  A member of the National Country Party of Australia said of the bombing of Vietnam and the use of napalm that history will prove them right. That is precisely the attitude and morality of members of the Opposition. Let us take the proposition with which we were confronted. The spokesman for the Opposition, the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar),  said every country has a right to stop people from coming in. On this occasion- we are talking about 6 Vietnamese diplomats and 3 former Vietnamese military officers- a lot of countries did exercise that right callously. They refused entry to these peoplediplomats who were stationed in a number of countries in South East Asia, who had nowhere to go because other countries were adopting exactly the policy that the Liberal Party would have adopted. They were seeking a political haven. They had nowhere to go. It was their belief that, because of their close association with the Government of  President  Thieu, had they gone back to Vietnam the government that had taken over would have discriminated against them. These people were senior people. We are not talking about farmers. We are talking about senior diplomats, ambassadors and people who previously were senior government officials, even a Minister for Foreign Affairs, in the government of Vietnam. 
These people sought a haven and this Government did not turn its back on them. Because they were responsible people who had held high positions we sought from them an assurance. They were seeking a haven. We were not seeking for them to come to Australia. Because we realised that they could go nowhere else we said: 'We will allow you to come in. We will provide you with the political haven you seek if you do not participate in Australian political activities'. All their lives they had been engaged in political activities. Are members of the Opposition telling me that conditions should not be attached to the admittance of 6 former diplomats and 3 former members of the South Vietnamese forces who had asked to come to Australia? They were requesting a form of political assylum. As everybody knows, such a form of political haven or of political asylum has conditions attached to it. I have stated the conditions that we attached to the entry of these senior officials. 
Let us take the view point of some of the other countries that these people approached. I will read out a response of one of the governments because it is precisely the attitude that the socalled humanitarians opposite would have adopted. One government's response was that it was anxious that all Vietnamese nationals, former diplomats or otherwise should leave 'before their presence became embarrassing'. We do not consider that providing a livelihood for people, irrespective of their political affiliations in the past, is embarrassing. We recognised that the new government of Vietnam could well protest, but we believed, these people having sought our assistance and no other assistance having been provided by any other country in the area, that we should provide that assistance, and we did. 
We were prompted by the humanitarian instincts that have motivated us all the way through the last stages of the Vietnam war. What did members who sit opposite do after the Tet offensive? There is complete silence. It is a significant silence because they did nothing in terms of humanitarian assistance. This Australian Government in the last stages of the Vietnam war provided assistance and, apart from the United States, took more refugees than any other country. It provided more than $3.5m for active assistance to the Vietnamese refugees. Now the Liberal Party, the Party that took Australia into the Vietnam war, comes and talks about immorality. 
Perhaps we can look at the consistency that that Opposition Party showed when it was in Government. Let us look very close to home. Honourable members will be interested to note that in the 10 years or so since West Irian became part of Indonesia about 500 people from West Irian have been granted the right of permissive residence in Papua New Guinea. The Liberal Party, when in government, instituted a requirement that each of the West Irianese coming into Papua New Guinea, for which Australia was then totally responsible, had to sign an undertaking- I remind honourable members that that was done at the instigation of the Liberal Party when it was in power- which stated: . 
That he will not in any way directly or indirectly engage in any political activity whatsoever in connection with the country he left to seek refuge in Papua New Guinea. 
-We are talking about 500 people here. We have heard about numbers not being important, and the case that I put to you now and the case that we stand on concerns 6 senior representatives of a former Vietnamese government and 3 senior Army officers. Now I am talking about 500 West Irianese. The Liberal Party, when in government, demanded that the condition which I quoted be met. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a public statement made on 14 July 1972 which records the political conditions attached to permissive residence in Papua New Guinea. 
Let us talk now about the Colombo Plan, because here also we are talking about numbers. More than 17 000 students who came to Australia under the Colombo Plan could not accept their scholarships until they had completed a form of nomination. 
-I will be happy to table it. I am glad the honourable gentleman is asking me to do so. I quote from Part III of the form of nomination. It reads: 
If accepted for a training award, I undertake to: 
refrain from engaging in political activities . . . 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to table that document. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Three 'Attack' class patrol boats of the Second Australian Patrol Boat Squadron are based permanently at Cairns. Their primary role is to patrol the Queensland coast and reef waters. When necessary, the patrol boat strength can be supplemented to meet particular contingencies. Ad hoc surveillance is also provided by RAN ships including the survey ship HMAS  Flinders  based at Cairns and the six Landing Craft Heavy based at Brisbane, which undertake patrol duties when on passage through or exercising in the Queensland Sub-area. 
The question of sufficiency of Defence effort needs also to take into account aerial surveilance provided by the Services. 
The effort devoted by the RAAF to aerial surveillance of the Australian coast was more than doubled from the beginning of last year. It has since been supplemented by extensive Naval air patrols in particular areas. 
Though some routine coastal surveillance activity is required for specifically defence purposes, the major requirement is oriented to the support of the civil authorities -with particular concern for fisheries, health and customs. Even so, the bulk of the civil surveillance effort is provided by the Services. 
Law enforcement activity, like the surveillance that is undertaken for civil purposes, is also not a direct responsibility of the Defence Force. It is Only undertaken by the Services with or on behalf of the responsible civil enforcement agency. 
The responsibility for policing the activities of foreign fishermen within three miles of the Queensland coast rests with the State fisheries authorities. Statutory responsibility for fisheries matters beyond the three mile limit rests with my colleague the Minister for Agriculture. Quarantine matters come within the purview of my colleague the Minister for Health. I have received no advice from either the State or the Australian civil authorities which would suggest that they are not satisfied with the Defence Force assistance that is provided in support both of civil oriented surveillance and of civil law enforcement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question 2586, which appeared in Hansard on 5 June 1975 (page 3545). 
Department of the Northern Territory: Reports  (Question No. 2597) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2789 (Hansard, 5 June 1975, pages 3546-47). 
-As this will be the last occasion on which this House will be sitting before Papua New Guinea comes to independence, I seek leave of the House to move a motion conveying to the National Parliament of Papua New Guinea the congratulations of this House on the achievement of independence. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) 1 6. A further two are being overhauled prior to presentation to the Government of Papua New Guinea. 
Dakota (DC3) aircraft were first introduced into RAAF service during the Second World War 1 939-45. Some of the present aircraft date back to 1 943. 
Five are at Butterworth in Malaysia, five at Laverton, four at East Sale, one at Pearce and one at Darwin. These aircraft are mostly used in the roles of crew training, search and rescue, light transport support (personnel and cargo) and the calibration of navigation aids. The two being overhauled are at Bankstown, Sydney. 
and (5) The RAAF's Dakotas will remain in service until 1 980. It is planned that, as they are phased out, many of their tasks will be taken over by Caribous. A detailed study of the medium range transport aircraft requirements of the Services through to the 1990s is also being carried out. The type of any replacement aircraft has not been decided at this stage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) At no stage has the Government considered any proposal to abolish the commutation provisions of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits legislation. 
and (3) At present an examination of the commutation provisions and other areas of the benefits scheme is being undertaken at the direction of the Defence (Conditions of Service) Committee, a Government Defence advisory committee which includes as members the Chiefs of Personnel of the Services. Should that Committee, after consideration of the results of the examination, make any recommendations concerning the overall conditions of the DFRDB Scheme then, as with recommendations from all established Defence advisory committees, I will consider them and if appropriate make a submission to Cabinet for consideration. 
The Military, Naval and Air Boards have considered the question and the advice to me was that there was no military value in terms of the defence area in maintaining the cadets. The question of naval cadets is being discussed with the Navy League of Australia. The Navy League handed over responsibility for them to the former Department of the Navy some years back. We are now considering with the Navy League the transfer of the assets back to the Navy League so that it can resume responsibility for the naval cadets. I reiterate that the advice to me of the competent military advisers to the Government was that the expenditure involved in the army cadets, navy cadets and air training cadets was such that its place among the priorities for the defence preparedness of Australia was low. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) I refer the honourable member to my predecessors answer to question No. 266 on 12 February 1975  (Hansard,  page 196). 
I am not quite sure what the honourable member is driving at. Does his question concern commutations? 
-Is it buying back? I am sorry; I did not understand the question. It is very difficult to hear the honourable member from this position. 
-As the honourable member will be aware, the whole question of defence force retirement benefits has been dependent upon the progress through this Parliament of the Commonwealth superannuation legislation, with which it was closely associated. The Oppositionthe Liberal Party and the National Country Party- defeated this legislation in the Senate. Therefore, we have had to reconsider the whole question of the DFRB scheme. When the Opposition changes its attitude to the Commonwealth superannuation legislation, we will be in a position to take action on the DFRB scheme. 
Pursuant to section 147 of the De- fenceAct1903-1970,Ipreseattheannualreport of the Royal Military College of Australia for the period 1 February 1974 to 31 January 1975. 
-The illogicality of the Opposition almost reaches the height of humbug. The Liberal and National Country parties have been calling for restraint and the reduction of government expenditure- never of course to improve the effectiveness of government expenditure but just the cutting of government expenditure. Yet today when a sum of $10m in the defence vote- in fact it is $ 11.5m when navy and air cadets are added- is part of the consideration not one reference is made to funds, not one reference is made to the effective utilisation of funds. 
The honourable member for Moreton (Mi Killen) has brought forward the Millar report. I trust that he has read the Millar report. I want to quote from it at length so that the honourable gentleman will not have the excuse that 1 am selectively quoting or, as he might even suggest, misquoting. I direct the attention of the honourable gentleman and the House to section 3 of the Millar Committee report on the military aspects of school cadets. We are talking about a defence vote, about the effectiveness of the way the taxpayers' money is utilised for the basic purpose of defence, the defence preparedness of Australia. The report states: 
The total military value of Cadet training at any one time could be measured by testing the proficiency of Cadets in particular military skills and understanding. The cost of making such an evaluation would be considerable. Cadet units vary widely. The great majority of cadets leave in or at the end of their second year in the Corps. We would estimate that, for all but a few cadets, the level of achievement reached at the end of their Cadet experience is at about the standard reached in 2-3 weeks of full-time training in a Regular Army recruit training system. 
Two to three weeks, effective training at a cost of $ 10m. I go on: 
The Regular Army recruit is in a continuous course of training potentially leading directly to operational experience. The cadets' military activities cease on discharge, and only a small proportion of them ever go into the full-time or reserve armed forces. 
School cadets who subsequently attend the Royal Military College, Duntroon, or the Officer Cadet School, Portsea, tend to find that their military knowledge gives them a certain advantage at the beginning of the course, but only briefly. 
Again, $ 10m. The report continues: 
Before long, all students are on much the same footing. 
I repeat that on these grounds the military value of school cadets is quite small and disproportionately expensive. I will continue to quote from that same section. At page 1 1 it states: 
It is evident that the military value of Cadets is small and does not of itself justify the present annual allocation of funds and Regular Army manpower. 
It is very clear that the funds spent on cadets could be spent in ways which would add more to Australia's present defence capacity. These are the essential features that any Minister for Defence has to take into calculation in allocating the resources that are available to him. We are not talking of a small sum. We are talking about $10m, or $llm when we add the Air Force cadets and the Naval Reserve cadets. In the course of the last 10 years during which the honourable member for Moreton served for a short time as the Minister for the Navy, that amount of money spent on cadets each year would have allowed the buying and operation of a squadron of Hercules aircraft. These aircraft are utilised in a whole number of humanitarian jobs, in Darwin and throughout Australia, in times of distress. We have to calculate, and any responsible government has to calculate, the net advantage within the defence vote of the expenditure of not just every million dollars but of every dollar. We have a defence vote this year, a very sizeable defence vote, of $ 1.800m. We have sought to get rid of the superfluous expenditure within that vote so that every taxpayer's dollar spent on defence is used for the primary purpose of any defence budget- the defence preparedness of Australia. 
I have quoted from the Millar report. One of the extraordinary features of the Millar report is that it reaches a conclusion that is at complete variance with the evidence that is contained in that report. There are other sections that I can quote but I think those I have quoted give the sentiment, the understanding, of the Millar Committee in approaching this question. 
-I think the Millar Commitee was set up by my predecessor,  Mr Lance  Barnard, to resolve these sorts of problems. They are problems that had never been even approached, never even been tackled, by the former Liberal-Country Party Government. These facts, these arguments, about the military value of the cadets, I believe are conclusive. The Committee has stated very clearly, very concisely, that the funds spent on cadets could be spent in ways which would add more to Australia's present defence capacity, and that is what concerns this Government. I understand it does not concern the Liberal-Country Party Opposition because the only comments that the shadow Minister for Defence seems to have made in the last few months are not on defence but just on cadets. He might well be referred to as the shadow Minister for cadets. He has said that he is going to restore the cadets. I will be interested to see whether the Opposition, if at any time it has that opportunity, will do so. 
Surely the important question is how taxpayers' funds- we are talking about taxpayers' funds and how they are utilised for the defence preparedness of Australia- can be most efficiently utilised. I do not have to quote public servants here, I can quote from one of the major bodies that have served all governments with advice on defence matters. The most important of these, in the context of personnel management, is the Defence Force Development Committee. This is the most authoritative source of advice for any Minister for Defence. That Committee advised that 'the abolition of the school cadets would have no adverse effects on capabilities but would release service manpower for other purposes'. In fact it will release about 330 Regular Army soldiers, officers and men, for much more productive work within the Regular Army. When we are talking about battalion strengths of the order of 570, the fact that 330 Regular Army Officers and men will be released for more effective use within the armed forces is important. Yet quite obviously the LiberalCountry Party Opposition believes it is irrelevant. 
In the Army the chief advisers are the Chief of the General Staff and the Military Board. The Minister happens to be the  President  of the Military Board, and the advice that came to me as  President  following consideration by the Military Board of this question was as follows: 
The cost and effectiveness of cadet training cannot be justified from the viewpoint of its contribution to the defence of Australia. 
That is the point that we are debating this morning. The Millar Committee was set up to examine this question. The Opposition has had the Committee's report in its hands since June 1974, but there was not one murmur from honourable members opposite and not one question from them on the subject until the last week or so. For one year they have had that report but they have made no attempt to raise the matter in debate. We tabled it. They could have moved for the House to take note of the paper; they could have sought a debate at any stage on this matter. But, no, no one asked that question. What they are more concerned about is orchestrating, manipulating, trying to exploit the cadets. 
The honourable member for Moreton raised the episode that occurred in Western Australia. I arrived in Perth from a visit to North West Cape. I had a series of meetings with naval personnel on the night I arrived. I was informed that a demonstration had occurred that afternoon involving cadets in uniform, carrying banners, one of which read: 'Morrison come out to talk'. The honourable member mentioned discourtesy. At no stage had any cadets, not even their public relations officer - I will mention him later - contacted me or contacted my office to say that they wished to discuss their views with me. So they took to the streets in uniform carrying banners. I am sure that those members here who were previously in the forces would not describe this as an appropriate way of wearing the Queen's uniform - whilst carrying these banners. They made no effort to contact me, no effort at all. They did, I understand, seek to make certain challenges on Western Australian television of which I was unaware as I was on the east coast, then up at North West Cape which does not receive television. I was certainly not aware. So they sought to create a confrontation without the courtesy of seeking to contact me. 
When I heard that they wanted to have a talk to me I said: 'Fine, I will see a delegation of five, and I will see them at 8 a.m. tomorrow morning, which is the only time I have available. ' I put the viewpoint of the Government to them. It did not take very long because the viewpoint is well known. I read out the statement I had made and that was the end of that discussion. However, afterwards they got together with a public relations agent. The public relations agent is  Mr Danny  Varney. One of the odd things about the demonstration in Western Australia was that the police knew about it. Obviously they had been informed and they attended the demonstration - a well orchestrated demonstration, I might say - by 60 cadets with some 16 police. Yet on another occasion when there was perhaps a more excitable demonstration, when 500 excited fans turned up at the same hotel to besiege a pop group called Sherbert, only 2 police were provided. I must say that I am flattered that the Government of Western Australia seems to care so deeply for my welfare that it provides 16 police for this sort of demonstration. But I deeply regret that the members of the cadet corps have been manipulated, have been orchestrated for very narrow political purposes. 
What we are discussing today is not manipulation, not orchestration, but the defence of Australia. Any government has only limited funds to devote to any of the Budget items which require expenditure. The Liberal and National Country Parties are saying that they will slash public expenditure, and yet in an area which the Millar Committee, which was set up to report on this, and the Government's defence advisers found was not effective they are going to reintroduce the cadet corps. Are they going to take that $10m from more effective use towards the defence preparedness of Australia? If they are let them stand up and say so, or are they going to go on a mad spending spree. This is a humbug of the Opposition, of the Liberal and National Country Parties. Are they going to say: 'OK that $l0m will come out of other areas'? Are they going to follow the advice of their military boards or of the commander of the defence forces? Are they going to say. 'Well, for political purposes, because we have orchestrated protests over the cadets, because we have become politically involved, we are going to take that $10m out of more effective programs for the defence preparedness of Australia'? That is what the Opposition is saying. 
In summary,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  this is part of the humbug of the Opposition. The members of the Opposition are not concerned about the effective defence of Australia; all they are really concerned about is gimmicks- gimmicks, gimmicks and gimmicks. This Government is not involved in seeking short-term political advantages or for gimmicks. We made the decision- the Cabinet made the decision, the Government enacted the decision- on my recommendation, that in terms of the defence preparedness of Australia we could not afford the luxury of the cadet corps, that we could not afford the expenditure of funds on cadets when there was a much more effective defence use for those funds. We have made that decision. We recognised that in certain areas it would be unpopular, but a government that is responsible has to make decisions on behalf of the Australian people, on behalf of the taxpayers. That is the reason why we reached that decision; that is the reason why we will maintain that decision. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) Areas of the Reserve are currently being utilised for general community purposes including portions on the western side which are leased to the Langwarrin Progress Association, the Frankston International Small Bore Rifle Club and the Frankston and Peninsula Gun Club. 
The Cranbourne Shire Council has requested the University of Melbourne to conduct an environmental study of the area and in the interim it has been agreed with the Council that no further permits will be given for any additional use of the Army Military Reserve at Langwarrin. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The only grants administered by the Department of Defence that relate to the above Parliamentary Question are as follows: 
An annual non-repayable grant is made to the United Services Institutes of Australia. The aim of the Institutes is to promote the study of Naval, Military and Air art, science and literature by officers of the three Services and the grants received by the Institutes are expended principally on the purchase of books and periodicals for their libraries. The amounts paid over the last four years were- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Refer to reply of Parliamentary Question No. 2684. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Defence Budget estimate for advertising in 1975-76 is $2,264,000. 
Of this total figure, $2,1 18,750 is the estimated expenditure for advertising by Defence Force Recruiting. The other $145,250 includes advertising for certain civilian staff vacancies, Service displays and activities. 
Department of Defence advertising expenditure for the last five years was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1,2 and 3) Because of changed circumstances the Army requirement for use of the land is being re-examined. However, it is not now proposed to use any of the area for the provision of married quarters. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual defence report for 1975. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 and 2)1 refer the right honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 3110  (Hansard,  page 1598 of 1 October 1975). 
I am very happy to respond to the one substantive point raised by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  in his address. It concerns the arrangements this Government has entered into for the patrol frigates. I direct the attention of the honourable member for Moreton and members opposite to the  Defence Report 1975  which I tabled yesterday. 
-If the honourable member had read it he would know that the answer to the query he raised-  (Quorum formed)  The honourable member for Moreton has pointed out that he has read the report. In those circumstances I find it rather extraordinary that he asked the question. I refer him to page 23 of the report. I will read it carefully. It states: 
Final commitment by the Australian Government to proceed with the guided-missile frigate project will not be made until early 1976 and is dependant, among other things, on the results of a US Government review of the construction program. In the meantime development in the US is proceeding satisfactorily, particularly at the land-based test site where test and evaluation programs are being conducted for the major combat systems. Requests for tender proposals for USN guided-missile frigate and the RAN ships were issued concurrently to US shipbuilders in April 1 975. 
This is a process which I wish the honourable member's Party had adopted in relation to the purchase of the Fill aircraft. The arrangement we are undertaking is a process of negotiation and consultation. We are seeking to ensure that the specifications of the ship will meet the requirements of the US Navy and that there will be a cost projection that is meaningful and not an open ended commitment. The measures we have adopted in our approach to the proposals for the purchase of a guided missile frigate are the sort of negotiations, the sort of steps, that should have been undertaken by the Liberal-Country Party government when it embarked on the Fill project. I would like, in this sense of harmony that is prevailing with the honourable member for Moreton this afternoon - 
-I point out that the honourable member for Moreton did start it. I would like to congratulate the honourable member and the Liberal and National Country Parties for the defence policy issued this afternoon. In fact, on behalf of the Australian Government and the Australian Labor Party I welcome the new defence policy of the Opposition. It is refreshing to note that for the first time the Liberal Party and the National Country Party have adopted the main tenets of the Australian Labor Parry's defence policy. It is very refreshing not only for this Parliament but for the whole of Australia to recognise that for the first time the Liberal Party and the National Country Party have adopted a defence policy that is based upon a sober and realistic assessment of the requirements of Australia. Not one word remains of the old outmoded and futile concept of forward defence. I congratulate the honourable member for Moreton for having orchestrated this statement through the various committees of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. Throughout the statement there is no mention of the notions of forward defence that ended so disastrously with our involvement in Vietnam. The whole concept and orientation of the policy of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party is now firmly aligned with the concept that the Labor Party sought to introduce for many years and which it has now introduced- the notion of Continental Defence. 
The Liberal Party now is also much more realistic. It is no longer involving itself in wild, woolly and emotional concepts and statements about threats. There can be threats to any country. What is important is that people such as members of the Houses of this Parliament should look at possible threats in a realistic and sober manner. As the honourable member for Moreton pointed out, and as is stated in the second sentence of the statement issued today by the Liberal Party and the National Country Party, there is no clearly identifiable threat. With that we concur and in fact that proposition is contained in the report I tabled in the House only yesterday. Both the Government and the Opposition recognise that threats can arise. It is very necessary for any Minister for Defence, for any government, to maintain a continuous review of the strategic environment and the strategic situation so that any threats that do emerge can be monitored in terms of lead times and warning times. 
I believe that in this respect both the Opposition and the Government are now in harmony. I also find another thing very refreshing. Earlier this year when we introduced the Defence Force Re-Organisation Bill the Liberal and National Country Parties in this place and another place opposed the legislation. So it is with a sense of delight, because I believe it is a very sensible proposal, that I see that the Opposition has said in its manifesto: 
We believe, however, that a single department coordinating and directing defence activities, will best promote efficient and economic defence planning and operations. 
We wholeheartedly concur. I only wish that a few weeks ago the Liberal and National Country Parties had not wasted so much of the time of this House and had passed that legislation without the opposition that they then expressed. It seems to me also that over the last 2 days the Liberal Party and the National Country Party have had time to reflect on the unjustifiable expense from the defence viewpoint of maintaining the school cadets, and it is the defence viewpoint we are arguing about. I understood, but perhaps I was misled or misinformed, that the honourable member for Moreton had asserted in the debate the other day that the Opposition parties would reinstate the cadets. What we now find in this defence policy issued by the Opposition is that it will provide some sort of assistance to schools that maintain cadet units. This is a long way from the earlier proposition and I seek clarification. The proposition clearly stated the other day was that the Liberal Party and the National Country Party would reinstate the school cadet system. What they say now is that they will continue to encourage schools maintaining cadet training programs and review training methods. 
My dialectics are showing that yours are patently false because the proposition is not one - 
-If the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  wishes to state the views of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party, and their policies, I would be very delighted to hear them. I presume that the honourable member for Bendigo was involved in the debate that resulted in the approval of this policy being released and he made his observations. But as I said, from the viewpoint of the military advisers on Australian defence to any government the advice was loud and clear that in terms of defence spending the expenditure of $1 1.5m on school cadets was not justified. It now seems that on reflection the Liberal and National Country Parties have accepted that proposition. It is also interesting that the Opposition has moved away from that rather facile concept of devoting a fixed percentage of the gross domestic product to defence. I wish to quote the views, with which I agree, expressed by the honorable member for Moreton in the manifesto of the Liberal and National Country Parties. Anybody who has ever been involved in the administration of defence would agree with these views. He states: 
Undertakings to spend a fixed percentage of gross domestic product upon defence can give rise to significant difficulties. 
The Opposition then goes on to point out what these difficulties are. Again the Opposition is realistic. In conclusion, I believe that the people of Australia will welcome the defence policy of the Liberal and National Country Parties. I certainly welcome it. I think that this Committee will welcome it. It is the very first time that the Liberal and National Country Parties have moved away from slogans and into the realms of realism, carefully assessed the defence problems confronting Australia and accepted the policies of the Australian Labor Party in defence. I believe that this is a great day. I congratulate the members of the Liberal and National Country Parties on the adoption of the report of the honorable member for Moreton. 
I can see some of the problems that my learned colleague the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has in trying to gain acceptance certainly of those parts of his report which are realistic and sensible. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  again has catalogued the extraordinary reactions based on fears and misconceptions of what constitutes strategic assessment. Is he really saying that what may be happening in Timor constitutes a direct threat to Australia? Is he saying that Indonesia is about to attack - 
-I am delighted that the honourable member for the Northern Territory does not go quite as far as I suspected he may have. I am sure the honourable member for Moreton would agree with me that if one responds to fears that are unfounded or to fears that do not occupy a place in our assessment of what affects Australia the end result is a gross distortion of our defence preparedness- of the ordering of equipment, of strategy and tactics and of the doctrine of our armed Services. What we are concerned about is realistic assessments of the sort of threats that may affect Australia and its environment. That statement has been made by the Labor Party many times and I think it comes through in the statement put out by the honourable member for Moreton. That is the whole purpose and planning that we are undertaking. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory again took up the cudgels on behalf of the cadet corps. I want to repeat and to make very explicit the position that anybody occupying the portfolio of Minister for Defence has to take in ensuring that every defence dollar of the taxpayers ' money is used in the most efficient way. That position must be defined in terms of the defence preparedness of Australia. Let me repeatbecause it does not seem to get through least of all to the newspapers- the advice that I received from the Defence Force Development Committee, which is the most authoritative source of advice available to any Minister for Defence. The Committee said 'abolition of the school cadets would have no adverse effects on capabilities but would release service manpower for other purposes'. The Chief of the General Staff and the Military Board said 'the cost and effectiveness of cadet training cannot be justified from the viewpoint of its contribution to the defence of Australia'. This advice comes from men who not only have experience but also have served many governments. It is advice that any Minister for Defence must certainly take note of. If any Minister for Defence happens to disagree with it he has to have very good reasons for doing so. Certainly on the basis of the advice that I received from the military advisers in conjunction with reading the evidence contained in the body of the Millar report- I will observe that the most extraordinary part of that report is that the conclusion ran completely contrary to the evidence that was contained in the report- the decision was clear cut. 
As I say, today is a remarkable day in this Parliament for discussions on defence. We no longer have to contend with these wild assertions, this pandering to fears. As far as the honourable member for Moreton is concerned, and it would seem by the time members of his Party have thoroughly digested the Liberal-National Country Party's manifesto on defence that they will agree, we have reached a position where in the essential features of our defence, in terms of abandoning the futile concept of forward defence, in terms of concentrating our attention on the defence preparedness of continental Australia and in terms of providing for the type of equipment needed not only to maintain our forces but also to develop their expertise and their know-how, there is now a consensus of views and agreement. As I said, I am delighted that members of the Opposition have changed their attitude on a number of very basic issues quite radically over the last couple of weeks. I refer to their attitude to the reorganisation of the Department of Defence and the cadet corps. I believe that in this debate we have reached a position where the 3 major parties in this Parliament are agreeing on the fundamentals. I think this is a great advance and one which we should all welcome, because the Opposition- the Liberal and National Country Parties- after many years of following a defence policy that was disastrous for Australia has now seen the light. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I call the honourable member for Forrest. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-I have seen the Press reports. In fact, I asked the gentleman who was responsible for the Press reports to let me have statutory declarations giving precise information about the dumps. I also asked the Department of Defence to investigate the claims. I now have the report from the Department which says that tunnels were used to store chemical munitions in the Blue Mountains area. Records show that they were all physically removed. The report also points out that large quantities of chemical materials were disposed of at a site in the same area. This site was checked 2 yean later. We are talking of something of the order of 30 years ago. When the site was checked 2 years later it was found that disposal had been complete and that the area was safe. As my colleague the Minister for Science is aware, mustard gas spilt on the ground is rendered harmless by natural processes in a matter of days. Leaking phosgene gas disperses in the atmosphere and leaves no trace. So on the basis of this report I inform the honourable member and the House that there is no danger whatsoever from the dumping 30 years ago in the Blue Mountains area. All steps needed to be taken for the safety of the area were taken some 30 years ago. 
I am very happy to say that there has been support for the Government's defence policy from none other than the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. Certain features in the statement that was issued yesterday by the Liberal-National Country Parties all of a sudden brought them into the 1970s. The first feature of the statement is that they have abandoned the futile and outmoded concept of forward defence and they have accepted wholeheartedly and fully the concept that has been basic to the Australian Labor Party's policy- the Government's policy- on continental defence. The second paragraph of the statement pointed out that today there is no clearly identifiable threat. I welcome this statement because it reveals a more sober and realistic appraisal of the strategic environment of Australia. There is no longer the wild, woolly and emotional statements, the playing up of fears, that have epitomised the Liberal-Country Party's defence policy in the past. This is important because if one bases one's defence preparedness and one's defence planning on wild and woolly statements the one thing that is distorted is the very notion of the defence policy. 
I know that the honourable member for Moreton agrees with the proposition of the Government that the international scene must be kept under continuous review. Strategic assessments are taking place and I hope in the course of the next few weeks to be able to provide members of the House with the latest- the most up to datestatement on the strategic assessment of the Australian Government and its advisers. Another point was made in the statement. I was delighted to see it made because only weeks ago in this House the Opposition sought to defeat the legislation that the Government brought in for the reorganisation of the Department of Defence. It was only through the intervention in the Senate of the Independent senators that the Government was able to bring into effect the defence reorganisation. Let me quote from the manifesto of the Liberal-National Country Party which says - 
-I had understood from the Opposition some days ago that one of its basic policies was to reinstate the school cadet system, if it ever had the opportunity. But on reading the Liberal-National Country Party manifesto on defence, I find that this quite clearly is no longer the case. Those Parties have no intention of reinstating the school cadet system. They have no intention of applying $ 1 1 .5m of the Defence vote to school cadets. What they have said is that they would seek to encourage schools maintaining school cadets. So, it is quite clear from the phraseology that they have used in their policy statement that they have no intention of reinstating the school cadets and undertaking an expense of $1 1.5m which the Defence advisers to the Government have pointed out detracts from the efficiency of the Australian Defence forces. 
For the information of honourable members I present the following documents relating to interim defence arrangements between Australia and Papua New Guinea: A joint, statement by the Papua New Guinea Minister for Defence, Foreign Relations and Trade and the Australian Minister for Defence on interim arrangements, a letter to the Papua New Guinea Minister for Defence, Foreign Relations and Trade from the Australian Minister for Defence and the four annexures thereto, and the reply from the Papua New Guinea Minister for Defence, Foreign Relations and Trade. 
Motion (by  Mr Riordan)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peacock)  adjourned. 
-I am afraid that the difficulties that would confront the defence forces would be such that the defence preparedness of Australia would grind down. The record Budget of $ 1,800m for defence, including a record amount of funds for equipment, would no longer be operative. Maritime and air surveillance of the Australian coastline would cease. The activities of the armed forces in the detection of smuggling and drug running and in relation to fisheries in Queensland and Western Australia would halt. As of 30 November salaries and allowances to all members of the armed forces would cease. They would have either to be stood down or go on leave without pay. This is a very serious problem and it is brought upon this House, upon this Parliament and upon the Australian people by the rapacious ambitions of just one man who is prepared to hold Australia and the defences of Australia to ransom. It is an act of blatant political banditry. 
I move: 
1 ) That the House of Representatives having considered Message No. 275 of the Senate asserts that the action of the Senate in delaying the passage of the Loan Bill 197S for the reasons given in the Senate resolution is contrary to the accepted means of financing a major portion of the Defence Budget of this country and therefore requests the Senate to reconsider and pass the Bill without delay. 
That a message be sent to the Senate acquainting it of this resolution. 
It is significant that the first Bill associated with this year's Budget that the Opposition, in its grab for power, should seize upon to achieve its purposes was a Bill for an Act to authorise the raising and expending of moneys for defence purposes. It has, by its actions, deliberately sought to sabotage Australia's defence. 
-I am very concerned at the highly reprehensible comments by the  West Australian.  The  West Australian  made the claim in its editorial about the tabling of 'a politically biased Defence Department report'. The Defence Department report was tabled in the House and I think all honourable members have seen it. I strongly object to the charge that the Defence report is politically biased. In fact, the two senior advisers to the Government and to the Minister for Defence- the Secretary of the Department,  Sir Arthur  Tange, and Admiral  Sir Victor  Smith, the  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff- were not appointed by the Labor Government. The  Chairman  of the Chiefs of Staff was appointed by the then Minister for Defence, the current Leader of the Opposition, and  Sir Arthur  Tange was appointed by the Liberal Party. I do not believe that any responsible peron in this House, and one would hope no responsible editorial writer, would suggest that either of those men was subject to political bias. 
I believe that what the  West Australian  was concerned about was the statement in the report that the previous Government had, through incompetence or inadequacies, failed to take sound new equipment decisions in the last stages of its reign. This is not a politically biased statement; it is a factual statement. The Liberal Country parties in the last years of their control of this country did run down the new equipment purchases. I give the details of the value of new equipment approved in the following years: 1968-69, $30m; 1969-70, $53m; 1970-71, $153m; 1971-72, $24; 1972-73, $84m; 1973- 74the Labor Party's Budget$96m; 1974- 75, $330m; and 1975-76, $290m. What in fact happened was that over the 3 years of the 3 Labor Government Budgets a total of $7 16m was provided for new equipment. This means that we provided in new equipment over 3 years twice the amount of money provided over 5 years by the Liberal and Country parties It is quite obvious that the reason the Opposition is opposing the defence budget is that it wants to get back to a stage where it was in the last five years of its administration from 1967 onwards, when the defence forces of this country were not provided with adequate equipment to conduct and to prepare for the defence of Australia. That is in short the meaning of its opposition last night to the Loan Bill and to the whole concept of providing sufficient funds for the defence of Australia. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) See the answer provided by the Minister representing the Media on 4 December 1974  (Hansard,  page 4590). 
Pursuant to section 14 ( I ) of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-73 I present a further supplement to the 25th report of the Defence Forces Retirements Benefits Board on the operation of the Act for the period 1 July 1972 to 30 September 1972 dealing with progress in the final actuarial examination of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. 
Pursuant to section 16 (2) of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1 973-74 1 present the third report of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Authority dealing with the general administration and working of the Act for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 could not speak for the Red Cross as to whether or not it gave sponsorship to particular individuals or organisations, but in any event see (2). 
No. 
and (4) See (2). 
-I did see those allegations and charges and they are completely groundless. I challenge any member of this House to read the report- I hope that some members opposite will read it and I have a copy here if they wish to do so- and having read the report try to come to a conclusion that is the same as the conclusion reached by  Dr Millar.  Let me quote from the report. I shall not quote selectively. It states: 
On these grounds therefore the pure military value of school cadets is quite small and quite expensive. 
I am prepared to go through every part of the report but I will not take up the time of the House. The parts that I have quoted previously are within the report and they have not been taken out of context. The report states: 
It is evident that the military value of cadets is small and does not of itself justify the present annual allocation of funds and Regular Army manpower. 
The report also states: 
It is very clear that the funds spent on cadets could be spent in ways which would add more to Australian's present defence capacity. 
There is a whole host of other statements that I could make drawing on the report of the Millar Committee. What I am asking is: If honourable members opposite would only read that report and put themselves in the position of the Minister for Defence who has to make a decision, in the light of the defence preparedness of Australia, on the expenditure of $11. 5m and the deployment of some 380 Regular Army soldiers, what decision would they come to? I am happy to say that the Opposition in its manifesto on defence has come to exactly the same decision as the Government. The Opposition has said that it will not reinstate the cadets to the extent of spending $ 11.5m and deploying 380 Regular Army personnel. 
