In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
High Schools at Casuarina (Darwin) and Alice Springs, Northern Territory. 
Ordered  that the report be printed. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport, relates to the proposed standardisation of the rail system between Port Pirie and Adelaide. Can the Minister tell me when the consultants' report can be expected? Can he assure me that the future of the line between Gladstone and Wilmington and, perhaps, Quorn, will be taken into consideration by the consultants? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the Thirty- 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry a question without notice and with less trepidation than of yore. Will the Minister give more details of the projected inquiry into tariff making which was referred to briefly in the Governor-General's Speech? Will the Minister give an assurance that the long recognised position of independence of the Tariff Board will not be jeopardised by such an inquiry? 
The Prime Minister will remember that both the honourable member for Angas and I made representations to him in February on behalf of the Lord Mayor of Adelaide, who asked if one of Captain Cook's cannon could be sent to Adelaide for exhibition in April. Can he tell me whether this request will be acceded to? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Administration Office Blocks 6, 7 and 8 and an Information and Display Building, Darwin, Northern Territory; 
Additional Storehouse Building at Stores Depot, Tottenham, Victoria. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Royal Australian Air Force Base at Pearce, Western Australia. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  spent much time protesting that South Australia needs water. No one argues with that. The object of this debate is to determine how to get South Australia most water. There is no doubt whatever about the engineering answer to this question. The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  spelt it out with delightful clarity. It is a long time since I have heard an honourable member speak with such complete mastery of his subject. Obviously he knew what he was talking about, and that is an advantage in this House. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  followed up with a lot of technical details which spelt out the answer again. I repeat that there is no doubt about the engineering answer to South Australia's problem of wanting more water. 
Let me recount a personal experience in this regard. At one stage for a short while I was the Minister for Works. The Director pf Works,  Mr Maunder,  a very highly qualified engineer, came to me in some concern one day and said:  'Mr Minister'  - he used to call me  Mr Minister  when I had not been Minister for long; he treated me with great respect - 'we are in some trouble about Chowilla. It appears to us, as engineers, that it is going to be the wrong engineering answer. How do you view this?' Being rather politically ingenuous I said: I am not really interested in the political answer. What I want is the correct engineering answer.' This was the beginning of the uncertainty about whether Chowilla was the right engineering answer. When the price was confirmed by tender it became clear that there was even more room for uncertainty and at that stage  Mr Dunstan,  the then Premier of South Australia, with a proper sense of responsibility said that they ought to cease work and agreed to a cessation of work. He agreed also to the appointment of a technical committee to evaluate the engineering facts. This committee met, studied the question and confirmed that the proper engineering answer was to build the dam at Dartmouth. 
My question to the House is this: What are we going to do about it, knowing these facts? Are we going to build a dam in the wrong place? May be there are votes in this, although I am glad to see an awakening awareness in South Australia that this is not a good way to behave. Are we going to agree to an answer which we know from an engineering point of view is unsound and give way to a clamour to build a dam in the wrong place? Are we going to give way to sentiment? I know that there is a place for sentiment in the world, but as far as South Australia is concerned my only interest is water. 
What are the arguments against the engineering answer? What are the non-engineering questions that people raise - not the political ones? There are three. One is that South Australia will not control the dam. In South Australia there is being built up a picture of  Sir Henry  Bolte sitting with his hand on the tap ready to turn it off. The fundamental facts are that during the recent drought when Victoria and New South Wales were desperately short of water, because of the honour of governments in Australia and because of the River Murray Waters Agreement, those States let water down to South Australia. That is the way in which we would expect governments of all colours - responsible governments - to behave. It happened then; it will continue to happen. Another argument is that Dartmouth is too far away and the water will not get through to South Australia in time. This is just engineering nonsense. I point out that Lake Victoria contains 500,000 acre feet of water and that will give us all the urgent water South Australia will need. If Chowilla is built, everybody knows that it will submerge Lake Victoria. The other argument - and I suppose we have to include it as an argument - is that Chowilla is going to have an evaporation loss of 800,000 acre feet a year. This is one of the fundamental engineering facts that makes Chowilla the wrong engineering answer. I have beard people say that an evaporation of this quantity of water will change the climate of the surrounding area. That is a silly argument, but so are the other two. The three non-engineering nonpolitical arguments are all equally unsound. Honourable members have said: 'Let us build both dams simultaneously.' That would give South Australia almost no increase in water but the popular cry is to build both dams at once. 
I have listened to the engineers on this point, and this is an exercise that I would commend to the honourable member for Dawson. Does he expect the other States to agree to the building of another $60m-odd dam and not get any more water? It is true that South Australians may be able to say: 'We have Chowilla. It is right on our boundary. We can go up there and ski, look at it and pat it.' If not much water is to be gained from it South Australia may be attracted to it but it is hard to see why the other States should put in their hard earned money to build a dam which is going to give them hardly any more water. Why is it that there has been this explosion of sentiment about Chowilla? This has been the position in South Australia, but I am glad to see that it is dying down as the facts are hammered home. 
People say that water is running out to the sea. I want the House to realise two fundamental facts. One is that water has to run out to sea to keep the lower Murray fresh. That has to happen anyhow. If we build Chowilla water must be released from Chowilla to keep the lower Murray fresh. The second fact that has been lost sight of far too much in this discussion - I was going to say debate, but I think that dignifies it rather - is that we can only economically use water that we know we are going to get. In some years flood water will be running out of the Murray because we cannot plan for that situation. Unless we can plan we cannot economically use water. The reason is fairly simple. If we are going to use water for irrigation we have to plant, say an orchard. If we plant an orchard when we have water and the water supply does not continue during a drought year, we go broke because the trees die. This is the fundamental reason why yield is so important and why it is not possible to use water we cannot plan for and why sometimes water has to run out to sea, apart from the need to keep the lower Murray fresh. 
I was urged to be brief but I want to close by making a considered statement and I do so as one whose only interest in this exercise is the welfare of his State. If as a result of the politics that we have seen indulged in in this particular case and on other occasions the South Australian Government is defeated and a Labor government is returned to office, there is no doubt whatever that the two dams will not be built. There is no doubt that Dartmouth will be built first, because it is the right engineering answer, and that Chowilla will have to wait its time because that is the right engineering answer. I have too much respect for Opposition parties not to think that if they get into Government they will become aware of the responsibilities attaching to their position. I have no doubt that both dams will not be built even if Labor is returned in South Australia. This point should be hammered home to a Parliament such as this. It is not a case of politics; it is a case of engineering and the proper use of limited resources in a State that desperately needs water. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Stores Complex for 2 Base Medical and Dental Equipment Depot at Randwick, New South Wales 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Development Works at HMAS 'Tarangau' at Los Negros Island. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
It is a queer commentary on the mutability of political affairs that the last time this matter came before the House I was sitting at the table representing the Minister for Works and it was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works of which the former honourable member for Perth,  Mr Chaney,  was  Chairman.  Now that this matter has come back before the House I find myself as  Chairman  of that Committee and it gives me an opportunity to make 1 comment, that is, to pay a tribute to the quality of the report on which this Government action is based. 1 have a great and increasing respect for the performance and traditions of the Committee. This report is a sample of its responsibility and of the depth of the Committee's considerations. I can say that because I was not a member of the Committee when this report was framed. It is a tradition of the Committee quite definitely not to take a party political view but to weigh things up on their merits, and this is what has been done in this case. 
I would like to take the opportunity as the present Chairman of the Standing Committee on Public Works to pay a tribute to the past performance of the Committee. The only other thing I want to say is to congratulate the Government on having the wisdom to follow the Committee's advice. 
As  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee there is one particular point I want to make, which is that the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  would surely realise that his Party was well represented on the Committee and that this report is unanimous. We went to a great deal of trouble to recall the Department of Air witnesses to get their opinions and to form our judgment as to whether it was reasonable to hold work up at this stage. All I can say to the honourable member for Newcastle is that the members of his Party on the Public Works Committee unanimously signed this report along with other members. I think this disposes of the question of whether or not the matter was considered with a proper sense of responsibility. 
One other thing ought to be said. The reference we are talking about concerns a Service establishment, and people who come into the Royal Australian Air Force would expect in many cases to hear aircraft noise. Indeed, I think they would be disappointed if they did not. Similarly, a sailor would be disappointed if he did not go to sea. This is part of the Service life in a Service establishment. The Committee, 1 repeat, weighed the matters up with great responsibility. There is a lot of examination going on in the technical field to measure accoustic problems. The distance of the establishment from the commonly used runway is between 3,000 and 4,000 feet, I understand. This is the measurement on the recorders. It cannot be assumed that the noise level is serious. It was proper that the noise level should be measured and should be taken into consideration. This Committee took this action, lt weighed it up in its best judgment and all of the members signed the report. 
Will the PostmasterGeneral consider asking 'Four Corners' to use 4 symbols to indicate which parts of each programme are: (1) factual reporting; (2) biased reporting: (3) faked reporting; and (4) straight out lies? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Interior. Is his Department considering installing air-conditioning in the new black cars to be bought for use in Canberra? Would it not be far cheaper and achieve the same end by buying white cars without air-conditioning? Will he inform his colleague the Minister for Supply that the opinion commonly held in the bush is that anyone who voluntarily drives around in a black car is soft in the head? 
I have been goaded into speaking by the speech of the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  I would like to ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  1 question. If I understood him correctly, he said that keeping the Corporation at arms length from the Government was important. Then he said that for that reason it was important that the Corporation should not be a set dividend target. I cannot understand the connection between one statement and the other. Could the Minister explain it for me? 
Is the Minister for Customs and Excise aware of statements made in the Financial Review' recently that the Department of Customs and Excise is intruding into the policy field and so operating the by-law system as to give protection to the manufacture of motor trucks? Will the Minister assure me that any such action by his Department or the Government would be preceded by a Tariff Board inquiry? 
In addressing myself to this Bill I want to make 2 or 3 points. I particularly want to refer to statements made by the previous Minister for National Development, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  for whom I have a respect bordering on veneration. 1 must admit, however, that I find some of his arithmetic a bit queer. The honourable member for Farrer said in this House yesterday that the Keepit Dam area produces annually $4.7m worth of crops and at that rate the dam would pay for itself within 8 years. The honourable member also said that the Ord River scheme produces annually $2.2m worth of goods and at that rate it would pay for itself in 9 years. There are 2 fundamental weaknesses in the honourable member's argument. He omitted to state that a good deal of the produce grown in those areas and evaluated in that manner was subsidised production. There are also a great many inputs other than the dams which go into the production of the produce. For example, the work, the superphosphate, the machinery, and all the inputs except water, all have an influence on production, but no allowance was made for these. 
The next matter I want to deal with is the reference by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  to the suburban lobby. I thought that he mentioned this matter of the suburban lobby with some sense of criticism. I presume that he meant by this reference those people who criticise irrigation; certainly that was the implication. I have been known to be critical of irrigation in some forms. I wonder whether the honourable member calls me a representative of the suburban lobby. I point out to the honourable member that my fore fathers came here some 130 years ago and have been farming the same country ever since. I do not know whether the honourable member could say the same. My electorate of Wakefield, which covers 150,000 square miles, is 3 times bigger than the electorate of Riverina. If I am regarded as a representative of the suburban lobby I hope that it does not get around my electorate. 
I have noticed continually during this debate that there has been a tendency to be critical of  Dr Davidson  because he has had the temerity to criticise irrigation in some forms. I think we have to be careful about this, lt is easy to traduce people who do not think as we do.  Dr Davidson  had the courage to stand up and spell out with startling clarity in his book 'The Northern Myth' the kind of inevitable mistake that we are tending towards, and he has followed up that book with another. I do not mind the criticism made of him for what he has said, but 1 do object very much, as do a lot of other people in this country, to the kind of vilification that he has had to suffer. I have noticed the honourable member for Riverina is pretty quick at issuing challenges. If the honourable member for Riverina is so critical of  Dr Davidson's  theories I think it would bc a useful exercise for the honourable member to invite  Dr Davidson  to participate in a debate. I understand he suffered at the hands of the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  in a similar debate. It may be that the honourable member for Riverina would like to take  Dr Davidson  on under the same terms. The third thing I would like to say is that the honourable member for Riverina said that one-third of the agricultural production of Australia came from irrigated land. I do not know whether that is so or not - it depends on how he defines the term 'irrigated land'. If 5 acres of land are irrigated on a farm of, say, 150 acres, does the honourable member measure all the products of that farm or does he measure only the products of the irrigated land? I challenged the honourable member at the time to give the sources of his information. When these sources are provided I shall be happy to have a look at them. 
If we look at the Bundaberg dam proposal from the point of view of purist economists such as the honourable member for Dawson used to be - I presume this is  so because he would not have gained a doctorate from being an impure economist - it does look a little queer. The cost to the Commonwealth of S 12.8m for engineering works comes out at SI 40 for every irrigated acre. The Queensland taxpayer puts in another amount of money, and the total cost works out at $225 for every irrigated acre. I presume that this scheme is costed in the same way as almost all other large irrigation schemes in Australia in that the water charge will be sufficient to cover the distribution of the water along the channels but will not be enough to pay for the amortisation of the headworks. I ask the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who is at the table, whether that is so. If it is not so, I will be interested to hear his reply. In this case the taxpayer is making a contribution of $225 for every irrigated acre in order to ensure that sugar can be grown profitably. Yet, there are other parts of Queensland where farmers are only too anxious to increase the production of sugar without any government or taxpayer contribution whatever. The purist economist would look at this proposal and say: 'Well, it does look a bit odd. lt is hard to justify it on an economic basis'. Good cases have been made out in support of this proposal. The chief one, of course, is that it will even out the production and there will not be the fluctuations that you get from dry land farming in the area, particularly with the underground water supply drying up. It is said that unless this matter was tackled and something was done the position for Bundaberg would be a serious one. We have done something. 
The important thing to realise is that the justification for this proposal is on social grounds and not on economic grounds. 1 am not saying that it should not be on social grounds but I am saying that from now on we face the fact that all of these judgments will be made on social or sometimes political grounds. I have areas in my State which could benefit from irrigation. People make a case for irrigation and say: Look what it is going to do for the starving stock'. They use this kind of argument. If we accepted that argument we could say in the case of Oodnadatta, which experiences droughts fairly frequently, that we could save the situation for the people there by constructing a large dam across a gorge in that area. If the people at Oodnadatta could get water the cost would certainly even out from a production point of view. But this would not be sensible. 
Closer to Adelaide there is an area about which I have great knowledge and for which 1 have very great fears. This is an area around Virginia. The underground source of water in the area is drying up. However, there is now available a source of effluent water. I imagine that inauguration of the use of effluent water would not attract the Minister with the same enthusiasm as would the opening of a dam. lt may be that the use of this effluent water or some such fire brigade action will be needed to solve the problems of this area. It is quite clear that if judgments are not to be made on economic grounds - and the judgment in this instance has not really been made on economic grounds - they will be made on the basis of social grounds. They will be made on the basis that something has to be done for Bundaberg; that something has to be done for particular people. But I should think we could spend the money to better advantage. Therefore, if the judgments are to be made on social grounds, hereafter I will be making very strong pleas for Government contributions to solve the social problems that are inherent in this area that I know so well. It may be that it will have an economic justification. But whether it has economic justification or not. I know that from now on the judgments will be made on social and not economic grounds. 
The only other thing I want to say is that the honourable member for Dawson was critical of the Government because not enough cost benefit analyses were available. I admit quite clearly that I would have liked more economic argument to sustain the case. I understand that some of my colleagues in the Australian Country Party had the advantage of this. I certainly did not. I should have liked to have had this information. But I am critical of the honourable member for Dawson for his statement that there should be economic assessments available to enable us to weigh one scheme against another. What concerns me so much in this and other debates on irrigation is that we become misty eyed about irrigation. So many of us lose all sense of economic responsibility. It is true that we ought to measure one economic scheme against another, but even more we ought surely to measure irrigation schemes against  non-irrigation schemes. I can think of so many things that I could do much more profitably with the SI 00m that is to be spent on irrigation. The country is crying out for things that need to be done in the rural sector. The country is crying out for measures that will encourage decentralisation. But we become misty eyed when irrigation is mentioned. Because the whole community says that Australia is the driest continent, irrigation automatically is considered to be good. Fine flowing phrases like 'The desert shall blossom as the rose'  overwhelm our  sense of economic responsibility. I am concerned that irrigation projects always, have lacked the economic examination which I think is vital to a country with limited resources. If we do not have limited resources, well and good. But if we have limited resources - I think we are well aware that we have - we ought not only to weigh one irrigation scheme against another, as I agree we should, but also to have much more sense of responsibility. We ought to weigh an irrigation scheme against the other things that could be done with the same amount of money and which in so many instances, I think, are much more valuable. That is my main plea to the House. I know from bitter experience that it will not receive much sympathy. ] know that there are votes in constructing dams. I know that to open a dam gives an opportunity for eloquence which makes such occasions attractive to politicians, but I think as a Parliament we give way far too quickly to such temptation. We have a greater responsibility to weigh one thing against another. In the future - it is too late on this occasion - -I hope that we will do rather better in this regard than we have in the past. 
I want to take up one point that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  raised. In one respect what he says is true: It is not necessarily uneconomic if the taxpayers' contribution comes to more than the service fee charged for the water. If production is profitable, on balance it may be good economics. My point was that if the matter is being treated from a purely economic standpoint and if the same result can be achieved without paying $225 for every acre irrigated it is a much better situation. 1 repeat, if the same result can be gained without spending any money at all it. is better than spending S225 an irrigated acre. I do not think that the honourable member for Dawson would argue with that economic treatise. That was the only point I made. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Archives Repository at Villawood, New South Wales. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry for an assurance that he is doing ail in his power to have lifted the ban by the Australian Council of Trade Unions on the export of merino rams. Can he tell me who is governing the country - the ACTU or this Government?" 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Since I asked a simple question of the Minister last Friday have there been any further developments or has he any further information that he can now give mc regarding the merino ram embargo? Is the Minister aware that many undeveloped countries such as India and Iran which want our merino rams are rightly critical of the attitude of the Australian Labor Party in giving in to dictation by the Australian Council of Trade Unions - or is it that advice is being given by the Labor Party to the ACTU? 
Will the PostmasterGeneral convey my congratulations to the Australian Broadcasting Commission for the quality of its programme entitled 'A Big Country'? ls he aware that this programme tells an interesting and factual story without political bias? Can we have more similar programmes? 
I  am glad to hear it, because it would have sat rather queerly on the Labor Part)', having demanded previously a referendum on the export of merino rams. 
 1  think a referendum on that would be quite out of place. The rams happen to belong to the people who grow them and there are only a few of those people. I quite agree, and I think honourable members all agree, that the export of merino rams would be no disad vantage to the Australian wool market but would free the channels of world trade and give to a few people in other countries the .kind of blood that they need. To pretend that we in Australia have an option on the fine wool of the world is ridiculous.  1  have seen Rambouillet sheep and Russian merino sheep in Nepal and India that have as fine a wool as any sheep we have in Australia. 1 want to conclude by making a few remarks as a member of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation Advisory Council. i notice that in the Bill there is to be a change in the method of financing CSIRO research into wool. I would like to congratulate the Government on the step it has taken, lt is a step that needed to be taken; it is a wise step. I would like to pay a tribute to the quality of CSIRO research and the direction it has taken up till now. I would agree, however, with the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street! that we need a different emphasis on research in the future, particularly on getting the wool off, as he says. A lot of effort has gone into packing more wool on to the sheep, but it is now very important that we spend a lot more effort in getting the wool off. i am glad that the honourable member for Corangamite mentioned it, and I think it is something we ought to concentrate on from the research side. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
lt is a long time since I have taken part in a tariff debate of this nature. As the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J.  F. Cairns) suggested. I come back to this subject with some excitement. I always enjoyed these tariff debates and I intend to enjoy this one. One of the reasons I will enjoy it is because of the change in the form of the debate. 1 pay a very great tribute to the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  and his departmental officers for amending the system and for making it much more understandable for those of us engaged in this exercise. I also pay tribute to the parliamentary officers. For many years tariff has been a very difficult subject. No-one knew quite what they were doing - at least I did not - but it is now much clearer and easier for us. 
I am going to handle this debate in a different manner to that adopted by the honourable member for Lalor. The fundamental difference is that 1 am going to deal with the general principles on which the proposals are based. In the Committee stage, particularly when the Thirteenth Schedule is before us, I shall bc happy to engaged in defence of the Government and the Minister and. prominently, a defence of the Tariff Board for the quality of the report on man made fibre. 1 think that report is one of the finest pieces of economic analysis 1 have ever read. However I will let that wait until the Committee stage is reached. 1 want to deal with some of the changes I have seen in respect of tariff in the last 9 or 10 years. I think,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you would remember with some pain the way these debates were conducted in this House. There was almost no interest on the part of honourable members. I remember dealing with 16 or 17 separate proposals and I guarantee that I emptied the House as no-one else ever did. However, those proposals had to be debated. At that stage the principles behind what was happening had to be spelt out. lt was not a pleasant or easy process but it had to be done. However now there has been a very great change. I want to pay tribute to the honourable members for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  and Moore  (Mr Maisey)  for the careful way in which they have taken up the important duly of analysing Tariff Board reports during what might be called my sabbatical leave. In the Senate,  Senator Bull  and  Senator Sim  have done equally well. There has been a change of interest on the Government side. Honourable members now realise that something important to our economy has been going on for years. I do not know whether there has been a change in the thinking of honourable members of the Labor Party opposite. 1 have never been quite certain what the honourable member for Lalor, who leads for the Opposition on tariff matters, really thinks. He used always to support me but then I understand he got the message from Caucus stating that that was not the way to behave and that he must toe the high protectionist line. Then he changed. Almost everybody has changed in this field of protection. Almost everything has changed. The field has changed. But no-one has changed more frequently than the Labor spokesman on tariff. The former member for Lalor.  Mr Reg  Pollard, used to lead for the Opposition on tariff matters. I was never quite certain whether he knew the fundamental details of tariff but one thing we did know was that Reg Pollard said what he thought. The present honourable member for Lalor has the advantage over me in this regard. I am never quite certain whether he is saying what he thinks or what he has been told to think. I am certain there is going to be a very great change in the Labor policy. There must be. There is too much intelligence coming into the Opposition side as a result of the last intake to continue with the old outworn theories, if one could call them that, or practices. There must be a change as there has been a change in the thinking of honourable members on the Government side. 
That change, however, is only a reflection of the change that has happened outside. The change outside really started or became vocal when the Report of the Committee on Economic Inquiry, the Vernon Committee, was released. I will never forget the sense of excitement of getting the Report, analysing chapters number 13 and 14 and discovering that at last we had clear advice that as we became more industrialised our tariff had to become firmer based; that we had to have a more exact or more sensible use of our resources; that someone has pointed out that we had a greater percentage of our work force engaged in secondary industry than in the United States of America. Because of these things, because of the development and because we were becoming more industrialised we had to have a more responsible attitude to tariff making. 
The Vernon Committee urged the Tariff Board to use the bench mark technique not as an exact measurement but as a measurement of whether high tariff industries should be looked at with more care. The Vernon Committee Report, having broken the ice, having made the subject almost popular - the point of view I had been propounding for some time had been generally accepted by the Committee - then everybody else, the academics,  Sir Leslie  Melville, the 

 Chairman of the Reserve Bank of Australia,  Sir John  Crawford in particular, even the Secretary of the Department of Trade and Industry,  Sir Alan  Westerman, came out with a first class statement on how there had to be a more careful examination of tariffs, saying that industries had to expect to export and that if they expected to export they had to be conscious of rising costs. 
Then came 2 annual reports from the Tariff Board that set out quite clearly for all of us who were interested in the subject that there had to be a different way of looking at tariffs and that we had to be more exact in our measurements and understanding of tariffs.  Mr Rattigan,  the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board, followed this with an exact analysis of the task of the Board and how it intended to tender its advice to the Minister. People say: These are theorists and academics. What about the real world?' We found, as I knew we would find, that those who had to use highly protected raw materials in their industry were adversely affected by a high tariff policy. When I used to go to address meetings, it was this group, even more than the export industry groups, which would come to me and say: 'Why did someone not tell us about this before? We did not know that a high tariff on our raw materials would make our position as manufacturers more difficult'. More importantly, the manufacturers who hope to export, or who have to export, began to understand, as we exporters had always known, how important excess costs were. 
During the 1940s and the 1950s it was  Mr Chislett  of the United Graziers Association and  Mr Jilek  from the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation who shouldered the burden of giving advice on how high tariffs on their products were affecting the export industries. They did what they could. The financial position of the rural industries has never been handsome and perhaps they have never been able to buy the kind of advice that the big manufacturing groups could buy. But these people kept the flame alive. The mining industry gradually realised that it lived by exports and that it would have to carry excess costs if a high duty were imposed on conveyor belting. It realised that if the general cost structure within the whole economy got out of kilter with that in the countries to which it exported it would have to pay the price of excess costs caused by high tariffs. Consequently it became a vocal and powerful pressure group. 
One of the most exciting stories in our development is the story of how manufacturing industry is gradually, and indeed now rapidly, increasing. The industries which hope to export and which can export became acutely aware that the price of protection could be too high because of the excess costs it would have to bear. So we have this remarkable change of emphasis. The old free trade dogma has gone. As I have explained to the House on many occasions, I am not a free trader and never have been but I am interested, as I have always been, in trying to keep the costs of protection at a reasonable level. An exercise that in the past years was a lonely one - new members in the House will never know quite how lonely it was - has now become almost respectable. In fact we find now only a few diehards, if 1 might call them that, speaking for the other side. Even the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia, that high tariff lobby, now realises that manufacturers have to expand into the export market if they are to be a viable group and, indeed, if the Australian economy is to be viable. 
Then, almost at the end of the line, the Australian Industries Development Association started to think. This was an experience that had been foreign to it for some time. I remember making a speech on 14th August 1963 about a statement prepared by AIDA, and representatives of that Association did not appear above the surface for some time after. Since then, as one would expect with a man like Bill Callaghan as the executive officer, it is beginning to face up to its problems and to realise that protection can be too high in some industries and that it must be based on principle. It is true that its thinking may be a little puzzled at the moment and that it may be sometimes asking the Government what AIDA ought to think. I think that the last bastion of responsible - I say this because it has always been recognised as responsible - high tariff lobbyists has almost fallen leaving only, I suppose, the textile council. I think that the textile council will also split in two because it is subject to very great pressures the other way. 1 have traced the gradual changes that have taken place and that had to take place as we became more developed and as we realised that we were a country with limited resources and that it was proper to try to guide these resources in the most economic way. I resent very much the criticism that the honourable member for Lalor made of the Tariff Board. 1 shall defend it during the discussion on the Tariff Board Report relating to man made fibres. I say that the chief credit for the change in thinking on tariffs goes, firstly, to the Vernon Committee, and secondly, to the Tariff Board for pointing out with courage and independence of mind the way we had to go and the way that all thinking people know we have to go. Not only academics, not only those who in Parliament represent rural industries, but also those thinking people in industry now know that high tariff protection, if not carefully measured out, is a handicap and not a help to the industrial development of. a country. 
But still there are things that have not changed. I inject these things into the debate as a kind of warning to people that I am still about. One of the basic things that worries me is that people say: 'What do exports matter? What does protection matter?' Let me give a simple example We export from Australia a lot of goods. We export 50,000 tons of cartons wrapped around our exports. Those cartons carry a duty of between $50 and $60 a ton. This is costing the export industries, because they cannot obtain drawback on them, $2.cm annually. I know that there are reasons for the inability for us to obtain drawback. Goods such as cartons are imported. If th»y are re-exported we should be able to obtain drawback. So the exporters would pay the penalty for high duties. In 1963 I spelt oat the arrangements that seemed to affect this situation. I am not quite certain whether they are still the same. I shall find that out. The fact remains that there is an excess cost which the exporters pay for the 50,000 tons of cartons. I want people to know that we must still take a lively interest in these excess costs. 
One other fact that ought to be spelt out is that one of the fundamental problems of protection is that by over protecting an industry we get a proliferation of plants. That can be found to an acute degree in the Australian chemical industry to which 
I  wilt  refer later. Honourable members and the General public should realise that in Australia with a population of about 121 million people we have 4  manufacturers  of motor cars - we used to have 5 but Volkswagen fell by the wayside - and we have 4 or 5 assemblers. In Australia there is a 45% duty on cars. America which has a population of 200 mil'lion people has 5 manufacturers of cars and no assemblers. In that country the duty on cars is 4.5% and this will come down shortly to 3%. In this country we have one-sixteenth of America's population and just about twice as many manufacturers or assemblers of motor cars. This is what unwise protection is all about. It creates a proliferation of plants and makes it difficult for industries to be competitive. The car industries demand protection by way of a 45% duty. Those of us connected with rural industry know how heavily this falls on us every time we have to buy a motor car or a utility. 
Although changes have taken place, even more changes are necessary. One thing that worries me is the attitude of the Department of Customs and Excise. Whether my concern is justified, I do not yet know. I have a tremendous amount of respect for and trust in the Minister. I know that he thinks he is doing the right thing. In the Senate on 16th April 1969  Senator Murphy  asked the previous Minister for Customs the following question: 
Why has your Department without the recommendation of the Tariff Board adopted a new hard-line approach to by-law policy which will compel Australian manufacturers to inflate costs by adopting  a  local content similar to that which disrupted the vehicle industry? 

 Senator Scott, the then Minister for Customs and Excise, replied: 
The Department of Customs, of which I am the Minister, is anxious to establish industries in Australia. 
 I am sorry. I know what the Minister thinks. Whether that applies in the Department. I just do not know. There is tremendous anxiety throughout the community about the way that the by-law system is operating. I am not going to say that it is operating badly. I do say, however, that there is considerable uncertainty and anxiety about the matter. As the Minister would know, a committee has been working on this and it hopes to make specific recommendations later. Knowing the Minister as J do, I know that those recommendations will be listened to. I understand that 70% of by-law uncertainty comes into the chapter 84 area. The Tariff Board has twice asked the Minister for Trade and Industry for a reference on this problem, lt has npt been examined for many years. The substantive duties are very high. If this area was examined, even if the duties were not lowered, although it is difficult to imagine that they will stay as high as they are, I am certain that the Tariff Board would give clear guidance as to what should be the bylaw policy. There is concern in the country that by-law policy and the Government's protective policy might not necessarily go hand in hand. 1 repeat that I am not being critical of the Minister, nor yet of his Department. I am voicing the well known concern about what is called the new hard line policy. I am not yet being critical and I will not be critical until I get the facts and figures. The concern I have mentioned ought to be set at rest. One of the ways to do that would be to have some kind of appeal procedure so that appeals could be reported to Parliament, and honourable members and the public would know what principles were guiding the by-law administration. Even more importantly they would know how those principles were being put into practice. The real concern of the public lies in the fact that not enough information is made public. I do not say there is undercover work; I do not pretend that there is anything improper about it. I say to the Minister that there would be greater benefits if this uneasiness could be put at rest. 
When we come to the Committee stages I shall deal with 5 particular matters. My main reason for rising tonight was to trace the difference in the way the subject has been looked at and the way it should be looked at. I congratulate the Government particularly on the man made fibres case. I congratulate the Tariff Board for the courage that it has shown. I congratulate, if I may, the Vernon Committee for the quality of its 2 tariff chapters. I express the hope and the expectation that we as a Parliament will realise that as the country becomes more industrialised so will our need for a careful measure of tariff protection be even more important than it is now. 

 Mr Chairman, I want to raise briefly one question dealing with the Tariff Board's report on secateurs. It is a very small one but in the second reading stage of the Bill I said I was concerned that the Department of Customs and Excise and the Department of Trade and Industry might have policies that were not exactly the same. The Board's report in this respect is very simple. It recommends that the duty on secateurs should be 25% if they are of the anvil type, but if they are of the scissors type it should be 7½%. The Department of Customs and Excise has to rule on whether, if one item or product is regarded as a suitable equivalent to another item or product and is reasonably available, by law protection will be given to the second item or product. In this case the Tariff Board has found that there are 2 types of secateurs - one type where the blades meet and the other where the blades cross over. Obviously both are used for pruning. By law should be refused to the second one - the type where the blades cross over - under the criterion used by the Department of Customs and Excise. A duty of 25% would then have to be paid. In this case the Tariff Board has fixed a duty of7½% by using a different method to arrive at its judgment. I bring this example forward to illustrate that different criteria are used by the Tariff Board and the Department of Customs and Excise. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Second to Seventh Schedules - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Eighth Schedule. 
I refer to the item on syringes and injection needles. I raise a very small point here, but the principle adopted should be spelt out again. I think that Everett Products Pty Ltd is the only manufacturer of hypodermic needles in Australia. Everett Products is based in Portland. It was burned down recently. It is interesting to note that in this case the Tariff Board has treated the industry as an infant industry and recommended a duty of 42½%. At the end of 1972, when the industry will have grown out of its infant stage, the duty will come back to 30%. This is an interesting and unique development which should be mentioned. I think it is a responsible attitude to adopt. I am glad to see this practice in operation. 
I am not goingto oppose this provision. Indeed, I would never go as far as to oppose a Tariff Board recommendation at this stage. But I am rather critical of the Board's report in relation to caustic soda or sodium hydroxide in chlorine. A rather unpleasant duty of 55% is being imposed. It is worth remembering that 3 of the biggest chemical industries in Australia - Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand, Dow Chemical (Aust.) Pty Ltd and Union Carbide Aust. Ltd - are the 3 manufacturers. The raw materials used in the industry are salt and electricity. It is interesting to realise that a previous Tariff Board report noted that salt could be carted to Japan, where our chief competitor is, and back again to Sydney cheaper than it could be carted from Spencer Gulf around to Sydney. This is the kind of penalty we are paying for our shipping services. 
The important point is that chlorine in this case could not be increased in price because of the impact on the plastics industry. So caustic soda or sodium hydroxide had to carry the whole of the increase. The duty was increased, except in relation to aluminium manufacturers or those who are using caustic soda in the production of alumina, lt seems to be rather a queer way of making a division. The bigger export industries, such as the aluminium industry, receive the advantage of cheap raw material production, while other exporters have to carry the cost of this increased duty. The names of some of these exporters were supplied to mc by the Library. The products involved include detergent and soap, paper pulp, textile fabrics, preserved meats, rayon, rubber accelerators and weedicides. The Board recognised that the higher duty would be a burden on the economy and recommended a bounty in preference to a duty, but the Government did not accept that. I think the bounty would have cost about $l.lm. The Government turned away from that and used the Tariff as a protective instrument. This has handicapped other industries all along the line. 
Tariffs are supposed to be used to protect the infant industries, and rightly so. This infant industry is becoming a bit overgrown for an infant, lt has been in existence in one form in South Australia since the early 1930s. This is the form in which sodium hydroxide- 
No, that is the process that is not referred to in this report, but the same product is produced. The point that is really worrying me - I would be glad if the Minister could help mc here - is that sodium hydroxide or caustic soda comes from 2 processes, one through the chlorine route and the other through the soda ash route or Solvay process. This Solvay process has been in operation in South Australia since the early 1930s in producing caustic soda. Yet this very, very big and very, very old infant will receive protection at the rate of 55%. lt will be a recognised burden on a great many exporting industries. J would be very glad if the Minister could tell me 2 things: Firstly, why the Government did not use bounty as a protective medium and, secondly, what proportion of Australia's production of caustic soda conies from the old. old infant in South Australia. 
I wish lo discuss vegetable oils. This is a subject that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  asked me to raise. 1 will also refer to margarine. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  referred to this subject in his speech in the debate on the second reading of the Bill. This is a very important report. In 1968 the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  released a Tariff Hoard report on vegetable oils. The main thesis of the report was that the industry had an export potential, that it could gear itself for exports. It was said that it ought to be able to produce for the export market. The Tariff Board pointed out that many of the problems of the industry stemmed from the location of the crushing plant and the solvent extraction process, which was not commonly used. The Board very sensibly recommended that as the industry was growing up it should look to exports to increase its growth. In 1969 there was a reference to the Special Advisory Authority. It is rather interesting that since 1960 there have been 6 reports on vegetable oils by the Tariff Board and 3 by the Special Advisory Authority, making a total of 9, at the rate of 1 a year. Anyone given to weak puns could say that there are as many reports as in an artillery barrage. 
There are several classical weaknesses in the report that disturb me. All the arithmetic in it is calculated on the price of oil per ton, but the recommendation refers to a price per gallon. I wrote to the Department and with its characteristic courtesy and kindness it translated the figures in the report back into a price per gallon. I appreciate that kindness, but it should not be necessary. The report was printed just before Christmas and that may explain its weaknesses. This quite remarkable statement appears in a report by the Special Advisory Authority: 
It was submitted on behalf of farmers that inadequate protection from imported oils could result in farmers' returning to wheat production and therefore  worsening the already difficult position of that industry. 
I have been known to take civil servants for a bit of a ride, but it seems to be overdoing it to tell  Sir Frank  Meere that if the farmers did not get protection they would grow more wheat, when they knew quite well that they could not grow more wheat. Anybody could see at this time last year when quotas were imposed on wheat growing that there would be a superfluity of vegetable oils as soon as the wheat growers used their know-how and plant to produce safflower, linseed, and the crop grown by the honourable member for Corangamite, rape seed. It is desperately important that everybody, particularly those concerned with the dairy industry, realise that within a year, if not before, Australia will be over-producing vegetable oils and will be exporting it. I quote from 'Primary Industry Newsletter' of 1st April 1970: 
Australia will this year produce marginally more than its present estimated usage of edible vegetable oils. Current estimates put production, at about 37,000 tons of substitutable oils- suitable for use, for example, in margarine - and consumption at 35,000 tons. 
That is this coming year - 
But with oilseed processing firms literally fighting off enthusiastic would-be growers, and with contract acreages for rapeseed and sunflower likely to set new records, production in the coming season is expected to reach 49,000 tons - providing a surplus of at least 14,000 tons over present consumption. 
I am concerned about this and 1 beg the dairy industry to think about it. It is quite clear Australia will have a superfluity of vegetable oil in 1 or 2 years. The restriction on margarine has been justified because it was being made from imported oils which people said came from 'cheap labour countries'. I put those words in inverted commas. If margarine is to be made from homegrown vegetable oils a different position will arise because 1 Australian primary industry will be competing with another. A lot of rethinking has to be done by the dairy industry. One of the things I want to bring out is that this is the time to support the claim. I am sorry that the Special Advisory Authority made this report but I do not think it will make much difference because obviously a remarkable change has taken place in the vegetable oil industry. Strangely enough, the industry has evolved and discovered that it can make a degradable biological detergent made out of some vegetable oils. The detergent flows out to the sea in the effluent and does not have any adverse effect as regards pollution. This has increased the world demand for vegetable oils in a remarkable way. 
The wheat position has increased the production of vegetable oils in an outstanding way. Australia will be faced with a remarkable change in the vegetable oil position. Let me give honourable members some of the facts about the peanut oil industry. I am glad to see the right honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  here. For many years he has been a stalwart defender of the peanut industry. I have always thought that a statue of him should be erected in the town square and over it every New Year's Day the citizens could break a bottle of port wine or peanut oil because he has been a remarkable defender of the industry. It has protection in the system of by-law entry. According to my figures it amounts to about $600,000 for the industry annually. It will not be covered by the by-law much longer because most vegetable oils will not be imported. It is true that peanut o:l has a section of the market to itself. The fundamental fact is that the by-law advantage on peanut oil has been almost a hidden subsidy which varies from year to year. I worked out the annual hidden subsidy for the industry at $600,000. This advantage will be lost. There is need for this change in the Australian vegetable o'i industry and for a lot of people to do some vital rethinking. 1 think it proper to point that out at this stage. 
I regard this report as one of the most significant reports and a report of the highest quality following an economic analysis and close examination of an industry that I have read. I claim to have read almost every report that has come out since 1960. I regard the report as a first class exercise. The Tariff Board has been spelling out its principles in the last 2 annual reports in an exemplary manner. We all stood around anxiously waiting to see whether its principles were going to be put into practice and hoping - indeed desperately hoping - that when the report was issued it would show that the Board was standing on its principles; that the report would be of sufficient quality to enable the Board's decisions to be implemented. We were also desperately hoping that if the report was of that quality the Government would accept it. The Government did accept it. and I congratulate the Government for accepting it. 
I will not go through the report in detail. I repeat that 1 consider it to be a report of the highest quality, lt sets out several things quite clearly. Firstly it states that the high tariff was said to bc necessary and that one of the reasons for this was that Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand Ltd was buying its polymer from which the fibre was made at higher than usual prices from its parent company in Britain. What kind of a system would we have in Australia if we increased tariff in Australia to protect industries in Britain. This is what would have happened? The Board's report also set out clearly that it was dangerous to place high tariffs on raw material that is used by other industries. These things are known. They arc truisms. But they had to be spelled out. I will not go into them in detail. I will just take up where the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  left off. He referred to the advertisement by the Textile Council of Australia. It is interesting to note that space was taken in all major newspapers throughout Australia so that the Textile Council could make the point that it was not happy. I wonder whether these overhead costs will be included when the Council applies next to the Tariff Board, if it so applies. This advertisement, for which I trust the Council paid good hard money, states that, the employment of 150,000 people is at risk. It says that the rate of duty is far too low when compared with other duties. With characteristic quickness, the honourable member for Lalor picked it up and pointed out the difference between our low rate and the rates applying in Canada and the United States of America. 
I have tremendous respect for ecomomists, particularly those who write, in the newspapers. In the 'Australian' of 1st May, under the heading 'Bluff, Bluster and Emotion on Tariffs', there appeared an article by Kenneth Davidson. That article in the 'Australian' buried the Textile Council advertisement, for which good hard money had been paid, in a way that I have never seen any other similar advertisement or pronouncement buried before. As the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  so rightly said, of the 150,000 people said to be at risk, only 2.5% were engaged in making the goods under reference, while 97.5% were engaged in using the material and would have had their employment put at risk if this duty had been increased as requested. Therefore, with hard money, the Textile Council paid to make a statement that 150,000 people had their employment put at risk whereas, in fact, only 2.5% or about 5,000 would have had their employment put at risk - if it was put at risk. On the other hand, if the duty had been increased, 97.5% would have had their employment at risk.. 
This article points out, as the honourable member for Lalor mentioned, that the Council claimed that the Board's report was out of date and based on old information. Interestingly enough, the report was published in November or December. About 2 months before the report was signed, final information was forwarded by Fibremakers Ltd, which had provided the chief witness. The part of the Textile Council's advertisement that really copped the lot is dealt with so well in the article by Kenneth Davidson that I can do no better than quote from the article. It is of such quality that it should be quoted. I pay tribute to the author. Referring to the high rates of duty in the United States of America and Canada the article states: 
The Council is just plain silly to try to compare the level of Australian duties on man-made fibres with overseas countries such as Canada and the United States. The rates quoted for Canada apply to a few countries such as Andora and Outer Mongolia, which are not listed by the Canadians as being subject to preferential of MFN duties. The rates quoted for the United States are the penal rates of duty which are applied to Communist countries only, and are at least double the rates the United States applies to its trading partners. In any case, these comparisons are meaningless. 
Fancy paying good hard money to have an advertisement such as that which the Council put in the newspapers published, and then getting it tossed back in one's face in that exemplary manner! The article continues: 
Does the Council think that, because duties on  a  particular commodity are high overseas, or there is no duty on another commodity, that Australia should impose a high duty on the first and no duty on the second? 
I would like honourable members to listen to the following with more than usual interest: 
The advertisement is one of the best public examples of the mixture of bluff, bluster and emotion which has proved so successful in the past in influencing government. 
In taking that report apart I could not do better than Kenneth Davidson has done in taking apart the kind of announcements that appear in this advertisement. I repeat that I regard this report as a fine milestone in our economic development. It shows that from now on the Government would do what I feel it has to do and have a much more responsible attitude to the tariff question. I congratulate most sincerely the Tariff Board on the quality of its work and on the courage of its recommendations, and chiefly I congratulate the Government on its courage in accepting them. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Mail Exchange Building at Adelaide, South Australia. 
National Standards Laboratories, Bradfield Park, N.S.W.; 
Development of Freight Aprons, Taxiways, Runway Extension and Engineering Services at Melbourne Airport. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I was a farmer before I became a member of Parliament. I know from experience where the harrow tooth point goes. If the hon ourable members for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  and Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  had been farmers and known what it is like to make  decisions  on which a living depends they would scorn to come into the House today and make the kind of political capital claptrap that we have heard. These are grievous times in which we are living. The problems that face us can be faced by a people and a Parliament that tackle their problems and think about them but do not abuse the opportunities to do that by coming in and performing in this way. We do face a problem of reconstruction. I think I ought to try to help solve it instead of carrying on as if I was in a circus. We are facing real and serious problems. Land aggregation is one and debt reconstruction is another. The object of the exercise, I presume, is to make viable economic units. 
Let us look at this problem of land aggregation, lt will mean bigger economic units. In simple terms, it will mean that farms will become bigger. One of the fundamental reasons for this is that tractors have become bigger. We had farms of a certain size when we had horse teams. Honourable members opposite would not know that, but this is the kind of thing that governs the size of farms. As tractors came in the economic size of farms became bigger. Anybody who does not recognise this is just blinking the facts of life. I do not think we will have any great big takeover by company farms. I know that the economic size family farms in Australia will out-perform, in animal production at least and often in grain production, any large scale company farm. There are lots of advantages to be gained from living on your own property, which honourable members opposite probably do not know about. We go out to see our stock in the morning and we do not say: '1 will conic in and have a look at that ewe tomorrow.' We go out and attend to it. We try to tackle the problem of reconstruction, and the dairy scheme is a gallant attempt by the Minister to do this. We have done it before in the marginal land scheme in the States. 
I think we all ought to take a little time off and go back and look at the problems and try to puzzle out how we can adjust our past performance to our present situation, instead of running around with our mouths open. It will be difficult. If it was not difficult it would have been done years ago. One of the really difficult parts will be the decentralisation that will have to accompany it, because one of the things that is inevitable in the process is that some of the people will leave the farm. Where will they go? I hope they will not go to the cities. If we as a Parliament settle down, instead of slinging mud at one another, to work out some way of getting people economically and sensibly out of the city and not forcing these people whose properties have been reconstructed into the city we will be making a contribution. 
We would also be making a contribution if we tackled the problem of credit adjustments. As with so many other things, it is easy to talk about this subject. But there is something fundamentally difficult about deciding what kind of credit structure would really suit the industry. I do not know the answer and I do not suppose many people in this House do. But I think that one of the things we should continually be turning orr minds to is a long term credit scheme, i do not think that subsidy of interest rates would be necessary in many cases. But let us have longer term finance for development and aggregations. It is easy to talk about these matters. It is easy to make a slick speech about what one would like to do. However, all I am saying is that the problems of the farming community are hard to resolve. The reason the problems still exist is that they are hard to solve. 
I should now like to say something about reconstruction. How big should a sheep unit be? I do not know. How big should a sheep and mixed grain unit be? No-one knows. As a community we have to get to work and ascertain what kind of model reconstruction scheme we ought to have. I recommend to the Government and to the House that as part of that process we ought continually to look to the establishment of a rural industries board. We have to examine this question. We need to get the same kind of economic advice on rural matters as is given to secondary industry by the Tariff Board. We need to know what basis should be adopted for reconstruction. I hope that the Government will examine again the question of establishing a rural industries board. We also have to consider the administration of the reconstruction scheme. It is easy to say: Well, someone has to do it'. Eventually someone will have to do it. However, I have said in this House before that this will not be a job for the Government; it will be a job for the Government to make finance available but an outside institution will have to implement the reconstruction decisions. 
One other thing ought to be said about reconstruction. It is easy to say that on one hand we should have a policy that farms ought to be bigger and on the other hand a policy that farms should be made smaller. I would like to quote an address given by Professor Lewis last Saturday at the National Rural Policy Symposium in Canberra. Professor Lewis said: 
As a means of maintaining the shortage of public funds for essential development purposes - 
I add in brackets here the words 'and reconstruction' -  it would be difficult to improve on a programme of moving excess people out of agriculture with the one hand and, with the other hand, bringing new entrants into agriculture by means of closer settlement, land development and irrigation projects. 
It is said that he is not a farmer. I did not know that academics are always wrong. The other thing we obviously have to be careful about is to use subsidies carefully when subsidies are given. Subsidies carelessly used may encourage people to stay in an industry when they may be tempted to get out of it. 
I would now like to get back to drought. I happen to live in the driest State of the driest continent in the world. I suppose I have made more ensilage than most people in Australia. I happen to recognise that the fundamental person to tackle the problem of drought is the farmer himself. He is the man best equipped to tackle it. It is the Government's job and duty to see that every possible incentive is given to the farmer. This can be done by way of taxation concessions and other forms of help. It is true that the farmer has had such help and I would like to compliment the Government on the wisdom of this assistance. Let us get away from the idea that anyone other than the farmer can tackle the farmer's problems and the problem of drought. In most instances he is the one best equipped to tackle them. However, the drought is our problem as well. I speak as one who knows the fundamentalproblems. What is a farmer to do with his stock? He has to decide whether to sell bis stock straight away or to wait another 2 or 3 months and perhaps sell for half as much as it was worth before. But the fundamental problem of fodder conservation is a matter for the farmer. Drought is also the problem of the farmer, but he needs the Government's active and sympathetic consideration and help to overcome it. Do not let us try to pass this problem off on to people other than the farmer. We have to see that the incentive remains for the farmer to make his own judgments. We should help him where we can. 
We ought to be careful not to use the slick and easy argument that irrigation schemes are the answers to drought relief. We all know that they are not. We know that irrigation helps and that it takes the drought problem away from the man who farms the irrigation land. But to pretend that irrigation can solve the problem of feeding starving stock is to delude ourselves and prevent us from tackling the fundamental problems. 
1 am in favour of the change. 1 want to speak as Chairman of the Public Works Committee. I have consulted some members of the Committee and we can see no difficulty in the change. I would ask the House to have some regard to the position of honourable members who come from far away States, particularly the Queenslanders and the Western Australians. I think it is unreasonable to expect them to be shuttling uneasily across the face of Australia continually unless they have to. I do not think they have to and I have much pleasure in recommending the change to the House. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister aware that acts of lawlessness and industrial and political blackmail, such as yesterday's Australian Council of Trade Unions strike, with which the Leader of the Opposition is certainly associated, or the statement of the Labor Premier of South Australia encouraging people to break laws they do not like, fill the ordinary public in Australia with acute anxiety and disquiet? Is his Government prepared to take more forthright action in this situation? Does the Prime Minister know that if the Government does so he will receive the solid backing of the quiet majority of the people in this country, many of whom are fearful that the very cornerstones of Australian life as they know it are beginning to crumble? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, first, I wish to thank my colleague, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  for the fair way in which he put his case. He is a member of the Joint Standing Committee on Public Works. You will notice,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that in the report under consideration the honourable member for Hughes recorded his opposition to the 2 things that we are debating. I,  Mr James, Senator Branson  and  Senator Prowse  voted the other way. During Committee meetings, the honourable member for Hughes puts his point of view forward with great fairness and fearlessness. He has done so again today in this debate. I wish to pay a tribute also to the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  who gave evidence to the Public Works Committee and, I think, did so with considerable responsibility. 
However, I must take the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Mclvor)  to task on one point, lt is true that the Department of Civil Aviation agreed that 5,500 acres would be sufficient, but only as an internal buffer zone. This area was regarded only as an area sufficient to safeguard the aerodrome itself from noise from within. The Department of Civil Aviation certainly had never intended, and never did advise the Keilor City Council, that the Council should agree to the rezoning of the surrounding rural land. 1 repeat that in my opinion - and the Committee has looked at the evidence very carefully - the advice of DCA was never that the rural land around Tullamarine Airport should be rezoned for residential purposes. 
I took a poor view of the statement by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  that we did not consult the officials of the Keilor City Council. We paid for them to come up to Canberra to give evidence. They were good enough to invite us to their Council area. In fact, we had a meeting in their Council chambers. They took us to lunch. They took us all over the area. To pretend that we did not look at the point of view of Keilor Council is quite wrong. To pretend that we did not examine the matter in very great detail is to disagree with what the honourable member for Hughes has said. He said that we did examine the reference very carefully, lt is true that we did not arrive at a consensus. But it is not true to say that the point of view of Keilor Council was not listened to wilh great attention and respect. 
The proposal is for the north-south runway at Tullamarine to be enlarged by 3,500 feet. The argument is mainly as to whether the lengthening of the north-south runway should take place at the southern end or at the northern end of that runway. The majority of the Committee finally recommended that the north-south runway should be extended by 2,500 feet at the southern end and by 1,000 feet at the northern end. lt is important to realise that, in all the planning and all the public statements of the Department of Civil Aviation, it has always been clear that DCA's long-term anticipation was that the runway eventually should be extended 2,500 feet to the south. DCA always expected that the runway would need to be extended as the new generation of aircraft was introduced. 
I would think that it is of great benefit to establish once and for all the final location of the runway so that no argument will arise about it and so that people living in the area will always know where, in the south, the runway will end. The introduction of the next generation of aircraft is inevitable, I suppose. No-one knows when the next generation of aircraft will be introduced, but it will come in one day. Even if we were to agree to the suggestion that most of the runway extension should take place at the northern end of the runway, it is almost certain that when the next generation of aircraft was introduced, extra runway length would be required and that would mean that the runway would need to be extended to the south. Then we would find that the kind of encroachment that there has been in the past had occurred again. We would find that the land adjoining the airport had been rezoned and taken up for different uses. We would find housing development closer to the inevitable southern end of the runway. 
This is one of the main reasons which led to the majority of the Committee agreeing that the proper time to make a decision on where the runway should be finally located was now, before encroachment took place. We were motivated also by the fact that to put a lesser part of the extension at the southern end of the runway would increase the cost by approximately S2m. If we were to do as the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  suggested, the additional cost would be at least $4.5m. ft is worth remembering also - this is something which we should think about - that, as far as DCA can judge it, the expected usage of the north-south runway is of this order: 79% of all commercial air movements will be on the east-west runway. Those aircraft will not fly over the southern area of the airport at all. Of commercial air movements that do not use the east-west runway, 15% of the total runway usage for commercial purposes is expected to be from south to north. Only 6% of commercial movements will fly out over the southern area which is in question. After giving the matter a great deal of examination, the majority of the Committee came forward with the conclusion that it was proper to recommend the extension in the way we did. 
On the subject of the curfew, on which the honourable member for Hughes again disagreed with the majority of the Committee, I wish to make 3 points only. Firstly, it is not correct to say, as far as the advice that we obtained from the Department of Civil Aviation is concerned, that the Boeing 747 aircraft will not be a noisier generation of aircraft than the Boeing 707. lt is expected that the 747's will be rather quieter. Secondly, there is no curfew and there never has been a curfew at Melbourne Airport or Tullamarine Airport. So, it is not correct to say that we recommended that the curfew be lifted. We recommended that a curfew be not imposed. Thirdly, it is not correct to say that, because we recommended 24-hour usage of Tullamarine, we recommendeded unrestricted usage. 
The Department of Civil Aviation has been quite clear in its advice to us that, although it would want the ability to plan during each 24 hours and to land some aircraft during each 24 hours, it will take very good care that this 24-hour usage is not unrestricted or unrestrained. This matter will be thought out carefully and DCA will have full cognisance of the areas over which aircraft will fly. However, with these facts in mind, we realised that it was indeed our responsibility as the Public 
Works Committee to have some awareness of the way public works are used. Our opinion was that, with an expenditure of $85m on Tullamarine airfield, it was proper for us to recommend that a curfew be not imposed. In conclusion, I hope that the House will not recommend that this reference should be returned to the Committee. The reference could not have received more careful attention. I am glad to hear the honourable member for Hughes agree with this remark. I am certain that the answer would come out the same. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  Lucock)I call the Minister for National Development. 

 Mr McIVOR (Gellibrand)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I would like to make one very short but powerful point. Honourable members should not assume that we have unlimited resources. If we are to spend money on building car parks or in beautification of buildings, which everyone wants to see, we will spend less money on building other facilities. We would all like to have everything the best in the most perfect of worlds, but we must realise that if we persist in wanting facilities such as car parks we are going to have fewer public works. That is the only point I want to make. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Engineering Services to Sub-Divisions of Racecourse West, Morris Soak and Bradshaw Drive at Alice Springs, Northern Territory. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Is the Minister for Customs and Excise aware of the concern of the Australian wine industry and grape growers about the effect on their operations of the recently imposed excise on wine? Will the Minister assure me that he is doing all in his power to allay this anxiety? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. What action did the Government take to help the Australia to Europe Shippers Association resist the projected increase in the freight on wool. Was this action successful? If it was not, will the Government assure me that it will take steps to arm itself with the authority to see that it can properly protect wool growers' interests in the future against these seemingly continual price increases? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the reports relating to the following proposed work: 
Augmentation of Electrical Supply System Central City Area at Darwin, Northern Territory and Augmentation of Town Water Supply at Alice Springs, Northern Territory. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Transportable houses and classroom  at  Exmouth, Western Australia. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Is the Postmaster-General aware that on the 'Guest of Honour' session on the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio on Sunday last a Professor Machlup of Princeton University stated that the Australian standard of living was being retarded because of our practice of protecting inefficient as well as efficient industries? Because it is important that so correct a view from such a respected source should be widely circulated, will the PostmasterGeneral arrange for the ABC to distribute one copy of his remarks to each member? 
I ask the Minister for the Interior a question. Does he remember my asking him last session whether he knew that it was generally feared by country people that men, and even Ministers, who voluntarily drive around in black cars may be soft in the head? Is he aware that it is generally recognised by people who live in the Northern Territory where the temperature is so much hotter that if it happens there it removes all doubt? 
I must reply to one point raised by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard).  He referred to the temporary nature of trie classroom. The Committee was informed that the requirement for a larger school would disappear when construction work was completed on the airfield. It would have been foolish to provide a permanent building when the requirement was for a temporary one. As the requirement was for a temporary building we recommended the construction of a temporary building. I repeat that our information was to the effect that there was no permanent requirement for a larger number of rooms in the school. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Engineering Services, District of Dripstone, at Darwin, Northern Territory. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I understand that lobbyists  who work for secondary industry interests are wining and dining the Prime Minister tomorrow. Will the Prime Minister assure me that, as he tackles the oysters, he will not forget the parlous position of the rural sector of the economy whose development has been inhibited by carrying on their bent backs at least some of the interests at the feast? As he embarks on the roast duck, will he remember that the sound development of Australia depends on the ability of both primary and secondary industry to supply the exports that a developing economy demands and so depends on our having a cost structurelow enough to enable us to compete with our overseas competitors? As the hot-house strawberries are ushered in, will he realise that a lot of other interests would love to give him a luscious meal and that our only regret is that we cannot afford it? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Primary School at Wagaman,. Northern Territory; and Sleeping, Messing and Amenities Facilities for Chiefs and Petty Officers at H.M.A.S. Cerberus', Westernport, Victoria. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Commonwealth Offices - Stage 1 at Hobart, Tasmania. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I intend to speak principally about overseas shipping, but I have to admit immediately that I know very little about the subject - certainly not enough to speak critically or eloquently, although I have noticed often that ignorance does not inhibit eloquence in this place. But I am anxious about the overseas shipping position, particularly as it affects wool. I should like to congratulate the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  who has made a typically thoughtful, constructive speech on this subject. He concentrated on wool. I intend to concentrate on the method of shipping wool and other cargoes, but particularly wool. 
As wool growers we used to carry Australia on our backs. I should like everybody to know - and I am certain that the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  would be acutely aware of this - that Australia has just about ridden us into the ground. As wool growers we have to take a much more critical view of our method of shipping. I will not be critical. I will just ask a series of simple questions, and I should hope that towards the end of this debate the Minister will be able to answer some of these questions. The first thing 1 want to know is: Why must we carry wool under the Conference system? The honourable member for Corangamite made a plea for consideration of the c.i.f. method of shipping. In the past the plea was for regularity and predictability of a shipping programme. That was important, and I guess it is still fairly important. 
I know it has been stated - I am certain it is true, and the honourable member for Corangamite has brought it out again - that wool absorbed a lot of the excess costs incurred in shipping other Australian rural products, and it still does. But what I want to know now is: In our reduced circumstances, why do we have to continue the present Conference method of shipping our wool? Is it worth it? I do not know whether it is. 1 know that in the past it was thought to be worth it, but I am beginning to question whether it is worth it now. It is very difficult to get answers to these technical questions, and 1 would understand it if the Minister finds it difficult to provide figures in his answer. But one thing that is worrying the Australian wool grower to a great extent is: Why do we persist with the present Conference method of shipping? 
The second question is: If we continue the Conference method, why can we not make the trade practices legislation effective against restrictive practices that are inherent in the Conference system? On page 9 of the report of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission  Sir John  Williams has made this point crystal clear. I should like to pay a sincere, if passing, tribute to  Sir John  Williams, who is a remarkable person. 1 think that he is one of Australia's greatest sons, and I listen with a great deal of respect to what he has to say. I will not refer to what he said about Conferences because it has been quoted several times in this debate. There certainly do appear to be practices in the Conference system which appear to me to be against the public interest. 
The second question then I should like the Minister to answer is: Why can we not put enough teeth into the trade practices legislation so that it can at least nip at the heels of the Conference system and get it into line? It is not good enough to say that you cannot work the Conference system without restriction. Indeed, the Americans have demonstrated this. 
The third question is: In all the discussion about the container system in the last few days, why has not a comparison been made between the container method of shipping and the roll-on roll-off method or indeed the unit load method? No-one has raised that point. No-one has argued that in the long term container shipping is better than conventional shipping. But what is becoming to me at least a worrying question is why we are not comparing the rollon roll-off or unit load system with the container system. When  Sir John  Williams was comparing the roll-on roll-off method with the cellular or container system he said: 
As ii has turned  out,  the 'roll-on roll-ofT system backed by efficient shore facilities has by common consent been able to give better service and faster delivery to its clients. 
He was comparing it with the container system. None of us is arguing about whether containers are better in the long term than conventional shipping. A lot of us are very concerned, though, to know why there has not been any more discussion about a comparison between containers and the roll-on roll-off system. 
The fourth question 1 ask is: Why have we gone into the United Kingdom trade with only a container vessel? The honourable member for Corangamite has brought out with crystal clarity the particular problem of containerising wool. Obviously wool is in its own container. It always seems to me to be wasteful to jam it into another container. Why did we go into the UK trade with only a cellular vessel? The argument for going in was that we would have a window on shipping costs. It seems a queer kind of window if one sees only one section of the trade. The problem is that the window gets fugged up a bit when one realises that the Australian National Line vessel is not responsible for marshalling its cargo, nor is it responsible for the operation of the terminal. This window, which is the justification for having this present ship, I can understand, but I would like to see through it a bit more clearly. I would like to be able to compare the costs of the other methods of shipping with those of the container system. It is impossible for me as a wool grower to believe that it pays to jam wool which is already in its own jute container into a steel container. 
These are matters about which I am not being critical; I would like the Minister to realise this. It is just that there is a feeling of anxiety among wool growers in particular. I think it would help us all if the Minister could answer these questions if he can. I am not suggesting that he could answer all the questions in time. I know he could in time. But whether he can answer the questions raised in this debate off the cuff I do not know. I repeat that there is an overwhelming uneasiness in the wool growing sector of the community. Whether it is just wisdom that comes with hindsight I do not know. It is easy to be wise after the event and so I am not being critical. T just want reassurance from the Minister that he is certain that the present methods adopted by the Government to get this window into the shipping system is the right method to examine our costs and challenge the continuous rise in freight charges. 
There are several points I should like to make particularly for the benefit of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Allan Fraser).  Having heard the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  I know quite well that he did not say that this legislation, or the formation of the Australian Wool Commission, is the salvation of the industry and will lead to a rapid increase in the price of wool. He did not say that, and I think it is quite unfair for the honourable member for Eden-Monaro to say that he said it. I should like to remind the honourable member for Eden-Monaro that it is easy to fall into the trap of making political capital out of situations. Anybody who denies that it is necessary to have some aggregation in the wool growing scene is talking nonsense. This has been going on since the country was settled. It is a continuing process. The only way in which farmers can meet the situation is to change as the position changes. I thought that it was deplorable for the honourable member for Eden-Monaro to make political capital out of the situation in this way. I would like to take up one matter the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  mentioned. He kept on saying that we were wedded to the auction system or that this Commisson is wedded to the auction system. Surely he has read the Ministers second reading speech. Surely he knows that there are several ways in which a private buyer still has room to operate and in which the Economic Wool Producers Ltd still has room to operate. Surely the honourable member knows that the Wool Commission itself is free to sell wool through the auction system or by any other method it thinks fit. To keep on referring to something which is entirely wrong seems to be rather queer. 
I listened tonight with my usual respect to the speech made by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  I am sorry that he always talks in that kind of petulant way. I always expect him to burst into tears. Really, some of the things he said are not worthy of a man who speaks for the Opposition! He kept on saying: 'It is not in the Bill.' I am not quite certain what he meant by that phrase but having listened carefully to him I found that he was complaining - and complaining is the operative word - that there is nothing in the Bill that lays down the brokerage rate, or that there is nothing in the Bill which lays down how the Commission will bid. If  1  were to send a man to plough a paddock I would not say to him: 'You go around 3 times in second gear and then lower the lever a bit'. If I gave a man the job and the man I got to do it was a good man I would expect him to do that kind of a thing himself. 
When the Opposition was in office as the Government and set up Trans Australia Airlines it did not say: 'You will fly so many flights a day out of this or that city.' The best people available were appointed to do the job and they were expected to get on with it. It is really nonsense for anyone to pretend that a group of people of the quality that we expect and hope and must get will be appointed to the Commission and then have to be told how to apply the technical processes, The honourable member said that the brokerage rate is not laid down in the Bill. He ought to know that the wool does not have to be sold in this way. If a brokerage rate is too high - and this would be a commercial judgment - the Commission will say to the grower: You go and sell it in some other way'. 
The honourable member for Dawson said that we may get people within the Commission who will take financial advantage of their position. J remind the honourable member that we are not dealing with trades hall politics, we are dealing with a group of people who are honourable and efficient. 
To those honourable members who are interjecting I say that I have heard a few comments from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  about the situation at the Melbourne Trades Hall which were not exactly complimentary. 
I want to come back to some of the fundamental parts of this legislation. One point which we should bear in mind in this place is that we do not solve problems by talking about them. We solve problems by making decisions. I am glad that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has made these decisions. I would like to congratulate him on the way he has handled a very difficult position. I would like, if I may, to thank my colleagues in the Australian Country Party for the active co-operation they have given to the Liberal Party. This co-operation between these two parties has been a very valuable lesson to me and I think it has added something to this legislation. 
What will the Australian Wool Commission do. Firstly - and this is the least that it will do - it will add confidence to a situation in which there has been a lack of confidence. Secondly, it will create an environment - as the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  spelt out so clearly - to encourage the changing of our selling methods. There is an exciting vista opening up new methods of selling wool. The main function of the Commission as I see it is to encourage this change to take place. I think that everybody agrees with this. There are such methods as core testing, selling by sample and so on. These changes open up possibilities for our future. The changes may bring about a big saving in costs. 
Another thing the Commission will do is create an environment so that we can have effective commercial competition between people who sell wool. This is the difference between the Labor Party and the approach of the Government. The Labor Party - and the honourable member for Riverina has emphasised this yet again - wants the Government to acquire the wool- 
This is what the honourable member for Riverina said, that the Labor Party wants the Government to acquire the clip. I am saying that this is not the way to handle it. It is not the way that I would - outside of politics - handle it. The first real hope that I have for the Commission is that it will give elbow room for different methods to be tried out one against another. Here again I would like to pay a very sincere tribute to what the Economic Wool Producers Ltd has done. The EWP is a group of people old-fashioned enough to think that they ought to assume the responsibility of trying to solve their own problems and with a great deal of enthusiasm and initiative and courage they have set out to evolve new methods of handling wool. Under the Labor Party policy there would not have been any room for that. There would not have been any room for the private buyer. There would have been one source only. 
This is what that Commission will do. I think it is worth remembering what the Commission will not do. One of the things about which we have to be quite clear on is that the Commission will not place a firm floor in the price of wool. Many people will be disappointed about this but I am not one of them. I think it will be far too dangerous at this stage to embark upon such a venture. There will be a flexible floor price which will fill in all the pot holes existing in the market. To do more than that would be politically attractive bu at this stage commercially dangerous. The commission will not give the grower control over the clip. Some people may resent this but as a wool grower - and I kid myself I am one - I do not have any idea in the world about the commercial aspects of selling wool. I have no doubt about my commercial inability to sell wool in competition with professional people who are a lot better at it than I am. I am not supporting the view - even though it is politically popular - held by some people that there should be more growers on the Commission. I know that the people in the farming community are well aware that wool selling is a job for a person with commercial expertise. To pretend that the farmer, such as myself, can come in and lay down a blue print for selling a clip of the size produced in Australia is just nonsense. 
I would like to pay a tribute to the growers who, after receiving the devastating knock of falling wool prices, have gradually pulled themselves together and realised that they have to face their own problems and try to solve them themselves. They realise that they have to change their methods of selling and their methods of production. Anybody who does not recognise that these changes are inevitable is just ignoring the fundamental facts of a living and viable industry. 
I would like to congratulate the wool growers upon their realisation that a great industry such as the wool industry cannot be subsidised out of its own profits. This is not an easy lesson to learn, but they now know that this is not the way out of tha situation. There are lots of things that will be left and problems that will remain unsolved when this legislation is eventually passed, and anyone who pretends that it will solve all the problems is only deluding the industry. Other problems within the industry such as restructuring and farm debts are fundamental matters that will take a great deal of courage, ability and wisdom to solve. We must start to face up to these fundamental problems. I know that the Minister has these matters very much in his mind at the present time. 
I would now like to comment on a matter which I have previously raised in this House. Far too much nonsense has been talked in this country about company takeovers of farms and about the fear that we will all be run by large corporations. I say again that 1 would put the economic size family farm, particularly the one concentrating on animal production, against any corporation farm in terms of efficiency of production. Let us not have any of this nonsense that we will be taken over by large international companies. When we consider the amount of money in farming today, there are a lot of other places where these companies could put their money. We should not get into a dogfight about the fundamental, human and economic problems of farming. They are human and economic problems and I am well aware of them. I live in a farming community and my family has done so for the last 100 years. I resent the clap-trap that people engage in when they allege that we are not interested in the well-being of the farmer. We recognise that for the welfare of the industry inevitably there has to be a change. Anyone who does not recognise that is doing himself an injustice and is certainly doing harm to the industry. 
I repeat that a lot of problems have been left behind, one of which concerns costs. I will not toss into the ring the 35-hour week because this matter has been tossed around rather a lot lately. But this is the kind of thing we ought to be aware of. The tariff question is another matter that is discussed a great deal. A lot of problems will face our economy and those interested in the well-being of the farming community. However, we will have to leave the problem to be solved by the general reconstruction and planning that has to be done. In conclusion I would like to congratulate the Minister and his officers most sincerely for the dedication that they have shown. I think the Minister has given a remarkable performance in regard to this legislation. There is a depth of wisdom behind that rather benign exterior that always surprises and gratifies me. 
Speaking as the  Chairman  of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works I hope the Government will reject this amendment. I would like to point out that th: Committee, in its unanimous report, said that immediate steps should bc taken to plan elsewhere a training facility for commercial jet aircraft. The significant difference between what the Committee said in its report and what is contained in the amendment is that the amendment says 'to plan and construct'. I would like to make the obvious point that anybody who does not plan before he constructs is basically foolish. Obviously the first step is to plan. The Committee has pointed out to the Government that it should plan a training airfield in another area for the reasons which are set out quite clearly in the report, including the problem of aircraft noise. 
The Committee examined both the site in question and the problems with very great care. I also point out that the 3 Australian Labor Party members of the Committee - and they are excellent members of the Committee - supported the Committee in its unanimous decision that it recommend to the Government that it should plan an airfield in another area. If this amendment is carried it will mean that this matter will be referred back to the Committee for consideration. I know the quality of the members of the Committee well enough to know that the same answer will come out of it. One important point is that if this amendment is carried inevitably the very light programme to enable this facility to be constructed in time to take Boeing 747 aircraft and to enable pilots to complete their training will be delayed. It has been said that we could send pilots overseas for training. I have been informed that the training of 747 pilots, or for that matter any commercial passenger pilots, is a continuing process. I have been informed thai pilots would have to be sent overseas about once a week for training. A commercial passenger pilot needs to be continually trained. My information is that commercial passenger pilots are put on a continuous training roster. Therefore, it is quite clear that if this amendment is accepted the proposal will come back to the Committee again and the training of pilots who will fly 747 aircraft will inevitably be delayed. If the report is not accepted we will have 747 aircraft which cannot be down. 
This is the kind of problem which the Committee faced. We were aware of the problem of aircraft noise. We were also aware that we were dealing with a very tight programme. We made it crystal clear in our recommendations that there was a problem. I think it would be useful if I read to the House 2 paragraphs which deal with this matter. Paragraph 51 of the report slates: 
We feel it is necessary to point out that the Committee received the reference at a point in time which made it. difficult, if not impossible, not to endorse the work. Not to do so would mean that the training of Qantas air crew on Boeing 747 aircraft could only be done under considerable penalties after their delivery in August 1971. The Committee feel that, because of  the  programme, it was left with no alternative but to recommend the construction of the proposed work at Avalon. 
Paragraph 52 of the report states: 
It is quite probable that, if the programme had not been so demanding die Committee would have recommended the development of a training airfield in another location . . . 
This is the problem which the Committee faced, lt is the problem that members of the Australian Labor Party on the Committee faced, as they always do, with commendable clarity. They joined members of the Committee from this side of the House in supporting the only possible decision that was open to a committee that had a sense of responsibility for the decisions which it was forced to make. I would like to make the complaint that the action taken by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  in my opinion places my colleagues on the Committee in an impossible position. Members of the Committee from the Australian Labor Party signed the report with members on this side of the House. However, now they will be asked to vote against their own recommendations. I have a very high appreciation of the quality of members of the Committee from the Labor Party and I can understand what this will mean to them. 
Does the Attorney-General know the most effective way of getting rid of foxes is by spotlight shooting? Is the combined weight of State and Federal Attorneys-General to be invoked to protect the interest and well being of the fox? Does the Attorney-General know that foxes eat my lambs? 
Speaking as  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee, which has just reported on this question, there are several points that I should make. The first duty of the Public Works Committee was to determine whether there was a problem and a need to be filled. The Committee examined witnesses from the Department of Navy and it was clear that although there was no present need if we were not at war, if we were planning we should plan for the possibility of future wars. This, of course, is the only reason for which Australia has a Navy - apart from providing employment for the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen).  Assuming that there may be wars in the future, planning is done in the expectation of one day having to fight a war, so regard must be had to the security situation. It was quite clear that the expert evidence pointed directly to the need for a naval facility somewhere on Australia's western coast. The Committee had to decide the location of this facility. Here again the Committee had the benefit of expert evidence from the Department of Navy and the Royal Australian Air Force. All their advice pointed quite directly to a location in the Perth area. The next question the Committee had to decide was where in the Perth area should it be. Again all the expert evidence pointed quite clearly to the fact that it should be in Cockburn Sound and that if it were in the bay itself it should not be at Woodman Point but at Cockburn Sound. That having been established quite clearly, the next question was how should Garden Island be connected to the mainland. Should it be connected by a bridge or a causeway? All the expert evidence suggested that it should be a causeway for one particular reason, namely, that the causeway would give the additional advantage of possibilities for future port development by the Fremantle Harbour Authority. 
The next matter the Committee had to consider was whether the erection of the causeway and the 2 bridges that are part of the concept would have any adverse effects on the environment of the Sound. Here again the Committee heard a great deal of evidence, all of it from selfconfessed experts, some of them denying the others the accolade of expertise. Some evidence indicated hesitation and doubt on the subject, and other equally authoritative evidence quite clearly indicated that in the opinion of the expert witnesses who gave the evidence, no deterioration of the environment was expected. We weighed this evidence lo the best of our ability. The experts disagreed between themselves; we disagreed between ourselves, but we divided on non-party lines. The majority came to the decision that no deterioration of the environment was likely. For that reason the majority of the Committee recommended that the work should proceed. 
There are 2 points I would like to make in conclusion. The first relates to the question that was raised in what I thought was a rather doubtful or unpleasant way by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  - that we were being urged to get this report in so that the work would be approved before the Senate election. Nothing like this ever crossed my mind, and I am certain that it never crossed the mind of any other member of the Committee. We have a duty to report to Parliament as soon as possible after we get a reference, and this we did. We took no cognizance of any political advantage. I am very proud to pay a tribute to the Committee and its traditions. We have never heard party politics discussed in the Committee. What we have done has been a clear example of a committee fulfilling its duty to the Parliament to report to the Parliament as soon as possible after it has made a proper inquiry into the matter referred to it. We were under a great deal of pressure in terms of time to get the report in before the Parliament rose. I also would like to pay a tribute, firstly, to the witnesses from the Department of Works, who processed the reference with a great deal of dedication and ability. Secondly, I pay a very great tribute to the staff of the Committee. I thought it would have been impossible for us to report back to the Parliament on this reference in the timetable that we had set for ourselves. Nobody else had set the timetable for us, but we had set it ourselves in fulfilling our duty to the Parliament. The efforts of the staff of the Public Works Committee deserve every commendation, and I make that commendation publicly. 
In conclusion, I would like, at the end of the year's work of the Committee, to pay a particular tribute to the members of the Committee for the way in which they have worked with me. We have worked under great pressure. We have had more references than ever before in the history of the Committee, and the demands put upon the Committee members have been beyond the proper call of duty, but they have responded every time that demands - perhaps sometimes unreasonable demands - have been made upon them by their Chairman. I appreciate their co-operation. 
Will the Minister for Shipping and Transport assure me that as soon as he has had time to grasp the helm of his new Department firmly he will institute early and urgent inquiries into the operations of the shipping conference system? Is he aware that many woolgrowers think that under the conference system as at present operating they and their wool are being taken for a ride which is rough, long and expensive? 
Inflation is an endemic problem of all Western countries with their kind of economy. One of the fundamental causes is the economic surges that one gets in an economy, such as that which came about through the recent wages decision. The psychology of business, with expectations of a rapid expansion, is a grave problem for all Western type countries - indeed, all countries. This is a problem for the Government and I am glad to see that it is meeting it with the courage that one would expect from it. I pay tribute to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  for his statement. I think that it is the finest statement that he has made in this chamber. Tt is a model for all, for its clarity and its brevity. It contains the kind of message that needs to be spelt out. We  have  had too much of a feeling of limitless expectation. Everybody says: 'We can afford this. We are an affluent society. There are no limits to the things we can do'. They forget, far too often, that we are a country of limited resources. Only those who know the rural problems know how limited are these resources. It is true that we have had good luck, good management and a mining boom; nevertheless we are a country with limited resources. 
We wear the economic hobbles that all countries wear. It is no good pretending that we can pay for things we cannot afford. It is no good pretending that we can build schools and universities to a limitless extent. We have to depend on our economic resources. We have to wear economic hobbles. Hobbles are queer things. If one ignores them, they bring one down. We as a community have to realise that we are wearing economic hobbles that prevent us from doing the things we all want to see done. We can do only those things we can afford to do. This is a challenge that the Government must meet. 
I must do what I can to explain some of the things that I think the Government must do in the future. I know that it is prepared to do them. I know that it is going through the planning stages. The kind of thing that we hear as the easy solution is the income price policy. This is held up as the easy solution. It has been tried in Europe - in Britain in particular - and has proved wanting. What does an income price policy really mean? It means holding wages and prices down by government regulation. I have heard it so often recently that the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is holding wages down. It is not. lt is holding wages up. They are minimum wages and all honourable members know the size of the wages drift. People say: 'Let us hold prices down: Let us have price control'. It is worth remembering the difficulties of doing this. First, we should realise that we do not have constitutional power to do it. Secondly, we should remember that it has never worked in peace time. 
It works with great difficulty in war time. I recall the war time story of 2 doctors who were exchanging experiences about their work. One said: M have 4 cases of meningitis in my district' and a chap behind him tapped him on the shoulder and said: 'Look, I will take the lot'. Price control works with difficulty when it is sustained by patriotic fervour in war time, but it has never worked in peace time in any Western country. We can do something about prices. Recently 1 was interested to read of the experience in Japan where several big electrical companies jacked up the prices of their products. Although there was no legislative sanction, they had to appear before a tribunal to explain their prices increase. They were unable to do so and their prices were brought down by the weight of public opinion. We could do the same kind of thing in Australia, particularly as we have a larger concentration of industrial strength than almost any other country. We have an opportunity to establish a tribunal like this to which companies must go if they are asked to explain their price rises. It n&gt; be said that it would be a watchdog that could growl loudly but not bite. However there is much sense in growling loudly in public, and this would have a tendency to bring prices down and keep them from rising. 
I was glad to hear the Prime Minister bite on the bullet of restrictive trade practices legislation. I feel we must do this and I know that the Government has the determination to do it. I should like to see it take in the shipping conference side of our economy as well. I was particularly impressed to hear the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  talk so wisely and well about tariff policy. For far too long the voice of the rural industries is the only one that has been raised in respect ot tariffs and it was refreshing to hear a man of the honourable member's quality discuss quite objectively and sensibly the problem that an unwise tariff policy poses for our cost structure. I put forward one suggestion. Most of us are inordinately proudI know I am - of the performance of the Australian iron and steel industry. This is the classic case of an infant industry that has grown up and has justified the policy of protection. All the same, it is now far from an infant industry and I believe the Government could let in the cold draft of competition. We are proud that Australian iron and steel can compete with all steel around the world, and yet we still have a low tariff against it. If the Government wanted to bring in the cold draft of competition to stop prices rising it could let iron and steel in duty free. 
In respect of wages I should like to see the Arbitration Commission with the statutory obligation, which it used to have until 1930, of taking into account the effects of inflation when making its decisions. This obligation was removed; I should like i; restored. We have heard much today about the effects of inflation. A man would be silly to deny the fact that wage determinations have some effect on inflation. We have to face the fact - and the Prime Minister and the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  have faced it - that the key to the wage earner getting a bigger slice of the economic cake is increased productivity. We all know that if wages go up, prices go up and the only gain to the wage earner comes from increased productivity. This is not peculiar to Australia. The theory of constant shares has been spelt out in many places, and it is not common to us. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  stated that in Australia it is peculiar that the share that the wage earner receives tends to fall microscopically. The fact is that if we look at the experience of the Western world we see that exactly the same thing happens. Exactly the same thing happened in the United Kingdom when that country had a Labor government: We have to recognise the plain fact that in a capitalist system we have this phenomenon of constant shares and the only way the wage earner will ever get a bigger slice of the cake is for that cake to be bigger. The key to the wage earner obtaining improved living standards and increased real wages is by increased productivity. 
The wage earner has some responsibility in this respect. We have to realise that every time there is a strike, productivity suffers and the wage earner's slice of the cake is unnecessarily smaller. Each time the amount of work is limited it is not the boss who suffers because he takes the same share. The worker does not get at the boss. The man who suffers the most is the wage earner. It is the wage earner's slice of the cake which is made smaller. We have to have a sense of community endeavour about this. People say that the only way to cure inflation is to have unemployment. I do not believe that. If the people would work with a will, as best they could and did not have the feeling that they had to beat the boss, there would be no question of using unemployment as a spur to beat inflation. 
The way to beat the problem of inflation is to make the community realise that productivity is the key. This proposition should be put clearly to the community. Again I would, like to pay a tribute to the Prime Minister. If he could spell out this proposition so that even I could understand it we would get an understanding from honourable members in this House as well as from the community that productivity and the ability to produce better is the key to the wage earner getting a bigger slice of the cake. This is why it is important for us to take the actions about prices that 1 have mentioned. There is a real responsibility on the wage earner and on the trade union leader. Such a person has to have the feeling that he is not being robbed by big business. If we could get a sensible responsible attitude towards prices - not price control by government which we al! know would not work - let in the draught of competition wherever we can and if we do our best to keep prices down and let trade union leaders know that they are not being got at, we would get a feeling of responsibility throughout the workers themselves and their leaders in particular and an acceptance of the fact that they and the employers have to work together to produce a bigger cake. If this were done we could produce a bigger cake which could be cut up into more equal sizes, if that is what is wanted. But the size of the cake is the thing that matters. 
In accordance wilh the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act- 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Electricity Supply Power Station at Alice Springs Northern Territory. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
My question is directed to  the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister seen the article in yesterday's Australian Financial Review' in which Professor Jarrett advocated making wheat quotas transferable? Is the Minister aware that failure to do so would tend to ossify the industry in its present form? Will the Minister assure me that this important question is receiving his capable attention? 
In accor  dance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the thirty-third general report. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Customs and Excise who yesterday told the House that by-law treatment of components for commercial motor vehicles is to be altered next October. Will the proposed change tend to benefit the component manufacturers at the expense' of the transport industry generally? Does the Minister think that so important a decision should at least go to Cabinet or to the Tariff Board so that we can be sure that mature consideration has been given to such a serious subject. In saying that I am not in any way reflecting on the ability of the Minister. 
I find it hard to judge whether or not there is a new element in my question. If I got to the end of it, could you tell me? 
I am glad that the previous Minister for Labour and National Service, now the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  made this statement, and I am also glad that the House is debating the statement, because I am well aware - and I think that the country is becoming increasingly aware - that productivity or increasing productivity is the key to expansion in our economic standard of living. It is true that other measuring sticks may be used for other things for which one is looking, but if one is looking for an increased economic standard of living one sees it will come only through increasing productivity. The bigger the cake that we can get through increasing productivity the greater shall be the workers' or the wage and salary earners' share of that cake. 
It is interesting to look at the statement which appeared in the 'Australian Economic Record' for December last in which the changes in the wage and salary earners' share of the gross national product were measured. In the period between 1955-56 and 1959-60, the wage and salary earners' share of the gross national product was 63.2 per cent; 4 years later it was 61.9 petcent; 4 years later it was 61.8 per cent, and last year it was 61.7 per cent. The fact is that in this and every other western country, the share of the gross national product which the wage and salary earner receives remains practically constant. The increase in money wages is shared between prices and productivity, but the share which the wage and salary earner receives remains the same. The only way in which the wage and salary earner will receive a bigger slice of the cake - and everybody wants him to receive it - is to get a bigger cake to cut up. 
Honourable members may say it is not fair that the wage and salary earner ought to receive a bigger share of the economic cake. A lot of people would agree with that statement. But the fact remains that capital is liquid stuff. It flows where the return is the greatest, and if the return on capital is thought to be too small by those people who own capital, firstly, the capital will not come into Australia or, secondly, if the return outside Australia is greater, the capital will go out of Australia. So investment falls down and the economic cake becomes smaller. Whether we like it or not, it is a fundamental fact under the capitalistic system that we will always get not a theory of constant shares, but this effect of constant shares, and the share which the wage and salary earner receives remains the same. 
The other sectors which receive a share are, firstly, the exporters, secondly, the people on fixed invomes and, thirdly, the owners of capital. I repeat again, because this is something that the Australian community has to recognise: The only way in which the wage and salary earner can receive a bigger share is to get a bigger economic cake to cut up, and the way to do this is to increase the productivity of the worker, and of management. If one accepts as a fact - 'and I do not think that anybody will argue against it, although some people may resent it - that the object of the exercise is to get a bigger economic cake so that wage and salary earners can receive a bigger slice of the cake to cut up, one then starts to argue about cutting up the workers' slice more equitably. 1 agree with what the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said, that when one refers to the slice which the wage and salary earner receives one includes the member of parliament, the High Court judge and the man who sweeps the street. We are all in it together; but I will leave the discussion of how one cuts up the wage and salary earners' slice amongst wage and salary earners. The point I want to hammer home today is that the only way in which the entire group will get more to cut up will be by increasing the national productivity. Everything that prevents productivity from rising is done at the expense not of the fellow with money or the chap on a fixed income but of the fellow workers. If there is a strike the group which pays for it in the end is the wage and salary earner group - and it only. If there is a work limitation, if there is a darg or some other arrangement whereby people are limited in what they can produce, it is paid for by the workers as a group. 
There is an Australian tendency to glorify the concept of beating the boss. There is a tendency for a lot of people to do this. They do not beat the boss; they beat their fellow workers. They do this at the expense of their fellow worker sector. In Australia we have a unique opportunity to build the cheapest ships, or to build them as cheaply as any other country. We have the cheapest steel and we have some excellent men working in our shipyards. However we are dogged by demarcation disputes. The Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  will find, as he grows older in his new post, how much better we could build our ships and repair our ships if we did not have to put up with ridiculous arguments in the shipyards which do nothing but reduce productivity, lt is argued there that one group cannot do this and another group cannot do that. There is a unique opportunity open to Australia if we could get together and work with a will, if management and men could recognise that the only way in which to get a bigger cake and for the worker to get a bigger share of it is not to sit around arguing with each other and continuing the tragedy pf the class war. I am glad to say that in this debate class warfare has not reared its head, as it does sometimes. We have" not heard the customary bitterness about the workers and the bosses and that sort of thing. We have to realise that almost everybody in Australia is a worker. 
I agree with what the honourable member for Hindmarsh said in criticising the manager who goes off to play golf twice a week. That is part of our problem. But there are other parts to the problem. Sometimes when one enters a wool shed one finds it running happily. Everybody appears to be working well and cheerfully and most capably. But in another shed one will find some sort of trouble and everybody working only half as well as they could. In some factories there is a feeling of excitement. You notice it as soon as you enter. People are working cheerfully and well. Then you can enter another factory and find an obvious spirit of resentment. I am saying to the House and to those people who are listening to this debate that we have an opportunity to do much better in Australia. 
There are people who say that our side of politics wants to see a pool of unemployment so that people will he forced to work. That is nonsense. You do not have to have a pool of unemployment in order to make people work well. People can he encouraged to work well, from both the capitalist side and the union side. Both sectors could well realise the opportunity and the responsibility they have to weld themselves into a work force that believes in what it is doing and works cheerfully and capably. I know, probably better than any other honourable member present, how well the Australian farm employees work. I do not know the factory side as well as other honourable members but I know the excellence of the general farm worker. I know how well he works with his boss and how well he understands his problems. If all our people had that general feeling, and adopted it as a general concept, we would not need to worry so much about men getting a fair share. Automatically they would get a fair share of the cake and automatically that cake would increase, because productivity is the key to increasing the standard of living for workers as well as everybody else. 
If we want a classic example of how not to run a country and of what we do not want to see in, Australia, let us consider what is happening now in the United Kingdom. We looked up to that country for years, and still do so for many reasons, but it is decaying because industrial strife is eating away at productivity. Great Britain gradually is ceasing to be the country it was. It is not because it does not have the resources but because those resources have not been used properly. 1 make this plea to the Australian people: Slop arguing about silly things; stop having unnecessary strikes and similar happenings. Let us recognise that we have a unique opportunity to make Australia a belter place. This will be accomplished only if workers and managers realise that productivity is the key to progress. 
lt has been a long time since 1 have defended the Minister for Trade and Industry in this place. I am getting more than usual pleasure out of the process.  J  would like to say at the outset that 1 have great pleasure in defending the former Minister for Primary Industry who is now Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  He was an exceptionally good Minister for Primary Industry. I hope that his successor will be as good as he was. The former Minister for Primary Industry set a very high standard. He has been attacked today as Minister for Trade and Industry. Now the honourable member for Wakefield' with real pleasure picks up his lance and defends him. I know I will be doing it again and again in debates on tariff. The poor old Australian Labor Party will have to decide on which side of the fence it will sit. The Opposition's shadow Minister for Trade and industry will have to organise his mind and read his books and decide which side of the fence he will sit on. 
I have a rough idea at this stage that I will have the very great responsibility and pleasure of again defending the Minister for Trade and Industry. I do it today with the feeling that this debate is a ridiculous waste of the time of this Parliament. The case seems to rest on the attitude of the Minister. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said nothing about the attitude of the Minister but the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  did .say something. The attitude of the Minister seems to coalesce around these words: '1 would not recognise Red China just to sell wheat. I would not sell my foreign policy or my philosophies just to do a deal on trade.' Later on in the debate something was said about selling one's soul. The question was posed: 'Would you sell your soul just for trade advantages?' The Minister would not: neither would I. I would like to see anybody who thinks he would do so stand up in this place and admit it. Principles are funny things. Principles are no good unless a person sticks to them. Anybody who is pre pared to sell his soul for an immediate commercial advantage should stand up and say so. 
 Let us consider this selling of the soul business. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  hud something to say about it. I would regard him as an authority because I remember distinctly when we started our tariff dialogue some years ago how he with great courage came out and took almost the same attitude as I did. Then he heard footsteps. He heard the then honourable member for Scullin, now the member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  and other honourable members opposite who indulge in the old, tired thinking of the Labor Party and who exert all the pressures that resulted in the member for Lalor selling his soul. When it comes to taking lectures from the honourable member for Lalor about selling one's soul, I regard him as an authority on the subject. 
 Why? You seemed to devote much of your speech to it. 
Mt  KELLY  -  I certainly was referring to the honourable member for Lalor and I certainly withdraw. But I still complain that it seems rather queer that the honourable member for Lalor can condemn the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and accuse him of selling his soul or suggesting this, because much of the honourable member's speech centred around this and all I did, in passing, was to mention the attitude of the honourable member for Lalor. However, let us go back to the complaint that it is wrong to sell one's principles down the drain for immediate political advantage. I do not think it is a bad thing to have principles. It is not much good having principles unless one sticksto them. I think there will be a change in the Government's policy on the recognition of Red China. 
-I am saying whatI think. I do not speak for the Government.I simply say that there seems to be a change in world opinion and that in my view, as a backbench member, there will be a change in Australia's stand on the recognition of the Republic of China. What kind of a man would the Minister for Trade and Industry be if when he was first interviewed he said: 'I am a member of the Government andI stand with the Government policy on Red China,' but at his next interview he said: 'Well, it does not apply to wheat. I am now for a change.'? The Minister is a member of the Government. Loyalty is essential. The only way a government can work is for the Minister for Trade and Industry, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon)  and all the Ministers to stand together behind a common policy on such an important matter. What kind of a Minister would the Minister for Trade and Industry be if he claimed that the policy of the Government was not going to be his policy in future and said on a television interview: 'It is going to be different because it may influence our sales to China.'? Who said that it would influence our sales of wheat to China? 
I guess the honourable member would never know. He would never know what side to go around on a header, clockwise or anti-clockwise. There has been no evidence that the Ministers statement - if this is the statement that was made - has had or will have any influence on the quantity of wheat we sell to China. Who said it would? As the Minister for Shipping and Transport said, are we to listen to every bar room rumour that we hear coming out of Peking or Hong Kong? What is the evidence that the statement of the Minister for Trade and Industry - which seems to me to be a perfectly sensible and principled statement - has had any influence on our possible sales to Red China? 
It is not good enough for the Labor Party to pretend that this is a matter of urgency. I congratulate the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr  Patterson) if, indeed, he did prevent this from becoming a censure motion because a censure motion on a subject such as this would have made the Labor Party look ridiculous. The Labor Party has been made to look sufficiently ridiculous by contending that this statement, which seems to all members on this side of the House to have been perfectly sensible and responsible, will affect our sales of wheat toRed China. This seems to be carrying democracy far too far. It is making an ass of the Parliament and is certainly making an ass of the Labor Party. 
Is the Minister for Trade and Industry aware that the heavily protected Australian price for PVC granules is 26c per lb? Does the Minister know that a plastics products manufacturer in Hong Kong can buy the same Australian granules for about 12c per lb? Does he realise that an Australian plastics products manufacturer can buy Hong Kong plastic buckets made from these Australian granules, ship them to Australia, grind them into powder and make them into plastic hose or even plastic buckets at a cheaper price than if he bought the granules from across the road in Melbourne? While certain old fashioned members of this House may think this is a splendid method of creating employment- 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the reports of the Public Works Committee relating to the following proposed works: 
The Committee's report on the Community College, Darwin is an interim report only and is tabled in this form at this stage for one reason only. It is that the Committee is currently carrying out an examination of the costs and standards of residential accommodation at a number of different types of Commonwealth built institutions including the Community College at Darwin and would therefore not otherwise be able to report on this reference until that inquiry is completed. In this interim report, the Committee is endorsing all of the work in the proposal except the residential accommodation so that the Government can go ahead now and seek Parliament's approval for that part of the work approved by the Committee without having to await the result of the inquiry into the residential accommodation. The Committee expects to be able to report on the residential accommodation section of the work early in the Budget session. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
Is the Minister for Trade and Industry aware that the iron and steel industry is regarded as the shining example of the success of the infant industry argument justifying tariff protection? is the Minister aware that the infant industry is now, with age and affluence, at the very least lusty? As the industry is so good at producing iron and steel at low prices, does the Minister not think that a little competition might not be good for both producers and consumers? With this in mind, will he consider asking the Tariff Board to review the industry to see whether the admittedly low duties on the main iron and steel products are now as necessary as they were judged to be in 1936 when the industry was. last reviewed by the Tariff Board? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the interim report relating to the following proposed work: 
1 suppose that there are 2 ways in which we could handle this occasion. We could kick one another around the political arena and try to score political points off one another. We would probably get some satisfaction out of it and go out of the House and say that we had won the debate. We may get some satisfaction. I can assure the House, particularly the Opposition, that the farmers will not. Farmers are inclined to listen with cynical amusement to political exercises of this kind. I thought that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  would have learnt that when he had his fingers burnt rather badly over wheat. 
The farmers know that there is not one farmer amongst members of the Opposition. They know that the Australian Labor Party has been the Party that advocates a 35-hour week. They know that the Labor Party runs in double harness with  Mr Hawke.  We know what this philosophy is doing to farmers' costs. We know that the poor old Labor Party cannot make up its mind about its policy on tariffs. We understand that it has been going through acutely painful birth pangs during the last week or two. I do not know what is going to be brought forth. We will probably have a look at the monstrosity during the week. We can do this: We can try to score political points off one another; or we can get to work and look at the basic problem of farm reconstruction. We can look at the incredible difficulties of the problem that is before us. 
This is  a  splendid subject to talk about. I remember that some of the finest speeches that I have ever heard have been made about farm reconstruction. The phrase has a lovely rolling sound about it It suits eloquence splendidly. But fundamental fact is that solving the problems is incredibly difficult. We do not reconstruct industries. We reconstruct farms. Each industry, be it wool, wheat or whatever, is made up by a series of farms. Let me bring home to the House here what we are talking about For instance, if we say that we will tackle the problem of the reconstruction of the wool industry, what do we really mean? Surely we must mean that we will say that a viable unit - and that phrase is a lovely, rounded one that will appeal to the economists in the House - will be, say, a four thousand dry sheep equivalent. That is what we would have said a year ago, particularly if the unit was based on fine wool. That was the position a year ago. We know now that that would not be a viable unit 
If we had set to work and charged around the countryside basing reconstruction schemes on that kind of information it would have been wrong. That would have been the only point about it. It would have been wrong. It could certainly have been done promptly, but the people on the properties would have gone broke. Otherwise, it would have been perfectly satisfactory. We must remember that the advice on what shall be a viable unit is going to come from people including civil servants as the honourable member for Dawson was once. They are dedicated and capable civil servants. But one point always should be remembered: The advice that they give with their dedication and ability will always be wrong to some degree, and often very wrong. It should be remembered also that any person who can foresee the supply and demand situation for any product in the future is not a civil servant for long. He is living in the south of France with his feet in a bucket of champagne. 
It is important to realise that every time one makes prophecies about the future one will be wrong to some degree. I know this. My family has been farming the same property for about 100 years. My grandfather was  chairman  of the land board. My father was a member of the advisory board of agriculture. I was a member of the advisory board. I ought to know the problems of my own location if anybody does. Yet the advice that I give myself and the advice that I give to my fellow farmers is very frequently wrong to a very serious degree, and I am almost always wrong in some detail. This is the message that I have for the House today. The problems that we face are incredibly difficult. It is no good just saying that we are going to hand the problems over to those handling a reconstruction scheme that will be set up over the weekend. It was quite proper that the Government should go into this problem in very great detail. To do less than that would have been quite nonsensical. 
I make a plea to the Government. 1 do not know whether it will accept the plea. 1 make a plea today as 1 have done and will do again that, because of the nature of the problems we face, because of their complexity and because of the seriousness of them, a rural industries board be set up to examine the problems of rural industry in the same way that the Tariff Board has tackled the problems of secondary industry. These are the kinds of problems that one can state quickly off the top of one's head. These problems include: What is the long term future of the wool industry? What is the good of commencing a scheme to reconstruct farms when we do not know what the long term future of the wool industry will be? What should be the size of wool farms in different areas? Should quotas on wheat be negotiable? Should there be a two-price scheme for dairying? What kind of policy should we have in relation to drought? If we are honest with ourselves we will realise that most of the steps that the Government takes to mitigate the effects of drought are usually taken in the wrong way and for the wrong people. Should we have a scheme for marketing meat or a different way of selling our meat? There is a desperate need for these kinds of problems to be examined -in depth. I pay full tribute to the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. The members of that organisation are well able to bring their expert knowledge to bear in considering these kinds of problems. 
1 did not. I say that everybody who tries to predict the future will always be wrong to some degree. If the honourable member does not know that he should look at some of the advice that he gave the Government in the past; it will be wrong to some degree. I will be happy to spell it out if the honourable member is in doubt. 
What I am saying is that I am not questioning the ability of the BAE. There is a tremendous amount of virtue in taking sworn public evidence, in having public discussion, public report and public information on these important questions. We then find out in more detail what steps we ought to take in the solving of these incredibly difficult problems. I am confidently waiting for the Government to bring forward this rural reconstruction plan. The Minister has hinted pretty plainly that the legislation is fairly close around the corner. I can assure the Minister that I am fully aware of the tremendous responsibility that he carries in this situation, knowing as I do that there are no easy or popular answers. Indeed, the answers are more likely to be right if they are unpopular. This is part of the problem and this is where I would see the use of a rural industries board, to be a help to the Minister and something for him to shelter behind if necessary. But the thing that we as a Parliament must recognise is that there is no sense in wasting our time on silly resolutions of this kind when we know that just around the corner there is a full dress debate coming on legislation which the honourable member for Dawson must have known was to be introduced in the next week or two. Why we should waste the time of the House in this way today I can never understand. 
Tonight I shall speak with brevity but with sincerity. It would be easy for me, after the statement by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  to behave as one sometimes behaves in a dressing room after one's team has had a victory. I do not know whether the Minister can remember when Carlton last had a victory but probably on such an occasion he goes to the dressing room and shares the happiness of everyone. However, this is not of much help when players come in to salve their wounds on the Sunday or when the team starts to train again on Tuesday. Then it is time to do something useful. It will not be achieving anything useful if tonight I just get up to cheer. I am grateful that the Minister has made the clear statement that those of us who are interested in the economic future of Australia have been waiting for with anxiety, and later, with confidence. But we have been challenged today to lay down the kind of protection policy we believe in. I shall spell out briefly what I believe in. I speak for no-one else. I believe in the protection of economic and efficient industries. Here we should pause to differentiate between the two. 
An efficient industry, as I understand it and as it is generally accepted, is an industry whose industrial processes are efficiently carried out. There are many such industries in Australia. An economic industry is one whose situation suits the Australian economy. An industry can be efficient and its industrial processes exemplary, yet it still may be uneconomic in the Australian situation. I am indebted to the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  for what I regard as a perfect illustration of this. An industry at the South Pole could be growing bananas. It could be the most efficient industry imaginable. All of its processes could be perfect. The only thing wrong with it would be that it would be in the wrong economic situation. 
So the Government believes, and it has always believed, in the protection of economic and efficient industries. The question then facing the Government is how does it decide which industries are economic and efficient. For a long time now the Government has posed this problem to the Tariff Board. In the past, the Board has been charged with the responsibility of giving economic answers - not giving any political decisions, but giving advice as to whether an industry is economic and efficient in the Australian situation. I have watched the development of the change in the quality of its advice with much interest in the past. Some honourable members may know that my father was, for many years, a member of the Tariff Board. Since I have been a member of this House I have taken a great deal of interest in the way in which the Tariff Board has set about answering this question: Is the industry economic and efficient? 
What pleases me most about today's statement is that it indicates that there is to be no change in he Tariff Board's responsibility. The Tariff Board has not received any riding instructions. It is being charged with its old responsibility of saying whether an industry is economic and efficient and of giving an economic answer. The Tariff Board reports to the Government and the Government makes a political decision on the economic advice that it has received. What was disturbing me, and others who feel like me, was that the Government might have thought: 'Let us give the Tariff Board other riding instructions. Let us ask it to put some politics in its reports.' This would have been popular in many quarters. The Government may have gained some votes from it. The only thing wrong would have been that the Government would have got the wrong economic answers. It is to the everlasting credit of the Government that it has again come to the clear realisation that what it needs is economic advice on which to take political decisions. It is easy to criticise the quality of the advice that the Government has received and to criticise the quality of the reports. Many people have dined out on this and said slickly that the Tariff Board reports are not good enough. I guarantee that I have read more closely more Tariff Board reports than any other member on the back benches in this House. There are some reports of which I would be critical to a degree but I would defy anybody to show that there has been any general lack of quality in the Board's reports over recent years. Some reports are better than others, I have heard it said, but because these reports are compiled by human beings they contain human weaknesses. I would not like to see anybody get away with a slick criticism that Tariff Board reports are lacking in quality. I have read almost every one of them very carefully. With all the experience that I can bring to bear on this I claim that the reports in recent years have improved vastly. 
The other matter in which we on this side believe and which ought to be made clear is that the higher duty the greater the cost to the community and, therefore, greater justification is required in granting protection. Any industry which asks for a high rate of duty is asking for resources to be diverted to it at the expense of other sectors of the community. The Tariff Board has never said that. People have put those words into the Board's mouth. The Board has never said that industries which require a higher rate of protection will not be protected. Some of them have been protected and some of them will be protected in the future, but to do so without measuring the cost of diverting the resources is just plain silly. That is all that the Tariff Board has ever set itself to do - lo measure the cost. We know that the higher the cost the greater the burden to be borne by export industries. It is true that in past years the rural sector was able to carry the additional cost burden of $2,700m which is the equivalent of the subsidies payable. The export sector has had to carry increased costs of about $2,000m. The rural sector used to be able to carry a large proportion of this burden but it will not be able to do so in the future. 
One of the things which has interested me as I have carried the banner around the country for a reasonable tariff protection policy is that the support I receive most now is from the secondary industry sector that exports, or knows that its only chance to expand in the future is to export, in order to get the economies of scale. The people in this sector say: 'Why does not someone tell us that there is a cost in high protection and there is a cost in employment?' There is no such thing in the economic world as a free ride; someone always pays. One of the facts of life is that employment in industry can be jeopardised by high protection in the same way as it can be increased. Someone always pays. If a duty is placed on a synthetic product such as the raw material from which plastic buckets are made - PVC granules - the employment potential in the user industry is jeopardised. The interesting thing to me is that when I started along this lonely tariff road in the past I used to speak for the rural sector and that sector used to support me as best it could, but the people who support me now and the people who think as I do are those in the secondary industry sector which hopes to and knows that it can export. Indeed that sector has demonstrated its ability to export. Let us be clear about the employment situation. In the past people justified protection because it created employment, yet high protection jeopardises employment in the user or the export industries. 
Another matter which I ought briefly to mention is the fact that there has been some discussion recently on what policy we should have in regard to protection against imports from low wage countries. If you say the words properly with a curl on your lip you can talk about imports from cheap labour countries, but we all know that we are watching with breathless anxiety the ability of Korea, Hong Kong and India to live by the expansion of their secondary industry exports. Let me give the House an example of what I mean. I was in Bombay recently and I visited a factory which was processing Australian skim milk powder into urgently needed cow milk mixed with buffalo milk. That factory was using milk processing equipment imported from Australia under the Colombo Plan. After I had watched with gratification the quality of their processing methods I asked an official 'Have you any problems?' I was told 'Well,  Mr Kelly,  only one and that is that we cannot buy your skim milk powder*. I said 'Why? We are desperately anxious to sell you skim milk powder' and the reply was 'Yes, but we cannot get the foreign exchange'. During the afternoon I visited a cotton textile factory in Bombay and saw what 1 in my ignorance thought to be a first class technical process of making cotton sheets. I said to someone at the factory 'How are you going?' He said 'We have troubles with Australia. There is a 55 per cent duty wall over which we cannot get our cotton sheets'. This is what overseas trade responsibility to underdeveloped countries is all about. It is not a question of making speeches in this Parliament. It is the recognition that you have to trade with people if you really want to help them. It is of no use for us to beat our breasts in public and say that trade is more important than aid. We all know that this is basically true. But when it comes to dealing with these countries, for example, buying their sheets so that they can buy our skim milk powder, we say: 'Oh, we did not mean that'. It is the kind of thinking that we must have, not only for our economy but also to ensure that we can bridge the widening gap between the haves and have nots. We do these things for our own benefit as well as for the benefit of other countries. 
I promised the House that I would speak with sincerity and brevity. I will not continue my remarks much longer. I congratulate with all sincerity the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  for the statement he has made today. I congratulate, too, the Minister for Customs and Excise for the way in which he has handled customs matters in this House. It has been of great benefit to honourable members in understanding tariff matters. For far too long tariff matters have been thought to be something that no-one could understand. We all have had difficulties in the past in understanding these matters. The understanding which we had during the last Parliament has been immeasurably improved by the care which the Minister has taken to make it possible for ordinary people to follow the intricacies of a very complicated subject. While 1 am in this congratulatory mood, which does not overcome me often in this place, I would like to congratulate the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street).  When I became a Minister I wondered what would happen to tariff debates, and I left the tariff torch lie. I wondered who would pick it up. It was picked up with remarkable ability and dedication by the honourable member for Corangamite. He has carried it on faster and farther than 1 would have been able to do. I would like to add my thanks to him. 
This day is the end of a long bitter battle for me. Some honourable members who have been here for some time will recall the boredom of my speeches to the House on this subject. If I did not bore them I certainly bored myself. It became almost an endurance test. This is something of which the House might take note, lt is often thought: 'What do back benchers do? What do they ever achieve?' In looking at them today and in listening to today's debate I took some comfort from the fact that I, as a back bencher, with an inordinate amount of difficulty, have had some influence on the Government's policy. I think that there is a place for the back bencher who is prepared to do the kind of back breaking work which I found it necessary to do in order to understand this difficult subject of tariffs. So today, with a feeling of immeasurable relief, I stand here and congratulate the Minister for his statement which to me appears to signal the end of the old policy of protecting many things too generously. From now on we will have a much more clear-eyed and responsible tariff policy. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Connor)  adjourned. 
I thought that we were to have a close debate in the Committee stages. Reading the financial Press, particularly the 'Financial Review' which I always regard with respect, particularly on Fridays, I understood that the Labor Party intended to test and argue each Tariff Board report. I spent the weekend wading through the reports and the House will be relieved to know that I will not inflict the whole lot of my homework on it tonight. The first report deals with alloy steel, particularly the  35  per cent duty on stainless steel. It is a remarkable situation that we have the  12669/71- -R-Wl 
Japanese buying our iron ore, nickel and coal and shipping them to Japan, manufacturing from them stainless steel and having a  35  per cent duty imposed on the product to protect the Australian industry. I think this is a duty that should be examined and I am gratified to see that the Tariff Board has said it should be examined shortly. 
However, there are particular features of the iron and steel industry which I should like to mention. The' honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  said today what an excellent industry the iron and steel industry is. No-one would contest how efficiently it has been able to organise itself. It can and is competing, as he said, with other countries in selling steel on the west coast of America. It is a credit to the country. But the justification for tariff protection has always been the infant industry argument. Here is an industry which really is growing beyond the infant stage. You,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  with your rural background have no doubt had experience with the foster mothering of beef calves. We once had a beef cattle stud and used to foster-mother beef calves by putting them on Jersey cows. -The calves did particularly well. We used to put a Jersey cow into a bail and a bull that was probably twice the size of a cow, would come charging up but he would not do to the cow what one would expect him to do; he would get down on his knees and start to suck from it. The steel industry is an infant industry which, like the beef bull, has really grown up. The beef bull would have been better for breeding purposes if it was not being fed on milk anyhow. 
Yes, if it had been paddock reared. I think that the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd has come to the stage where it should no longer be regarded as an infant industry. There is one matter about this industry which I would like to draw to the attention of honourable members. This matter brings into focus the anxiety I have about the ways in which some industries can use their by-law advantage. I have had brought to my attention - and the Minister for Customs and Excise has with his characteristic courtesy and efficiency been good enough to take the matter up for me - something- which rankles me. John  Lysaght (Aust.) Ltd, an organisation which is not unrelated to BHP, has had a reputation as a big company and, I always thought, an honest company. I now find it has applied for dumping duties to be imposed against certain products and is importing them under by-law and selling them in competition with its competitors, who have to pay the duty. I think that this kind of thing is inexcusable in a company of Lysaght's standing. I think it is something which ought to be spelt out in a debate like this. 
This legislation does bring into focus the importance of the by-law procedures which, I am glad to say, have been handled by the present Minister for Customs and Excise in a way in which they have not been handled for a long while by former Ministers. I have no criticism to offer about the report in respect to the extrusion, presses, but I would like to make one comment. This item falls within a part of the Chapter 84 group, which relates to the manufacturers of machinery, that it is hoped will be referred to the Tariff Board. The duty in this area is exceptionally high at around 55 per cent. It is a grievous burden for those industries in which the use of these tools of trade is essential. The Tariff Board recommended a duty of 30 per cent. I hope that this will be taken to be the bench mark. It should not be higher. I hope that it. will be lower. As these are essential tools of trade in secondary industry their price should not be increased unnecessarily. 
I turn again to the vinyl acetate report. There is something about it that I want to mention in particular. I am not happy with the quality of the report, but I want to refer particularly to the reference. It was one of the loaded references which I hope we will never see again. It starts off by referring to the desirability to achieve the reasonably profitable development of soundly based chemical industry. I believe that the cost that achieving this end has imposed on primary and secondary industry must be taken into consideration. The Tariff Board should never receive references on these lines. It should always receive the usual reference, which is: 'Is the industry economic and efficient? If so, what action should be taken?' I was disappointed with the report on sorbital. A $350 support duty is recommended. Although I have been through the report with some care, I have not been able to find any reference to the significance of the $350 support duty to the f.o.b. prices. Officials of the Department have been good enough to go through it for me and they have, with some difficulty, worked out that there is some relationship. I admit that they are more skilled than I am, but I could not find it. I do not think that this is a good example of a Tariff Board report. 
I turn now to the reports of the Special Advisory Authority. I never expect these reports to be of a high standard as they have never been of a high standard. These reports are typically poor examples. There is in the one on acetate derivatives a total absence of any reference to the effect of the duty. A duty of, I think, $70 a ton is imposed, but what does this mean? What is its ad valorem incidence? This is not good enough. The Special Advisory Authority ought to tell us as much as he can. I know that his time is short. However, he has a month to prepare his reports. It is not good enough just to present to the House a figure such as $70. There may be something in it, but I cannot find it. If I cannot find it, there will be others in the House, even as dense as I am, who cannot find it. It is not good enough .that it should appear in this form. 
The last matter to which I want to refer is the duty on Christmas trees. It would be improper for such an important report to escape the attention of the Committee. It is said on page 5 of the report that employment in this industry is of some significance. I am not certain of the meaning of the words 'of some significance', but the Authority must have something in mind. This duty, to protect the employment of I do not know how many people, will cost the children of Australia, on my arithmetric $200,000 every year. There must be some kind of limit to the use of protection devices. This matter will now have to go to the Tariff Board for a full report, unless it is to become caught up as part of the plastics inquiry. The only thing we can hope for now is to have some kind of an artificial Father Christmas. The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  has all the necessary attributes and, if he let his whiskers grow a little, would make an ideal Father Christmas. I express my disappointment that the Labor Party has not done what it said it would do; that is, argue each report in detail. 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral a question supplementary  to the  question asked by the honourable member for Angas. The Postmaster-General has expressed his concern about the placement  of a public notice at the Adelaide Mall Exchange. Can he tell the House what he intends to do about it? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Northern Territory Development Roads. 
Tactical Trainer Building at HMAS Watson, South Head, Sydney, New South Wales. 
Communications Building at Bendigo, Victoria. 
Interim reports on the proposed Community College at Darwin and the redevelopment of the Alice Springs Hospital were presented to the Parliament during the autumn sessional period. I now present the Committee's final reports on those two references. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is the Minister aware that the rural sector of the economy - that is a euphemistic term for the farmers - hailed his accession to the present post with high hopes that the grievous burden of excessive tariff protection would shortly be lifted at least a little from their bent backs? Is the Minister aware that it is a reduction in duties that we want and not just another helping of his sunny smile? 
I want to make my position clear in a few short words. At my age I do not think anyone is likely to toss at me the accusation that I suffer from sour grapes. I think the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  is quite right when he says that this is a matter that ought to be decided before the people concerned are sworn in. I have an overwhelming admiration for most of the people involved. 1 think it is most unfair to put them in a position where their duties and their position in the House are not known to them. It is wrong for them to have to assume responsibilities and duties about which they know nothing. Because this House has not expressed its po'nt of view on this matter I also ask the Leader of the House for an assurance that this matter will not be proceeded with at this stage. 

 Mr SWARTZ (Darling Downs- Minister for National Development) - by leave - Some questions have been put to me in this debate and 1 think I should try to make the position clear. I have been asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and also by some honourable members on my side of the House to give an assurance in relation to deferring appointments to the Executive Council until this matter has been debated in this House. Unfortunately as the Leader of the 
House my job is to look after the business of the House. As I said earlier ki this debate the question of ministerial appointments in our system has been the prerogative of the Prime Minister and the same principle applies with respect to the matter under debate. 
It is true that an additional Minister is to be appointed, as honourable members know. The Prime Minister has indicated his intention to appoint some Assistant Ministers. This will not break the tradition of this Parliament because Assistant Ministers have been appointed previously and as 1 mentioned not only have Assistant Ministers been appointed in the past but also parliamentary secretaries who have carried out similar duties. This is a matter which is within the competence of the Prime Minister. The reaction of the Opposition and also of some of our own members has been referred to the Prime Minister. I believe, as everyone does, in the prerogative of Parliament and the Constitution. In thu case this is something which refers to the constitution of the Executive and the appointment of personnel to the Executive. It is beyond my capacity to make any decision as to whether an assurance should be given. In the circumstances it is not a question that I can answer. 
The only assurance I can give is that the Prime Minister has been advised of the feelings of the Opposition and especially the feelings of some of our own members - that this matter is one which should be the subject of debate in this House before appointments are made. The objections of the Opposition appear to relate to Assistant Ministers but there is in the statement made by the Prime Minister an indication that an additional Minister is to be appointed. Can I take it from the Leader of the Opposition that his Party is not objecting in any way to the announcement regarding the appointment of an additional Minister to replace one of the previous Ministers? 
 I remember an old proverb that hung on the wall of an institution which 1 once attended. The proverb read: 'It is best to keep your mouth shut and have people think your are a fool than to open it and remove all doubt.' A corollary to that proverb is that you do not go to a sheep sales, talking all the time. You do not go giving your opinion about the market or the season or the Government. You keep your mouth shut. That is the only way in which you can sell effectively. The tragedy of the poor old Labor Party is that it has not anybody in the House who has ever sold anything but themselves. I have not anything personally against the honourable member for Dawson. He is a nice man at heart, and it is true that he has a doctorate of philosophy of more than usual magnificence. But he has never sold anything except himself. If he had, he would not have talked his way to China, talked his way down the steps of the aircraft, talked his way around China and talked his way home again. Above all, he would not have come into this House today and talked at all about the problems of selling wheat to China because the honourable member, and he above all, has made it more difficult to sell wheat to China. That is not just my own opinion, although I hold it sincerely. It is not just the opinion of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  or the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  It is the expression of opinion of  Mr Price,  the leader of the Wheatgrowers Federation. It is certainly the opinion of my electors, too, although I have not influenced them in any way in their coming to this opinion. They know that things are not sold in this way. I do not blame the honourable member for Dawson for not knowing this, as he has never operated in this area, but he has to learn about these things if he has aspirations of being the Minister for Primary Industry, as I understand he aspires to be if ever there is a Labor government. 
The thought that the honourable member for Dawson could be selling our products on the world's markets is a terrifying thought to me. It is true that some of his speeches have been splendid. He speaks quite rapidly and some of the words he uses are quite long. But it is laughable to picture him going round the world selling our products in this way. I beg of him, with all respect and friendship, to remember that just talking is not the way in which to go around selling our products, particularly in China of all places. The Chinese are famous for being inscrutable and for playing their cards close to their chest. The honourable member for Dawson recently talked his way to China, talked his way down the steps of the aircraft and then threw his cards face up on the table. The honourable member for Dawson told the Chinese he spoke for the Australian Labor Party. Is it any wonder the Chinese have expressed a desire that the Labor Party should govern in Australia? If the  honourable member for Dawson were heading the negotiations the Chinese would get wheat from us at half price. 
If the honourable member could only stop himself from talking he could do lots of things to help. If I were as eloquent as the honourable member I too would find it difficult to restrain myself from talking. It is not only my opinion and the opinion of honourable members on this side of the House that the honourable member for Dawson talks too much but also the opinion of others. Let me quote from a letter written by Professor Arndt to the Canberra Times' on the visit of the Australian Labor Party delegation to China. I have an immense personal respect for Professor Arndt's integrity and intelligence. He was a member of the Labor Party but he resigned from it. About his reasons for resigning from the Labor Party, Professor Arndt said: 
With a naivety astonishing in someone who hopes to be Australia's Prime Minister - 
He was talking about the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  - he gave away in advance every bargaining counter that Australia has in future negotiations with China and in the process gratuitously insulted not only the United States, Japan, Thailand, the Philippines and Cambodia but even the Soviet Union. 
I am not expressing this opinion. This opinion was expressed by Professor Arndt. He went on to say: 
He gave Chou En-lai the opportunity not only for a significant propaganda victory against the West but also for explaining that he would welcome a Labor government in Australia. 
He continued:  1  have for 20 years advocated diplomatic recog nition of Communist China and its admission to the United Nations - but not at any price. 
If the honourable member for Dawson could restrain his notable eloquence he would find out that not only the Ministers on the front bench but also the very people who used to support him do not think that by going around with one's mouth open and one's eyes shut one is helping one's case. 
The honourable member could help us in our efforts to sell wheat by doing 2 things. Firstly, he could stop talking while selling things. Secondly, he could do something about the trade union embargo on the export of merino rams. It is nonsense for him to come into this chamber and talk about selling wheat to China when he knows that the policy of the Australian Council of Trade Unions - indeed, the Australian Labor Party - deliberately to prevent the export of rams from Australia has resulted in Australia having to rat on its international obligations. What kind of respect can we expect to get from other countries when we do this? The Labor Party policy has done great harm to Australia's international reputation. If the honourable member really wanted to help he should heed my advice. There is a tremendous imbalance of trade between Australia and China. We are importing from China a third of the value of commodities the Chinese buy from us. If he really wanted to help he should do something urgently about freeing the channels of trade with regard to not only the export of merino rams but also of textiles. We have imposed a 100 per cent effective rate duty on many items, including textiles. It is true that it is harder to make a decision than it is just to talk, but these decisions have to be made if we are to have an effective trade in wheat or anything else. The same thing goes for soccer boots - any mundane thing. The real crunch will come when we say that we are going to trade with China. It is no good just coming into this House and sounding off eloquently when it is known that the fundamental problem facing us all is how to have a freer flow of trade between Australia and not only China but also other parts of Asia. 1 beg of the honourable member for Dawson to remember that he has an additional responsibility from where he sits on the front bench to try to influence the policies of the shadow Minister for Trade and Industry and his other colleagues on this matter so that we can have a more effective trade with China. I am doing what I can to try to influence the Government on this matter. I do not deny that we have problems, but it is an Australian problem and not a party political problem to have an effective trade relationship with China. We have to buy more from them. To go on in a loud mouthed way about selling wheat is not the answer to these problems. Wheat is only a part of the world's trade. It is only a small part of our trade with Asia. The honourable member is dodging the real issue. My final and sincere advice to him as a person who hopes to represent Australia as the Minister for Primary Industry is that he will not do  much good by just going around and talking, he has to think more often than he talks. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, 1 present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Replacement of Accommodation ' (1971 Reference) at HMAS 'Albatross', Nowra, New South Wales. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
[COMMONWEALTH'S CORPORATIONS POWER 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Does the Minister recall that I asked him not very long ago whether he was aware that what the farmers really wanted was a reduction in tariffs and that they are no longer fascinated by the fast footwork or satisfied with another helping of his sunny smile? Does the Minister realise that the action of this Government in continuing the lavish temporary protection on shirts will be regarded as just as another helping of his sunny smile? What the farmers want to know is whether tariffs will be reduced and whether the Minister will help in this endeavour. If so, when will the Minister start to do something? 
The Prime Minister would be more aware than anyone in Australia of the importance of combating inflation at this time. I ask the Prime Minister: Although no doubt there is every reason from the point of view of equity for a rise in parliamentary salaries, does he not feel that to increase them at this stage would call into question the credibility of the Government's determination to combat inflation effectively? Does he not feel that in this case there are even more important issues than equity for politicians and that we should set an example of restraint to the rest of the community? 
As  Chairman  of the Standing Committee on Public Works maybe I could set the fears of the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Bury)  at rest. A considerable amount of trouble has been taken by the design authorities to lower the building so that it protrudes but certainly not above the skyline. I can give the honourable member a clear assurance on that from the plans as I remember them. I repeat that the new building will not protrude in any way above the skyline. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Construction of Community College at Darwin 
Speaking again as  Chairman  of the Standing Committee on Public Works, I think for the benefit of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  I should set the record straight. This is the final report with which we are now concerned. The first report dealt with everything but the accommodation. This final report deals with the accommodation. So the proposition put to the Standing Committee on Public Works was agreed to in 2 parts, the second part being the community college accommodation. While I have the opportunity it is worth pointing out the very great significance of the decision that was made by the Committee to agree to a different standard of accommodation. It is widely accepted in units of this kind in colleges and institutions generally whether they be defence or otherwise, that there should be what we would term barracklike accommodation or institutionalised accommodation. For the first time the Committee had the opportunity to examine plans of what we would call motel-like accommodation where 2 adjoining rooms shared toilet facilities, a bathroom and certain cooking facilities. The Committee found to its surprise that these units were as cheap, if not cheaper, than the usual institutionalised accommodation. This has opened up a whole field for the Department of Works to examine, and it has done this with a great deal of thoroughness. I take this opportunity to point out the significance of the decision that has been made by the Government to build accommodation that is different to a considerable degree from the accommodation that usually has been provided. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
As  Chairman  of the Joint Standing Committee on Public Works, I express some surprise at the attitude adopted by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  Firstly, I say quite specifically that I would hope that Parliament would resent bitterly any move which resulted in a proposed work not being referred to the Public Works Committee, if no question of urgency was involved. I will leave it to the Minister for 
Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  who is at the table, to dispose of the question of urgency. 
The honourable member for Dawson raised the question of the urgent need for educational facilities in general. In the Northern Territory projects of this type are planned carefully. The Committee has these projects referred to it in orderly succession. It has been known for some time that one of these projects was on the planning board. It has been carefully planned and programmed into the system. It was surprising to hear the honourable member for Dawson say that these projects are of such urgency that construction should proceed without any hearings on them by the Public Works Committee. 
I think that I ought to put the record straight regarding the question of any delay caused by a Committee hearing. As the honourable member knows, at some stage I was Minister for Works. I know from experience that great value is obtained from the clarification that comes to the thinking of a department when its plans are put before the Public Works Committee. In some cases, a project is delayed; in other case, no delay at all occurs because the proposition is crystallised and alterations are not necessary in the plans as the project proceeds. 
I was quite surprised that the honourable member for Dawson should have adopted this attitude. Usually he enters a debate in this chamber prepared to present a case. In this instance, obviously he did not. He thought: 'Well, there is something going on here; it must be urgent or it would not be done at all'. This is not the way in which things are done in the Northern Territory. This has not always been the case but certainly it has not been done this way for a long, long while, particularly with regard to the education programme. These projects have been planned in a way in which they have not been planned for a long while. These planning programmes have been welcomed. 
I will leave it to the Minister to dispose of the question of whether these projects are unduly urgent. I am certain that if the honourable member for Dawson had approached the Minister and asked whether the projects were unduly urgent and whether 
 Public Works Committee hearing was necessary, he would have received a reply. I can assure the honourable member that, generally speaking, the programming of educational facilities in the Northern Territory is well conceived and well planned. I have not seen these references. The case with respect to them may be different. But I can assure the honourable member that, generally speaking, school building projects ought to go to the Public Works Committee for hearing. I am surprised to hear the honourable member question the necessity for such investigation. 
In my capacity as  Chairman  of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Work* I would like to inform the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  that there was a very close inquiry into this question of the width of the seal on the Dingo Gap road. I understand that he has not read the Committee's report. I realise that he has many other matters on his plate and he cannot do everything. But had he read the report he would have found that the formation and construction of the road will be completed up to the sealing stage and then later it can be sealed to the full width. So the next step of sealing, which obviously will be taken at some time, will be an economic one; the road will not have to be built up from the beginning. Also, the honourable member will know that if a 12-foot strip is sealed less maintenance, is involved and that, when it comes to resealing the road, the wider the road the more it will cost. The thinking is that when the time comes to reseal it - it varies, of course, with the traffic and the temperature - it will probably be economic to seal it to 18 or 20 feet. 
I think the honourable member for Dawson should be aware that there was a very close inquiry into this matter. The Committee divided on it.  Senator Branson  favoured sealing the road to the full width. Messrs James, Corbett, Kelly and Johnson and  Senator Prowse  agreed that it should be sealed to 12 feet. I also inform the honourable member for Dawson that in discussing this matter we had the benefit of a very close inquiry conducted by the Department of Works on this very subject. I shall see that he receives a copy of the Committee's report. 1 think it will set his mind at rest to know that the examination is proceeding on this very important question. Also I assure the honourable member that the matters about which he has expressed anxiety today in relation to this road were looked into very carefully by the Committee. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry has told the House that he will initiate negotiations with Hong Kong, the People's Republic of China, Taiwan and South Korea to try to stem the flow of low cost imports of woven shirts and knitted outer garments from these countries. Is the Minister aware that in. 1970-71 we exported to those 4 countries goods worth more than $83m in excess of imports from them and that our exports included well over $110m worth of primary produce? Will the Minister assure me that the future of this valuable export trade will not be jeopardised by the pathetic attempt to prop up an industry that is already being subsidised at the rate of $40m a year by she exporters of this country who in the end always pay the price for tariff protection? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry seen the Press reports telling of the success of the first sale of wool by Economic Wool Producers Ltd yesterday? Is the Minister aware that this self-help organisation is pioneering the development of many improved methods of selling wool, leading not only to significant cost savings but also to prices above those currently ruling? Will the Minister assure me that the projected wool deficiency payment legislation will not in any way discourage the operation of this organisation which is at last doing some of the things that everyone has been talking about for so long? 
I address my question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Has the Minister heard of the development of rugging sheep with plastic rugs to improve the quality of the fleece by protecting it from the action of weather and from vegetable fault, particularly in areas suitable only for wool production? Is the Minister aware that the cost of these plastic rugs is increased by a very significant degree by the effect of the tariff on imported plastic powders and/or the tariff on imported plastic sheets from which the rugs are made? Will the Minister examine the operations of the drawback system to see whether the cost of the tariff can be lessened to allow the wool so protected to be exported on equal terms with wool produced in other countries which do not have to carry this extra tariff burden? Finally, is the Minister aware that the old jumbuck is quite happy to carry the weight of the rug but is unhappy about carrying the weight of the tariff burden also? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister in his capacity as Acting Treasurer. Before the recent action of the United States of America to stem its monetary crisis was the devaluation insurance rate fixed by the Reserve Bank at the rate of 10c per £Stg100 a month? Is the rate now 25c per £Stg 100 a month? The Prime Minister will be aware that a considerable proportion of this kind of business is written by wool and skin merchants. Does the Prime Minister consider that an increase of this magnitude is justified? 
During each period of depression in the agricultural scene we will find that the farming community is inclined to get up and run frantically after every hare that is put up, particularly marketing hares. We chase them with a great deal of enthusiasm but we very seldom know what to do when we catch them. I thought it would do us good to measure the problems and the costs of government interest in agricultural marketing. I repeat that it is usually regarded as the panacea by so many people and it is proper that we should put it under careful examination. The first thing one has to do with a marketing scheme is make an estimate of demand, in other words, find out how much of a certain item should be produced. In the end this judgment will be made by people, probably by the dedicated and capable people in the civil service. But I want to sound one warning - not to them; they would know - to the community as a whole and to this Parliament in particular that any civil servant who has the ability to correctly assess the demand situation for any product is not for long a civil servant. He is shortly sitting in the south of France with his feet in a bucket of champagne. We ought to remember as a fundamental truth that to make an estimate is not easy and it has to be done by humans. It will frequently be wrong just because they are human. 
But having made an estimate of demand one then has to tailor supply to demand and this is a practical and sensible way of tackling the agricultural marketing problem. We do have problems in this area. One of them happens to be the weather. Australian weather is not easily foretold, nor is it easily controlled. The second problem we have is the Constitution. Honourable members can sling off at it if they like but we have a Constitution that makes it very difficult to have a marketing system for agricultural produce that operates across Australia. Some may say: We will change it'. This is an exercise a lot of people have engaged in but few have brought off. But as we have the Constitution, let us admit that we have this problem on our plate. 
At present we have a grey market in wheat. Produce can be taken across State borders and sold to whom one likes. There is also a black market, or there will be a black market, and the sooner we recognise the fundamental facts, the better. Many of the younger members in the House would not remember the black market. I have told the story many times, but I will tell it again, of the 2 doctors in a hotel who were exchanging experiences about their practices. One said: 'You know, I have got 4 cases of meningitis in my district' and a chap behind him tapped him on the shoulder and said: 'Look, I'll take the lot.' There is black marketing and to pretend that there is not a black market problem is to ignore the fundamental facts of life. Another problem which arises as the result of a marketing scheme is that when mistakes are made, they are big mistakes, and there are no countervailing mistakes to balance them. I am not slinging off at the people who have made mistakes; I have made so many myself. My neighbour watches me, and when I buy cattle, he sells cattle. My mistakes cancel out his mistakes. It is important to realise that in a big marketing scheme run by the Government, the inevitable mistakes will all be one way. Australia's primary industries are in a desperately serious situation and this should be recognised as a problem. 
Other problems arise in the establishment of this type of scheme. When there is a system of subsidies or of market manipulation, there is frequently the power to control production. Production is limited by legislation or by price reduction and by no other means. If it is done by legislation constitutional problems are encountered. People say this system works with sugar and wheat. It has worked fairly well in these industries. However, 2 important facts must be considered. Firstly, there is an element of Government subvention in both of these industries and, secondly, they have international marketing arrangements - an international grains arrangement and an international sugar . scheme. When there is a system of marketing, people say: 'Well, we will limit the market. We will not put the product on to the market'. People say that we can ' control the production of wool but What happens if we do not have an international arrangement? The Argentinians and others move into our markets. Limitation of markets will work only if there are international agreements. 
What ure the problems we , face when government controls agriculture? Firstly, it is not known whether a subsidy should go to the big producers or to the small producers. Actually the big producers are subsidised because most of the money goes to them. I have told the story in the House before of an English friend of mine who frequently visits me, and when 'he shows me the amount of money in the subsidy column of his books, I say to him: 'Il cannot justify that amount of help from the Government' and he says: 'Look, Bert, as long as there are enough poor struggling farmers, I shall be all right'. Consequently it is said that we should not subsidise the big producers but should subsidise the small ones. What a silly lot of nonsense this is. In many cases, the only way a primary producer can survive is to become bigger but, by subsidising the small producer, the Government would be stepping in and paying producers to become smaller. There must be some economic sense to government interference: We have become confused and caught up in our own eloquence. We have been talking for so long about closer settlement that we think it is a good thing but, if we look at our past performance we can see that much of our country has been destroyed physically and the financial position of the farmers has been destroyed by the very thing about which we have been talking so eloquently, namely, closer settlement. These are the kind of problems we face. 
Why do we not do better than we do? We are all well meaning people. One could not find better meaning people than the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  Why is it that farming is so frequently damaged - I will not say by interference' although other people would - by government interest? We become confused about costs of production. We have been talking about this for years. It is the golden calf of worship and yet in our hearts we all know that this is a silly system. We know that there cannot  bs  a cost of production for a product across an industry because the cost of land component must be included. This is a one way ratchet which jacks up the price of land. The cost of production of wheat in theory is $1.72 a bushel. Anybody who is any good at growing wheat knows that this is utter nonsense. These kind of things happen. Why do we not do better? We should ask ourselves this question. I will not say that there is no room for improvement in marketing methods and that there is no place in this area for government. It is important that we realise the problems which exist before we run after every marketing hare. There is a temptation and 1 am afraid some of us are inclined to bring the hares into this chamber and try to catch them here. As a Parliament, we should be giving a great deal of thought to our agricultural problems, but let us not delude ourselves that the answers are to be easily found in some grandiose government scheme. 
I have heard some of the debate whilst present in the chamber and 1 have listened to some of it elsewhere through the public address system. I must admit that 1 find it saddening that there is such an area of ignorance about this very important question. 1 think it is proper that 1 should go over the fundamental details of it for some of the honourable members present. One of the principles with which we have to begin is the clear statement of fact that the more industrialised we become the more dependent we are on imports. This goes for any country. This is surprising to many people in Australia but it follows a common pattern. The more industrialised we become the more we depend on our ability to buy imports. Our ability to buy imports then depends on our exports. What will hold Australia back more surely and cause our standard of living to fall is our inability to buy the imports that a developing economy demands. That being the starting point, we then have to buy imports and there is only one way yet known to buy imports and that is by producing exports. If we cannot produce exports the whole economy will slow down. 
The burden of the tariff, if there is one - and there is not always a grievous burden - is always carried, and the price for tariff protection is always paid, by exporters, not necessarily by farmers. The greater the proportion of exporters the greater the proportion of the burden borne by the export industry. Coming back now to this problem of employment, the important thing to realise is that we do not get good employment figures out of a sick economy and to have a flourishing economy we must be able to buy imports and to do that we must produce exports. Anything that increases the burden on the export industries automatically diminishes the health of the economy and our ability to create employment. That is one matter. The other matter is that there are too many people who think that protection is necessary in order to ensure employment for our people. 
Let me run through some figures. Approximately 28 per cent of our people are employed in secondary industries and about half of those depend on protection for their viability. The important thing to realise is that the price for protection is always paid by someone. I beg members of the Opposition, particularly the diehards, to realise this. As we know, there are a lot of bright younger members on the Opposition side who see things in more realistic terms. Let me give a clear example that was given the other day. There was a tariff duty on shirts and in the Tariff Board's Report it was pointed out quite clearly that part of the problem of the shirt industry, that is, of the people who make shirts in Australia, is that they have to pay a high price because of protection on shirt material, and if we make shirt material dear by protecting it at a high rate we make it rauch more difficult for those who make shirts to compete with the shirts that come from overseas. So do not let us argue about it being just a question of creating employment. I emphasise that we will get employment in some industries but the employment in these industries is bought at the cost of employment in other industries. I do beg the Opposition to realise this as an economic fact. There is a price to be paid for protection. In many cases it is worth while, it is a justifiable  cost.  But do not ignore the cost in economic terms, and do not ignore the effect of the cost on export industries which must be able to produce the exports a developing economy demands. This is a price that has to be weighed in the balance, but what must be chiefly considered is the cost of employment that is jeopardised in the industries which are effected by the high cost of their raw materials. 
When I started on this exercise 10 or more years ago, criticising and worrying about the high rate of protection, it used to be mainly the farmers and exporters, but principally those in the rural sector, who would support me. But now the people who come most frequently say: 'Will you please look at the effect of the tariff on the cost of our raw materials?' I do wish the Opposition would see it in these terms. There is no such thing as a free meal in tariff protection nor in any other walk of life and the price for high protection has always to be paid by other industries and at the cost of employment in other industries. 
When we come to discuss this matter again I hope we will not get this rather - I was about to say 'infantile' but that is too strong a word - primitive idea that we are discussing employment as against unemployment. We are discussing the question where Australia's resources could be better used, whether we could put more of our limited resources into one area rather than another, and the whole judgment is made to my mind on where we create the most worthwhile employment. I beg the Opposition, particularly the diehards in the Opposition, to realise that it is not just a matter of arguing whether people will be put out of employment in a factory. It is a question of deciding where we can get the most employment out of the economy. If we look at it in that light we will get a higher standard of living all round and more worthwhile employment. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is the Minister aware of a campaign to debase the reputation of the Tariff Board on the ground that the Board is employing consultants on a part-time basis? Does not the Minister's own Department employ consultants on a part-time basis as the need arises? Is the Minister aware that the organisation leading this campaign is none other than the Australian Industries Development Association which itself energetically sponsored the idea of part-time membership of the Tariff Board a year or two ago? Can it be that AIDA believes that the employment of part-time people in the Tariff Board area is acceptable only if AIDA has a considerable say as to who is appointed in a part-time capacity. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. Is the Minister aware that galahs are a pest in many parts of Australia and that in this situation farmers are allowed to wring the necks of these birds, if they can catch them? Is the Minister's Department responsible for enforcing the regulations which prevent the export of galahs to other countries? Are those regulations based only on a desire to be kind to galahs? Looking at it from the point of view of the galahs, does the Minister think that they would prefer to have their necks wrung or to be exported in gilded cages on padded perches in luxurious aeroplanes? 
Before the suspension of the sitting the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  was spelling out the fact that he did not think the money ought to be paid in the form of a deficiency payment to wool growers because it would be grabbed by the money lender. I was interested in this point of view, particularly as he ended his speech with a stirring appeal to the Government to do all it could to prevent a run on the banks, as he called it - panic stations in the industry - which would mean that credit would he quickly withdrawn from the industry. One has to only put those 2 propositions down clearly side by side to see that they are obviously self contradictory. I can think of no quicker way to lead to a run on credit in the industry than to say that the industry is not obliged to take all proper steps to repay debts when incurred. Let us take this a little further. The honourable member put up the proposition that rural industry should not have to pay debts to big companies or overseas companies. Those 2 groups were mentioned particularly. 
I am interested to see whether this is to be Labor Party policy in the future because if it is, it represents a very important and serious departure from the beliefs that the Labor Party used to hold in Chifley's day. Speaking for myself as a wool grower, I have an old fashioned belief  -  I am glad to say most of my fellow wool growers have it too - that if I promise to repay a debt I take all proper steps to repay it when I can. If this money comes into the wool growers' possession and they are not expected to repay their debts, and if the Labor Party does not ask them to repay their debts, I think this is a very grave departure from the position as we used to know it. In legislation similar to this the point is usually made that we should not pay a subsidy to the big growers. I know the Labor Party did not put this forward but it is commonly put forward in the industry. That is pretty popular political stuff because there are, as you would know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  far more small 'growers than big growers, and so to kick the big growers makes one popular with the small growers. So it is, I suppose, politically attractive. Of course, when one looks at it closely it becomes nonsense. 
One of the basic facts of life - I hope the honourable member for Dawson realises it - is that wool branding stencils are cheap. One of the easiest things I know is to split a clip. If we are to limit the subsidy to 35 bales the way is wide open for that to be done, lt would not be done by the electors of Wakefield and perhaps not by the electors of Canning, as you would know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but other growers all over Australia would have a very real temptation to split their clip. We have an open door for private selling so we could have 35 bales going out to the broker, another 10 bales going to the private buyer when he came one day and another 5 bales a week later. It just makes nonsense of the proposal. It may be a politically attractive idea, but the only problem is that one could not make it work. Otherwise it would be all right. I know that the Labor Party has not put it up on this occasion but it has been put up frequently before that the chap who has a lot of cattle and a few sheep - this is if the subsidy is to go to the small grower - and Ls really making money, will get the full subsidy for his wool. 
When one puts it like that people say: Oh, well, we do not really mean that'. The chief problem is that this will encourage the grower to be small when he really ought to be bigger. When it is spelt out clearly like this everybody can see that it is a silly idea and the Labor Party wisely turned from it. Now the Labor Party says that there will be a means test, but what is really meant, is that a person will get the subsidy only if he is poor. There is known to be a minority of wool growers - I have none of these people in the electorate of Wakefield - who do not work very hard and spend a lot of time in the pub. They are the ones who will get help under this scheme. The harder a chap works, the better he is at his job, the less he gets. Is that the way it is to work? I can see no other way. 
If a man gets it only if he is poor - one way a man becomes poor is to stay in the put) - then 1 say that it is a direct encouragement to the bad farmer. Is this nonsense or not? This is the way it will work. 
The honourable member for Dawson went on to talk about acquisition. He ought to be careful to spell out his terms. What did he mean by 'acquisition'? There are 2 basic kinds of acquisition. One is acquisition of the whole clip to be sold by auction, and the other is generally regarded as compulsory acquisition but with the wool to be sold by the Commission in the position of a strong seller. 
Nomination of prices and so on. They are the 2 kinds. I have no philosophical difficulty in accepting acquisition. I have only one stipulation - before anybody takes away my right to sell my wool where I want to sell it I have to be asked. There has to be a referendum. I do not think anyone would disagree with that as a proper philosophy and a proper way to tackle the problem. So we have to be asked. That is the only philosophical question I have about acquisition. 
But let us look at the effects of the 2 kinds of acquisition that are put forward. Firstly, there is acquisition and then auction sale. There will be some advantages in this. There will be economies of scale that come through a big organisation handling the whole clip because it will be able to marshal the clip. But immediately one runs into the problem of having an organisation in a large solid lump. It will not then be able to respond quickly to the changes that we know the industry has to make in the future. That is my own opinion. I think there has to be competition to get the industry to change practices to meet the changing situation. A clear illustration of this is the success of Economic Wool Producers Ltd which set out earlier in literature and now has shown by demonstration that there are better ways of selling. One can sell by core testing, by objective measurement, by tender. We have all been talking about it. Everybody has been paying lip service to it. At last EWP has come forward and shown that it can be done. 
If we had compulsory acquisition we would not have this yeast of EWP or anything of a similar nature working in the industry to bring about the changes to which the honourable member for Dawson so rightly referred. 1 think that with compulsory acquisition the most we could expect would be a very marginal benefit. We would not get any increased demand for wool because it would be sold in the same way, but there might be some economies in handling. We would run the risk of having a monolithic selling structure which I would think, on balance, would be a risk that I would not be prepared to recommend. Then we have acquisition with sale a fixed price; we will nominate the price; we will be a strong seller; we will not sell by auction. The authority will hold the market. This has a great deal of attraction for a lot of people. They quickly illustrate how the Australian Wheat Board has demonstrated that there are benefits in this method of selling, but let us have a look at it. lt is not much good holding stocks of wool and demanding a certain price and that the buyer will have to pay 35c per lb and will not be able to buy wool under that price. I do not know but 1 think the buyers are very likely to say: Thank you very much but we can go around the corner buy from either another country or from a synthetic source'. 
One of the basic differences between the wheat industry and the wool industry, besides the numbers of classes, is that wheat is buttressed by the International Grains Arrangement. There is also an international agreement relating to sugar. The price for wheat can be maintained far better. But if we try to sell wool as we sell wheat without any such international arrangement other countries will undersell us. While we are saying that the minimum price for our wool will be 35c per lb the Argentinians may come in and start selling wool at 30c per lb and we will be really in a mess. I know that acquisition is the popular plea nowadays. I know that in a time such as this there is a tendency for the farming community to chase after every marketing hare that jumps up. I know that if I wanted to get votes now - I hope the honourable member for Dawson will listen to this - I would recommend acquisition; but I think we have to ask ourselves whether it is wise. 
We have done too many things in this place - I take part of the blame - because of a feeling that we must do something because industry is asking for it. These times have passed. The position in the wool industry is so desperate that the next step we take must be wise even if it is unpopular. I say categorically that anybody who says that he knows that acquisition will solve the industry's problems is either very brave or very foolish, because no-one knows what will solve the problems. Some of us think that a solution can be achieved one way; some of us think it can be achieved in other ways. I will come back to the importance of being right later on. But do not let us kid ourselves. Chiefly, let us not kid the industry that acquisition is automatically the cure. 
I come back to the Bill. Let us call the deficiency payments a subsidy and be frank about it. No-one is opposing the fact that the subsidy should be paid. It is justified this year. It is probably only justified, I will admit, because we have left it rather too late, as we usually do. But it is introduced at a time when we have to do something, and this is what we have done. There is no doubt about the need for it. It is quite clearly demonstrated. There is also no doubt that if the subsidy is continued for too long it will harm the industry in the end. It will discourage change. It will stop people like myself from changing over to other ways of using their land. I know that it is not easy to find other ways of using land but I also know that if we accept the fact that there is no other use for our land that is indeed the kiss of death. There are other ways we can use our land. 
A subsidy that is continued for a long time will destroy the incentive to change. A short term subsidy is acceptable and desirable, but I beg the House, the industry and the Government to realise that this legislation will cease to have effect at the end of this financial year and between now and then we have a very short time in which to really think about what we are going to do. We know in our hearts that if we continue this method of subsidy payment indefinitely we will damage the industry in the end, and none of us wants that, Maybe we will have to extend the subsidy for one more year but we know that if we continue it for too long we will damage the industry. 
Let us look at the opportunity that presents itself. We are spending under this Bill about $100m. I do not know the exact amount. No-one seems to know, and of course we cannot tell because we do not know what wool prices will be. But let us say we are spending $150m all told. We have a unique opportunity to work out ways of spending the same amount of money to do far more good. I am sure that the Government will continue to be generous about the way it treats the industry, but it is more important to be wise than it is to be generous. We have a duty as a House not to pick at one another across the table but to get down and work out ways of spending this amount of money wisely because if we do not, we will damage the industry in the end. 
I do not have any easy solution to offer, and I am not holding myself up as an authority; but there are lots of things I would like looked at not because I know they are going to work but because I think they should be examined. I know that a lot of other honourable members with more knowledge than I have will come up with their own ideas also. But for the sake of the industry as well as for the sake of the Australian economy let us bend our will to working out ways of using $150m wisely to help the industry. 
What are some of the things I think should be looked at? I have been saying frequently that I can see no real part for semi-processing of wool because freight charges would go up and sometimes trade barriers would be put in your way. But I am beginning to change my mind on that. I think that if we were employing modern machinery in a big processing plant there would seem to be opportunities for economies of scale that may help us to put wool on the market in a more attractive form. There is the obvious exploration of the benefits and methods of core testing. Everybody will speak about that. All I say is that this is another course we should examine with all vigour. One of the really exciting prospects is the possibility of mechanical shearing. When I came into Parliament I think the proportion of my clip that went to pay shearing and selling expenses was about 7 per cent. I think this year the proportion will be 18 per cent. This proportion that goes into the labour intensive shearing process will become an increasing burden unless we can beat this cost and think of other ways of doing the shearing. If we cannot it will put us out of business. 
Very promising processes are opening up. I am not saying that I know they will work. I am saying that we should be looking at them with great care. 1 think we should be looking too at the benefits which would follow the use of long term credit for helping wool sales. I think that perhaps - I cannot categorically say that I know - there are opportunities for selling wool by methods other than auction. Selling woo) by auction will be a thing of the past before long. It will be sold by other means. We may have a system of agents going round the country and setting it as the fibre makers sell their products. Some of these things offer opportunities; all of them offer a challenge. I hope that the industry in particular and this House will, with a real urgency, try to work out ways to help the industry without hurting it. 
This brings me back to an old hobby horse of mine. I have always pressed for the establishment of a rural industries board that could do for the rural sector what the Tariff Board does for the secondary industry sector. It could examine matters publicly, hear sworn public evidence, make a public report and give the Government economic advice on which it makes political decisions. It seems so sensible to me that we should plan carefully to assist rural industry. Our record of government help to the rural sector has not been good. It is not easy to help an industry wisely and in a popular way. I look with considerable suspicion at any honourable member from a rural electorate who claims his people regard him with great affection because, if that is true, usually he is not telling them the truth. We have a pre-eminent responsibility as a House, as a Government and as an industry to get down to the bare bones of our problem. We should not be slinging off at one another across the Chamber. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I raise the question of the continued viability of the organisation, the Economic Wool Producers Ltd. I am seeking an assurance from the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  about the particular selling methods which this remarkable organisation is instituting. I was glad to hear you,  Mr Corbett,  refer to this organisation so glowingly in your speech. I think that there is a new yeast working in the industry and I pay tribute to the leadership given by the EWP which is proving that the new methods about which we nave been so anxious and so vocal are indeed possible. The position seems to be that the Economic Wool Producers are now selling by sealed bid or by tender. It is difficult for the layman to understand why prices received by this method are not regarded as similar to prices bid at auctions. I understand that there are difficulties in the tender price being recognised as equivalent to an auction price and that this is due to a legal limitation under the Wool Commission Act. I believe that this was an administrative decision which was made by the Wool Commission in conformity with the Wool Commission Act. However, it does seem that the EWP will suffer an advantage because the tender price will not be regarded as being equivalent to the auction price as received in the ordinary broker's sale. 
I want 2 particular reassurances from the Minister. The first is that if the wool is valued by the Commission under the EWP tender selling system, will he assure me that it will be valued as presented? This is much more important than most people realise as I am certain that one of the biggest cost savings will come because we will be able to do away with much of the classing that we used to think desirable. Core testing is an objective measurement and there is a very real expectation that a well bred clip can be treated in an unclassed form. I want an assurance from the Minister that. When the wool is sold under the tender system, it will be valued by the Wool Commission valuers as presented. It would be quite unjust under this new system of selling if the wool were valued as a bulk class lot as would be done if it had not been effectively core tested. The Minister is well aware of my anxiety on this matter. All I want is an assurance from him that the Wool Commission valuation, which unfortunately will be necessary under the tender system of selling, will be done on the wool as presented and the wool will not be valued  as  a bulk class lot as is done under the usual method of presentation without core testing. 
The second reassurance I want from the Minister is that if the EWP do go to auction, and this may be forced upon them - I know that they would be sorry, as I think we would all be, to return to selling wool in this way - they will be regarded as being on all fours with the auction system as conducted by wool brokers. These 2 points are important technically to an organisation which is, I repeat, showing the way by the adoption of methods which show possibilities and the real hope that wool growers can cut some of the selling costs that have bedevilled them in the past. Will the Minister, when replying to the various queries he has received, give me an assurance on these 2 points. 
I want to state immediately that T have no solution to the Aboriginal problem; nor am I at all critical of those who are anxious for more to be done for Aboriginals. I would like to point out that there are considerable numbers of Aboriginal people in my electorate. I would be the first to admit that I know very little about the proper solution '.o the Aboriginal problem. I have found to my surprise that ignorance is usually no barrier to eloquence in this place, but I would say that I am sceptical about many of the things that are put forward as solutions. For instance, I have seen the impact of unlimited supplies of liquor to the Aboriginal population and to me this is devastating. Anybody who pretends that by giving the Aboriginal people equal drinking rights with us we are benefiting them is, I think, ignoring the facts of life. The same can be said in regard to social services. Anybody who thinks that by giving them equal rights in social services with the white people we will automatically improve their position is ignoring the facts of life. 
I repeat that it is easy to be critical of efforts being made to help the Aboriginal population and, as the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  said, it is easier to be generous. To find the means is comparatively easy. The thing that is hard to find is the way in which we can really tackle the problem at the. grass roots level. 
It is easy to make speeches about this; it is easy to supply the money. The fundamental problem is much deeper than this. I have no solution to offer. I hope that this Government will set in train an examination of the problem at the grass roots level. That would be better than having us kicking one another around trying to score political points for one another. That will not help to solve the Aboriginal problem. 
In this speech I want to speak mainly about soil conservation. This matter has suddenly become a popular bandwagon which a great many people are endeavouring to get on. In this field I speak with some knowledge, having been a member of the Soil Conservation Committee in my own State of South Australia for  17  years and having been responsible for and constructed the first contour banks in that State. I feel that I should spell out the kind of problems which I envisage the Government is facing in this field. I recall one day when I was out with another man assisting in the construction of contour banks. An aeroplane flew over us very fast and very high. I said: 'I wonder who is in that?' The chap said; 'I suppose somebody who will tell us how to tackle our problem.' There is a tendency to fly over our problems very fast and very high and to say: 'Let us hand it to the national Government; let us have a national plan,' and then go away. The point I want to make, and what I am begging the House to realise, is that soil conservation is a grass roots problem. It is something that obviously has to be tackled at the grass roots and it can only be tackled in this way. 
Those people who pretend that the Commonwealth can do any more than give a lead in this very vital matter of soil conservation are ignoring the facts of life. We must use State knowledge on this matter. The State departments have worked on the soil in each State and they have done research. The States know their soils. If they do not. they should know. If the Commonwealth has a burning desire to do something in regard to soil conservation 1 would recommend that it look into its own bailiwick, the Northern Territory. Soils in the top end of the Northern Territory . are very erodable types of soil that must be cared for with more than the usual -tender care. The Commonwealth has ' a direct responsibility in this area. If the Commonwealth Government has an overwhelming desire to get into the action I recommend that it should tackle this problem in the Northern Territory at the grass roots level. My main plea to the Government, to the Minister for the Environment  (Mr Howson)  and to the House is that we should not give way to the temptation to make political capital out of such a desperately important subject. 
The other matter I want to refer to as an illustration of this tendency to get on bandwagons in an attempt to extract votes is the Simpson Desert discussion which has been going on recently. About one-third of the Simpson Desert is in my electorate. The people who want to get on this bandwagon should know three or four particular facts. Firstly, there has never been and never could be any intention to sell this land. It has never been sold. This land has always been let out on lease conditions and these conditions are very strictly controlled. It would be a surprise to many people to know that the pruning that comes from wise stocking helps to conserve the vegetation in the area. If honourable members want some confirmation of this I commend them to a study of experiments carried out at Yudnapinna before the last war. The problem is that of wise land usage. To use it, as it was recently, in an attempt to frighten people into apprehending that something awful was to happen to the Simpson Desert is one of the things that destroy the impact on the people who think that conservation is important. 
I think that soil conservation and plant conservation are very important. I make a plea to the House that we should not use this subject of conservation in an attempt to obtain political capital in the way I fear it was used in the Simpson Desert episode. We have a national problem which can be solved by the States taking an interest and an increasing responsibility. It is not good enough for us to use conservation in an attempt to drum up a few votes in an electorate. -  Mr WALLIS  (Grey) (5.33) I would like firstly to endorse the remarks of the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  when speaking of the need for greater Commonwealth involvement in 
Aboriginal affairs. We on this side of the House fully recognise the fact that in 1967. the people by way of referendum gave power to the Commonwealth Government to involve itself in Aboriginal affairs. Anyone who moves around areas where Aborigines are will find that there seems to be a bit of a clash in regard to responsibility, a clash as to who is responsible for providing this and who is responsible for providing that. 1 do not believe that this is a particularly good state of affairs, lt is for this reason that I support fully what the honourable member for Fremantle said in regard to this matter. Anyone who moves around areas with Aboriginal populations will know how much needs to be done. I know that some work is being done now but we still have quite a long way to go before we can say that we have a satisfactory situation. 
In my electorate of Grey I suppose I have a greater number of Aborigines than there are in any other South Australian electorate. Some are most unsophisticated situations, they vary from the highly edu- .cated Aboriginals in the southern part of my electorate to those in the north west Aboriginal reserve who do not have a great deal of contact with the white man. Their only contact is through the mission stations and Government reserves which exist in that area. On a recent visit to that area I was rather shocked by a few things. One was the matter of health. I spoke with a health officer about this. The problem of the health of Aborigines in the north west area reserve is the same as the problem existing just over the border in the Northern Territory. When the figures showing the high mortality rate in the Northern Territory are mentioned, the figures for the area to which 1 am referring just over the border in South Australia should be included because most of the hospitalisation of people in this area is at the Alice Springs Hospital, lt is for this reason that I am gratified that the Federal Government has recognised this problem. I certainly hope that the purchase of the motel in Alice Springs will help to alleviate this problem in this part of the country. 
On the question of health, the South Australian Aboriginal Affairs Department does have health officers moving through this area. Their main job is to point out the various health hazards that arise in various situations. But there is an obvious need for a health education programme - different from the health education given by these officers - under officers who can move through these areas and spend more time helping the Aborigines to overcome the hygiene and health problems that do occur. The present health officers can only go from place to place and give advice on drainage and matters like that, whereas a health education officer can teach the people the way in which they can protect themselves. There is no doubt about the fact that these people have now moved out of their natural environment in many cases. They have moved into missions and Government reserves and are not as before moving from place to place where health hazards did not arise to the same extent as they arise now. Good housing conditions in the settlement are practically non-existent. The former Minister in Charge of Aboriginal Affairs has toured the area and has seen these conditions. Most of the people live in witchas and wurlies made out of spinifex. In their old way of life they would have stayed there for some time and then moved on, not creating a health hazard. But because they are now clustered around these settlements a great health hazard does exist. 
While in that area I spoke to quite a few of the people involved with Aborigines. I was at the Ernabella Mission which is run by the Presbyterian Church. The mission runs a cattle station called Fregon which carries about 1,000 cattle. This provides some work for the Aboriginals. They are quite skilled stockmen and the station is a success and provides meat for the people in the area. It can be said that the Ernabella people are running this successfully and by doing so are providing something for the Aborigines to do. Other than work around the missions and Aboriginal reserves and on cattle stations there is no work available for them. This does create problems. I have received a letter from the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  today. It states that because these people do not have a work record they cannot receive unemployment benefits. Because of the low wages that are paid throughout the area I get the feeling sometimes that there is encouragement for these people not to apply for unemployment benefits since the unemployment benefits they would receive would be as much as they would receive in wages if they were working. 
I made some observations in this area. I noticed in other areas where Aborigines are that there is a great need for preschool kindergartens. We are all aware that even in an area like Port Augusta where there are quite a number of educated and sophisticated Aborigines, most Aboriginal children because of their background and their parents lack of education start off at school behind white children. The preschool kindergarten has a special function for Aboriginals. Through the well trained staff at such schools it would be possible to involve the mothers and by doing this the mothers would learn something as well as the children. By the time the children got to school age they would have a chance of absorbing an education. 1 know of a preschool kindergarten at Port Lincoln which is run by the Save the Children Fund at which they involve the mothers in preschool activities. I was speaking to the woman running this pre-school and she said it has certainly been of great benefit. 
I would like to move further south to the Port Augusta area and deal with the Aborigines in the southern part of my electorate. In this area they come in contact with white people more than they do in the north. Probably there are a lot more job opportunities available for them. There are many more educational opportunities. It is pleasing to see in Port Augusta that there are now up to 1.00 children attending secondary school when a few years ago there were no children attending high school. But the problems arise when these children leave secondary school because in many cases there are no jobs for them. There would be very few apprenticeships available and very few girls would find work in the shops in the town. Once they leave school there is a gap. They can usually get adult employment on the railways, but there is a gap from the time they leave school till the time they reach adulthood and can move out into employment. This can create lots of problems. It can happen anywhere. Wherever there is a group of young people unemployed we find social problems arising. Housing is a big problem in the southern areas. The Housing Trust of South Australia does allocate so many houses to Aboriginals but when we look at the figures given by the Minister a few weeks ago in his second reading speech on another Bill we find that, although Port Augusta has an Aboriginal population varying between 500 and 600, in the list of towns where housing is supplied in South Australia there are no Commonwealth houses at Port Augusta. From memory I do not think there were any provided by the Commonwealth last year. Whether the Housing Trust of South Australia has to provide all the houses I do not know, but this indicates a failure in the Commonwealth Government's provision of Aboriginal housing. 
One also finds that where there is work there is usually no housing. For instance, Whyalla is an expanding town and there is a demand for labour but there is very little housing available for Aborigines. This is one area at which the Commonwealth could look to see in what way it can assist the South Australian Government. It should consider Whyalla from the point of view of providing hostel-like accommodation so that people could obtain employment in Whyalla while stopping in such accommodation until they were allocated a house by the Housing Trust. In this way we would make possible a lot more employment for Aborigines in Whyalla. The same situation applies on the west coast of South Australia where there is a decline in jobs in the rural industries. There is not nearly enough work for Aborigines and this means that they are drifting more towards towns like Port Augusta and Whyalla and this again creates unemployment problems. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Primary and Pre-schools at Bradshaw (Alice Springs) and Nakara (Darwin),. Northern Territory. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. As  Sir Leslie  Melville, the official Government arbiter on oil industry terms and conditions in relation to refiners, has ruled that 15. 25c a gallon ex refinery is a fair price to be paid for premium petrol by the independent marketers, may we assume that this is a fair price for the big oil companies to charge? The addition of the excise would bring this price to 32.55c. Does the retail price for premium petrol, which ranges between 48.1c and 49.8c a gallon, giving a margin of approximately 17c, seem unnecessarily high? Is the Government considering referring this matter to the Commissioner of Trade Practices or, better still, to a royal commission? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Central Zone Sewerage Scheme at Darwin, Northern Territory. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
This is a queer kind of debate. We have arranged to have a cognate debate on 2 matters dealing with the Budget, a Customs Tariff Bill dealing with tariff simplification and another dealing with 11 matters of tariff alteration. As the House would expect, 1 am going to deal with the general question of Customs Tariff Bill (No. 3) which lists the alterations to 11 particular matters. The queer thing is that this deals with all the matters that were introduced up to 18th August. Evidently we have to wait until next year before we debate the customs tariff proposals that have been introduced since then. I have been most refreshed by the way that the present Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  has gone out of his way to make tariff alterations and debates in this place more interesting and easy to follow, but I think that this arrangement is a departure from the high standard that he has set for himself. 
I want to deal particularly with the general policy which lies behind Customs Tariff Bill (No. 3) which deals with the alterations to the 1 1 items. I am glad to be able to state that it is obvious that Australia is moving gradually towards a more responsible tariff protection policy. Gradually we are bringing our tariffs more into line with the economic facts of life. What are the reasons for this gradual progression in this way? The first is that we are now an industrialised economy. It is generally recognised that we are the most urbanised country in the world. However, it is not so well recognised that we are more industrialised than the United States of America. In other words, we have a greater percentage of our work force employed in secondary industry than has the United Stales of America. In the past, lavish tariff protection for particular products has been justified by the infant industry argument. The infant economy argument has also been used. We have to become industrialised. 
The point is that we are an industrialised country and we ought to recognise ourselves as such. Because we are realising that we are an industrialised country there is a movement towards a more responsible tariff protection policy. The second thing that has helped in this movement is that we are becoming increasingly mature, particularly in the industrial sector. Industrialists, as they travel around the world, realise that the old policy, almost one of protection of everything that moved, that they used to advocate in the past, is not good enough for the world in which we live. One of the big reasons for the change is that in Australia an increasing proportion of our exports is being supplied by secondary industry. The secondary industries are becoming acutely aware of the high cost burdens that unwise tariff protection place on their ability to export. I could give many examples of this. I have often said in this House that the support I used to get solely from the primary industry sector has been followed by quite solid support - not so much vocal support, but very refreshing and solid support - from the secondary industries which know that their chance to expand their production comes from their ability to export. This was borne out in quite a surprising way on 20th July in an interview with  Sir Ian  McLennan, the  Chairman  of Directors of Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd who is, of course, not unknown in industrial circles. He and another person were interviewed about what had taken place in the defence committee with which  Sir Ian  was working. Both of them mentioned how grievous was the burden that high tariffs placed on the raw materials that were being used in industry. He said: 
I was staggered at the disadvantage which plastics are under because of the tariffs. 
This is the kind of thing that I have been pointing out in this House for a long while. The tariffs on basic raw materials are a grievous burden on the plastics industry. Another reason why we are going to change our tariff policy is that rural exporters are no longer able to carry the high costs of unduly high tariff protection. 
Not only does this apply to direct costs of things like agricultural chemicals and anything that the farmer buys directly but also it applies in another way. This was brought out in a statement by  Mr Peter  Roberts, the  President  of the United Graziers' Association of Queensland. When speaking about the duty on shirts he said: 
It should be understood that shirts are an item in the 'C series index which is involved in annual national wage claims. Surely it must be recognised that wage inflation derives much of its impetus from protection of this nature. 
So there are 2 costs that the rural sector has been asked to bear. The first are the direct costs of which we all know and about which it is easy to make the farmers angry. The second are the indirect costs that come about by heavily protecting such items as sheets and shirts. I am certain that I speak for my colleagues in the Australian Country Party when I say that those of us in the rural sector are acutely aware of the cost of the tariff and how bitterly it is resented by those rural producers who produce for export. We used to think that the sheep could carry any increased load, but the sheep has a job to carry its own load, let alone anybody else's. There must be a change. 
It is worth pointing out that the subsidy everybody is crying about that the rural sector is getting - everybody makes speeches about how well the farmer is treated - is not so much as it looks. The Tariff Board's figures show that $2,700in is available in subsidies to secondary industry. Let us say it is only $2, 000m annually that is actually used, but this is a subsidy by the consumer and it looks large alongside the subsidy that goes to Australian primary industry. Let us put it in specific terms. The Tariff Board recently brought down a report dealing with woven and knitted shirts and outer garments. The Tariff Board then measured the consumer subsidy and it came to $45m as an annual subsidy for the shirt industry. This works out at $2,000 for every man employed in the industry. Even with the increased rate of subsidy to, say, the wool industry it is still twice as much as wool growers are getting. So there will be a change here. 
Another reason why there will be change is that the mineral industry is going to speak with a very loud and clear voice. It also has to live by exports and it also has to carry the burden of unnecessarily high tariff protection. Another reason for change is that we are now becoming more aware of the impact of the restrictions on the channels of world trade in general.  Sir Alan  Westerman has mentioned this. On the radio this morning I heard him say that we have to trade with other people if they are going to trade with us. lt is interesting to realise that the other day the Australian Council of Trade Unions stated that we ought to be particularly severe - I think 1 am quoting it correctly - on tariffs to protect against imports from South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Japan. Today I received figures from the Parliamentary Library which show that we now import from these countries half as much as we export to them. What kind of a world trade system are we going to get if other countries buy from us twice as much as we buy from them? Are we going to move in and say: 'We are not going to deal with you.' How can we do that kind of thing when the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade specifically and rightly forbids giving particular preferences to particular areas? A noticeable omission from this ACTU statement which related to cheap labour countries was a reference to imports from China. 
Another reason why we will change is that we as a nation - I am glad to see this - are concerned about the widening gap between the developed and underdeveloped countries. This came out in an interesting way in the Australia wide concern about aid for Pakistan. We are becoming acutely aware that unless we can close the gap it will bring civilisation down. Yet we all know, and everybody admits it, that in the long term trade is indeed more important than aid. Everybody recognises this. Everybody knows that this is the only healthy long term way to help get these countries off the ground and make themselves self supporting. Some years ago I was in Bombay and had an opportunity one morning to see a factory that was processing Australian skim milk powder with Australian machinery given under the Colombo Plan. I said: 'Are you having any problems?' They said:  'Mr Kelly,  we have only one and that is that we cannot buy skim milk powder.' At that time we were overburdened with skim milk powder and I said: 'Why can't you buy it?' They said: 'We cannot get the foreign exchange.' That afternoon I went to the Bombay dyeing factory to have a look at one of the best textile factories I have seen in operation. I said: 'How are you going? Have you any problems?' They said: 'Only one. We cannot export our sheets to Australia because you have just put a 55 per cent duty on them.' This brings home the point that if we want to help them by trading with them we have to buy from them as well as sell them things. 
This brings me to something that the honourable member tor Lalor fDr J. F.Cairns) said in the House on 3rd November. He said: 
The modern Australia with a gross national product of over $30,000ni. with nearly J 3 million people, can buy vastly more from the under developed world than an under developed Australia would be able to buy. 
This may be true, but we have to start buying from them. It is a bit like saying to a miser: 'lt is all right being a miser because when you die the money is going to your kids, but you have to die first.' We have a responsibility and it is not just a responsibility to pass money over, lt is a responsibility to trade with other countries. Education is another reason why things will change. One finds it in this House The people who speak and carry the banner for really high protection are perhaps the older ones like me. One does not find the young, well educated Labor people coming in and supporting the idea of protection at any price. There is going to be a change because people who are educated do not swallow the old argument that we need to have tariffs to create employment. We know that the employment so gained may be dearly bought. Educated people would be acutely aware thai the employment so gained is frequently at a cost to other industries. We used to be able to convince this House of that but now we cannot. Not many people take much notice. We are at last becoming acutely aware that unwise tariff protection leads to misallocation of resources. One of the reasons why Australia's productivity growth has been so lamentably low is that we have devoted a lot of our resources to doing things we are not good at. We could grow bananas at the South Pole as the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  once instanced in this House. But this is a misallocation of resources and one of the reasons why our productivity is so low is that we will mrsist in trying to do too much instead of concentrating on the things we are good at. 
An argument we used to hear frequently, and still do, about immigration was that we must have an immigration programme so we will have people to do our work. We still hear the same speeches by the same persons who say we need to have a heavily protected industry so that we can provide employment for our migrants. We are growing up and beginning to realise that this kind of thing is economic nonsense. Another reason for change is that the performance of the Tariff Board over the years has shown a gradual and steady increase in competence and, because of that there has been an increase in the Board's reputation. The Tariff Board now has the ability to make the measurements that must be made and 1 am very interested to see that the Government has certainly not put any barriers in the way of it having the ability to do this. I think it is vital that we make economic measurements. 
I have been critical in the past of a statement made by a previous Minister for Trade and Industry that the Tariff Board had to keep within its sights statements made from time to time by Cabinet Ministers. The honourable member for Lalor in his speech the other day said that we must tell the Tariff Board pretty clearly that it has to take these kinds of things into account. What he was talking about was non-economic matters - social matters. We must have a tariff board system to give independent economic advice, and having received the economic advice the Government then takes political decisions. But we cannot ask the Tariff Board to make decisions other than economic ones, lt must confine itself to that so that the Govern ment gets clear economic advice and makes decisions thereon. These are the reasons why I think there is going to be a change but I would not like to think it will be easy all the way. 
We have had some special pleadings from industries that may have been disadvantaged and this is one of the things against which we have to be on our guard. As an example I instance the recent Special Advisory Report on woven manmade fabrics. This is a clear example of how the system has worked to steady down this inevitable, if slow, progression. This was a queer case. It was quite obvious from looking at the figures that the reason why the production of woven man-made fabrics had fallen in Australia was that people were buying garments of knitted man-made fibres. But looking at the figures it could be seen that the use of yarn had increased over this period rather than decreased. It was obvious that the demand had switched from woven man-made fibre fabrics to knitted man-made fibre fabrics. In spite of this the industry went !o the Tariff Board saying it wanted protection for its products but really seeking protection for its profits. What happened was this: Within a week or two of the Special Advisory Authority taking action prices went up by about the same amount as the increase in the tariff. This- was an exercise in profit protection. This was an abuse of the system of emergency protection and it is something which slows down the proper progression of Australia along the line towards a more responsible and more worth while system of tariff protection. We are getting there, but it is not easy. There will be a lot of special pleading on the way, and a lot of people will beat old drums. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Division of Wakefield respectfully sheweth: 
Thai the determination as to which young men are required to undergo compulsory, military service under the National Service Act 1951-1968 is arrived at by a ballot system, based upon arbritary grounds as to their date of birth. 
And that this procedure providing for selection by a method of chance is an unfair and arbitrary imposition on the human rights of a minority and discriminates against certain of the young male persons in the community in favour of others solely by reason of their respective dates of birth. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that Section Twenty-six of the National Service Act 1951-1968 be repealed. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Does the PostmasterGeneral realise that with the introduction of daylight saving time in South Australia the 6.30 p.m. radio news and the 7 p.m. television news come on at what appears to be the middle of the afternoon to farmers, most of whom are out in the field wringing a reluctant living from the land? Will the Minister ask the Australian Broadcasting Commission to programme these sessions at a later hour of the day? 
My question, which I direct to the Acting Minister for Trade and Industry, is supplementary to the one asked yesterday by the honourable member for Wentworth. Is the Minister aware that the effective rate of protection on cars is in excess of 60 per cent? Does he know that the increased cost of utilities and cars caused by this protection is bitterly resented in the bush where these vehicles are essential tools of trade? Will the Minister assure me that the study which the Government is conducting will include a full Tariff Board inquiry so that the disadvantages as well as the advantages of this already high protection can be properly weighed? 
Is the Acting Minister for Primary Industry aware that many soldier settlers on Kangaroo Island are shearing their neighbours' sheep in order to get badly needed money? Is he also aware that the Australian Workers Union has declared black the wool shorn by these men if they are not members of the Union, which means that the settlers affected are facing grievous financial problems? If this dictatorial attitude brings about the bankruptcy of these soldier settlers, will the Minister assure me that he will treat their case with exceptional sympathy? Does the Minister realise that this kind of cruel and vindictive action on the pari of the Union makes the name of unionism hated throughout the countryside when it ought to be respected? 
The Postmaster-General will be aware of the excellent reputation of the Australian Broadcasting Commission's television programme 'Monday Conference' which is compered by Robert Moore. The reputation of this programme was enhanced again last Monday night, ls the Minister aware that another excellent edition of the same programme last week featured Professor Ogg, an eminent American agricultural economist? Will the Minister circulate to honourable members the text of this interview and also the text of Professor Ogg's talk on the 'Guest of Honour' radio programme last Sunday night so that we may have the benefit of his considerable experience? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969. I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Stage 2 Development Works at HMAS Nirimba. Quakers Hill, New South Wales. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. As Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd is proud of the fact- (Opposition members interjecting) - 
I present the following  petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of the Division of Wakefield respectfully sheweth: 
That the determination as to which young men are required to undergo compulsory military service under the National Service Act 1951-1968 is arrived at by a ballot system, based upon the arbitrary grounds as to their date of birth. 
And that this procedure providing for selection by a method of chance is an unfair and arbitrary imposition on the human rights of a minority and discriminates against certain of the young male persons in the community in favour of others solely by reason of their respective dates of birth. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that section twenty-six of the National Service Act 1951- 1968 be repealed. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Central Hospital Services Complex - Stage 1 at Canberra, Australian Capital Territory; 
Anula and Wulagi neighbourhoods, Sanderson district, Darwin, Northern Territory; 
Sewerage system at Katherine, Northern Territoy; 
Road to East Alligator River area, Northern Territory. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
Since the present Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  has been in charge of tariff matters in this House things have gone much more smoothly. I should like again to compliment him on the trouble to which he goes in trying to make individual members understand this very difficult subject. We have always hoped that one day we would have tariff debates that are worthy of the importance of the subject, as the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has said. I think that the honourable member for Lalor was quite correct in tackling this question in the way he did. He talked about general principles in the second reading debate. He will make a more intimate examination of the tariff proposals and the Tariff Board reports which back those proposals later on. I also want to follow that course; I want to examine some of the principles which lie behind our policy and methods of protection. 
I am not a free trader. Often I have had to point that out to the House. I am a firm believer in a wise tariff policy. One of the qualities of wisdom in protection, I think, is that we should not over-protect. If we over-protect an industry, in many cases it imposes extra costs on and reduces employment in that industry. On many occasions in this House I have given illustrations of over-protection and of the results which follow quickly after such protection is given. I have referred to the chemical industry, stationary engines and so on. In this instance 1 want to deal with a specific case to indicate how overprotection in the past has imposed and is imposing continual burdens on the community. I want to refer to the motor car industry as an example of the way in which protection should not be handled. Away back in 1966 I made a speech in this House when the Government brought into effect its 1964 component plan for the motor car industry. I said then that an inevitable result of the Government's plan was that Volkswagen Australia Pty Ltd would be driven out of the industry and that the position of the British Motor Corporation of Australia PLy Ltd, as it was then, would be very greatly jeopardised. One did not have to have an economics degree to work that out. 
The only way in which one can get economic manufacture in the car industry is to produce a lot of cars. There must be a large volume of production to carry the cost of tooling and so on. At that time the Australian market was approximately 400,000 cars a year, and when one remembers that at that time Genera] MotorsHoldens' Pty Ltd had the lion's share of the Australian market, it was obvious that there was not sufficient market to enable the other manufacturers to get the throughput to give them economic production. I said then it was inevitable that Volkswagen would have to bow out, as indeed it did soon afterwards. Now the Government is introducing another plan for the motor car industry and the same problems are looming. I will not describe the Government's plans in detail, but in summary the idea is to force manufacturers to use a greater percentage of Australian content. 
What will happen now? First, the very high cost of protection for the Australian motor car industry will continue, if not increase. The average effective rate of the present protection is 67 per cent. The subsidy equivalent of this - that is the subsidy that the consumer pays - is $300m a year. That is not my figure; it was supplied to me by the research section of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library. This imposes an immediate extra cost of $600 for an average car. By the time there is added the sales tax on the duty and then the dealer's mark-up on the duty, the extra cost is getting close to $1,000. So the burden at present is heavy enough, goodness knows. My constituents are acutely aware of this and they have always resented the heaviness of the burden. No-one has ever told them how much this burden is, but now they will know - it is $300m a year, and it is all paid in the end by the exporters. I do not pretend to know exactly what will be the impact of this new plan, but one thing is certain, the burden will not be less. 
Of course, the trouble in the motor car industry is simply a question of throughput. We now appear to have a market for approximately 500,000 cars - perhaps it is a little greater when one takes exports into consideration. In 1970 there were registered, in round figures, 162,000 new GMH cars, 92,000 Ford cars, 42,000 Chrysler cars and 32,000 BLMC cars. It sticks out a mile that the manufacturers of the last 2 groups of cars mentioned cannot be economic while the first 2 remain so. On the other hand, in the United States of America there are 3 groups of car manufacturers to supply a local market of 8.2 million cars, plus export!! - approximately 10 million cars altogether. In Japan there are 9 car manufacturers to supply a market of 6.5 million cars. We have a market for approximately 500,000 cars divided between 4 manufacturers, and now the new plan is designed to force others to enter the field. 
The high cost of protection for the motor car industry is due only to the frantic efforts in the past to over-protect the Australian car industry. The truth is that if we had only one manufacturer of cars in Australia we would hardly need to protect it at all. We would have volume of production which would allow economic production. After all, we are proud of the fact that we have very good workmen in Australia. We are also proud of the fact that our steel prices are as low as any in the world. We also have a 15 per cent protection in the form of freight against cars imported from the United States. If we would only allow the Australian motor car industry to grow naturally we would have many more people engaged in making cars because we would be in a much more competitive position with respect to imported cars. We would need very low duty on imported cars. The fact that cars could be imported over a very low tariff wall would keep the one or two manufacturers honest. 
Prices would not be able to rise because of the effective competition. If we had a more economic industry we would be able to do something better for the process workers. The behaviour of the unions with their silly demarcation disputes has been bad, but the lot of the unskilled process worker is not pleasant. However, there are real barriers under the present set-up to increasing his pay. If the present cost of manufacture rises you come up hard against competition of the built up cars coming in over the 45 per cent nominal tariff wall. To put it up higher would impose a crushing burden on the car user and deal a devastating blow to our international trading arrangements. It is clear that only by having a more economic car industry have we any real hope of increasing the number of workers in the industry and of paying them more. 
The whole object of the Government's plan seems to be to provide a comfortable feather bed for the Australian component manufacturers. They are not doing badly now. The bottom third averaged in 1969- 70 a return of funds of 11 per cent and the top third averaged 23 per cent. It is worth noting thai on 23rd February last Repco, the biggest component manufacturer of them all, announced a 13.2 per cent increase in profit, showing a profit of $4.337m for the half year and a 44 per cent increase in sales of original equipment. This will enable the usual 16 per cent dividend to be comfortably continued. Surely wc can learn from the experience of other countries. Sweden has a population of  8  million and protects her car industry hardly at all. She his 2 car manufacturers, both Swedish owned. Let us see what happens when natural forces are allowed to guide development. Volvo, the bigger manufacturer, has a local component of about 65 per cent and buys its components where it likes, from the cheapest source. A combination of having only 2 manufacturers and of buying the cheapest components enables the Swedish car industry to supply about 40 per cent of the Swedish market.  1  ask honourable members to heed what comes next. Here comes the important part of the saga in the process of natural development. Because Sweden concentrates on economic development it exports all over the world. Volvo, the bigger manufacturer, exports 75 per cent of the cars it makes. Adding SAAB, both manufacturers export 57 per cent of the cars manufactured in Sweden. Volvo exports about $700m worth of cars a year. Australia's total exports of all our secondary industries are very close t£&gt; that figure - a little more than $700m. On the other hand, we pay a subsidy to our car manufacturers of $300m. Swedish wages are close to ours. Our iron and steel costs are close together, yet we have to support our industry al an extra cost of $300m a year while Volvo exports $700m worth of cars a year. In spite of the lavish protection we hand out to our car industry imports continue to increase from  8  per cent to 13 per cent since 1967, and that over a 45 per cent tariff wall. Now we are to continue the sad story by forcing a higher percentage of Australian components. We will have fewer people employed in the industry because built up imports will continue to increa.se, because the cost of car manufacture under our present queer system will get even higher. 
It is notable that the first plans in 1964 were put into effect before the Tariff Board report, which I think came in 1966. When it was received, it was largely ignored. On this occasion there has been no pretence of a Tariff Board report at all. It is a Government decision, a Department of Trade and Industry decision. The Gov.erncnt evidently thinks that it knows best, but  1  do not think it does. Surely there is a lesson here to guide us towards a sounder protection policy. It is obvious that too lavish protection encourages uneconomic proliferation of factories with the inevitable effect of increased costs. But far more seriously, it diminishes the opportunity for increased employment in the industry at increased real wages. Strangely enough this is being done, 1 suppose, in the name of development or some queer reason. Fewer people are making cars and there is a grievous burden on development.  Mr Speaker,  you will not have my trouble but 1 represent a rural constituency. 1 will have to explain to the farmer as he belts along the rough roads in his old utility that he is paying his share of the annual subsidy of $300m and that his next utility, if he can buy it, will cost him 81,000 extra. I will have to say that this is in the name of Australia's development. I would have to get behind a mulga tree, and quickly. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has said recently that tariffs should not be used in the war against inflation. He is indeed right. The tariffs ought not to go up and down like a yo-yo to meet changing conditions from day to day. But too lavish tariff protection has a grievous effect on our costs and here indeed is a classic case. Surely it is not claimed that the high cost of Australian cars is unimportant to our consumer price index. We are paying an extra $300m a year. What we really mean is that we are adding $300m to our inflationary problem. We are always preaching that the gap between money wages and productivity is filled in the long term if not in the short term by a rise in prices. We have all accepted this as an inevitable economic fact. So increased productivity is indeed the key to an increase in real wages. There are many reasons for our poor productivity performance. Really, it is almost becoming a national issue of which we ought to be ashamed. One reason is industrial strife, but another is this system of unwise protection. Our productivity would be far higher if we were wiser in this matter. I hoped for a while that we would be, when  Sir John  McEwen left, but the hope is becoming dimmer each day. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work:  Sewerage System at Tennant Creek, Northern Territory. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
This debate started along orthodox lines at the second reading stage as a discussion of general principles. I thought that at the Committee stage we would proceed proposal by proposal. Now the arrangement has been altered, I guess for good reasons, but I would like to express my regret as I am afraid we have moved a little off line. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  seems to have gone back to the second reading stage in answering the speech made at that stage by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  when we should have been moving proposal by proposal. 
I hope to speak about 6 of these proposals, the first of which is proposal No. 19 dealing with woven shirts. The honourable member for Lalor discussed this proposal in some detail. The woven shirts industry is about 50 years old. It is interesting that the Tariff Board in this case has done what I have always wanted it to do. It has estimated the subsidy component for the industry. In this case it works out at $10m a year. This means that the user of woven shirts has been paying about $1,000 for every man employed in the industry. That is put forward as a fact. I have always wanted the Tariff Board to do the measuring because, believe me, I have found the task of measuring that component to be very intricate and difficult. I congratulate the Board on the measurement, but chiefly on the character and quality of its report. It conducted a clear eyed kind of examination of the industry and ended up with what seems, with the advantage of hindsight, to be an obvious result. At page 14 the Board states: 
The evidence points to a need for concentration of capital and production in far fewer factories from which the benefits of modern plant, bulk purchasing and more efficient marketing would flow. 
We are aware that the woven shirts industry is far too widely dispersed. It has been receiving very heavy protection and the Tariff Board has recommended a gradual reduction in the rate of protection. It was obvious that too heavy a burden would be placed on the industry in leaving it in its present form. The Government did not accept the proposed duty. I remind the honourable member for Lalor, who referred to a man who was out of work because of the alteration of this tariff, that it has not been altered. 
I gathered that you did. The Government has said that it has accepted the Tariff Board's report in principle and will put it into operation after international negotiations. At present the shirt industry is receiving rather more protection - I will explain why later - than it was receiving before. We were hoping for great things with the appointment of  a  new Minister for Trade and Industry. We were looking for a lower protective  system.  lt is interesting that when the Government's decision was announced  Mr Peter  Roberts,  President  of the United Graziers Association of Queensland had something to say, and I am glad that some Country Party people from Queensland are in the chamber to hear it.  Mr Roberts  said: 
The Commonwealth Government's reluctance to accept the Tariff Board's recommendation on the shirt industry is nothing less than tragic for our export industries. I say this on behalf of a substantial part of the country's major exporters, the Queensland pastoral industry ... I say with full intent that unless the Federal Government shows without delay that it has the guts to give substantial support to the Board's recommendations in this high cost area, then general cost inflation is going to skyrocket and we will be saying with resignation 'God help our export industries'. 
It is not only I who hopes that one day the Government will bite on the tariff reduction bullet. It has put off the day in regard to the woven shirt industry and the reaction from the exporting industry has been generally one of intense disappointment. Let me return to the proposal under discussion. Strangely enough, the present duties on shirts are very high, and one of the reasons for needing them so high is the cost of the shirting material. Cotton material comes into Australia at low rates of duty, but cotton-polyester material comes into Australia at very high rates of duty. The people who make up the shirting material into shirts cannot afford to buy the locally made material. The duty paid price - that is the price after the duty has been paid - of the shirting material is about 50c to 55c a square yard. The locally made material costs 90c a square yard. Even after the tariff is added to the imported material it is still approximately half the price of the locally made material. This imposes a terrific burden on the shirtmaking industry. It has to pay the extra cost for its raw material, and it works out at at least 50c for each shirt. The queer thing is that the Australian man-made fibre industry is not making shirting material at all, and this is not surprising. If one looks around this chamber one usually sees some perfectly splendid popinjays. One sees the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  or the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  wearing perfectly splendid shirts. At the moment the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  is wearing one. 
Because of the fashion demand for coloured shirts it was quite clear that the Australian industry was correct when it said: 'We cannot make this shirting material'. But up to the stage when the Tariff Board report on woven shirts was implemented it was necessary for the people who made these shirts to pay the extra high cost of the shirting material. Then the position was altered, and I will return to the way in which it was altered later. The Department of Customs and Excise allowed the material to come into Australia under by-law, and immediately the position in the industry changed. The shirtmaking industry now has access to cheap shirting material, and shortly it will be able to reduce its prices because it is getting cheaper raw material. This brings me to the really important point: Everybody in this chamber always assumes that we create employment by imposing high tariffs. The crippling burden which the shirt industry had to bear was the high cost of acquiring cotton-polyester shirting material. This is what put the industry at risk. This is why it needed this high protection. But this position has been altered now in a way which I ought to bring to the attention of the Committee. 
The position has been changed by altering the by-law system. I am not critical of the decision - I think it was a very wise decision - but my concern, which is a very deep one, is that a decision like this could be made without reference to the Parliament at all. We have been discussing in great detail the operation of the tariff system, but the system can be altered by a decision of the Department of Customs and Excise. The decision is not made known to this Parliament; it is not discussed by us in any way. This is a very dangerous situation. I am not saying that this would happen while the Department of Customs and Excise remained under the control of the present Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  but if the Department were badly administered it could make decisions which would alter the whole structure of Australian secondary industry; it would alter the incidence of the whole tariff system. This could be done simply by making a by-law decision which does not come to the attention of the Parliament. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
With the concurrence of honourable members I will take my second period now. I make a plea for some system whereby decisions that are as wide embracing as this are brought to the attention of the Parliament so that they can be debated in some way. I repeat that here I am not being critical of the Minister for Customs and Excise or his Department, although I have been recognised as being a critic of the Department. It is not that so much which now activates my concern. I think it is dangerous that this practice should be followed. If the tariff is altered there is a great debate in this Parliament but the bylaw system can be altered without the matter coming in any formal way to the attention of this Parliament. 
While 1 am on this subject I should like to refer to another aspect of the by-law system which is causing me considerable concern. About June of last year, I believe, the following wording was attached to the by-law approval form: 
The making of this determination is based on information in the possession of the Department at the time and may be amended or terminated should subsequent information indicate such action is necessary. 
This sounds sensible, but let us look at the position which could arise. Let us say that a winemaker wants to import wine-making machinery. He has either to pay 55 per cent duty on that machinery or import it under by-law. He goes to the Department of Customs and Excise and finds that no suitable equivalent is reasonably available in Australia. Therefore, it is decided that the equipment will come into Australia under by-law. A contract is let for the construction of the machine overseas, and it may take 6 months to deliver. Under this system, after the contract has been let and a long while before delivery is effected, the Department could quite easily say: 'We have received information that a machine is now being made here'. The winemaker has contracted to buy the machine overseas so he has to pay - and this is the tragedy of it - a 55 per cent duty on it. Obviously this 55 per cent rate of duty will be altered, I would expect, as soon as the Tariff Board gets around to considering it, because this is one of the greatest crosses that we have to bear. This is the kind of thing about which 1 am worried. I repeat that this would not happen while the Department of Customs and Excise was under the control of the present Minister for Customs and Excise, but the system is such that the most doubtful things could be done without anybody really knowing anything about it. 
I do not know how we can overcome this problem. The Minister is quite right when he says that a tremendous number is involved. But I repeat that as regards shirting material there was a complete alteration of the tariff incidence by a decision of the Department of Customs and Excise. I am certain that it was the right decision, but it does seem that there ought to be some way in which the most questionable, or the most important decisions should be brought to the attention of the Parliament in order to enable some debate to ensure on them. This procedure does not seem right to me, and I am certain that it would not have seemed right to the Minister at one stage; probably it does not seem right to him even now. 1 should not think that he would be altogether happy that this immense area of responsibility which comes under 'he control of the Department of Customs anc' Excise should escape the examination of this Parliament. 
Let me turn briefly to the Special Advisory Authority report on man-made fibre fabrics. 1 seem to have been following this air about for the last 10 years. This is the tariff shuttle service at its worst. Let us follow the grim story. In 1961 emergency profesion was given to the industry. In 1963 the Tariff Board reduced the protection. Then the Special Advisory Authority was called in. and it increased. In 1965 the Tariff Board, in desperation, gave the industry a protection of 55 per cent duty, or 20c a yard. I repeat that this is the shuttle service at its worst. The present protection is inordinately high, lt used to work out at between 55 per cent and 90 per cent. One would think that would be enough. But the industry went to Japan and said: 'Look, we are not getting a fair go. We want greater access to the Australian market.' The Japanese, who buy most of our wool, knocked the industry back. So the industry said: 'We will go to the Special Advisory Authority and get a Special Advisory Authority report.' And they got it. 
I have no personal animosity for  Sir Frank  Meere.  I  like him personally. I have often said that he does not present very good reports. Without doubt, this is the worst report of the Special Advisory Authority that I have ever read. The Authority recommended an average protection of 110 per cent. Let us have a look at the figures. The 110 per cent was to protect against emergency imports that were flooding in. There had been an increase of 1.5 per cent in the rate of imports over the 4 years. That is excluding the man-made polyester shirtings which are now being let in because they are not competing with Australian shirting. Obviously, most of the competition was coming from the knitted fabrics. The industry changed over from woven to knitted fabrics, and yet the Special Advisory Authority came in and said: 'We will give them an increase in duty.' I repeat that there had not been a falling off in total increased production. Most of the demand had switched from woven to knitted fabrics, and yet the Special Advisory Authority said: 'Let us put an extra duty on it.' Now they have a duty at the average rate of 110 per cent. 
The total fabrics have increased. If one wants to know the measure of that, one will find that the yarn usage has increased. It was quite clear, and everybody in the industry knew, that fashions would change. We cannot stop fashions changing. One has only to look at the honourable member for Riverina to realise the difficulties we would be up against. In this Held fashion rules the roost. We can stop it ruling the roost by passing laws and saying that everybody shall wear a shirt like that of the honourable member for Riverina. That is the only way we can do it. My considered opinion is that this was not a case of protection against imports; it was simply a case of protection of prices. It just enabled the man-made fibre woven sector to increase its prices. This it did immediately. It was simply a donation to the industry. The woven section being at risk with woven imports, the Government simply said: 'Let us give the industry a hand-out' Really, it was not doing too badly. Bruck Mills (Aust.) Ltd was running at 15 per cent last year and Bradmill Finishing Pty Ltd has been running at 10 per cent year after year. Why we have to corns in I do not know, except that in this case I know that the SAA. inquiry was invoked because the Japanese would not agree to reduce their competition. Why should they? After all, they buy our wool and they have to compete over a tariff rate which was then running at between 55 per cent and 90 per cent. Yet the Government came in with this Special Advisory Authority report. I repeat that it Ls the worst SAA report that I have read - and that is saying something. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am sorry to see this debate degenerate in the way that it has. 
-I am just expressing my opinion. I was not asking for yours. I am sorry to see the debate degenerate ill this way. The Public Works Committee prides itself on not playing party politics in its consideration of any matter. The report has been presented in this House and we have a simple motion that it is expedient to carry out this work. Either it is expedient or it is not. If people think it is not they should vote against the motion. If they think it is a good work to do they should vote for it. The Committee has given the matter a very careful examination. The Commonwealth has the responsibility for the health services of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory and only those health services. For that reason the Public Works Committee, which represents the Commonwealth Parliament, has had to assess whether this work should be done. The Committee did this. 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  ran his expert eye over this very interesting development in a way that I could not fault. Some very interesting developments will be in the pipeline in the future. The most interesting one will be the use of similar complexes for the food services. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  asked about the bookkeeping arrangements and how these services would be paid for. My understanding is that there would be a bookkeeping entry for the hospitals that use them. The only hospitals that would be using them would be the Woden Hospital, the Canberra Hospital and the Calvary Hospital which is a Commonwealth subsidised hospital. These hospitals would be charged for the use of the instruments and the laundry but I understand that the laundry and the instruments would be the property of the complex. The members of the committee that controls them would be drawn from the hospitals that use them. For the information of the honourable member for Oxley, that is as I understand the way the system will work. It is a very interesting development. I think it will work well. It is a new system. None of us are really certain that it will work, but all the information that the Public Works Committee could get pointed quite clearly to the fact that it was a considerable breakthrough. I hope it will be successful. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
When this debate was scheduled I put my name down with some diffidence because I thought it was a fairly simple Bill whereby we were to lend the Australian Wheat Board, at slightly concessional rates of interest, money which was to be repa.il in the course of trading by the Board. This is a procedure that has been followed for some time. I have been rather startled by the eloquence that a simple Bill of this kind has aroused. I was wondering how one could make a speech about such a simple Bill until I listened to the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  The main burden of his speech was that we ought to protect the small farmer against inflation. He pointed out quite properly that a small farmer could not increase his production because of the quota limitations and that therefore he ought to be protected against the impact of inflation. 
I was interested in this aspect because I guessed that this meant protecting him against the impact of money wages rising faster than productivity, that it must mean that we should protect him against the effect of strikes and the effect of the 35- hour week, which it is estimated would add between $ 1,200m and $2,000m to the inflationary pressure that would bear down on the small farmer. I thought, if you will excuse me,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that it meant we should protect him against the effect of unwise tariff policy, which really means that some of our resources we engaged in activities that reduce productivity. I was rather interested in the attitude of the honourable member for Dawson when he said that we should protect the small farmer against inflation. To me this seemed to be a pretty sensible approach. Why only the small farmer?' I asked myself. If we protect only the small farmer, do we not automatically encourage him to be small? 
Yes, but if we protect only the small farmer against the impact of inflation - this was the burden of the honourable member's complaint - do we not encourage him to be small? That is a fairly simple question. The honourable member for Dawson said: 'Let us protect the small farmer against the impact of inflation'. So he must want us to protect the small farmer and not protect the otherthansmall farmer. As soon as we do (hat, do we not encourage him to be small?If the proposition is that we should protect every farmer against the impact of inflation, I would go along with it; but the honourable member for Dawson said that we must protect the small farmer against the impact of inflation. If we protect the small farmer and not the big farmer, we must automatically encourage the small farmer to continue to be a small farmer. 
I am not arguing with you: I am arguing with the honourable member for Dawson. That was the burden of his complaint. 
-I repeat that the burden of the complaint of the honourable member for Dawson quite clearly was that the duty of this House and the Government was to protect the small farmer against the impact of inflation. Those were his words. If we protect the small farmer, as against the large farmer or the medium sized farmer, we automatically encourage him to be small. 
This is the implication, surely. 
Thank you indeed,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  One of the things I think we have to face in this chamber is whether we ought to have a system of government intervention which would automatically protect the small farmer as against the other-than-small farmer, because if we do we automatically encourage farmers to keep their farms at an uneconomic size. One of the clear things about Australian agricultural development is that farms have tended to increase in size and have always tended to increase in size as the power unit has changed. We find that farms, unless they are interfered with by government action that protects small farmers for any particular reason, tend to become of a size that fits the economic power unit. The farms around me in my own area were developed to a size that fitted around what a 10 horse team could handle, and as the power unit changed they changed in size until they have become of a size that an economic sized power unit tractor can handle. I ask the honourable member for Dawson: Do you want to stop this process? 
By way of interjection the honourable member has said that he does not want to stop this process but wants farms to become of an economic size. 
I am glad to hear his intervention because I thought that he wanted only farms of small size to be helped against inflation. Now we are to have farms of an economic size safeguarded against inflation. If we are to protect farms of an economic size surely we must admit - if honourable members do not know this they ought to - that an economic family farm in today's conditions will always beat the corporate farm because it has a great many advantages. Those of us who work in the industry and know the industry know that a farm of an economic size which is well run economically will always do like a dinner the large corporate farm. That is definite,If this is so - I do not think anybody who knows the farming industry will deny it - we end up where we came in. The honourable member for Dawson should have said that we ought to protect all farmers against inflation. That is a proposition that 1 can support with enthusiasm. 
The honourable member did not say that; he said that he would protect the small farmer against inflation. We have arrived at where we ought to have come in; we should protect the farmers against inflation. This means, I take it, that we should protect them against the impact of silly demarcation strikes, against the impact of silly dargs that dog all our industrial operations, against the 35-hour week nonsense which would add between S 12,000m and S20,000m a year to our inflationary problem, and against unwise protective policies that will prevent our using our resources in the best possible way. If we are agreed on this, I would join the honourable member for Dawson in any exercise that protects farmers against inflation. But to pick out small farmers is to seek a cheap political advantage which is not worthy of him. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 

 - Mr Speaker, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the Thirty-Fourth General Report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I would like to make a passing reference to the concern expressed by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  about the possible export of budgerigars. If I may say so, the problems of the honourable member will begin if ever we start to export galahs, particularly if he frequently wears a tie of the colour he is wearing today. I have one message for the Opposition in this matter; .the Opposition should have remembered the old motto that it is better to keep your mouth shut and have people think you are a fool than to open it and remove all doubt. Each time we have a debate of this kind honourable members opposite expose their woeful ignorance of things rural. It becomes increasingly obvious that there is not a farmer amongst them and they do not really know what they are talking about. 
I think I really ought to take it on myself to try to fill in some of the gaps in their knowledge. The first point is whether the embargo is imposed to stop the export of fine wool genetic material. This must be one of the arguments put forward by the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti).  Does the Opposition think that we have a monopoly of fine wool blood? 
Have honourable members opposite seen, as I have seen, the Russian merinos in Rajasthan in India? Have they seen, as I have seen, the American rambouillets in Nepal? Do they not know that we certainly do not have a monopoly of fine wool blood in the world? Do they not know that there are great changes in breeding techniques in other parts of the world? So what is the sense of talking about keeping the Australian fine wool blood to ourselves when it is all over the world now? Do Opposition members not know that polwarths are exported? I would like to ask any Opposition member whether he can tell the difference between a fine polwarth and a merino. I do not think any of them could. There would be a lot of people who could not do it, and certainly I could not tell the difference between the wools. 
I think I could, but I am not certain. I certainly could not tell the difference between the wool from a fine polwarth and the wool from a medium merino. If this is so - no-one will deny it - what is the sense of pretending that we are denying other people access to fine wool blood when we are exporting it all over the world now in the form of polwarths This just makes nonsense of the argument that by keeping the embargo we are denying people access to fine wool blood. Is that the effect of the embargo? Perhaps it is not for that reason that the Opposition takes its stand on this matter. For the reasons I have pointed out it is obviously a silly kind of argument. There must be some other reason. Is it to keep the prices of flock rams rising? There must be some justification for the embargo. Is it to keep the price of flock rams rising in order to make a play for the commercial ram breeder. That is the main thing in which they are interested. 
Does the. Opposition think that we will be exporting flock rams? The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  spelt out the fact that this would be ridiculous because obviously the costs of exporting are so considerable that the only sheep that would go would be the top stud sheep. What influence will having a good market for top stud sheep have on the price  of  flock rams? Surely its effect will work the other way. Does not the Opposition know that the merino ram breeding industry has been until now just about on its knees? Does it not know that this is one of the greatest problems that face us? Does it not know that it will take our best endeavours to sustain the stud breeding industry through this very difficult period? In my electorate I am surrounded by stud breeders, big and small. Some of the best stud breeders in my area operate only in a small capacity and they export only a small number of sheep because of the limited opportunities available. So must we accept this ridiculous argument that the embargo is being retained to keep down the price of flock rams for the small breeder? It does not work that way at all. Even if it did, I do not think it is the way in which we ought to handle our affairs. 
I am not a merino stud breeder but a stud breeder of another breed of sheep. If I were exporting to perhaps New Zealand or South Africa I would not think it proper that the Government should move in and say: This is not good enough. You are going to make too much money' or You are going to make the price of flock rams dearer'. This is no encouragement to a ram breeder. It would be a complete devastation to me. What kind of Opposition do we have when it does not know that the reason why Australian merino wool has its pecular qualities is the environment in which it is bred. Does not the Opposition know that the quality of merino wool varies all over Australia as the environment changes? Does it not know that in the arid areas of South Australia are grown the strong wools and that the finer wools are grown in the we.t climate of Tasmania? 
We have heard some discussion about the fact that the Australian Council of Trade Unions has allowed  -  I put the word allowed' in inverted commas - the export of sheep to Communist China but to no other country. I have been to India and found that one of the crying needs there is access to strong wool; it need not be merino wool but it has to be well bred strong wool. Evidently it is all right to allow these sheep to go to China but the ACTU is deliberately denying the export of these sheep to countries such as India. 
Is this the way in which we ought to conduct our international affairs? Another matter referred to in this debate is that we ought to hold a referendum on the embargo. Does not the Opposition know that when the embargo was first instituted no referendum was held? Apparently the Opposition thinks it is all right to impose an embargo without a referendum and then demand a referendum about lifting it. It has been suggested that a referendum would be appropriate in this case because a referendum was held in relation to the reserve price plan. But does not the Opposition know that in the latter case the referendum was asked for by the industry organisations, which have not asked for one on this occasion. 
I now turn to a much more serious problem, and I would like the Opposition to listen closely to my remarks. Does not the Opposition know that the action of the ACTU in relation to this matter has led to ill feeling in the community, which I think distresses all of us. I have seen cases where rams have been cared for and sold and then the opportunities for delivery spoilt. They could not be sold again. They had to be held at great expense for a year. The people concerned said to me: 'What are we going to do?' I said: 'You will just have to sell them as flock rams.' I am speaking about rams that have been bred with great care and sold at, say, one thousand guineas for export. How does the Opposition think the people in the community regard the actions of the ACTU which deliberately imposes this kind of hardship on both big and small breeders? The picture of the merino ram industry being composed of great wealthy squatters is ridiculous. There may be a few wealthy ones. There are a lot of big breeders who are finding the going very tough indeed, but there are many more very small breeders who have started off with 50 ewes, increased the number to 150, 200 and 500 and then found in some cases that their progress has been inhibited by this kind of union action. This is the kind of thing that we should not allow to destroy the trading relations of our country. It is the same kind of thing as the black ban that is being imposed on the soldier settlers on Kangaroo Island. Because the settlers have had to employ the sons of neighbours to shear their sheep, the union organisations have declared them black. 
What kind of feeling does the Opposition think this breeds in the community? I think that this is the greatest tragedy of the whole business. There should not be this kind of ill feeling between the union organisation and the rest of the community. The action of the ACTU led inevitably to this bitterness creeping into the wool industry. It should not be there. I hope we can close what I think has been a disgraceful chapter in our history. The action of the ACTU, supported by the Opposition, has made us a laughing stock overseas. I see the would-be merino ram buyers when they come to Australia and they say to me: 'What kind of a country have you got? Who is running it?' I would say there is a grave danger that the ACTU thinks it is. I hope that we can close finally this lamentable and shameful chapter in our history. I very strongly support the motion moved by the Minister for Primary Industry. 
I wish to make a few comments, not many of which I make as  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee which examined this proposal and reported favourably upon it. As  Chairman  of the Committee I mention particularly that the road will go to and service an area of tourism such as I would never have envisaged until visiting that area. It is remarkable country of which I was ignorant. My main reason for rising is to let honourable members know what an exciting experience it was for me to see this development. In 1959, after my appointment as member of the Forster Committee, which was appointed to inquire into the prospects of agriculture in the Northern Territory, I flew across the coastal plains area, over the Territory rice area, across the Adelaide River to the Mary River and out to the Alligator River area. I remember thinking at the time what a tremendous job it would be to bridge these streams to open up this country for development. When I was Minister for Works I went to the Northern Territory to see the construction of a bridge across the Adelaide River. At the time I thought that this was development indeed. 
The Public Works Committee agreed without a dissentient voice that the construction of this road, which already has reached the Mary River, should reach right across to the South Alligator River to tap the uranium potential in the East Alligator area. This will also open the area for possible tourist development later. It was quite an exciting time for me when I saw this immense development. I should like the Government - I speak now not as  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee but as a citizen who often has been to the Northern Territory - to give very great consideration to the naming of this highway which eventually will extend to Gove. The Northern Territory, and Australia, are greatly indebted to a very great civil servant, the Director of Works in that area,  Mr George  Redmond.  Mr Redmond  has given service to the Territory beyond the call of duty and with tremendous enthusiasm generally. But he has one overwhelming love - roads. Every time the Committee goes to the Territory he feels a road coining on. 
Yes. He has done a job of road development and other things in the Northern Territory with tremendous efficiency, dedication and enthusiasm. I am putting these comments forward as a private citizen and not, I emphasise, as Chairman of the Public Works Committee. I ask that the Government give favourable con sideration to naming this road the Redmond Highway. This road will inevitably progress towards Gove. It will open up a tremendous area and if it is named as I suggest it will honour the services of a man whom Australia in general and the Northern Territory in particular has every right to honour. 
I am glad that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has taken a responsible attitude in this matter, which does not surprise me. This Bill seems to be a proper amendment to the Act. It seeks to introduce an alteration in the method of voting for members of the Australian Honey Board. As the honourable member for Dawson quite properly pointed out, voting rights will be given to those producers who have 200 hives or more. I had the same difficulty in regard to this matter as the honourable member for Dawson, namely, is 200 too many. AH I can say is that I agree with his assessment and, if the industry says that 200 is the right number, its members have a more intimate knowledge of the workings of the industry and I am prepared to accept its assessment. 
I have a particular interest in this legislation because I have centred in my elertorate the Commercial Apiarists Association, which has been most assiduous in making an examination and criticism of this legislation. Its chief criticisms are twofold. The first is that a poll of the apiarists was not held when the Australian Honey Board was set up. The second is that it is not happy with the operation of the Honey Board. The Commercial Apiarists Association is a remarkable organisation. Its  chairman  was  Mr A.  E. Quinn. He used to come into my office frequently and I found him to be a most dedicated and capable person. Unfortunately he is now dead. The secretary is  Mr J.  O. Harvey, who obviously has had a good deal of experience in the civil service. He is able to wield a pen in no mean manner, and I have been most impressed by the quality and the detail of his submissions to me, which I have passed on to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  As I say, this is a remarkable organisation. It seems to have 60 or 70 members. There are at least 60 members who reckon they will be able to vote when the Act is altered to provide that to be entitled to vote a producer must have a minimum of 200 hives. As I say, the members of this organisation have tremendous enthusiasm and a great deal of ability. I listen to them with a great deal of respect. 
I propose to make some comments which I hope will eventually reach the members of this organisation. They are the people who have a particular place of responsibility in helping to make the Australian Honey Board work better when it is reconstituted, as undoubtedly it will be, under this legislation. The estimate I have received is that about 700 members all over Australia will be eligible to vote under this revised legislation. I think the Minister for Primary Industry will admit that the Government is in rather an awkward position in relation to the organisation's complaint that there should have been a poll of producers in respect of the setting up of the Australian Honey Board. The Government's argument has always been that a poll has not been necessary because the apiarist associations in the States have said in the past that they wanted a honey board. Now the Government says: 'It is not good enough to accept the nominee of the State organisations because obviously they include many small growers. There ought to be a poll of the commercial apiarists'. 
Because the Government is in this awkward predicament and because I feel that there will be some benefit in getting the industry together again so that its members can work more harmoniously, I make this suggestion: When the Australian Honey Board is reconstituted, if that is the right word, under this new legislation, if only 700 members will be eligible to vote as defined under the Act surely it will not be beyond the wit of the Honey Board to circularise those people and ask: 'Do you want an Australian Honey Board?' It may be a slightly irregular way of arriving at a consensus as to whether a honey board is a good thing, but if it works it will get rid of this complaint of this very responsible group that there has never been a poll in relation to this matter. I understand the difficulties of conducting a poll in the legal sense. If this industry is to work closely together, it will not be difficult for the Honey Board to write to the people for this purpose, lt will cost only $40 in stamps and it can be ascertained whether the Honey Board is really wanted by the commercial honey producers. 
I think we have to realise that one of the factors on which the Government justifies its decision not to meet this request is that it is not easy for the honey producers, or the apiarists, to meet together. They live a peculiar kind of life. They are a nomad community. It is no good saying to them that they ought to be able to get to Adelaide to vote. If they  aTe  around the Warooka area with their hives it is not easy for them to break off and go 200 miles to Adelaide to take part in a meeting. The Government has recognised this problem and suggested that the people who have a financial interest in this matter ought to be given a postal vote. 
But my main purpose in this speech is to make a plea for some coming together of the 2 bodies in my area. They are the Commercial Apiarists Association and the formal State group. I hope that as a result of what is happening today there will be a change. It appears that 129 or 130 members will be able to vote in South Australia under this legislation. The Commercial 
Apiarists Association tells me that it will have about 60 members eligible to vote. If its figures are right - I have no doubt that they are - and if it does its lobbying with the same enthusiasm as it sends out correspondence, it is quite clear that it will be able to get its nominee elected to the Australian Honey Board. So there is a hope now that the Commercial Apiarists Association will be brought back into the fold of the Australian Honey Board. 
I do not pretend that the Honey Board is a perfect organisation. It is a human organisation and therefore is liable to human frailties. I guess that it could be better. I think that the endeavours of the Commercial Apiarists Association should be bent towards making it an even better organisation than it is. In pursuance of this kind of plea for a better relationship between the groups I would like to quote from a letter I received from the manager and secretary of the Australian Honey Board 2 days ago. He said: 
The  Chairman  appreciates, as he told you, that considerable differences of opinion exist but some of them result from incomplete knowledge of the true position. 
He asked me to confirm his promise that he would be prepared to meet with members of the CAA of SA in company with me, if the Secretary will list the subjects his Association wishes to discuss. 
I hope that this meeting will come about. For too long there has been a division in the ranks of the industry in my State. As a result of this legislation, which I know the Commercial Apiarists Association approves in principle, and with this backing of the willingness of the  Chairman  of the Australian Honey Board to meet the group, I hope that we will be able to get some kind of consensus in the future. 
I know that one of the causes of worry to this particular group is that it has the same kind of suspicious mind that I am afraid 1 have, or have had in the past. Members of this group noticed that the remuneration for the producer members of the Australian Honey Board was put at $1,300 a year. They were under the impression that this was an increase. I have been able to inform them that this is not so - that it is the same rate that applied in other years. This is one of the little things that have been worrying them. There also have been bigger things. For the benefit of the industry in general it is important that the 2 groups endeavour to get together more than they have in the past. I am sure that this legislation will be a help in this direction. 
I am glad to hear that the Opposition is not opposing this Bill. It seems a very proper alteration to the Act. The amendments really seek to improve the administrative machine that controls the way goods enter Australia. I understand that this Bill is particularly aimed at the support value side of Imports, particularly chemicals. In many cases I have been critical of support values as a method of protection. I think they have bidden the amount of effective protection that has been given. If we are to have a support values method of arriving at a duty, then it is proper that this method should be well administered. The proposed amend ment to the Act gives the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  power that he ought to have in this rather technical and very competitive field. I agree with the general comment by the honourable member for Lalor that this Bill extends the power of the Minister for Customs and Excise. I have nothing but praise for the way the Minister for Customs and Excise is presently administering his Department, but we should not ignore the fact that the Minister for Customs and Excise has surprising power. As the honourable member for Lalor has said, the action he can take can be much more effective than Tariff Board recommendations. The Minister can, by actions of his departmental officers, extend or contract the area of protection in a quite surprising way. As the honourable member for Lalor again quite properly said, this power is very important in the by-law area. 
I have always hoped that one day we would have a system of reporting to Parliament the effects of the operation of the by-law system. I know that if the system was not well administered by a competent Minister through customs officers who were indeed above reproach there would be very easy opportunities for shady dealing. I am not suggesting that this is happening; I know that it is not. But a tremendous area of administrative authority is available to the Minister for Customs and Excise. I am not saying that this is wrong but I think there should be a system for reporting to this Parliament the effect of by-laws, what industries are being adversely affected and what individuals have been adversely affected. If we do not have access to this information it means that we have an administrative machine working away competently, often in a dedicated way, but making decisions which are not reported to the Parliament. I am always hoping that the Minister for Customs and Excise will be able to evolve a method of reporting to this House on the operations of this very important sector of his Department. 
This Bill deals with the valuation of goods for duty. How can we value the goods that are subject to duty? I would like to make one other suggestion to the Minister while this matter is open for discussion. I have received many representations that it would streamline administration on the customs agents' side as well as on the Department's side if we could adopt the practice of valuing goods to the nearest dollar. I know that there are some legal barriers to this. I have raised this matter previously with the Minister for Customs and Excise. I had hoped that when this Act was being opened up in this way the Department would have a close look at whether we could adopt the practice of valuing goods to the nearest dollar. I understand that this practice would save a great deal of administrative effort by both the Department and the customs agents. 
Another proposition put to me on one occasion by a very responsible citizen is that we should adopt the practice of valuing our imported goods on the basis of cost of insurance and freight - a c.i.f. system - as against the present system of valuing them on the basis of cost free on board. My reply to this citizen was to the effect that I did not think the Brussels system allowed for this, but after making some cursory inquiries I understand that this c.i.f. system of valuation is the one practised in many of the other countries that are signatories to the Brussels Convention. I would like the Minister and his Department to look at the possible effects of changing from an f.o.b. system of valuing to a c.i.f. system. A ci.f. system would mean that the very considerable increases in the cost of freight would be taken into account in valuing goods. It would alter the protection in some ways, in some cases increasing it and in some cases decreasing it. I understand that if we adopted such a system it would bring us on all fours with the Brussels system. 
I was interested in a complaint by the honourable member for Lalor that suggestions that he has made in other debates have not received the attention of the columnists in the way that he had hoped. I must admit that I am not surprised at that. I have a morbid and breathless interest in the subject of tariffs, as I think you will agree,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I have followed or tried to follow every word that the honourable member for Lalor has spoken about tariffs. My difficulty, and perhaps the difficulty of the political experts, is in being unable to understand what he is talking about. I have been literally so uncertain about where the honourable member for Lalor really stands on this question of how to operate a wise protective system that 1 have given up trying to understand what he is talking about. This may be the problem that the political commentators have. 
The honourable member for Lalor suggested in his speech today that there should be a method of price control for protected industries. There are obvious very grave difficulties in implementing price control. It is not much good putting forward a proposition if it cannot be carried out. The honourable member would know, of course, that the Commonwealth has no constitutional power to introduce price control. But ignoring that, I would have thought that the proper way to hold prices down in protected industries is to lower the tariff wall a little. This is the most effective way I know. I again instance the protection which is available to the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. In many cases it does not avail itself of that protection, but if the protection was not available BHP would be deterred from raising prices for its products in the way that it does for fear of losing business to the manufacturers of imported goods. 
I think that this is the proper way to work a protective system: Duties on such' items as iron and steel should be examined by the Tariff Board, and if after inquiry by the Tariff Board they are found not to be necessary, as indeed BHP is proud to claim they are not in most cases, they should be reduced so that competition can have a bearing on the price that BHP charges for its iron and steel products. This is an effective way of operating a protective system. It is an additional way of using the tariff instrument. However the honourable member for Lalor says that he favours fixing prices following protection being granted to an industry. All I say on that is that there is not constitutional power for the Commonwealth to fix prices. Even if there were, I think the better method would be to look at the rate of duty rather than the price level. Generally I am glad that both the Opposition and this side of the House support the amendment to the Act, which I think is quite a proper one. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is it intended to increase the number of members of the. Tariff Board so as to allow for a more rapid processing of inquiries into cases where some industries are not using all the tariff protection available to them and, as a result, are able to increase their prices immune from competition from imports? 
I would like to express my gratification that the Government is facing up to the problem of giving the Tariff Board more resources to enable it to proceed with a review of that large area of the. tariff in which some items have not been reviewed for 40 years and duties on some items are not needed or used. The present situation gives the opportunity for 3 things to happen. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  mentioned them briefly. In the first place there is the opportunity for undoubtedly high profits to be taken. This does happen in many cases. However, I will not spell them out publicly. Nevertheless there are plenty of examples where this has happened. Because of the. tariff the opportunity exists for making over-award payments. Manufacturers can operate in the certain knowledge that prices can be increased because there is such a large area of tariff protection yet available for their industries. I am afraid that over-award payments in protected industries are common. Advantage is taken of tariff protection to make over-award payments. One can always tell a man who is dining out on an expense account by the enthusiasm with which he summons the waiter. It is very easy for an employer to make over-award payments if he can pass on increases in prices directly to the consumer behind the shelter of an unnecessarily high tariff wall. 
The availability of protection, although it may be unused, in some cases gives an opportunity for higher prices to be charged. I have mentioned frequently in this House that I hoped it would not be long before the Tariff Board would be able to get around to reviewing the protection on iron and steel. The iron and steel industry is an industry in which I believe there is unused protection. The protection is available, so the iron and steel industry in Australia is able to put up its prices secure in the knowledge that in doing so it will be protected from competition from imports. 
Because of these 3 factors the action the Government is taking at this time is important. When all is said and done, hanging over us all is the real threat of inflation, a rise in prices. We have other economic problems, but none of them is nearly as important as the incipient threat of inflation. Not only does inflation affect the economy as a whole and the exporters in particular, but also and even more importantly, as history, our own bitter experience and other people's experience have taught us, inflation strikes at the very moral fibre of a country. Inflation destroys the little man. It enables the big man to get away with murder. It is the little man who pays for inflation. Of all the problems we face the chief one that hangs over us always is the threat of inflation. In my opinion we have here an opportunity to do something about it, although perhaps not on a particularly large scale. However, the opportunity now afforded us is important enough to be regarded with appreciation. 
We have the ability to tackle this area of unused protection and to reduce it if this is thought wise, sound and possible. We can in this way do something to hold inflationary pressures in check. 
I was glad to learn, as the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  announced in his statement, that the Government is to appoint  2  extra members to the Tariff Board to enable it to proceed with more speed with the very necessary extra duty of reviewing tariffs. I am very pleased about the extra appointments. I notice that almost everybody in the community is pleased. Certainly all the economic journalists in the country are pleased. I guess that all the economists also would be pleased. I am certain that all on our side of the House are pleased. I was mortified and sad when all the honourable member for Lalor could do was express his anger about this. All we heard from him was a petulant complaint. He said: 'It ought to have been done before', or 'It should have been done in a different way'. I am often sorry for the honourable member for Lalor. I know that he will not mind my saying this in a fatherly fashion. He is always such a sad man. There is something tragic about him. We very seldom see him smile. If I do see him smile I regard the phenomenon with some suspicion, thinking that it is probably due to wind. This is a measure that I thought he would have accepted with alacrity, saying: This is something I would like to see done'. Instead we get this mournful, unhappy approach to the subject - an approach that he seems to bring to many subjects. 
There was one particular plea I wanted to make to the Government. Two extra members are to be appointed to the Tariff Board. It is quite clear that the Tariff Board has now, as it has in the past and will have in the future, a tremendously important part to play in our economic scene. There is an awareness in the country now that the Tariff Board has very great responsibilities to advise the Government effectively. It has to give the Government advice of the highest standard. This places on the Board a very high responsibility indeed. For that reason it is vital that people of the highest quality receive appointment to the Board. 
I would like the Government to look at  2  things. One is the salary grading of the Board members. I am not particularly well informed in this area but I have an uneasy feeling that some of the best people who could fill these positions would find that the salary range would inhibit them from taking the job if it was offered to them. Likewise the committee appointed to review taxation will have a tremendous responsibility, and the best man one could hope to have on that committee is a person very skilled in the operation of the taxation laws, one of the operators of the present system. Such a person would find that the salary available to him in that job would be much smaller than he would be able to obtain in his business as, say, a skilled chartered accountant. It is probable, therefore, that we will not be able to induce people of the necessary quality io come forward. I am certain that the same applies to finding people to appoint to the Tariff Board. We need to realise that these people will have an immense responsibility on their shoulders, and for that reason we must have people of the highest quality. If it is necessary to pay more to attract suitable people, I hope that the Government will look favourably at doing so. 
The other matter I would like the Government to look at is more important. Traditionally different members on the Tariff Board have represented particular sectors of the economy, some representing commerce, some representing export industries and some representing manufacturers. I do not think that having different sectors of industry represented is nearly as important as having on the Board people of the highest ability, experience, wisdom and courage. I hope that the Government in making the  2  proposed appointments and in making future appointments to the Board will discard the past practice of selecting people according to their background, according to what industry or sector of the economy they come from. I earnestly suggest to the Government that it have a careful look at the method by which it can induce people of the highest quality to accept appointments to the Tariff Board so that the Board will be able even better to fulfil the high responsibility which it has borne in the past. Obviously, with the proposed alteration in the duties of the Board, it will occupy an even more responsible position in the future. 
I commend the Minister's statement. I think it was made at exactly the right time. I think we must recognise that controlling prices is one of our prime responsibilities, although an unpopular one. I think that the change foreshadowed by the Minister will help in discharging that responsibility. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. The Prime Minister will have heard of, or seen by way of Press reports, a statement by Archbishop Loane yesterday in which he blamed the Government for the twin evils of inflation and unemployment. Will the Prime Minister inform Archbishop Loane that although Australia's performance is not perfect it can safely be claimed that we have done better than almost any country in the Western world in attacking these twin problems which are indeed endemic to all democratic systems? Would he also inform the Archbishop that a prelate lecturing politicians because of the presence of these twin economic evils is similar to politicians criticising prelates for the continued presence of sin,which has been around the place for even longer and seems to be growing even faster? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act J 969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
No. 2 Stores Depot RAAF at Regents Park, New South Wales. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
The Bill we are considering seeks to alter the Navigation Act. This is a tremendous Act in size and importance. It was consolidated in 1956 as 291 pages and there have been 7 amendments to it since then. I can sympathise with the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  and bis Department who have taken on the job of revision. 1 will not be critical in any way because this revision is not achieved quickly. 1 think it would be very foolish to rush in and quickly amend the Act. However, as I have said, this is a very important Act. One of the very important parts of it is the section which makes it obligatory for goods for interstate carriage to be transported in Australian ships. 
T think it is worth having a look at the effects of this policy. I have some figures which were given in evidence before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works in Darwin. The Committee was told that the estimated cost to ship cement from Townsville to Darwin- in a foreign owned vessel was $2.30 a ton and the cost to ship cement from Townsville to Weipa, which is less than half the distance, is $25 a ton in an Australian owned vessel. Therefore we have to pay a tremendous price to ship goods under the Navigation Act as we know it at present. I notice that last week the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate)  mentioned that it cost less to carry salt from Australia to Japan than it cost to bring it from an Australian port to Sydney. 1 was interested in that figure because my figures are similar. 
A short while ago a statement was made, in regard to a Tariff Board report on chlorine, that one could ship Australian salt in an overseas vessel from the gulf in South Australia to Japan and back to Sydney for less money than it cost to ship it from an Australian port round to Sydney. So it is quite clear that a tremendous price has to be paid for the operation of the Navigation Act. I hope that the Minster, when lookng at this revision, will keep what I have to say in mind. One of the reasons for the inordinately high Australian cost is the nature of the manning scales. For instance, a chief steward on an Australian ship is paid $7,685 a year for 32 weeks work a year. He receives 20 weeks holiday on full pay. His salary works out at $240 for each week of work. 1 understand that in addition he receives his keep. An assistant steward receives $6,095 for a 32-week year and receives 20 weeks a year holiday. His salary works out at $190 for every week of work. Also, he receives all the fringe benefits. I understand that rates higher than this are paid on many other ships. 
I believe that the Seamen's Union of Australia is asking for an award or an agreement whereby its members in this category will work 26 weeks a year and have 26 weeks holiday. This is the kind of price that we are paying under the present system. Our manning and accommodation standards are lavish in the extreme. The point 1 want to make is that someone is paying for this. None of us in any area of politics ought to pretend that there is such a thing as a free feed. Someone has to pay. The price that is being paid for the present feather bedding of Australian seamen is that development all over Australia is being limited and people living around the coast of Australia are paying an inordinate price. All of us in this House are keen to see development. Some honourable members make fine flowing speeches about the necessity for it. But a prime factor inhibiting development is the high level of freight. Under the Navigation Act as it stands at present the level of freight is a very limiting factor of development. 
Having said that, I think it is proper that 1 should make a suggestion. It is obvious that the people of Australia feel that this country ought to have an Australian shipping line that would carry Australian goods in Australian vessels. If this is what is wanted, why not tackle this matter a different way? Why not have a freight subsidy paid by the taxpayer to bring the Australian cost into line with the overseas costs? Such a system would have 2 benefits. Firstly it would lighten the load in regard to the cost of development which is impossible to achieve under the present system. Secondly, we would have an additional advantage in that the Seamen's Union and those people who man the ships would not so easily be able to bold the whole system to ransom. 
Consider what happened recently in Tasmania when the whole economy of that State was threatened by a foolish and irresponsible stewards strike. If there were a subsidy system the Australian carrier who received the subsidy would be able to compete on equal terms with overseas carriers. This subsidy would operate in the same way as do other subsidies paid to other sections of the community. If a subsidy were paid it would be much more difficult for irresponsible strikes, such as the one we saw last year, to be held. It would be much more difficult for the union concerned to hold the Australian economy, and particularly the Tasmanian economy, to ransom. If it were known that an overseas ship could pick up a cargo if there were such aa irresponsible strike this fact would inhibit the likelihood of such strikes. I am putting this suggestion forward to the Minister in the hope that when the Navigation Act is being revised in detail, as he said it would be, these very serious matters can be taken into account. 
It is clear that a great price has to be paid for our present system and that this price is inhibiting and limiting development throughout Australia. It is limiting our ability to expand in the areas where we could expand if we had a lower freight structure. The present system also is placing us very much in the hands of irresponsible industrial action on the waterfront. Therefore I hope that the Minister will listen to what I am saying and regard it as a plea. The present system, I think, is fraught with danger and will become worse as industrial action becomes rather easier in the future. For Australia's sake and for the sake of development we must have a careful look at the Navigation Act in due course. The Bill before the House does not deal with the general subject. It introduces a different method of assessing tonnages. It is an amendment that is needed and I give it my full blessing. I support the Bill but I shall oppose the amendment. 
My question is directed to the Acting Minister for Trade and Industry. The Acting Minister will be aware of the need for people of the highest quality to be appointed to the Tariff Board. Will he look at the salaries paid to Board members to see whether the salaries are high enough to induce high quality people to join the Board? Will he, at the same time, reconsider the past practice of making Tariff Board appointments from particular sectors of industry or commerce? Would it not be better to concentrate on the qualities of Board members rather than the industry from, which they come? 
In this debate I am to some extent standing in for the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who is a recognised authority on this side of the House on the dairy industry. The honourable member is involved in important national duties in New Guinea and is unable to be here. I do not pretend to know as much about the industry as I would like to know. However, I have never known ignorance to be a barrier to eloquence in this House. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  is an example of that. I congratulate the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the former Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Anthony,  and also the industry as a whole, for their courage, enterprise and sense of responsibility in facing the future and the fact that Australia is likely to be in trouble when Britain enters the European Economic Community. Obviously there ought to be some deep responsible planning. 
I suppose we may take as a starting point the fact that it looks as if export prices for dairy products will be low. If that is not the starting point there is no need for some kind of a plan. Taking that as a starting point, we must discourage production of increasing quantities of goods that we have increasing difficulty in selling. That seems to be a sensible starting point. The next thing to consider is how we should go about it. I believe there are 2 ways we could do it. If we are to limit production to the estimated demand there could be a total quota throughout Australia for both export and home consump- tion, the same as we have for wheat. The industry has turned away from that, and I am not in any way critical of a 2-price plan whereby the home consumption price is likely to be high and the export price is likely to be low. In that case the producer gears his production to the home consumption quota, and with anything over he takes his chance at selling on the export market. That sounds sensible, and indeed it is a sensible and responsible scheme. 
The Minister in his second reading speech mentioned that in its simplest terms the scheme provides for the establishment of a national butterfat quota based on home and overseas market requirements. Really the big point at issue is whether it is to be, as I think the Minister said, a truly national quota. Is it to be a quota across the nation? Let us put it in bald terms. New South Wales and Western Australia are net importers of dairy produce. If we are not to have a national quota we will have a quota based on State production and we will be deliberately encouraging production of increasing amounts of dairy produce in New South Wales and Western Australia. This must be done, of course, at the expense of the producers in the other States, particularly Tasmania and Victoria. To my mind it would be economically foolish to have a scheme on that basis. I heard the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  question what is meant by a national scheme. I am not putting words into his mouth. All I say quite definitely is that if we do not have transferability of quotas across State borders we will be inclined to freeze production in those States where it is more uneconomical. 
If it is true - I am not an expert in the industry - that production takes place more cheaply in Victoria, and if we fix a quota so that it has to stay in Queensland, we are acting against the economic facts of life. Firstly such a system would disadvantage Victoria, and secondly - this is the point I want the honourable member for Dawson to realise because I know he is putting his scheme forward with the best of intentions - it will mean one of 2 things. It will mean that Queensland will have to have a higher price structure than in other States or Victoria will have to have a price support system that is unnecessarily high. If we do not have either of these things we will have a peasant dairy system in Queensland. So if it is more economic to shift the industry south, as all the figures and history tend to show, and if we prevent that happening, I repeat that there will be desperately serious effects for the economy as a whole. Things will be serious for Victoria and the dairy industry in Queensland will become a peasant industry. I think that transferability of quotas across State borders is vital to any scheme. I know that it will present social problems that will have to be met. But not to face the fact that non-transferability will deprive the quota scheme of any economic sense is blinking the economic facts of life. I know that the honourable member for Dawson, with his economic training, would feel very guilty about that. 
The next problem that comes with quotas is that we have to have transferability of quotas between farms. The honourable member for Dawson was quite right when he said that this was vital to the scheme. He said that quotas have to be based on factory areas. I am not contesting that. I am saying that not to have transferability of quotas between farms will prevent the industry changing its location within a State, which is just as serious as fixing it in certain States. So one of the problems inherent in the plan is this question of transferability of quotas between States and within States. But that does not get rid of our problem about quotas. One of our fundamental problems about quotas is that we have to make an estimate of demand. The Minister says that in simplest terms the scheme provides for the establishment of a national butterfat quota based on home and overseas requirements. We have to measure as best we can these market demands. 
I will be quite open. People around me watch me with some anxiety, and when I buy cattle they sell them. I have been wrong so many times about what was going to happen in any primary industry. I am not alone in that. Anyone who peers into the future and tries to make estimates will always make mistakes. The only way he can avoid making mistakes is not to make any prophecy. Two years ago nobody in this House except perhaps you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  with your superior wisdom could have foreseen the explosion that has taken place in world demand for dairy products. We have to recognise this as a danger. I do not say that we ought not to face up to it, but it is idle to pretend that anybody, even a person in the Bureau of Agricultural Economics or the Department of Primary Industry, is able accurately to forecast the demand for any product. If he were he would not remain long in the BAE or the Department of Primary Industry. He would shortly be sitting in the South of France with his feet in a bucket of champagne, because if a person could do what everybody wants to do and estimate demand he would become a millionaire and would soon cease working for the Government. This is another one of the problems inherent in the scheme. I am not decrying the scheme; I am just pointing out the problems that we have to face with such a scheme. What happens if a farmer sells his farm? Does his quota go with it? I guess so. What happens, however, if he divides his farm in two? Which half gets the quota, or is the quota divided on an acreage basis? These are the fundamental problems that are inherent in the scheme, and they have to be thought out and spelt out with infinite care and courage. 
The honourable member for McMillian says that he sells it separately. I do not know how the scheme will work. I am not saying that it ought to work one way or the other. All I am saying is that there are problems not dealt with in the Minister's second reading speech which will have to be spelt out later and which the industry has to face. 
The next problem relates to export price. We will say that we will have bulk export sales, and the export price will be equalised amongst those who produce under the export quota. I guess that is how the system will work. I do not know enough about it tonight. But there are dangers also because some dairy products are very profitable. If there is to be a levelling out of prices for export we will destroy at least some of the incentive to venture into new markets. A factory manager might ask what is the good of running the risk of seeking new export markets and putting extra money into export exploitation and so on if having done so the price he receives is bulked in with the prices that have been received by the factory that has just gone on in the same old way. That is another one of the problems inherent in the scheme. 
I have heard it said that we are not going to do it that way but that we will put the section of the export market that is really profitable in with the home consumption quota. That sounds sensible, but then the problems arise again. Which products are the ones that are profitable? Do we name them? What happens when they cease to be profitable, as at some time they all do? How does one measure their profitability? These are the kinds of things we have to watch for in the future. The other problems that arise have come out in the debate today. State legislation will be necessary. I understand that most schemes such as this could work without complementary State legislation. This means that each State must face the responsibility that the honourable member for Dawson has spelt out. What will happen to Queensland? If there is what I would describe as a truly national quota scheme and the industry in Queensland tends to dwindle, the Queensland Government will have to pass legislation to say: This is what we need to make this scheme work. So there will be real problems in that regard. 
There will also be problems in relation to industry politics. It is certain that many producers, particularly in my State, feel that they do not have the influence they should have on what is generally thought to be the eastern State oriented schemes. The honourable member for McMillan made out a case the other way. He said that Victoria does not have a loud enough voice. This is a measure of the difficulties. The other difficulty inherent in the scheme - we ought to think about this more than we do - is that the success of the quota scheme depends to some extent on having a high home consumption price. At the moment the price is higher overseas than it is here. In the past it has been a lot higher here than it has been overseas. But the expectation is that in the future - this is what all our planning must be based on - it will be higher here than overseas. We must not ignore the possible impact of margarine. It has been possible to hold margarine production in check while we have been producing margarine from the products of cheap labour countries. If one says that with a certain sneer one can get away with it, in politics anyhow. But that will not be the position in the future. It is clear that before very long we will be selfsufficient. In fact we are selfsufficient now in vegetable oils. As the Minister said recently, the world market for vegetable oils fluctuates a great deal. One thing is certain: It will not be very long before we can supply vegetable oils to produce margarine at prices considerably below the Australian price for butter. I am not certain of that but I think it is right. 
I am going to have very great difficulty in persuading the electors of Wakefield that they should not be producing vegetable oils to sell to the Australian people. The people of Wakefield are basic thinkers. They would say: 'What particular right has the Australian butter producer to sell to the Australian consumer that the electors of Wakefield have not?' I am just putting this forward as one of the problems for the future. I know that they are being considered by the Minister, by the Department - I am glad to see the departmental officers are now in the chamber - and by the industry leaders. These are the kinds of difficulties that have to be faced by the industry and by the Government. I use this as an example of the need for deep and detailed examination. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, you will be aware that the Liberal Party has a rural committee which has recently made public its recommendations for a Rural Industry Board so that primary industry can receive the same kind of expert independent examinations that secondary industry receives, with evidence heard in public, reports made public and the problems aired in the process. People generally, the industry in particular, and this House very much more so, should be aware of the problems. I regard this as a supreme example of the way that I would like to see a Rural Industry Board employed to tackle problems such as this. I am not saying that we should now hand this matter over to a rural industry board because it is too far along the line. I think we ought to proceed with the kind of examination now being made. 
I am not decrying anybody or slinging off at anybody but I think we could do better if we had an examination of the kind carried out by the rural committee. That committee, under the chairmanship of the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  has put forward a sensible way of tackling rural problems. I think I should mention that it is not unknown for sensible suggestions to come from outside. It is worth remembering that the quota scheme we are now talking about was put forward by 6 economists at the time of the McCarthy report on the industry in 1960-61. Honourable members can see very well that good would come out of this kind of intimate and expert examination but, as I said, we do not have time to do that now. All I can say is that I wish tile Minister well with the immense assignment that is ahead of him and the industry leaders who have a particularly responsible part to play. 
The first thing we should ask ourselves when discussing this Bill is why we have an arbitration system at all. It is supposed to prevent disputes and strikes. From our performance in recent years it does not seem to have worked particularly well in that regard. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  made a speech at the end of last year in which he stated that in only 3 years- 1917, 1919 and 1920 - has there been more time lost than was lost in the year to September 1971. So it would be foolish to pretend that our present arbitration system has done what we hoped it would do, that is, to prevent disputes from spreading into strikes. In the past the justification for the arbitration system has always been the protection of the weak workers against the strong employers. I think that that time is long since past. 
If we need an arbitration system at all - and we do - I think we need it for other reasons now. We need it to protect weak unions against strong unions. We need it particularly to protect the community against the excesses of irresponsible action by or the overwhelming strength of the strong unions. I was glad to hear the honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes)  use the illustration of the waterside agreement, because it shows how the community is being clobbered and is being asked to pay the extra cost brought about by what I would call an irresponsible union. I am told that you can always tell a man who is dining out on an expense account by the enthusiasm with which he summons the waiter. It is easy for an agreement like this to come about between the waterside employees and the shipowners when someone else pays. The honourable member for Mcpherson spelt out with admirable clarity in this case that the exporter pays in particular and the community pays in general. 

 Mr Acting Speaker, unless you think that I am putting forward a conservative and outdated point of view, I would like to quote from Fabian Tract No. 403 which was a tract written by the  chairman  of the Fabian Society. He could not be called a real right winger or a conservative politician. He had the bitter experience of being the economic adviser to the Wilson Government in Britain. In this Fabian Tract he said: 
The direct total social gain from 'industrial action' was not merely negligible; it might well have been negative. Neither in this country nor anywhere else have trade unions been able to increase the share of wages in total national income. The increase in money wages has been frustrated by rising money prices. These robbed the wage earner (or rather his wife) of the expected gain; frustration and anger were the result. The indirect loss due to the resultant worsening of the balance of payments and the enforced slowdown of expansion, was, on the contrary, immense. 
I repeat that this was stated by the man who had the responsibility for trying to help Wilson keep the socialist machine running smoothly. He went on to say: 
The crocodile tears shed by some about the fate of the low paid workers, the unemployed,  the sick, and the old, are surely disingenuous, lt is trade union action which, through wage induced price movements, has created the basic problem. 
That is the experience of those who have tried to conduct a socialist government. This is why we need an arbitration system. We need to have some responsibility in our present system. 
We must have an arbitration system with all its weaknesses. Let me mention another weakness of which the House should take notice. The award structures always bring in a legalistic attitude, which I regret. Let me give an illustration of that. Some years ago we had 3 shearers in our shed. Two of them were local people who had been shearing for us for many years and another one came in as a stranger. He knew all the things that were in the shearers award. He rather startled me by saying: 'The catch pen is too big.' He started to worry about things we had not worried about for years. Then the other 2 shearers took him aside and said: 'Look, George, be careful. We are getting a lot of other advantages that are not in the award. If you start going on in this legalistic way, following the book, we will lose the advantages that we have.' 
I admit that one of the disadvantages of the award system is undue reliance on what is written down instead of on the spirit of the system. I am sorry to see it have to work that way because I know from first hand experience how well the system works without it. But we have a system of arbitration and it is our responsibility to make it better. There are 2 ways of making it better. There can be a change of community attitude and a change in the legislation. Let us deal firstly with the community attitude. If I wanted to destroy the social fabric of Australia and bring about a new way of life, if I wanted a communist system instead of the present system as we know it, the first thing I would do if I had power would be to double wages every year. 
And everybody would say: Good on you.' That is the way they look at things. That would inevitably destroy Australia as we know it. It would destroy the small man. It would destroy the exporter and it would destroy his ability to compete on the export market, lt would destroy the possible advancement of people on fixed incomes. But more than that it would bring about the inevitable decay of civilisation as we know it. That is the first thing I ask the community to realise. The ceaseless chasing after money wage increases is inevitably futile. Why? The Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Street)  spelt it out yesterday with his usual unexceptionable logic. I will put it in another way. It means that the theory of constant shares works. He used one set of figures; I use another which tell the same inevitable story. It is the experience of everybody in the Western world that the share of the gross national product cake remains the same. The share remains constant. The share going to wages and salaries remains constant and the share going to profits remains constant if it is taken over a 3 or 4 year term. The Assistant Minister spelt it out, as others have done. 
I am using different figures. They are from the 'Economic Review', a Melbourne publication. For the 4 years beginning 1955-56 the wage earner received 63 per cent of the gross national product. In the next 4 years he received 61.9 per cent. In the next 4 years he received 61.8 per cent and in the last financial year for which figures are available he received 61.7 per cent. So the share going to the wage earner remains constant, and the only way in which he can received a bigger slice of the cake, which everybody wants him to receive, is to have a bigger cake to cut up. I repeat that his share in the cake is the same. Surely the thing to do, if one wants him to have more, is to have a bigger cake. To have a bigger cake, one of the things to do is to look at productivity, because productivity is the key. To increase productivity is the only way in which real wages can rise. 
I heard someone say 'rubbish'. I just want to say that it is the experience of democratic systems all over the world. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! If the honourable member for Burke continues to interject I will deal with him. 
 Exactly the same picture appeared in Britain under socialism and it has appeared under all the socialist systems in Scandinavian countries. It is no good saying 'rubbish'. It just happens to be a fact of economic life. If productivity is the key, we as a community must realise that every strike and every effort to do the boss in the eye does not do the boss in the eye and that the person who is done in the eye is the weekly wage earner, the chap who does not want to join a militant union or take part in bitter strike action. He is the one who pays, because the cake gets smaller and his share of the cake becomes smaller also. I repeat again and again, and it has to be hammered in again and again, that increased productivity is the only way in which the wage earners will get a bigger slice of the economic cake. There are lots of ways in which one can influence productivity and I guess that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  would be the first to haul me back if I started to get on my favourite hobby horse, tariffs. We often use our limited resources in an uneconomic way. But I know how severe you are in the chair and that you would not lel me continue to speak on that subject. 
There are lots of things that we could do to improve productivity and we should continually do them so that the wage earner can get a bigger slice of the cake. But let us realise in this field of industrial relations that every time there is an industrial dispute involving silly little legalistic problems cf demarcation and so on it is paid for by the fellow worker and not by the boss. If we got to the stage where the community accepted that as inevitable and union leadership accepted it as inevitable we would go immediately along an easier road towards getting what we all want, that is, a bigger slice of the cake for the workers. Going back again to community attitudes, one of the things we are told by the unions is that they would be more responsible if we could hold prices down. Let us return to the theory of constant shares. Last year money wages went up by  11  per cent but productivity increased by 2 per cent to  2i  per cent. If the theory of constant shares holds good - I did not hear the word 'rubbish' this time - and it has held good in every other country of the world for as long as money has been used, inevitably there must be pressure on prices of about 9 per cent. So it is no good saying that one can hold prices down just by squeezing, ignoring the theory of constant shares. But let us assume that we do not accept that and that we intend to do it in other ways. Honourable members know of the constitutional problems and realise that we have not constitutional power to do it. 
I was glad to hear the honourable member for McPherson again refer with his immense experience and wisdom to what happened during the war and I will tell again the story of what happened in war time to show how easy it is to talk about doing these things but how difficult it is to do them. There were 2 doctors in  a  hotel lounge exchanging experiences about their practices during the war and one said to the other: 'I have 3 cases of meningitis in my district'. A chap sitting behind who was not supposed to be listening tapped one doctor on the shoulder and said: Look, I will take the lot.1 We know that in war time when there was patriotic fervour to reinforce the edict of Government it was difficult enough, and we all know that the illustration that  1  gave was common then. But what chance do we think we would have in peace time of being able to hold prices down against all the economic forces? There are other things that we can do. We can point out of course that it has not worked anywhere. The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  spelled this out with admirable clarity. We could accept the fact that we could have a prices justification tribunal. I do not think it would do any good, but it would take some of the sting out of the labour unions plea that we should do something. I would not be optimistic that it would ever work but it may do indirect good in that way. 
Let me go on with my plea for a change in community attitudes. One of the things which we could accept if the labour movement would accept a change, adopt a more responsible attitude and maybe become more receptive to this plea - is that the restrictive trade practices legislation should have more bite. I want to go on record as saying that this is something about which I have been very anxious in the past. I am still anxious to see it come forward, not only as legislation on the books but also as legislation that will really work. The other ways in which we could get a different community attitude, as several honourable members responsibly said, is by having a different kind of attitude towards tariffs so that we would not have this unused tariff protection which would enable manufacturers to put their prices up if the labour unions took industrial action which made their position more difficult. There are many other things that we could do, but I beg of the House to realise that however good this legislation may be - I have nothing but commendation for it because I know how hard it has been worked over, and it is, generally speaking, a great improvement - it is foolish for us to pretend that it will do any good unless we have a change in thinking in our community. I am not blaming the labour unions. I am not blaming anybody in particular. I am saying that unless we have a different way of looking at our problems, unless we all realise that productivity is the key by which we will get a bigger slice of the cake this legislation however good it may be will not help in the end. The long term hope that we have, as other honourable members have said today, is a different attitude amongst the community. This, I hope, will be strengthened by this legislation, which is responsible and wellbalanced. J think this legislation will do nothing but good in the end. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keith  Johnson) adjourned. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Naval Support Facility(HMAS 'Stirling') at Cockburn Sound, Western Australia. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Ward and Paramedical Building at Repatriation General Hospital, Hobart, Tasmania. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I hope the Government will pause here and have a long cold look at this proposal. We have accepted the amendment that medical authorities advise that smoking is dangerous to health. If it is dangerous to health, all we are arguing about is whether we should have 3 seconds or 5 seconds to tell the people about it. 
Very well, but essentially 3 seconds or 5 seconds. If that is so it seems to me that we on the Government side are making asses of ourselves by insisting that 3 seconds is more important than 5 seconds. I would ask the Government to look at this. It has been sprung on us in a way I am inclined to resent and I do not think it is good enough for the Parliament. If we say smoking is bad - we all accept that it is bad for health; it is generally accepted that that is so - and we put a provision for a warning in the first part of the Bill, to say that the warning should be given only for 3 seconds and not for 5 seconds is not the kind of thing we should split the Parliament on, but I hope the Government will pause now and and have along cold look at the question. Frankly I do not like it. 
Motion (by  Sir Alan  Hulme) put: 
That the question be now put. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister in his position of Acting Treasurer. Will he consider appointing to the taxation committee of inquiry a member of the similar body which recently completed a similar inquiry in Canada, which faced very similar problems to those existing in Australia? If this is not possible, will he consider the secondment of some of the expert staff of over 100 qualified people who serviced the Canadian inquiry so that they may service our inquiry and possibly cut some corners in what necessarily, even with this assistance, will be a mammoth task? 
This Bill gives the Government power to add 2 members to the Tariff Board for one main reason, that is, to speed up the process of review of those areas of the tariff which have not been explored for some years. In a recent speech I spelt out the need for this. Anyone who can imagine the pressure that will be brought to bear on the metal manufacturers - which is one of the main groups that has not been looked at - by the new amalgamated metal workers union in its demands for over-award payments can see the need for this progressive review. The Government wisely is taking the opportunity to appoint 2 extra members of the Tariff Board to speed this process. I will not argue about the need for this. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  did not either. 
There are 4 particular points that 1 want to raise with the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  and with the Government as to what they should bear in mind when considering those appointments. The first point I have mentioned before. I would strongly recommend that the Government pay more attention to the quality of the men appointed to the Board rather than the particular industry whence they come. I think that it is quite obvious that the Board's responsibility will increase in the future and will become even more important than it has been in the past. For that reason the quality of the men who go on to the Board will be most important, so I hope that the Government will depart from its usual procedure of going to the industry groups rather than looking as a first requirement for quality above all, because quality above all will be required. 
The second thing I bring to the mind of the Government is the quality of the reports which the system brings out. I want to refer particularly to the special advisory authority reports. I give as an illustration the special advisory authority report on man made fibres which the Minister presented last Thursday. I will not debate this report in any detail, but I bring to the Minister's attention one specific fact, namely, that there was recommended by the special advisory authority a 45c a lb duty without any arithmetic or guidance in the report as to what was the ad valorem incidence of this specific duty. No-one, who is not in the textile trade, would be aware of the significance of a 45c duty. We have seen some arguments in the newspapers as to whether it is 60, 80 or 100. I would strongly urge the Government to ask the special advisory authority what is the significance of a specific duty when he recommends it. The special advisory authority has the arithmetic and information within his command. He knows the situation. This action would make the understanding of honourable members much clearer. We would then have more knowledgable and understandable debates, because 1 defy anybody in the House to say that he really understands the significance of a recommendation of 45c a lb duty without any relationship to what it really means in ad valorem terms. 
The third point I raise with the Government is that it is no good increasing the membership of the Tariff Board if the Board's workload is increased by a kind of shuttle service where a report from the Tariff Board is received but is quickly passed to the special advisory authority and subsequently is returned to the Tariff Board again. If there were 500 members on the Tariff Board and they were given this kind of increased workload by passing references backwards and forwards we would not get the important progressive review accomplished. We had a recent illustration of this in the special advisory authority report on man-made fibres which was presented by the Minister last Thursday. 
I understand that this will be the sixth time within 10 years that a temporary duty has been imposed on man made fibres. I should not like to be held to that definitely, but this is my understanding of the position. On 18th September 1969 a Tariff Board report was received. In April 1970 it was accepted by the Government and brought before the House. In September 1970 the Minister for Customs and Excise submitted a reference to the Tariff Board concerning dumping. A report was received on that reference in 1971. It showed that no damage was being done but that dumping did indeed occur. Then the matter was passed to the special advisory authority on 30th March. On 18th May customs tariff proposals recommending the imposition of temporary duties were introduced in this House. We could not have a better illustration than this of the way in which a system can be stopped working. 
The other proposal that was brought into this House by the Minister last Thursday concerned propylene. This is a remarkable illustration of the way the system gets bunged up. However many members there are on the Tariff Board it is not likely that we will receive the kinds of results that are expected. Although I have not studied this matter thoroughly I understand that synthetic resins were the subject of inquiry in the general report on chemicals in April 1966 and that a 40 per cent duty was made available to the industry. But the industry did not take advantage of this. No-one was producing propylene powder at that stage but the industry had available to it a 40 per cent duty. An industry started up and, having got its head within the tent, it asked for a 60 per cent duty plus a support value of $595 per ton for popolymers. Yet on 3rd May 1971 the Tariff Board received a reference on propylene. On many occasions I have had reason to praise the Minister for Customs and Excise for the way in which he has tried to help our understanding of these kinds of tariff proposals, but in this case, if he will forgive me for saying so, I think he has erred because there was in these 2 instances a need to spell out, firstly, the past history and, particularly in relation to propylene, what is going on now. No-one knows what is going to happen to the Special Advisory Authority report on propylene. 
As the Minister would know, once the Special Advisory Authority report is received by the Government it is obligatory upon the Government to refer the report back to the Tariff Board, but the Tariff Board hearing is already in progress and the report has yet to be signed. I guess that the Minister will tell me, when he speaks in reply, what is now going to happen, but it would have helped honourable members to understand this matter if he had spelt it out when he introduced these proposals last Thursday. I hope that the Minister will forgive this soft impeachment. He has been an exemplary Minister in helping us to understand matters in this difficult area, but these proposals are an example of a situation which I would have understood more clearly if the Minister had earlier spelt out what will happen. 
When the Minister replies in this debate. 
What is going to happen now that the Special Advisory Authority report has been presented? Will it go back to the Tariff Board which is now considering the matter which was referred to it on, I think, 3rd May 1971. The Board has not yet reported on that matter. Will this go back to the Board yet again? This is the kind of technical information which I would like to have to enable me to understand. In regard to the report on the whole tariff system, it is clear that we are up against problems of protection. Although we know what ought to be done, the difficulty is in how to make the changes. Most responsible people - all economists and indeed most honourable members - agree that the policy of tariff protection that we followed in the past was probably unwise, although perhaps I should not say that, but at least we now know that they are different from the ones that we ought to follow in the future. I am not going to belabour the fact that I have asked for a more realistic approach towards the tariff question, but one thing is clear and that is that future policies - I think that the honourable member for Lalor mentioned this - must be different from the ones that we adopted in the past. Most people agree with this. 
There are a few people in this House - and I shall not refer to them by name - who think that very high tariff protection is a good thing. They believe that by having tariff protection we necessarily create more employment. There are only a few of these people but their views have to be listened to with respect because they are sincere people. But they ignore the fact that the employment opportunities which are gained by these lavish protection policies which they recommend are obtained always at the expense of employment and development in other industries, be they export or secondary industries whose general costs and raw material costs are increased thereby. These people ignore the fact that we are now one of the most urbanised countries in the world and that we are now a truly industrialised country with a greater percentage of our workforce employed in secondary industry than has the United States of America. 
This group - and I wonder whether I should now put the honourable member for Lalor back into this group because quite often I am uncertain as to exactly where he fits in - also justifies a policy of limitless protection by saying that it protects our industries against the imports from cheap labour countries, ignoring the awful truth of the ever-widening gap that is opening up now between the developed and underdeveloped countries and that our whole civilisation will tumble into this gap unless by some means or other we succeed in closing this gap. The people in this group also ignore the plain fact that many of these undeveloped countries are good customers of ours and that their ability to purchase more from us would be enhanced if we bought more from them. The people in this group are entitled to their point of view but. as I said, there are not very many of them. Most honourable members, all economists and most other people now realise that there will always have to be a price paid for high tariff protection. We now realise that trade always benefits both the exporter and the importer. We realise also that employment gained in the highly protected sector is paid for by the loss of employment in other industries. In short, this diminishing group of people will not realise the economic sense of this argument, but most people now realise that opportunities for employment are enhanced if there is a greater flow of trade. 
This brings me to the situation which I wanted to raise particularly. If an industry in the electorate of any honourable member is threatened by a reduction of tariff duty there is a tendency for the honourable member to react strongly to protect the industry. There are always forces operating to slow down the inevitable and beneficial lowering of our trade barriers. We can speed up the process. We can speed up this process by making the change more acceptable. It is not easy to show where employment has been gained. It is easy to point out where employment has been lost if a factory gate is closed, but it is hard to point to employment that has been gained if opportunities in other industries are enhanced, if they are encouraged to expand. How can we make this change more acceptable to a democratic Parliament such as this? I suggest that we should try to bring about changes gradually. The Tariff Board has made some steps along this line, notably in the case of woven shirts and malleable cast iron pipe fittings. Perhaps we should follow this line more often. If we phase out gradually a duty or if we have a programme of lowering a duty and this is done gradually, it will give to the industry a chance to look around for other ways of employing its capital and it will also give to the people employed in the industry an opportunity to seek other employment in other industries, which opportunities may be enhanced by having the cost of raw materials in those industries reduced. We ought to be looking continually for some way which, although it may be slower than the economic theorists and particularly some of my farmer constituents would like, is really better than achieving our objective by trying to knock great holes in the tariff wall suddenly. 
Let us have a look at the process of gradual change. Another way we could do it is by compensating industries for change. Many industries have been encouraged to set up by unwise State government action and indeed sometimes by Federal Government action, with the acceptance that lavish protection will always be available. It may well be desirable to ease these industries out of production by compensating them. The classic case is the case of the Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand subsidiary. Fibre Makers Ltd, in the field of man-made fibres. Through no fault of its own it seems to be uneconomic - not inefficient - because of its throughput. It seems that if it continues in production we will have an increasing load on the textile industry that will inhibit development or the chance of the textile industry to expand. This is an example that I give quickly off the top of my head. It is one thing that we ought to be looking at. We may proceed more effectively in the process of lowering tariffs if we look at compensating industries that are already in existence. 1 do not think for one minute that we are ever going to go back to the silly policy of protecting everything that moves as we did in the past. I think those days are gone. At least I hope so. Knowing the democratic process perhaps more clearly than I did in the past, I think we ought to consider bringing about changes more slowly but surely inevitably in regard to existing industries. 
The other point I make is that one of the greatest pressures for change in the future will come from an active consumer organisation. One of the things I would hope from the visit of Ralph Nader to the country is that he will bring it home to the consumers that they and they alone are the ones paying the extra cost for some of this unwise protection. There has to bc some change. We all recognise this, except perhaps a few diehards on both sides of the House. We have to work within the economic processes to bring it about. We need a process of more gradual change, particularly in the phasing out of duties. Gradual phasing out of duties, slow though it may appear to the economist, is something that appears increasingly attractive to the practising politician. 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry seen a transcript of yesterday's interview on the programme 'This Day Tonight' with the honourable member for Moore, in which he stated that the Prime Minister was delaying changes in the methods of selling wool because of pressure from certain powerful unnamed interests. When the Minister received the report from the Australian Wool Industry Conference did he not feel that there were some areas of uncertainty as to the functioning of the AWIC scheme which should be clarified before any changes were made? Did he not refer these and related matters to the Randall Committee for report? Having done this, does he not agree that it is only common sense to wait until the report is received before taking action? In short, can the Minister assure me that it is his, as well as the Prime Minister's, opinion that it is common prudence to get as many answers as possible before making big changes to our wool marketing system? Does the Minister not consider that the attack by the honourable member for Moore on the Prime Minister was grossly unfair? 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  began his speech by saying that he was sorry for the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  I join hi'm in that sentiment. I take a friendly and fatherly interest in the honourable member for Dawson. I am always reminding him of the proverb which says that it is better to keep your mouth shut and have people think you are a fool than to open it and remove all doubt. Every time he and members of his party speak they expose their ignorance about things rural. One of the fundamental reasons for this is that there just does not happen to be a wool grower amongst them so I am not being critical. This is one of the fundamental facts of life, but I guess they cannot help themselves. The Labor Party's plea seems to be that there should be a lead given by the Government and that the Government should press on with an acquisition scheme which is very much in its mind and which members of the Labor Party are continually expounding. What I am waiting for them to tell me is what kind of an acquisition scheme they have in mind. Perhaps they do not know. One cannot be critical of them for that for reasons I have given. Anyway, they do not say what their scheme is. We can be sure only of that. 
They do not say whether they want a compulsory acquisition scheme whereby no-one else can operate and buy wool. They do not tell us that; I guess they do not know, but if they want that kind of scheme they must admit immediately that it would exclude the operation of private wool buyers who have a particular part to play - not an overwhelmingly important part, but a part - in the scheme of things, because they can handle wool so cheaply. Secondly, it would preclude the operations of the economic wool producer organisations and similar bodies. Perhaps what they want is a compulsory acquisition scheme. I repeat: They do not say whether they do. But if they do, I point out that the Australian Wool Industry Conference does not want it. I quote from its report which begins by saying - it is not in the text but the report is related to complete or total acquisition: 
Such an 'ideal system' is probably not attainable and may not even be desirable. Certainly, there is no question of seeking government support for a marketing system which would exclude independent operators in Australia and overseas whose services are essential to the efficient handling and distribution of the Australian wool clip. 
Perhaps the Australian Labor Party wants this sort of scheme. Perhaps its inability to comprehend the marketing system leads it to a compulsory acquisition scheme without the operation of these other bodies that are already in the business. If that is the scheme members opposite are proposing - I repeat that they will not tell us - it must be for good reasons. Members of the Labor Party do the best they can with what ability they have. One of the reasons for having this scheme would be, I suppose, to gladden their little socialistic hearts. It would give them an opportunity to control things. If that is not the reason, there may be some other purpose. Is it to jack up the prices of wool - to be a strong seller in the market so that we will be able to demand a fixed price for wool of certain qualities? Anyone who thinks this at this stage and ignores the ceiling setting effect of synthetics is deluding himself. It is just irresponsible to assume that we can demand and hold the textile industry to ransom when there are on hand other fibres that can be used on the same machinery. 
Perhaps there is another reason. We have to give members opposite credit for meaning well. Perhaps they think that economies of handling can be achieved by handling the wool in that way. Indeed, this can be done. I am sure that a great many economies are opening up. This year I sold my wool, core tested and classed in a completely new way without the large number of class lots I used to have, and I got a surprisingly good price for it. However, my point is that we do not need an acquisition scheme to introduce improved and different methods of selling. Let us assume, though, that the Labor Party wants an acquisition scheme. It is important that if there is to be a scheme of some kind it must be thought out thoroughly. It is easy to have visions. There is no problem in having visions. However the task is getting a working model that does the job. A selling system that is efficient and is able to tackle the immensely difficult process of selling wool efficiently is another matter. 
A very dear friend of mine who used to come from the city to join me on the farm had some perfectly splendid ideas. I do not know whether he got these ideas because of the peace of the countryside or because of the magpies warbling outside his bedroom window, but he thought that if the farmers drove the sowing machines faster they would use less seed. Another idea of his was to bale standard lucerne direct from the crop out in the paddock. He had all kinds of splendid ideas, but he forgot the fundamental fact that doing something was not the same as having an idea. Whenever he left the farm I felt regret at his going, but in some ways I was glad to see him go because I had the job of putting ideas into practice. This is the problem with the Labor Party. 
It is all right for honourable members opposite to have these kinds of splendid ideas and suddenly to say: 'Well, this is a splendid idea, we will have an acquisition scheme which has a certain amount of popularity and a bit of steam behind it.' But they do not realise the immense difficulty of setting up a system that will be efficient. My wool growing constituents, for whom I have great respect, are very sensible people. They have begged me: For goodness sake, please do not rush into this and have a half-baked scheme.' They have begged me to proceed with caution and wisdom and not to be carried away on waves of enthusiasm. They know that the well-being of the industry depends on the wisdom of the decision that the Government makes. I want to see changes. I think very important changes are in the offing. I have instanced some in which I have been interested and in which I have taken part myself. 
I am not denying that there is a need for change, but my plea is that we in this House and the people in the country look for a well thought out scheme which is sound. The Government, haying received the submission from the AWIC, quite rightly referred it to the Randall Committee to have the bugs ironed out. If it had not done so I would have thought it irresponsible. Honourable members have heard me plead in this House for the establishment of a rural industries board so that examinations could be made of similar rural problems. I think much benefit could be obtained from such a proposition. The Rural Committee of the Liberal Party is continually putting forward the view that the responsible way to proceed is by seeking out these rural problems and finding solutions for them. The reference of this submission to the Randall Committee is a sample of the change that I want to see brought about. I have nothing but commendation for the Minister for referring the submission to the Randall Committee. Opposition supporters do not want us to proceed in this way. They say Charge ahead' or 'Let us have change for the sake of change.' They say: 'Let us have control for control's sake.' I, just as much as the Labor Party, want to see change. Without being my usual modest self I could say that probably I would know more than honourable members opposite about the way changes work. But because I want to see change and because I want to see well-founded, soundly thought out plans,  I  would have been most critical of the Government if it had not done exactly what it did do, that is, take time to think out ways of changing the system, introduce a system that will be fundamentally sound and on which the industry will prosper in the future. 
This debate springs from a report of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Public Works on the HMAS 'Stirling' facility at Cockburn Sound. As  Chairman  of the Committee, I would like to comment on some of the matters contained in the report. The first matter on which I wish to comment is the reference by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  to the fact that the use of carpets is going to be considered by the Government. I hope carpets will be used. The Committee first referred to this matter in 1970. Since then it has been pressing continually for Service scales and standards to be revised to enable the installation of carpets in the quarters of officers and of senior personnel generally. It is, strange as it may seem, more economical to use carpets instead of vinyl tiles, particularly when the cost of maintenance is taken into account. The Committee is at a loss to understand why the Government is unable to come to a decision on what seems to the Committee to be a comparatively simple matter. 
There were 2 areas of disagreement within the Committee on which I know the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  will comment. As  Chairman  of the Committee, I think I have a duty to comment on them also. The first is the location of the armament depot. Those honourable members who have read the Committee's report will know that  Senator Poyser  proposed that the armament depot be situated on the mainland. The problem here was that it would be necessary to have a safety area embracing the armament depot and another area embracing the armament jetty which, as it was for naval purposes, would obviously have to be adjacent to Garden Island or attached to it. That would have meant that there would have to be 2 safety areas. It would also have meant that in time of war - of course, the reason why it is necessary to have a Navy is to defend oneself in time of war - 'the servicing of a fleet with armaments would have had to be done through a very closely built up area. 
Another area of disagreement was the proposal by the honourable member for Hughes that the armament area be built adjacent to or just north of the barracks accommodation. The general feeling of the Committee was that that would not be wise for 2 fundamental reasons. Firstly, it would have precluded expansion and development of the facility in the future, if necessary. Secondly, it would have meant the disturbance of a very erodable group of sandhills that would have required a great deal of stabilising after the large amount of disturbance that the construction of an armament depot would have caused. The justification for that proposal - I guess the honourale member for Hughes will spell this out with more eloquence than I can summon - was that it would have rendered unnecessary disturbance of the 32 houses which are in the area in which the Committee recommended the safety area of the armament depot should be. I wish to point out that it has always been known by those people who have built these houses, shacks, cottages or whatever one may call them that they had very limited tenure on the land. Some had the land on annual licences and others on even less. They always knew that they would have to go if the Navy needed the area. The houses were usually built of second hand materials. 
The Committee weighed the matter up and, for the reasons I have spelt out, said that the armament section that the Navy had asked for should go into the area. There was some dissent. The honourable member for Hughes and  Senator Poyser  disagreed. The honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton), Senator Jessop,  the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn),  the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and I agreed with the location of it as submitted to the Committee. 
Let us turn to a grave matter of principle which concerns me as the  Chairman  and the Committee in general. Yesterday the honourable member for Hughes spelt out the traditions of the Public Works Committee. I would substantiate his remarks. I do not take particular pride in this. T am not responsible for the traditions of the Committee. They have been formed by the performance of the Committee in past years. There are, however, several traditions to which the honourable member for Hughes referred. One of them is to proceed with all due. and sometimes we feel undue, expedition with inquiries. The second is that we do not play party politics in the Committee. The Committee is proud of the fact that it arrives at its decisions divorced from party politics. The third tradition is that we are punctilious in that we do not divulge evidence that has been given during the course of our inquiry before the report is published. Events have occurred which have disturbed the Committee and which have certainly disturbed me as  Chairman  of the Committee. Let me spell out what happened. The Committee travelled to Perth on Easter Monday, in keeping with its tradition of pressing on with all expedition. 
No, we do not. The Committee heard evidence in public on 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th April. On 7th April the Navy witness said that the Navy could agree to the release of 1,250 acres and approximately 7 miles of coastline for the use of the public. That evidence was given in public. On 19th April, after the Committee returned to Canberra, It received a letter dated 18th April from the Department of the Navy saying that it had reason to revise its decision as to how much land could be made public. The letter, which was addressed to the secretary of the Committee, then said that 1,800 acres of the 2,920 acres on Garden Island could be made available to the public. That evidence was considered in a private session of the Committee. The Committee formed its conclusions on 20th April after having received this letter. 
The report proceeded to the drafting stage, and this considerable task was set in train. But the Committee's mind was made up on 20th April. Now this is where the matter of some public concern arises: On 4th May the Prime Minister went to Perth and, at a Press Conference, he dealt specifically with the matter which had been received by the Committee in private, as it thought. The Committee always regarded it as private information. The Prime Minister then made a public statement thereon. I can understand how easily this could have happened. The Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  - I have occupied that post and I understand some of its problems - would have been unaware that the Committee had sat on that day in private. The Prime Minister, even more so, would have been unaware that the Committee had sat in private. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister made a public statement about the evidence that had been given to the Committee, as it thought and still considers, in private. 
I repeat that I can understand how easily this could have happened. I am not saying that anybody is in any way trying to take advantage of anything, but I want to spell out the particular problem that this exemplifies. Let us assume that the Committee had not come to its conclusion on the date I suggested - 20th April. If the Prime Minister bad gone to Perth and had made a public statement saying that more land was going to be made available to the public and assuming that the Public Works Committee thought in its wisdom that it ought to recommend that less land be made available, it would have been very difficult for the Committee to make such a decision after that statement had received so much acclaim. That is the problem I am concerned about. It is never easy, particularly for politicians, to kick against the wind of public opinion. To kick against the wind of public opinion that is fanned, however inadvertently, by the statements of politicians makes the problems of the Committee very great in arriving at non-political decisions as indeed it must if it is not to be false in its trust to this House. 
Imagine the difficulty that the Labor members of the Committee would have faced if the Committee had not made its decision. In this case the Committee had made its decision. If it had not, it would have been very difficult for the Labor Party members of the Committee then to take  a  stand that was directly opposite to the public statement of a Minister or the Prime Minister. For that reason I want to make a plea to the Government and to the Ministers in particular that it is a good ground rule that, in the time between the reference of a work to the Committee and the tabling of its report, there ought not to be any statements by politicians in general or by Ministers in particular dealing with the substance of the Committee's inquiry. If that happens you tend to inhibit the decisions of the Committee and stop it from behaving, as indeed it must, as a non-party political committee. 
I understand how this position arose in this case. I am just using it as an illustration of what we ought to do in the future. Politicians in general and Ministers chiefly ought not to make statements about what ought to be done in relation to a public work after the matter has been referred to the Committee until the committee's report is received by this House. The matter ought to be regarded as sub judice so that there can be a proper opportunity for the members of the Committee to bring down the kind of report which the House expects them to bring down. As Chairman, I am proud of the traditions of the Committee. I am proud of the staff of the Committee. I am particularly proud of the tradition that this Committee is above party politics. This tradition will live long if this Government and future governments accept as a good ground working rule that politicians in general and Ministers in particular should not make statements about public works that have been referred to the Committee between the time of reference and the time of report. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. The Minister will be aware that the recent report of the Special Advisory Authority on manmade fibre yarn recommended a temporary duty of 45c per lb in addition to the previous 29 per cent duty. Does the Minister realise that the report contained no estimate of the ad valorem equivalent of this specific 45c per lb duty, and without this information it is difficult for a layman to understand the significance of the recommendation? Will the Minister take this matter up with the Special Advisory Authority to see whether future reports can contain similar most elementary and vital information without which a rational discussion of the report is almost impossible? 
Has the Minister for Trade and Industry seen an article in the 'National Times' of 1st May which tells of an unpublished 'index of complexity' prepared by his Department, which is said to comment unfavourably on the performance of the Tariff Board? Is he aware that the member for Lang quoted from this article in this place on 23rd May? Has his Department prepared such an index of complexity? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works. 
17/35 Runway, Taxiways and Aprons at Canberra (Fairbairn) Airport. 
Film Studios at Lindfield, New South Wales. 
Communications Tower at Black Mountain, Australian Capital Territory. 
Tiwi and Wanguri Schools at Darwin, Northern Territory. 
Casuarina Hospital at Darwin, Northern Territory. 
Royal Australian Army Service Corps Centre at Puckapunyal, Victoria. 
Commonwealth Centre (Phase 1) at Melbourne, Victoria. 
Post Office and Administrative Building at Bathurst, New South Wales. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
Is the Minister for the Navy aware of the affection with which the Royal Australian Navy is held in the fair city of Adelaide? Is he aware that there are in the RAN fleet the ships 'Sydney', Melbourne', 'Perth*, 'Brisbane' and Hobart'? Will the Minister assure me that he will do his utmost to see that one of the new destroyers will be named HMAS Adelaide'? 
Is the Minister for Labour and National Service aware of a recent case in South Australia in which a struggling Kangaroo Island soldier settler had judgment given in his favour with costs awarded against a union official who had instigated action to victimise this settler and others by declaring their wool black because it was not shorn by union labour? Does the judgment give us any hope that other sections of the Australian community will be protected from similar vicious actions by overweening union power? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-72, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Central zone sewerage scheme at Darwin, Northern Territory; 
Kormilda College for Aboriginal Students at Darwin, Northern Territory; 
Post office and telephone exchange, Shep parton, Victoria. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. Having seen the David Frost television interview with the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition last night, I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether he will arrange for the programme to be shown to Australian Broadcasting Commission interviewers so that they can see that such a programme can be interesting, educational and even pleasantly amusing without the necessity to denigrate and score off the person being interviewed, which seems to be the starting point for most, not all, ABC interviewers. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Commonwealth Centre (first stage) at Woolloomooloo, New South Wales; 
Palmerston arterial road at Darwin. Northern Territory. 
Ordered that the resorts be printed. 
As  Chairman  of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works I point out that the motion concerns the referral of this matter to that Committee. I know of no group of people more competent and more dedicated in giving such a matter the type of active and intimate examination that it should require. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  mentioned environmental difficulties. These are the very matters that would receive the attention of the Public Works Committee. I cannot understand why there should be any argument about why this matter should be referred to the Committee. 
The motion before us seeks to refer the question of the construction of the proposed Commonwealth offices at Alice Springs to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. I just cannot understand why there should be any argument about this important referral. I emphasise that the question before the Chair is whether the work should be referred to the Committee. We would presume that the Parliament would expect to be informed by the report that the Public Works Committee would bring forward after the question is referred to it. There has been comment that this is some kind of political gimmick. I would point* out that recently the Committee had similar referrals relating to Bathurst, Woolloomooloo and Melbourne. 1 do not recall the criticism being made that those projects were political gimmicks. This is the procedure that the Department of Works has to adopt for the orderly disposal of works. The proposal has to be referred to the Public Works Committee and if it is agreed to by the Committee, the Government and the Parliament orderly documentation and the letting of the contracts proceed. 
The important thing here is that the orderly operation of the Department of Works in relation to the construction of buildings should be allowed to proceed. The only way in which this can be done is by referral of each proposal to the Public Works Committee so mat the Committee can take the first step. If the first step is not taken then the subsequent steps cannot be taken. If we deny the right of the Government to refer matters to the Committee we are denying to the Department of Works the opportunity of taking the subsequent steps it must take if it is to proceed with the construction of the building, or whatever it may be, in the most economic way. It is a great pity that this matter should be the subject of a political debate The Public Works Committee has always prided itself on not being a political instrument. I regard it as a departure from the standards adopted in the past for this matter to be the subject of a political debate. I am certain political aspects are not in the mind of the Government and they are certainly not in the mind of the Public Works Committee. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Will he assure me that he will do all that he possibly can to pursue the objective outlined in the Budget to make long term finance available to rural producers? 
The main reason that I wanted to speak on these proposals was that on Thursday, 31st August, when they were introduced, there was a good deal of disagreement and a lot of criticism that they were suddenly sprung on. It was suggested, I think by the Opposition, that there should be a debate on them. I take the opportunity now of saying something about the proposals before us to give protection to both woven shirts and knitted shirts and outer garments. I am led to begin this discussion by some of the comments made by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  when he talked the other day about the Tariff Board's 'search and destroy' mission. I think it is very important that the duty of the Tariff Board and the place which it occupies in our economic scene should be spelt out with clarity. The Tariff Board is doing only what it was set up to do and that is to measure or assess whether an industry is economic and efficient. It is doing this better than it has ever done it before. It is doing it more courageously than it has ever done it before. It is doing it with a backup of a good deal more staff than it has ever had before. I was very surprised the honourable member for Lalor questioned whether the Board ought to carry out the kind of duty that it has always been obliged to do and that is to examine whether an industry is economic and efficient. 
In the case of knitted shirts, and outer garments and woven shirts it is clear that the Tariff Board has done its work with more than its usual ability. It has spelt out as I have always wanted it to do, the subsidy component that is involved in the two sections of the shirt industry. The subsidy works out, according to the Tariff Board, at an annual cost of $45m. This works out, so the Tariff Board says, for every person who is employed, at $2,000. Should not the Board make these measurements? Is this not part of the Board's job? The Board was specifically set up to measure the cost of protection. It is the Government which makes the decisions after it receives this information but it is the duty of the Board to make the measurements. For the honourable member to Lalor to speak as he did and say that the Board was on a search and destroy mission because it had set out to make these measurements is, I think, unworthy of him. 
The Government accepted these decisions in principle. It is true that there has been some delay in taking action - and I am critical of this delay - but in principle the Government has accepted the Board's recommendations. I. am concerned at the delay.  Mr Peter  Roberts, the head of the 
United Graziers Association in Queensland is also concerned about this aspect. It concerns me as a representative of the exporting sector of rural industries that this burden of S45m is to continue for what I think is an unnecessary length of time. The reason given for its continuation is that the international negotiations had to continue. The Government has introduced this proposal announced last Thursday week and this has caused even more delay. But I am glad to say that there is in the statement of the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  a clear indication that the end of the honeymoon is coming. In July 1974 the industry must expect this duty to drop to a level which the Board has advocated. But there will still be 45 per cent protection. Garments will not come in duty free. But until that time there will be a continuation of what is called 'tariff quotas'. 
I was uncertain about what a tariff quota was. The clear difference between a tariff quota and a quantitative restriction is hard to define. However, there is in sight an end to the burden that the exporting sector has to carry. Under this legislation we know that this burden will come to an end in July 1974 but in the meantime the quantitative restrictions or tariff quotas will continue to operate. We ought to be clear that this method of protection is always frowned upon. It is open to all sorts of abuse inherent in a system where judgments are made by the administration. You cannot have any system of quantitative restriction, import licences, tariff quotas - call them what you like - without advantages being given to particular groups and who is to get these advantages no one can say. 
I know that in the hands of the present Minister for Trade and Industry the system will be administered as well as it can be done but there is inherent in this system of protection a great danger, firstly, that unfair advantage may be given to certain people and secondly that the effect of competition will be taken away. There is no incentive towards a reduction of prices when an importer knows that the amount of imports cannot be increased. He asks: What is the use of reducing prices? We have to realise that this system of protection for industry will continue even if it is for  a  limited length of time. I want to make it clear that this burden will in the end be carried by the exporters and it will be resented by them as it has never been resented before because they are not in the position they used to be in when they could carry these burdens rather lightheartedly. 
We should realise that this kind of action will destroy the opportunity to trade with those countries from whom we have been buying shirts. I refer to Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Communist China. We sell to them goods worth $800m more than we buy from them. What kind of inducement is it to those countries to buy more from us if we will not buy more from them? We have to realise that this action does inhibit our ability to employ our people. An amount of $45m is paid as a subsidy by the users of shirts so this, money cannot be spent elsewhere by them on other products. Therefore this limits the employment which could be created in other industries and it certainly tends to limit employment. 
We know from our past experience that you never get good employment figures out of a sick economy. Economies are made sick when exporting industries arc not able to nourish. So let us for ever dispose of this myth that tariffs are needed to create employment. The application of tariffs may create employment in some industries but this is always paid for by employment lost in other industries such as the user industries and those industries the competitive position of which is limited by a sick economy or is limited by unwise tariff protection. I do not say that this is permanent, unwise, tariff protection. 
am sorry that this method of protection has been instituted but I am gratified to see that there is a clear indication that the end of this burden is in sight. In July 1974 these tariff quotas will cease and from then on this industry will carry on making its inevitable adjustment with a 45 per cent protection. Is not that a generous enough protection for any section of the export industry to carry? There is in the statement made by the Minister the hope that in the end there will be some diminution of the burden that the export sector has had to carry and is carrying but will not carry after June 1974. 
Is the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware that the projected new railway to the Northern Territory will by-pass both Oodnadatta and William Creek? Is the Minister aware that the road north of Hawker through Leigh Creek to Oodnadatta is a very rough road indeed? If there is to be a new road to the Northern Territory from South Australia, using Commonwealth money as in the case of the road across the Nullarbor, will the Minister assure me that he will use his influence to ensure that the new road does not run parallel with the new railway but instead will go through Hawker, Beltana, Copley, Leigh Creek, William Creek and Oodnadatta? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972. I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Jungle Training Centre at Canungra, Queensland; 
Royal Australian Air Force Base at Towns ville, Queensland; 
Royal Australian Air Force Baseat Amberley, Queensland. 
I move: 
That the Reports be printed. 
in reply - The arrangement to have shown on the blue sheet the name of the project contained in a report that is to be presented should be quite easily and properly made. I see no problem in that. I see a very grave problem in that the report will be debated before the members of the House have an opportunity to read it. I know that ignorance is no barrier to eloquence, but it would be a pity to adopt a procedure whereby members of the Public Works Committee may have knowledge of what is in the report when members of the House do not. So I suggest that if the name of a project is to be shown on the blue sheet the House should not proceed to debate the matter before it has had an opportunity to read the report. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I want to devote the all too brief period allowed to me to speak in the debate on the estimates of the Department of Trade and Industry to concentrating my thinking on the problem of trade with underdeveloped countries. In my electorate - and I am glad to say in many parts of Australia - are people who belong to a group called 'Action for World Development'. These people have put a tremendous amount of time and trouble into examining ways of helping to solve this great problem. They form a unique group in that they do their homework. They have studied the problem of foreign aid in a great deal of depth. I have attended their meetings and have been impressed by the examination they have made of the subject. They do not just pass pious resolutions. They have done their homework. They are concerned, as we all ought to be concerned, about the ever-widening gap that opens all the time between the developed countries and the underdeveloped or undeveloped countries. We can pass off the problem and say that it does not concern us. I say that it docs concern us. 
In the long term in every instance affluence has defeated the community. Into the ever-widening gap civilisation as we know it one day will tumble. I do not know when or how it will happen but the grim warning of history is that there has never been a situation of increasing affluence of one sector and increasing comparative poverty of another that has not resulted in the destruction of the affluent sector. The concern that is expressed by the group called 'Action for World Development' is shared by me, and honourable members on both sides of the chamber ought to be deeply concerned. I am the first to admit that the problem of the administration of international aid is not easy to solve. I know how difficult it is and how easy it is simply to make speeches. It is easy to give money but how hard it is to make an impact, to institute action that will really get the underdeveloped countries off the ground. 
I return to the estimates for the Department of Trade and Industry and say, as we have all said over the years, that trade is more important than aid. If we really want to help the people in the underdeveloped countries, the best way to do it is to trade with them. We have all said in private and in public that in the long term the really effective steps in helping the underdeveloped countries will be taken through trading with them. I will give an example. In 1966 on a visit to Bombay I inspected a factory where skim milk powder, a product at that stage in oversupply in Australia, was being processed. Milk mixing machinery, supplied by us under the Colombo Plan, was being used. The skim milk powder was being mixed with buffalo milk to make tone milk. The product was being sold to the people of Bombay who desperately needed it. After the inspection I asked the factory officials whether they had any problems. They replied: 'We have only one problem. We have grave difficulty in getting foreign exchange to enable us to buy skim milk powder to use in the factory.' 
On the afternoon of the same day I visited a cotton sheet factory and saw what I thought with my inexpert eyes looked like a very effective manufacturing process. Again I asked the factory officials whether they had any problems. They said: 'We have only one problem,  Mr Kelly.  We cannot get our sheets into Australia over your 55 per cent tariff wall.' That is a measure of the problem. If we are to help those people we will have to trade with them. That is the best way to be effective with our aid. We have passed off the matter over the years. I am not being critical of any one side of the Parliament. People say that we have to protect our people against black labour countries, although we do not now use the word 'black'. The term 'cheap labour' is used. It can be said with a sneer by people who claim that we have to protect our industries against the production of cheap labour countries. If you say it with a sneer you can to some people convey some conviction. 
I now turn to the problem in more detail. We have had a certain amount of discussion about the duty recently imposed on woven shirts, knitted shirts and outer garments. The Tariff Board says that- we pay to the shirt industry a subsidy of $45m a year. In other words people who buy shirts pay $45m more than they otherwise would. It works out at $2,000 for every man employed in the industry. These shirts are imported mainly from Taiwan, Hong Kong, Japan and Korea. We sell to these countries goods worth $8 18m more than the goods we buy from them. We have frequently urged that Taiwan, Hong Kong and Korea should pick themselves up by the bootstraps, industrialise and do the things they are good at. They have now done that. We say: 'Oh yes, that is very good but we cannot buy your shirts'. In the long run it will be a challenge that neither side of politics will be able to sidestep. We will just have to buy from them. Let us have a look at the significance of buying from those countries. There is a limit to the amount of shirts anybody requires. Even the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  with all his vanity would have a limit to his shirt requirements. 
Yes, he also. The position is that we in Australia, according to the Tariff Board estimate, are paying $45m extra for our shirts. If shirts were allowed to be imported duty free we would save $45m. We could either spend this extra money on more shirts, which we probably would not do, or on other commodities. We would have an extra $45m to spend. What could we do with it? The argument always goes that employment would be lost if the shirt industry were not protected. I point out that we are subsidising each person employed in the shirt industry at the rate of $2,000 each year. Let us assume that the figures are correct. I do not think anybody would deny that an extra $45m would flow into the economy to spend in other worthwhile ways, on hospitals, schools and all the things that everybody wants. We would do that. We would buy the shirts from these underdeveloped countries. We would gain employment in other ways by spending the $45m which we are now devoting to our limited resources in a less economic way. We could achieve what we wanted to do to our own benefit, but above all we would be making an effective contribution to solving a problem that concerns us all. If we are not anxious about it we should be. It is something that should lie heavily on our conscience every day. 
We know that if the Western world, not only Australia, does not effectively tackle the problem of this ever-widening gap civilisation as we know it will fall. We have an opportunity to put this into effect. Trade is more important than aid. I welcome the effective contribution made and the homework done by this group of people who are actively pursuing and are actively concerned about this problem. I think that we in Australia, and in the Western world, will have to be more concerned about the problem than we are at present. It is not a party political matter. It is a matter that lies right at the root of our profession of concern about the everwidening gap between the developed and underdeveloped countries. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Primary and pre-school at Tennant Creek, Northern Territory; 
Power station at Tennant Creek, Northern Territory. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
It is a sad thing that every time members of the Australian Labor Party imagine a band wagon thundering past, they try to get on it and talk. They seem to think that there is a pathetic kind of solution to all matters by the use of a large amount of eloquence. I thought they would have learned from the exercise of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  going to Japan. He went with his mouth open and evidently his eyes and ears shut and messed up the wheat market for a couple of years. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, 1 present the reports relating to the following proposed works. 
Telephone Exchange at Woolloongabba, Queensland; 
Telephone Exchange at Sydney East, New South Wales. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is it a fact that the extra cost to the national and commercial television stations of radiating colour television programmes is estimated by the Broadcasting Control Board to be SI 16m? Is it a fact that the  only  way that this cost can be recovered is by a large number of television viewers 'changing their black and white TV sets for colour sets? ls the Minister aware that the pace of  this  changeover will be slowed down if the industry is protected at any price, causing the price of TV sets to rise from about $300 to approximately $800, as is confidently expected? If this happens, will not the rather weak voice of the user of colour television be reinforced by the strident tones of commercial stations which will resent having to invest heavily in colour television equipment-- 
It is more in sorrow than in anger that I point out to the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  that he is one of the members of the Committee who voted for the proposition which he now says - I wrote down his words - is totally unacceptable. 
We are not talking about the whole project. We are talking about the subject of the Committee's report. The honourable member for Hughes is quite right in saying that the Committee expressed the view that we ought to have a look in greater depth at the long term proposition. The Committee did not say that the whole thing was completely unacceptable in the long term. It expressed some doubts about it. It certainly did not say that this proposition was unacceptable. The honourable member for Hughes voted for it, as I did. 
Yes. That is the only one before us. We are dealing with Phase 1. The proposition before us is that Phase 1 proceed and I just will not have it said that the Committee felt that the proposition was completely unacceptable. The Committee quite properly expressed some doubts about whether the other 5 stages should proceed but it did not say that it was totally unacceptable. It said that the Government would be acting responsibly in having a careful look at the long term project before it comes back to us again. The proposition which the honourable member for Hughes voted for and which I voted for we found to be acceptable. I do not think it is fair to say that the Committee found that it was totally unacceptable. 
One of the tragedies about the Australian Labor Party is 1hat it has no one, in this House anyway, who knows anything about the production of wool. 
If the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  went into a woolshed he would be accepted. People have seen people like him before in woolsheds. If the honourable, member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  went in, he, too, would be accepted providing he did not talk too much. If the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  went in, after the panic and surprise at his appearance had died down, they would probably spray him because they had never seen anybody like him before. 
The first obvious matter that this legislation deals with is the bringing together of the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission into a wool corporation. This concept has been accepted by the Australian Labor Party, by everyone in the industry and certainly by this side of the House as desirable in order to ensure a much more effective and cleaner administration with the lines of authority more definitely drawn. I think that the formation of the corporation will be an improvement. The quality of the people to be appointed to the corporation is of overwhelming importance. This is particularly so in the case of the  chairman,  who will have one of the most responsible jobs in Australia, lt is desperately important that the person who gets this very responsible post be an outstanding individual. 
I would like to pay a tribute to the work of the Randal] Committee and particularly to  Sir Richard  Randall. 
He knows a lot more about wool than the honourable member is ever likely to know.  Sir Richard  Randall left a responsible job as head of the Treasury to accept this position. He took over the difficult task of heading this Committee at a time when there was a great deal of pressure on the Committee from people who were anxious for it to give the right answers. I can wei understand the sense of urgency and I can also understand the irri tation of those who felt that the Committee was not giving the answers that some people wanted. I pay a tribute to the Committee and to  Sir Richard  in particular, because it displayed a sense of responsibility in not giving way to public clamour and not feeling that it had a political task to do but had the task of measuring and laying down the facts of the case. We now have the report of the Randall Committee, which is a first class document that spells out the facts. This was the responsibility of the Committee and it was met in a courageous and dedicated manner. I pay a tribute to it for the work it did. 
The new corporation will have the task of looking at the question of marketing. If the corporation thinks that certain changes should be made, the details of these changes will be submitted for examination by the Government to see whether they should be instituted. Criticism has been made on the ground that we ought to have some system of marketing and that this responsibility should be taken from the corporation that is being appointed to drive the machine. Only a foolish person would say that an organisation cannot do a certain job until he is able to say what kind of job it ought to be. I think the Government expressed a completely responsible attitude when it said: 'Now, we will appoint the corporation. We will get the best people we can. We will ask them to watch continually the methods of marketing and if new methods can be brought in they will submit these to the Government.' 
There is a lot of loose talk about how easy it is to solve the problems of the wool industry by making quick marketing changes. Firstly, there has been a lot of argument about acquisition. I think that acquisition would be the Labor Party's solution to the problem, lt is worth remembering that under the Constitution the Commonwealth has no power to acquire the Australian wool clip. This can be done only with the co-operation of the States, and this will not be easy to obtain. Secondly, it is worth pointing &gt;ut that there is a great deal of uncertainty in the industry - and, I should think, amongst members of the Australian Labor Party - as to what the Labor Party means by acquisition, because there are so many different varieties and models of acquisition. I have never yet heard the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who is the Australian Labor Party's spokesman on primary industry, spell out what kind of acquisition scheme the Labor Party suddenly wants to introduce. Does he want an acquisition scheme that acquires the whole clip and sells it by auction, because if so he has never said that this is what he wants? Does he want to acquire the whole clip and sell it by tender or by some other method? 
I will tell the honourable member in a minute. Does he want to acquire the whole clip and sell it at a negotiated price. Many responsible people think that this is the solution. Other people say: 'Well, we will acquire the whole clip and sell it at listed prices, and negotiation can take place between the acquisition authority and the buyer'. These are the kinds of problems that I think have not yet been examined by the Labor Party when it puts forward a scheme for acquisition. 
What kind of acquisition scheme does the Labor Party want? I will be interested to be told by the honourable member for Dawson, who will follow me in the debate shortly, what sort of acquisition scheme his Party wants. I hope that the honourable member will spell this out in detail because it is no good saying that we are to have an acquisition scheme when, firstly, the constitutional problems are not taken into account and secondly there are 4 acquisition schemes with variations thereof. It is for this reason that I think it is a very responsible action of the Government to say to the corporation: 'There is a problem. People are anxious that you examine the present system of selling wool.' 
I repeat the Australian Labor Party should spell out in detail the type of acquisition scheme it wants. Would the Labor Party adopt a scheme which would mean acquisition of the whole clip and would this deny the private buyers and organisations such as Economic Wool Producers Ltd, this quite remarkable organisation that has set out to demonstrate there are other ways cf doing things, a place in the industry? So when the honourable member for Dawson speaks in this debate will he please spell out what kind of acquisition scheme he wants, because this is of vital importance to the industry? I repeat, the Government has taken a responsible attitude in asking the corporation to do just that thing - to spell out what kind of acquisition scheme it wants, how it is to work and how it is to be financed. 
There are problems. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  with his typical thoroughness' today spelt out the operations of the commission. A little while ago members on the Opposition side of the House and many members on this side accepted that the solution to the problem was to have a reserve price plan. We had a reserve price plan which gave us what many people asked for and what indeed the Australian Labor Party asked for. However, now members of the Labor Party say: "That is not really what we wanted. We must have 'an acquisition scheme'. I am not convinced that acquisition is necessary now. I do not think it is. There are fundamental problems about operating an acquisition scheme if one does not have an auction system built into it. One of the problems, of course, is what the listed prices are to be. What is to be the limit level? The honourable member for Corangamite spelt out the very respected opinion of  Mr Vines  who said in February that the wool industry could not expect a price of more than 80c per lb. It would have been a very courageous acquisition authority which fixed a price at the end of June, which was the beginning of the season, at 100c per lb. You would have had to go right out to the end of the limb and you would have been recognised as exposing the industry to a withdrawal of support from the buying sector. Yet the price has risen much higher since then. I have nothing but the highest respect for  Mr Vines.  I think he is one of the most competent people in this field in Australia. 
It is almost impossible to fix the price of things to run for a whole season when you have to do it ahead of the season, as obviously had to be done in this case. This brings out the fundamental problem. It is of no good talking about acquisition as a kind of cure-all unless you specify with some exactitude how the machine is to work. I have no philosophical problems about acquisition. I am not one of those who think it is wrong to have an acquisition scheme. I would quite willingly vote for an acquisition scheme if I thought it would give me either a higher price for my wool or greater handling economy. I think it is most important to be alive to the possible changes in the wool marketing scene and other possible ways of selling wool. 
I commend to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and to the House the operation of the sealed tender system which I understand has been questioned in some quarters as not 'being as good as the auction system. It is not the same as the auction system. I am not denouncing the auction system. I am saying, however, that there are other most effective ways of selling wool. The Economic Wool Producers organisation has demonstrated quite conclusively that you can sell under the sealed tender system and get excellent results. It has been said that under this system the results are not known and that people do not know the price level. This is not so. All rural newspapers publish the costs and they carry them in a much more detailed way, because they are assessed on a clean yield basis. It is said that sales occur too infrequently. EWP is selling every 2 weeks and if it continues to increase in size, as I expect it will because of considerable handling economy, I should think that it will quickly move on to one sale every week. Then the growers will get frequent measurements in the price of wool. It is said that this system does not give complete information about buyers, but this is just not so. You get far more information about buying strength and the spread of it under the sealed tender system, because you actually open the tenders and you can see where the buyers come from. It is said that this system does not disclose the interests ofthe buyers. I do not think this is so. Certainly under the sealed tender system there is a great deal more disclosure than there is under the auction system. 
There are many other reasons why I think the sealed tender system will increase in usage. I think it will generally over the years demonstrate itself as a most effective way of selling portion of the Australian clip. I know there is a place for the auction system and I recognise that there is a respected place for the private buyer in certain circumstances. I have problems about the long term effects of private buying and I have no doubts whatever about the long term effects of the scaled tender system. I would appreciate it if the Minister when he replies bears in mind the remarks made by the honourable member for Corangamite, and reinforced by myself, that this legislation will not in any way sanctify the auction system. I repeat that I am not against the auction system but I think that there are other methods of selling wool and some of them will increase in usage and will be beneficial. I hope that when the Minister replies he will do what the honourable member for Corangamite and I have asked him to do, that is, to give us an assurance that in clause 38 (1.) (c) the words with the approval of the Minister' are not designed, as some few people think they are, to sanctify the position of the auction system. I understand that this is not so, but it would put a lot of people's minds at rest if we did have a clear statement from the Minister that this new Corporation is not in any way designed to perpetuate the auction system if other selling methods prove to be better. 
I urge the Australian Labor Party with complete sincerity to have a look at its policy which the honourable member for Corangamite spelt out. I think the honourable member for Dawson will admit that I sum it up fairly when I say that Labor's policy is to make a realistic assessment of the supply and demand situation and then to adjust the supply to the demand. The honourable member for Corangamite spelt out how perfectly splendid this is in theory and how impossible it is in practice. You have to realise that if you are to do it you have to say to the wool industry - and this is the cogent point - that there is going to be a fall in the demand for wool or an increase in the demand for wool. What kind of an answer would any corporation or any Labor government, if Labor happened to be in office, have given 2 years ago? Surely it must have been that all the economic factors pointed quite conclusively to a fall in the price of wool and a fall in demand. So 2 years ahead you would have to say to the industry: 'We want you to produce less wool'. You would have to do it a long time ahead because the ewes have a large say in this. They require a 5-month gestation period, and usually the grower has to buy the rams beforehand even if he has not to buy ewes. It is long term planning. Should a drought occur in New South Wales or some other area the supply position would inevitably change. It is of no good talking about the desirability of making a realistic assessment of the demand situation unless you can do it. I have said in this House before and I repeat that if anybody in Australia, even members of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics or the dedicated officers of the Department of Primary Industry, had the ability to foresee the demand situation for any product 2 years ahead they would not belong to the Bureau or to the Department; they would be sitting in this House or in France with their feet in a bucket of champagne. 
When you start talking about adjusting supply to demand the fundamental problem to overcome is firstly to find the demand. This is overwhelmingly difficult because you have to be able to foresee fashion trends. This is something I have never been able to do and I doubt whether even the honourable member for Dawson can do it. The honourable member for Riverina may very well be able to do it being a leader in that field. Having assessed the pattern of demand you have to adjust the supply to the demand. We ought not to delude ourselves that it is impossibly difficult. It is not for no reason that the best purchasers of our wool and our wheat are the Communist countries who desperately try to assess the demand and then try in their muddled ways to adjust the supply to it - forgetting that the weather turns them down, forgetting that fashion turns them down, forgetting that there are movements of commodities throughout the world. I beg the members of the Labor Party to have a look at this policy. It is a very fine phrase to use but it is important to realise that it is impossibly difficult to operate. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether it is a fact that the Australian Wheat Board has recently sold 1 million tons of wheat to China. Is not Russia also buying wheat from Australia? Does this not seem to suggest that Communist countries are not very good at farming? Does this not make one sceptical about the wisdom of the advice given by at least one prominent and vociferous Labor Party spokesman on rural affairs that we should copy the farming methods of communist countries. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
14L/32R Runway and Associated Airport Works at Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea: 
Development of Nadzab Airport, Papua New Guinea. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
In accordance with the previsions of the Public Works Committee Act I present the report relating to the following proposed works: 
I seek leave to make a short statement. 
Is the Minister for the Interior aware that the sun is expected to set in Adelaide on 2nd. December at 8.16 p.m. daylight saving time? As some religious sects cannot, vote on Saturdays between sunrise and sunset will the Minister give publicity to the fact that such people can, instead, make a postal vote? 
I am in no way critical of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  for not immersing himself in Tariff Board reports, because of the amount of other work that he has to do. I do not propose to deal with old questions. We have fought all the battles on knitted outer garments and woven shirts. I think the matter of those articles has been well ventilated in the House in recent months. I do not even propose to deal with the Special Advisory Authority report on synthetic yarns, which is a subject which angers me. I have made my anger known in the past. However, this is a long way back in history and I do not propose to deal with it again. 
I propose to make one general comment. The second reading stage of a Bill is the time when such comments should be made. When I first came into this House and started to wage a battle for a more responsible attitude towards tariff protection, I used to receive my most active support from the primary industry groups. But recently there has been a considerable change. It has now become obvious that, as our economy becomes more mature, there is a greater understanding amongst manufacturers that they are paying die costs of unwise tariff protection on their raw materials. This has been a refreshing change. After I have given a talk at a meeting, I find that a large number of responsible industry leaders come up and say: 'Why was that kind of thing not spelt out to us before?' Lest honourable members think that this is egotism on my part, I shall quote from a recent report by P. A. Marketing Service, on a survey conducted by P. A. Management Consultants Pty Ltd in which a large sector of manufacturing and business leaders in Australia was circularised for its opinion about tariff protection, among other things. The comments are interesting. The report states: 
Sixty per cent of respondents indicated there was a need for change in certain tariff levels, mainly centred around metal fabricated products and textiles. Overall, 37 per cent of the suggested changes were for tariff level increases and 63 per cent looked for decreased tariff protection. 
That report indicates that we are growing up industrially and that the cost of tariff protection is borne, firstly, by exporters, be they primary or secondary and, secondly, by manufacturers who find that the cost of their raw material is increasing and their chances of economic production are lessening and that therefore the employment in those industries is limited if the tariff protection is given unwisely, as it has been in some cases. 
Having made that general comment, I want to deal mainly with the shipbuilding report. This is a very difficult, technical report which I had great difficulty in understanding. But I think it is worth spelling out that before the Tariff Board report there were 2 groups in the shipbuilding industry - the subsidised section and the unsubsidised section. Some shipyards were recognised and because they were recognised they received a direct subsidy limited to 33&amp; per cent The queer thing is that, on the Tariff Board's assessment, the unsubsidised yards were doing well and it was the subsidised yards that were performing so badly. We must ask ourselves why we are so bad at making ships in these recognised yards. 
We are proud of the fact - we are always justifying our tariff protection system by this fact - that our steel is as cheap as any other in the world. Steel is the main material component in ships. Why do we do so badly? Why was it that in 1969-70 the taxpayers subsidised the industry at the rate of $18m? According to a Press release from which I will read shortly, this figure is expected to reach $33m. According to the Tariff Board report, the total funds employed in the recognised yards in 1969- 70 was $20m and the taxpayers subsidised them to the extent of $18m. This subsidy figure would just about equip the yards each year. If we relate this subsidy figure to the number of men employed, it can be seen that the taxpayers are paying $2,800 for every man employed in the industry. So, we should ask ourselves why we perform so badly. 
I should have mentioned earlier that, apart from the level of protection in the form of subsidy, there is another arm to the protective machine, namely, an import prohibition which simply stops imports coming in unless there is a special reason for them to come in. So, there is a very high rate of subsidy and also an import prohibition. The Tariff Board claims that after the subsidy is paid to Australian shipyards the extra price paid for some vessels made in Australia increases the freight rate by 25 per cent. I repeat: Even after the subsidy is paid, the extra cost increases the freight rate by 25 per cent. We should ask ourselves why we do so badly. The Tariff Board report states:  . . a comparison of the value added in Australia for some of the largest ships produced before 1970 with equivalent activities on almost identical ships built overseas shows that local costs have been between three and four times greater than the overseas costs. This compares with the results achieved by some unsubsidised Australian yards which have, without benefit of subsidy, won contracts against bids on a subsidised basis by recognised yards and have also developed a sig nificant export market in small ships. These results Indicate that some of the unrecognised yards are much more competitive in world market terms. 1 can see the honourable member for Melbourne Ports looking at me in an interested way. It is quite a remarkable situation. It will be said: "The difference in the wage structures explains it'. But figures on comparative wage rates between Japan and Australia indicate that the wage rates in the 2 countries are very close together. Let me give another direct quotation from the Tariff Board report in relation to the Swedes. It states: 
The Board notes that Sweden is a major producer of ships for world markets. Compared with Australia, Swedish shipyards pay higher wage rates, are part of a smaller domestic economy, have no substantial cost advantages in major raw materials and machinery and enjoy less Government assistance than the Board proposes for Australian yards. 
Why are the Swedes so good at making ships and why are we so bad? It is quite clear that we are not good at building ships in recognised yards. 
One of the reasons for this, of course, is the industrial strife and the union demarcation disputes that dog us. The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  who is now at the table and who was once Minister for the Navy, as I was, will remember what it was like at Garden Island with the industrial strife that dogged the shipyard. The arguments are not only between management and men; they are between the unions themselves. Of course, this is all right under the system we have been using. It has been almost a cost plus system. When an industrial dispute occurred, it was easy for the shipyards which knew they would be protected by import prohibition, to just pass on the costs. There has been a lack of effective competition from imports. Not only is the industry protected by a subsidy, it is also protected by import prohibitions. 
One of the other reasons we perform so badly is that we build too many classes of ships. This is where the Swedes beat us. They concentrate on certain classes of ships instead of trying to spread their effort over all classes. Some clear recommendations were made in the Tariff Board report, some of which the Government has followed and a great many of which it has altered in some way. Indeed, the Government's footwork in relation to this matter since the Board's report was made must be confusing even itself. It certainly has confused me. The Board recommended that after the subsidy had been paid - a very high rate of subsidy, higher than 33 per cent, was recommended for the beginning of the period - the Government ought to allow secondhand ships to come in without an import prohibition. That is a very useful discipline in 2 ways. It is a useful discipline such as that which applies in the motor car trade. If a person thinks that new cars are too dear he can buy a secondhand one. The Tariff Board said that if we subsidise the industry generally - as I have said, the subsidy rate is going up in the short term - we ought to be able to let the industry face competition from secondhand ships. The Government did not accept this but lt said that it would allow imports of new ships. When announcing the report the Minister said: 
Approvals to import new ships will be freely given where Australian yards have been given the opportunity to tender but where no Australian yard tenders for the vessel or where the price of the vessel from the Australian yard, after payment of the subsidy, exceeds the normal price for which the vessel can be acquired from an overseas builder, including the cost of delivering to an Australian port. 
Just the other day the Government resiled from that decision and the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  said: 
Until such time as the full effects of our new proposals can be gauged I do not envisage any increase in the number of imported ships coming into Australia- 
I would like the Minister for Customs and Excise to listen to this -  and, therefore, during this period the import practices that operated prior to the Government's announcement in May of this year, will be resumed. 
In other words he said: 'I cannot see any increase in imports, therefore we will stop ships coming in'. This is a queer streak of logic. Why is it that we do so badly? I think that another quotation from the Tariff Board report on shipbuilding would be more authoritative than anything I could say. Referring to measuring the performance of the industry, the Tariff Board stated: 
Tons of steel fabricated per employee provides one measure of these differing growth rates and of the relative efficiencies of Australian and overseas yards in the use of resources. A Scandinavian yard for which evidence was provided increased its output f om 17 tons in 1965 to an anticipated 40 in 1970. Figures from a British builder show rises from 20 in 1969 to an anticipated 45 in 1971. The best Australian performance was an increase from less than 7 to 9 tons per man in the 7 years to 1969; 9 tons per employee is well ahead of the Australian average. 
This compares with about 40 tons for an overseas yard of the same size. The report continued: 
Production comparisons were submitted of an Australian and Japanese yard with comparable facilities in terms of building berths, cranes, employment and engineering facilities. In a given year when these yards were employing similar numbers, the Japanese yard produced ships with more than 12 times the gross tonnage of the Australian yard! - 
It was employing the same number of men -  and used almost 8 times the amount of steel. The local ships were all different - the Japanese ships were mainly standardised. 
That is the nub of the matter. If we were to concentrate on the ones we were good at making, if we were to concentrate our effort on a limited range of ships and build them well instead of trying to spread our effort across the whole field of the industry, we would do far better. The present situation imposes the kind of costs I have mentioned. It imposes terrific costs on the Australian economy. There has been a lot of talk recently about the need to have an Australian overseas shipping line. The Australian National Line, the Government's shipping line, knows that a shipping line cannot afford to buy the Australian built ship if it is to be economic and able to compete. If they are not to be economic, what is the use of building ships? 
We are coming now to a crunch point. I was glad to hear the honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes)  with typical horse sense, if I can use the term, spelling out the kind of costs that can flow from our present shipping policies. We are really pricing ourselves in a tragic way out of the Australian market and imposing a grievous burden on the economy. I have given these figures before but let me repeat that cement is carried from Townsville to Darwin in an overseas ship for $2.30 a ton, but it is carried from Townsville to Weipa, half the distance, in an Australian ship for $25 a ton. These are the reasons why we have to start to rethink our policy. I come back to shipbuilding. The fundamental lesson of this whole exercise is that if you prepare a feather bed people will lie on it. The difference between the recognised and the unrecognised yards, the subsidised and the unsubsidised yards, is the fact that the subsidised yards have no incentive to get cracking. They know that the cost plus system applies and that the import of ships will be prevented by Government decree. So there has not been any drive for efficiency, and this is why we perform so badly compared with the Swedes. It is not because our men cannot work as well. One of the reasons is that they do not work as well because of strikes, demarcation disputes and other industrial troubles that dog us. Another reason is that the industry has not had the incentive to face up to its policies. It is being feather bedded. 
My concern is that when the Tariff Board spelled out so clearly what ought to be done the Government supported it by doing some of the things that the Board recommended, but it then changed some of the more important recommendations. We are all now starling to realise that not for any particular group of people but for the economy as a whole we must have a clear eyed approach to the way in which we assist our industry, knowing that unwise tariff or subsidy protection carelessly applied will be at the expense of our economy as a whole and will reduce employment in sections of it. I think that the shipbuilding industry is a classic case. I repeat that once you prepare a feather bed, industries will lie on it. The shipbuilding industry is so far in the feather bed that it finds it awfully difficult to get out. I hope that the industry will start to make the vital readjustments about which this Government has been warning it but which I think it has been backing away from rather too frequently. 
I have 2 other matters which I would like to deal with in some detail. One relates to the tariff protection recently applied to roller chain. This follows a Tariff Board report that was signed in June 1970 and made public in September 1971. (Extension of time granted) One can always tell from the Government Gazette when a report is presented to the Government. If the report recommends a reduction in duty there is what might be called a long gestation period. It takes a long time to be born. In this case the report was signed in June 1970 and was made public in September 1971 - 15 months later. During this period the reorganisation of which I speak could have taken place. The industry is divided into 2 parts. That part of the industry which is concerned with chain over 1 inch in pitch, which is the distance between the rollers, seems to be doing well or, at least, is economic and efficient. The section of the industry that deals with the smaller size chains, under 1 inch in pitch, is doing really badly. This is why the Government has intervened and given this lavish protection. We must ask ourselves why this part of the industry does so badly. I quote directly from the Tariff Board report: 
In the Board's view, Renolds- 
That is the company in question. It is centred at Benalla in Victoria -  would have substantial cost disadvantages against any overseas producer whose market is large enough to allow the use of the most efficient processes. 
The Australian market is too small to be economic. That is the general summing up of the Board's experience. In an article in the 'Financial Review' of 6lh October, P. McGuinness stated: 
Renold's plant in Benalla used machinery which was imported into Australia, secondhand, from Britain in 1948 - some of the plant in use, it was said, was at least 50 years old. 
This is probably another reason why the industry has performed so badly. It is worth remembering that it is getting a 35 per cent protection. There is another queer aspect of this which I cannot understand and I should be glad if the Minister would examine it. It appears that in its report the Tariff Board recommended that the by-law relating to chain components be abolished. What it feared was that there could be a plant merely for assembling chain. After all, as the honourable member for McPherson would know, some classes of chain are made up of components pui together. This is not an intricate process. There is a duty of 35 per cent to cover a protected process which in some, but not all, cases is very largely an assembly process. 
The Government has stepped in and imposed import quotas, which is a nice name for what used to be called quantitative restrictions. The importer can now import 60 per cent of the chain that he imported last year and pay the 35 per cent  but if he imports more than the 60 per cent he pays at the rate of $8 a kilo. That does not sound very much but if it is expressed as so much a foot, which a farmer can understand, in some cases it works out at $4 a foot That is the. import duty so it is quite a prohibitive duty. What is happening now is that importers are looking at their books and saying: 'I cannot import what I imported last year. I can import only 60 per cent. I will have no inducement to cut my price". The price of imported chain will rise and Renolds will have no incentive to reduce production and up will go the price of chain. This has already happened. The other day I rang an Adelaide store to find out about the weights of chain and so forth and I was told by the person to whom 1 spoke: T did not know about this. That is why it has become so dear just now'. 
The. point 1 make is that import quotas are being introduced in an increasing number of industries. It must be hammered home that this has exactly the same effect as import licensing had in the old days - it is taking away competition for price reductions. Why are we doing this? We should realise that it imposes a grievous burden on the farming industry. How much chain is there in a header? I have not measured it but farmers are all distressed at the price of spare parts and obviously chain will become, even dearer than it is now. The reason given for the protection is that there is a social problem in Benalla. There are 8,000 people in Benalla and 1 am told that 120 people are working in this industry. I guess that the justification for this protection is directly related to the cause of decentralisation but it is worth remembering that throughout Australia the cause of decentralisation will be damaged because the health of the primary industries and other industries which use chain will suffer because of the. increased cost of it. I accept the Minister's assurance that this action was taken to give the industry time to readjust, but I advert to my original! statement that in June 1970 the Board's report was received and it was not published until September 1971. I am well aware that a matter like this involves much work but during this 15 months delay the industry would have had the opportunity to readjust. I understand that the industry is facing up to the need to readjust but it is facing up to it a year later than was necessary because of the delay in publication of the Board's findings. 
Another matter to which I refer briefly concerns the Tariff Board's report on hand tools. I mention this only as a particular example of administrative difficulties. I have tried to check this with the Department of Trade and Industry but I understand that there is a duty of 25 per cent on pliers. I understand that there is bylaw entry on plier blanks, as they are called. I was interested in this and was rather surprised to discover that rough pliers, made and shaped but not polished come in under bylaw. If this is so, it makes a surprising situation. I am told that the proportion of effort that goes into the polishing and painting of these blanks varies from 2 per cent to 20 per cent - 20 per cent if they are insulated and about 2 per cent if they are ordinary pliers. Let us assume that it is 20 per cent, which is the highest that can be allowed. The effective rate of protection would then De 5 times 25 per cent, or an effective rate of duty of 125 per cent. This situation surely should be examined. If a company is getting bylaw entry on blanks which have only to be polished and it is getting a protection of 25 per cent, and if this represents 20 per cent of the process the effective rate is 125 per cent. I am certain that this is an administrative matter which the Minister would have a look at- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 I just want to make one very small point that I think should be made. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  mentioned that the Townsville sewage plant, which has just recently been completed, will have to be shifted when work on the RAAF base at Townsville is completed. I have no complaint with the honourable member for not being able to remember all the details of a great many hearings that have been through the mill recently. In actual fact the sewage plant will have to be shifted if and when a new cross-runway is built. That is not associated with the work under consideration at the moment. I think that I ought to make that clear so that the Air Force does not have to carry unwarranted criticism which I know has been made in error by the honourable member for Hughes. 
by leave- As  Chairman  of the previous Public Works Committee and Vice-Chairman of the present one, I support entirely the point of view put by the present  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton).  It is quite impossible for the Public Works Committee to do the kind of job that it has done in the past if it is overloaded with references. The previous Committee had a great deal of experience of the difficulties in handling its work and came to the considered opinion that it should recommend to the Government that the amount of $750,000 - the estimated cost of a project must be above this sum before it is referred to the Committee for report - should be increased. The Committee's report suggested a figure of $1.5m. The honourable member for Leichhardt mentioned his personal opinion, to which I add my support, that the sum of $2m would be a reasonable level at which to draw the line. It should be pointed out that the only other possible solution is to have 2 Public Works Committees. I think that this would be quite unwise and that there would be a great deal of difficulty in maintaining a common policy between them. I think it would be much wiser to raise the limit, as the honourable member for Leichhardt suggests. 
 Mr Speaker- 
Has the Prime Minister, in his capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs, received a report from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development which dealt with Australia's economic performance? Does this report make some very critical comments about Australia's policy of tariff protection, as indeed I have been doing for some years, if I may say so with due modesty, -which is a quality that commends itself to both the Prime Minister and to me? Because of the general importance of this report and the particular importance of that portion dealing with tariff protection and the most efficient allocation of our limited resources, will he see that the report gets as wide a circulation as possible, particularly to members on both sides of this House? If I may give him some fatherly advice, it would not be a bad idea to leave some copies of the report in the Cabinet room. 
I want to give my blessing to the formation of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory. I think that the formation of such a Committee is a sensible arrangement and I am glad to say that it is receiving the support of both sides of the House. I had a particular interest in the Northern Territory, as the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  was kind enough to remark, as a member of the Forster Committee in  1959.  I had the responsibility with Professor Forster and  Dr Williams  of trying to draw up an agricultural blueprint for the development of agriculture in the Northern Territory. This gave me an intimate and continuing interest in the area. As a member of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation Advisory Council I have had again many opportunities of going to the area and seeing the problems in the raw and at first hand. As a member of the Public Works Committee I have been in the Northern Territory continually over the years. For these  3  reasons I have a very intimate and urgent interest in the development of the Northern Territory. As I understand that the proposed Committee will be engaged in furthering that development, I am very glad to give my blessing to the establishment of the Committee.  1  am sorry that there has been far too much party political discussion on the appointment of this Committee.  1  refer particularly to the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  who has come to this place with a considerable reputation. I was sorry to see the honourable member engage in this kind of discussion so soon after his entry to this House. One piece of fatherly advice that I would give the honourable member is that he diminish his reputation by engaging in this kind of party political debate on a subject that should be non-party political. This brings me to the real nub of the question. As a member of the Public Works Committee for some years I have been privileged to serve with the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  who I understand is to follow me in this debate. The example set by the honourable member for Hunter of looking at technical things from a non-political point of view would be an object lesson to many people in this House. I pay a tribute to the honourable member for Hunter for the dedication he has shown in his work on the Public Works Committee.  1  am sorry to see the standard that he and others have set diminished by some of the speeches that we have heard tonight. 1 would couple with that criticism the speech that I heard from the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I am sorry that evidently the standard of behaviour of members of the Public Works Committee and members of the Public Accounts Committee seems to be different in this regard. Members of the Public Works Committee seem always to have regarded that Committee as a non-political organisation. In my time on the Public Works Committee there never has been a party political division and it is a matter of great grief to me to see this attitude introduced into the debate on the appointment of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory - a committee that can work effectively only if it works on non-party political lines. I am sorry that the standard that has been set by honourable members such as the honourable member for Hunter on other committees will be departed from on this occasion. 
Having delivered that little homily, I should like to refer to the particular problem that I wish to raise with the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby).  I do this in the hope that he will take this criticism by me as criticism by a person who has a very real interest in the way the committee system works. I think that it is a grave mistake for the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to have the responsibility of appointing the  chairman  of the Committee. I say that because only the committee members - only the members who have worked together - know the value of the man who is elected as  chairman.  I was proud to be able to second the nomination of the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  for the chairmanship of the Public Works Committee. I seconded his nomination because I have worked with him for a long time. The Prime Minister may have laid his hand on some other member, but the members of the Public Works Committee who have worked with the honourable member for Leichhardt are the only ones who know the quality of the work that he does. I think that it is a grave departure from the high principles that we always have held to allow the Prime Minister to select the  chairman  of a committee. 
The members of the committee should be the ones who know what person will serve them best as chairman. I am sorry to see this proposal come into the House in this form. I think honourable members will agree that it smacks of a laying on of hands - of an edict from on high. How can the Prime Minister, however clever and able, know the workings of a committee and who has served the committee best? Perhaps it is not very important in this case, but it is an important principle that if the committee system is to work well it will do so because the committee members examine matters from a non-party political point of view. I do not think that anybody in the House will disagree with that. 
If the selection of the  chairman  of the committee is to be made by the Prime Minister, it inevitably will smack of party political preferment or something like that. The objectivity of a committee and its ability to make non-party political judgments will be destroyed. I believe that this is vital to the committee system. I hope that the Minister for the Northern Territory will take what I am saying as a sincere expression not of anything party political but merely as expressing one thing - that if this system is to work well, and we all hope and indeed know that it can, it should be divorced from any political influence. I beg the Minister to have another look at this proposal when the matter goes to the Senate. My suggestion may be put forward in the Senate. The proposal contained in the matter we are discussing is a departure which I regret. Those of us who have worked on committees and who have a standard to maintain, and indeed, are maintaining it, regret this departure. 
As the honourable member for Leichhardt is in the chamber, I say again how much we appreciate his ability, courtesy, kindness and efficiency on the Public Works Committee. The honourable member may not have been the one upon whom the hands were laid. If that had been the case, it would have done the Public Works Committee great damage. So, I ask the Minister to ensure that when this matter is considered in the Senate the Government has a careful look at the departure from the previously adopted method of selecting the  chairman  of a committee, which departure I regret. The proposal before the House is to establish for the first time a Joint Committee on the Northern Territory. It would be quite easy for the Prime Minister, if he wanted to have a direct voice, to pass the word along that a certain honourable member was his selection for the position of  chairman.  Then, after the committee had worked for some years, it should be the responsibility of the members of the committee to select their  chairman  because they and they alone know the efficiency and effectiveness of the  chairman. 
1 am glad that I have thumped it into the honourable member's head. One other point that I should like to raise is that the  chairman  of the committee should be responsible to the committee and not to the Prime Minister. I believe that this is vital to the health of the committee system. I beg the Minister to examine this criticism, as it comes from a person who has had an active interest not only in the Northern Territory but also in the health and welfare of the committee system. 
The Bill before the House increases the amount of levy that is payable to the waterside workers. This is done for 2 reasons, one of which is to allow the spread of the levy to all ports. I do not think anybody opposes this. The time has come at last when the people of Australia - particularly those who live in the cities - are prepared to pay good money to stop other people joining them in the cities. We are, and I think the Government is, in earnest about the necessity for decentralisation. This is one method of making decentralisation possible. The main part of the levy, as has been mentioned earlier today, goes to waterside workers for the payment of such things as annual leave, sick leave, public holiday pay, long service leave, idle time, pensions to retired waterside workers, transfer of workers to other ports and administrative expenses. 
This legislation makes it possible for the levy to rise to $1.50. An analysts of this figure shows that the wage paid for waterside workers is approximately $3 an hour, so $3 an hour in direct payment is going to the waterside worker and a levy of $1.50 is going to him for the other purposes that I have mentioned, lt is important to realise that the $1.50 is borne ultimately by shippers - by people who ship their produce. Why is it done this way? The honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  mentioned, in an excellent speech this afternoon, that it is done to make permanent employment possible. We all had great hopes that the institution of permanent employment on the waterfront would enable us to have a more contented and a more efficient waterside work force. Unfortunately, this has not happened. The honourable member for Berowra mentioned the escalation of the cost per ton of handling produce across the wharf in Syndey. lt rose from $6.42 in July 1969 to $14.42 in December 1972 - an increase of more than 30 per cent each year in handling costs across the wharf. 
Why has the system worked so badly? It started off with the high hope that it would make a big difference to handling costs. An example of why it has worked so badly is brought out in the cost of idle time. In 1968 it was $824,000 but in 1971-72 it had risen to $8m. This cost is borne indirectly by the shipper and it is one of the reasons that has justified the increase of the levy. Let us examine the question of idle time. The reason for it, of course, is the change in the technology of the waterfront, with a large amount of material being handled in bulk and, with the introduction of the container system, this has meant that we have different needs for employees on the waterfront. The honourable member for Berowra mentioned the stark cost of $3,000 a year for every redundant worker on the waterfront. 
Honourable members know that under the agreement arrived at last year the cost of the golden handshake, assuming that these redundant workers could be retired, would be approximately the same figure - $3,000 - but that this would be a once and for all payment. As it is now, an annual charge of $3,000 is being paid for the redundant employee on the waterfront. The reason for this can be stated briefly. The Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority has the right to declare an employee to be redundant in the main ports only if it gets the recommendation from either the Waterside Workers Federation or the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour. As the honourable member for Berowra quite rightly pointed out, this step is not likely to be recommended by the Waterside Workers Federation and the real guts of the problem is that the employers of waterfront labour are rather indifferent. Honourable members have heard the story that one can always tell a man who is dining out on an expense account because of the enthusiasm with which he summons the waiter. In this case the employers of waterfront labour are largely indifferent to the costs of their cargo handling. Because of the operation of the conference system the employers are able to recover the costs. So long as this applies to everybody they are largely indifferent to the increased cost because they know that it can be loaded on to the freight costs. This is really the crux of the position. One fundamental reason why there is such a large number of redundant waterside workers on the waterfront is that the Waterside Workers Federation will not apply to the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority for them to be made redundant, nor will the employers of waterfront labour. This is one of the hidden costs of the conference system of which I think honourable members should be aware. I hope that honourable members opposite will recognise that the problem of what to do about our shipping policy is one of the fundamental economic problems that will face them and, indeed, will face the country. We are paying the tremendous amount of $8m a year for people who are not required on the waterfront. I quote from an article written by  Mr Ramsden  in the 'Australian Financial Review'. He has been a most assiduous student of the situation and he says: 
The situation is now common in the industry at all major ports of there being an overall shortage of labour on a particular day while, at the same time, through labour being locked up in permanent employment by operational companies and not transferable, an approximate equal number of watersiders are at home receiving idle time payments. 
The honourable member for Berowra instanced an occasion on 9th February when there was an overall shortage of waterfront labour in Sydney of 228 men, while 175 people were at home being paid for idle time. 
This is the picture of our problem. Paying people for being idle is no way to run a country. I should think that the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  will bring his mind to bear on this problem when this legislation, which provides for the way this levy is to be arrived at, is examined later in 'he year. I have enough respect for the Minister to know that he is aware that this is an impossible situation. There cannot be a situation where $8m was paid last year and possibly $9m will be paid this year to enable people to sit at home and do nothing. This is the kind of situation on which I think the Minister for Labour will bring his undoubted negotiating ability to bear. He will have to because this is the kind of burden that no economy can carry. There are solutions. The honourable member for Berowra pointed out today that the short term solution would be to ask the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority to have the sole right to declare waterside workers redundant and not  to  pass the responsibility over to the Waterside Workers Federation or to the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour, for reasons that I have mentioned. Neither of these 2 groups is willing to incur the odium of recommending that people be made redundant. The Association of Employers of Waterside Labour is acutely aware that if there is an industrial stoppage on the waterfront it will have to pay the cost because it is largely the Association's ships that will be held up. But we cannot continue to go on as we are at present, and I ask that the Minister for Labour have a long, cold look at the suggestion that has been brought up that the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority have the responsibility for the declaration of redundancy. 
I think I would like to see it taken a stage further so that the Authority has the right to control all the employees on the waterfront instead of their being parcelled up between the various stevedoring organisations as at present. All we can say for certain is that we cannot continue in this way. It is absolutely foolish to expect any economy to carry this kind of increasing burden. Let me give an idea of the size of the burden. It costs a shipper $157.50 for a 35-hour week for every man employed on the waterfront. Ali of this does not go directly to the employees but it goes to them indirectly in the form of sick leave, redundancy payments, the golden handshake and so on. This is the problem that I want the 
Minister for Labour to face. I know that he has enough realism beneath his benign exterior to realise that for Australia's sake, not for the sake of any particular sector of it, this problem is the bullet we have to bite on. I understand that he himself is doing some examination of the waterfront position. 1 would very strongly suggest to him 2 things. The first is that he give the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority the responsibility to declare workers redundant. Then we would be much more likely to get them declared redundant. They would then get the golden handshake of $3,000. No one could say that they were being victimised. Secondly, 1 hope he will have another long look at whether the Stevedoring Industry Authority should have a greater control of all the people working on the waterfront. Lastly 1 suggest that he must face  a  crunch point for Australia in future, that is. what should be our policy on the conference system, because there is no doubt that as it operates at the moment the conference system encourages the operation of a cost plus system. No economy can carry that kind of burden. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Is the Treasurer aware that the Minister for Labour recently said publicly that the advice given by Treasury officials was almost invariably wrong? Does the Treasurer now know that the next morning the Prime 
Minister characterised the statement of the Minister for Labour as irresponsible? Is the Treasurer  aware  how well and with what dedication his officers strive to meet the difficult deadlines set by the Government? Is it not likely that the statement of the Minister for Labour denigrating the performance of Treasury officials will damage the morale of his Department? When will this carping criticism of dedicated civil servants cease? What is the Treasurer going to do about it? 
Does the Prime Minister realise that his practice of making announcements of policy and personnel changes to Press conferences rather than to Parliament denies members the opportunity of hearing of these changes at first hand and effectively prevents discussion of them? Does he recall his criticisms of other Prime Ministers at other times when they departed to any small extent from the cardinal principle that, when the Parliament is in session, Parliament should be told of these matters directly and not second-hand? Does the Prime Minister not recognise that a continuation of this practice must denigrate the position of Parliament in the democratic system? For these good reasons, will he please cease the practice? 
On 1st May of this year the House debated a companion Bill to this BUI, namely, the Stevedoring Industry Charge Bill in which the levy for employment on the waterfront was increased from Si to $1.50 an hour. This Bill seeks to continue for another year the arrangements under which the levy is collected and the way in which it is to be used. As has been pointed out on a previous occasion, the levy is to pay for annual leave, idle time, sick leave, public holidays, long service leave and so on. This levy was first imposed in 1967, which is when the Government of the day instituted the practice of employing permanent labour on the waterfront. It was hoped that the introduction of permanent employment would lead to a better use of labour on the waterfront and a more responsible labour force. This Bill seeks the permission of the House to continue the previous arrangements until the end of June 1974. 
I am not going to be critical of the Government for seeking this extension of time. We have had the problem on our plate since 1967 but, to be quite frank, we have not been able to solve it. When we on this side of the House were in Government we instituted the levy and devised the way in which it is collected. That system has not worked effectively. We have not come up with a solution to our problem. I am being quite frank about this matter. I am not going to be critical of the Government for taking time to have a look at this very difficult problem, lt is indeed a very difficult problem. An examination of the increase in costs on the waterfront will reveal the degree of failure of the system that the government of which I was a supporter brought in. That system was introduced with the best of good will in the world and with a determination to give the idea of permanent employment on the waterfront a fair trial. Nevertheless it has not worked. 
Any honourable member who wants a measure of the failure of the system has only to look at the cost per ton of handling goods on the Sydney waterfront. For the figures I am about to quote I pay a tribute to  Mr J.  Ramsden of the 'Australian Financial Review'. He is a very perceptive journalist who writes for a very respected journal. He has spelt out some of the fundamental facts about and the problems of this industry. I believe that the measure of the failure is the cost per ton of handling cargoes on the waterfront in Sydney. In July 1969 it was $6.42 a ton. By December 1972 it had risen to $14.42 a ton, which represented an annual increase in handling costs of 30 per cent. That is a measure of the failure of the system which is now in operation and which I hope the Government will be looking at with a very anxious and critical eye. Between 1969- 70 and 1970-71 there was a 13.2 per cent increase in the average weekly wage and a 20.85 per cent decrease in the number of hours worked. So it can be seen that a pretty comfortable featherbed is in operation. 
Let us have a look at the reasons for this featherbedding. One of the reasons why an increase is sought in the levy is to pay for idle time. Payments for idle time on the waterfront have risen from $824,000 in 1967- 68 to $8. 2m last year and are running at the rate of well over $9m this year. That amount is required to pay people to do nothing. The reason why there is a decreased labour requirement on the waterfront is quite clear. lt is due, firstly, to containerisation and, secondly, to an increase in bulk handling. There is less need for men on the waterfront than there was before. Why do we keep them on permanent employment if we do not need them? We give them a golden handshake in one way or another amounting to an average of §3,263, according to the latest report of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. This is what the industry pays them to retire from the industry. One would think or expect that there would be a requirement by or a pressure from the employers for these unneeded men to leave the industry. Under the present arrangements only the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority can declare an employee redundant. However this step can be taken only on the recommendation of the Waterside Workers Federation or the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour. One cannot expect the Federation to take the step of asking for its members to be declared redundant for, after all, their unemployed members are being paid at the rate of approximately $3,000 a year to remain in the industry. They are being paid, and this is an annual charge. They would be paid 83,263 for the golden handshake to get out, but that is a once and for all payment. On the other hand they get, as an average payment, about $3,000 a year to stop in the industry knowing that they are redundant. One cannot expect the Waterside Workers Federation to ask for its members to be declared redundant when they are enjoying these remarkably favourable conditions. 
However, one would expect the AEWL to take the step of saying: 'We do not need these people. To keep them on means an increase in the amount of idle time and we will have to increase the levy. Let us ask the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority to declare them redundant.' The trouble is that the AEWL is dominated mainly by overseas shipowners and the decision it faces is whether to risk industrial strife or to give in. Under the conference system it is easy for it to say: 'Let us give in'. As I have said in this House on other occasions, one can always tell the man who is dining out on an expense account by the enthusiasm with which he summons the waiter. If the industry knows that it can meet its increased charges by increased freights, as it can under the conference system, it is all too easy for these unwanted employees to be kept on the books. I have on another occasion quoted from an article by  Mr Ramsden.  He wrote: 
The situation is now common in the industry at all major ports of there being an overall shortage of labour on a particular day while, at the same time, through labour being locked up in permanent employment by operational companies and not transferable, an approximate equal number of watersiders are at home receiving idle time payments. 
If honourable members want a specific example of this situation I need only mention that during the week ending 9th February of this year there was an overall shortage of 228 waterside workers needed in Sydney while 175 men were at home being paid for idle time. This is a measure of the problem. The costs are borne in the long term by the shippers. This is the kind of burden no economy can carry. There are solutions to it. I do not speak as an expert or as one who has the kind of intimate knowledge of the industry that other honourable members would have but there are 2 steps one can immediately suggest. The first is that the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority should have the authority of declaring people to be redundant without the advice of the Waterside Workers Federation or the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour. Under the present situation one cannot expect either of these 2 bodies to declare that men are redundant. Obviously the Federation will not do so for reasons that one can understand. I can understand why, under the conference system, the stevedoring industry companies, which are dominated by overseas shipping interests, will not ask for men to be declared redundant. They know that if they do they will face the risk of industrial strife. They know also that if they jack the expenses up they can pass the extra cost on comfortably and easily because of the conference system. 
While this matter is receiving consideration 1 would suggest that the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  consider giving .he Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority the responsibility, on its own, of declaring employees to be redundant. I am not certain about the second alternative, but et sounds reasonable - I can say no more than that - and that is that the Authority has the right to control the pool of labour. The various stevedoring industry organisations could take employees from a common pool. I repeat, I am not an authority on the industry. All I say is that this seems to be a reasonable alternative. Certainly I think the first is the one that should be looked at. 
In his second reading speech the Minister said that he is examining the situation. I know that he will do so. He said, rather optimistically I think, that he is expecting useful advice from the. Stevedoring Industry Council. This is composed essentially of the Waterside Workers Federation and the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour, so it will be somewhat like Caesar appealing to Caesar. This is the present system under which these 2 bodies are working comfortably together, so I should think that the Minister is unlikely to get any clear and wise lines of guidance from the Stevedoring Industry Council. The Minister also mentioned that he has asked  Mr Norman  Foster to help him in this project.  Mr Norman  Foster adorned this House for some time as the honourable member for Sturt. I should have thought that he was more noted for the strength of his voice than the strength of his intellect. He may have qualities about which we do not know. It may be that there is wisdom hidden beneath his rough exterior. I hope so, because if the Minister is to depend on the Norman Foster whom we knew he will get a rather rough kind of guidance. 
I understand that that is so. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! I am sure that the honourable member for Wakefield can continue his speech without assistance from the honourable member who interjected. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I am not attacking this problem from the point of view of class prejudice. I am spelling out what is the problem. I hope that the Minister can find a solution to it because I am quite certain that the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  who, I understand, is to follow me in this debate, will recognise that unless we can get a better system than we have now we can never hope to get a first class productivity performance on the waterfront. I have too much respect for him to expect that he will trot out figures to indicate that productivity has increased. Of course throughput has increased, but this has been due mainly to mechanisation, containerisation and the increase in bulk handling on the waterfront. I am glad to see the Minister in the House and I pose that problem to him. I admit that my side of politics could find no easy solution to the problem. Indeed, there is no easy solution. I have enough respect for the Minister for Labour to know that he will be looking hard at the problem. These are the kinds of problems we have to solve if we are to have a more viable economy and a greater increase in productivity which will allow for the economic cake to be cut up into whatever size slices are required. 
I hope the Minister will not depend on receiving the kind of objective advice from the Australian Waterside Workers Federation that he would hope to get. It can be understood why the Federation is hoping to continue with the present situation. It knows from past experience that any time it can get the employers of waterfront labour into the bails it can get milk out of them. Usually, the bucket only has to be rattled and the milk comes out. If the money cannot be obtained in that way the Federation aims a few carefully located kicks in the stomach and that usually induces the employers to give the waterside workers what they want. We have the problem of a cost plus system on the waterfront and the Minister for Labour is enough of a realist to know that this position cannot continue for one reason or another. 
I am not being critical of past Ministers on my side of the chamber who tried to do the best they could. A new system was introduced in 1967 to try to alleviate the situation, lt is quite clear that that system has not worked. There is not one person who, after looking at the increases in the cost of handling goods and in the idle time the cost of which has increased from $800,000 to between $8m and $9m this year, would not recognise that mistakes have been made. I am asking the Minister for Labour to have a careful and clear look at the problem. I recognise that there is strength beneath his benign exterior. The cost plus system cannot continue always. We have had it for too long. I give the Minister for Labour the assurance that if he will look at the question with courage and coolness he will have my interest and support. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the statement issued recently by the Australian Industries Development Association,  a  well-known protectionist lobby group, criticising the Tariff Board for having commissioned and published an independent study of consumer intentions in connection with the current inquiry by the Tariff Board into colour television? Does he agree with AIDA that such  a  study prejudges the outcome of the Board's inquiries? If so, can the Prime Minister explain in what way such independent studies prejudice the results of Tariff Board inquiries? Does he consider that the commissioning of independent research and survey work is essential to the continuing independence and objectivity of the Tariff Board? 
 It is no accident that most of the speakers in this appropriation debate should have spoken about inflation, because it is obviously one of the real Achilles' heels of our present situation. Lest people think that it is just a figment of our side of politics and that we have just suddenly become concerned about it, I think it would be worth while to quote a statement by  Mr Chifley,  when presenting his last Budget in 1949. Everybody should listen to this with the respect that any words from that statesman deserve. He said: 
I am deeply grateful for the support that my colleagues have given me in my fight against the great danger of inflation. I know that some of them have not readily seen the force of many of the economic theories on which I have had to act, and that they were apt to regard my ideas as fossilised. But they have stood by me. 

 Mr Chifley obviously realised the significance of the inflation problem - and it still matters, it is still overwhelmingly important. Everybody has been paying lip service to it for a long while. Why does it matter? Firstly, economically, of course, it imposes costs that are likely to price us out of export markets. Socially, it has another great problem in that it bears most heavily on people on fixed incomes, those who have saved for the future and have shown the desirable qualities that we have always looked for in our community. Morally, inflation really gives an opportunity for the quick buck merchant to make a lot of money at the expense of other sections of the community. So inflation is important, and we all agree on that. 
I want to admit immediately that there are not any easy answers. Inflation is a problem which is bedevilling the world at the moment, particularly the democratic section of it. I am not going to castigate the Government for what it has not been able to do. I am just trying to look at the problem to see whether I can bring out some small part of the solution. Firstly, I think it is quite clear that we are getting to the stage of take-off. We have had a cost-push inflation. I dread that we will shortly have a demand-pull inflation that will compound our present problems. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  mentioned that he dreaded a 10 per cent rate of inflation in the future. This indeed is what I fear. What can we do about it? We have just set up the Prices Justification Tribunal. I will not criticise this action. Over 2 years ago I mentioned that this is one of the things we could do. But it is really silly for us to expect too much of the Tribunal. We know that it may give us some solid ground to stand on when we are arguing or trying to talk responsibly with the unions when they are making what we think may be unreasonable demands. Having this Prices Justification Tribunal may give us some status to argue with the unions. But it is silly to expect too much of it. 
I want to remind the House of something that I think is desperately important. It is an economic lesson I think we too easily forget, and that is the theory of constant shares. That is not my theory, of course, it is one that has been put up by economists all round the world. It seems to be the experience of every democratic country. It is that the proportion of gross national product received by the wage earning section of the community remains constant if one examines it over, say, 4-year periods. Indeed, if we look at the experience in the 4 years following 1955-56, the share of the GNP going to the wage earner or the salary earner sections of the community was 63.2 per cent. In the next 4 years it was 61.9 per cent. In the next 4 years it was 61.8 per cent, and in the following year it was 61.7 per cent. In other words the proportion of the GNP cake that goes to the wage and salary earning section of the community always remains approximately the same. If we really want to get a larger share or larger slice of the cake - as the wage earner and we all do - there is only one way to do it, and that is to make a bigger economic cake. 
This brings us to the real crunch of the matter. Increased productivity is the key to getting a larger slice of cake for the wage earner. Indeed, if productivity does not rise and money wages rise, prices must rise. That has been the theory of all the world this century and it is still the fact. So we come to the crunch point that we have to increase the productivity of our people.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you will be relieved to know that I will not speak at great length about tariffs. However, one of the reasons why our productivity rate is lamentably low is that we tend to use too many of our resources to produce things which we are not good at producing. To do that we need a high rate of tariff protection. But there are other matters that limit our rate of productivity. I will not embark on an exercise of union baiting, but I do say that the lack of responsibility in some sections of our unions, particularly the all-powerful ones, does limit productivity in a way which I think is quite alarming. I will quote from a paper which sets out the experience of what happened in Great Britain. It reads: 
The crocodile tears shed by some about the fate of the low paid workers, the unemployed, the sick and the old are surely disingenuous. It is trade union action which, through wage-induced price movements, has created the basic problem. 
That sounds like an old conservative speaking, a chap like myself. 
Mir Scholes - It sounds like you. 
The man who used that quotation was an adviser to Wilson when he was Prime Minister of Great Britain. I refer to the  Chairman  of the Fabian Society. The extract that I quoted appears in Fabian Tract 403. I am glad that the honourable member fell into the trap. That is what happened in Britain. I am anxious to see that the same thing does not happen in this country. Let us look at what can happen when there is unwise union pressure. I have recounted to the House the position with regard to idle time on the waterfront. We are paying $8m a year for the very strong membership of the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia to be able to stand the shipowners up and say: Now look, we are going to demand this kind of a payment from the economy.' This is an example of union power gone mad. We used to think that unions were necessary in order to protect - I guess they were - the small man against the big employer, but if we are not careful we will run into a different situation which will overwhelm us. I am talking about the power of combined unions which can - I do not say that they always do - stand a country up. They can pick off one industry after another. Let me give an example of this. I will read an article which appeared in 1970 in a Sydney waterfront publication known as Wharfie' and which described a dispute that took place on the waterfront between the Port Jackson Stevedoring Co. and the Waterside Workers Federation. After describing the dispute in some detail the article stated: 
Previously, under the ASIA- 
The Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority-  the dispute would have seen the port rolled up within a few days. This tactic of isolating employers is a vital tactic, the lesson learnt in this dispute is valuable. 
The important part about this is that it does show that there is a power in the union system that can be used to pick off one section of an industry after another. What would have happened in that case if the ship owners had stood up to the employees? Under the present arrangements they would have been picked off. They had 2 possible solutions. One was to pay the extra charges. The charges could be recovered by the shipowners who could build them into the freight charges, in which case the economy would pay. The other solution was for the shipowners to take their ships elsewhere. There was an inevitable force acting on the shipowners which made them give in. Unless we introduce a greater sense of responsibility in some sections of the union's system we will run into this kind of economic blood bath, which I can see ahead of us, where there will be this inevitable pressure on prices. I must admit that I am very glad that the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde 
Cameron) has left Australia to look at the situation in Sweden. The Swedes do seem to have some ability to be able to have a much more sensible and responsible attitude towards their labour industrial relations than we have in this country. I have always had the uneasy feeling, which one would expect of a conservative, that socialism dampens the fires of incentive throughout the whole community. This may be so in many cases, but I still come back to the experience of Sweden which I should think is even more socialised than we are but which is responsible enough to think that working hard and well is the sensible and responsible way to behave. I think Sweden would have more to teach us than most other countries and I am glad to see that the Minister for Labour has gone to look at the situation in that country. 
I do not think anybody will argue against the proposition that productivity is the key to obtaining a bigger economic cake, that it is the key to keep down prices and that it is the key for all our hopes in the future. I think that as a country we should start to have another look at our past ideas about incentive payments. I think that within the union system there is a kind of assumption - a toogeneral assumption - that incentive payments are automatically bad. Speaking about an area which I know well, I cannot help thinking of the manner in which shearers behave in shearing sheds. You see well run shearing sheds with people working enthusiastically together. Generally speaking there will be a yoick or two every now and again, but shearing sheds are pretty exciting places if they are well run. Many sheds are very well run. This is because of incentive-payment by result. This can be made to work. 
Yes, it is hard work, and shearers are well paid for the hard work they do. Some of the best people I know are shearers and I often think that many of them could buy me out. We should start to have another look at the incentive payment system. lt does not necessarily follow that it will be abused as it may have been previously. I think we have some reason to examine it with more care. I hope that the Minister for Labour will be doing that. I was attracted by what the Minister for Labour said that he has in the back of his fertile mind in regard to paying some of the educational expenses incurred by union officials. I think this is a sensible approach. I think we definitely need a much more responsible union leadership in many cases. One way to achieve this is to help the leaders understand the economic problems. We have other responsibilities. I am not saying for one moment that all the fault is on the union side. 
Recently in South Australia there was a report which advocated more union involvement in the running of companies. I think that this is a sensible idea. If we are going to say 'We are not going to accept any changes', we will have to face the inevitable disaster that we will deserve. I go back to my farm experience. When I was on the farm I would never have dreamed of saying: 'Now look chaps, we will do this and that'. If I had they would have said: 'Come on Kelly, you must have gone soft in the head to think that this is the way to do it. We would be better off if we did it this way.' We would always have a discussion about the way something ought to be done. Maybe it is more difficult in great big units but I can see a lot of sense in a different attitude between union leadership and management in this regard. 
We have to have responsible union leadership. This will be achieved in time if the leaders are aware of the economic facts of life and if they realise that the only thing that matters really - and I come back again and again to this - is getting a bigger economic cake. Once we have this we can argue about how the cake will be cut. Our main goal should be first of all to get a bigger economic cake. For goodness sake, as a country and as a Parliament we ought to concentrate our thinking on how to increase the size of the cake. There are so many things that we could do. I repeat that if we ran our farm like we run this country we would have gone broke years ago. Let us concentrate on one thing. I admit that there are other considerations besides the economic ones. I accept this. But when we are dealing with economic considerations we should concentrate on one thing - achieving a bigger economic cake. We can argue later about how that cake will be cut up. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, you will remember that during the war plans were known to be afoot by the Germans to flood the English countryside with bank notes dropped from the air in an attempt to disrupt the British economy. The point I want to make is this: Any system which just says that we will have bigger money wages without any increase in productivity will have the same result. If I were a dictator and wanted to destroy the fibre and the structure of a country I would not have a revolution - I would just double wages every month. I think that this would have the same effect as it was hoped the dropping of bank notes would have had on England. I believe that this approach would destroy the whole fabric of our society. Let us come back to the basic consideration. If we are to have the kind of economic cake that we all know we ought to have there is only one thing that really matters, and that is to increase the productivity of our people. There are a number of ways in which productivity can be increased. I have mentioned only in passing the subject of tariffs and increasing the productivity of the work force. But there are other ways. If we spent less time abusing one another and more time on concentrating on the size of the economic cake I think that we would have a better chance of achieving this aim. 
The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  when introducing this Bill, mentioned that it was to continue a process that was set in motion by the previous Government to pay a bounty rather than impose a tariff on books. Obviously the idea, quite rightly, was that it would not increase the price of books; it would not impose a tax on knowledge. I am glad to see that the present Government has continued this lineof thinking. There are several things about the bounty that should be mentioned. One is that it is needed because of the high cost of publishing books in Australia. This cost has  2  components. One is the cost of the paper on which the books are printed. 
This is one of the unfortunate results of our tariff system; it increases the cost of the raw material, so to speak, and increases the cost of printing. 
The second element in the costs that make this bounty necessary is the wages cost. This cost of course is higher in our country than in others and is likely to be higher still. I have before me a log of claims put out by the Printing and Kindred Industries Union. It sets out the way in which the union expects to be treated. If these claims are granted there will be need for a very greatly increased bounty. - Let me give some examples. The union is asking that an employee should be paid weekly by his employer for all time occupied by the employee in travelling to and from work, and that all fares for travel be paid in addition. If a chap goes to and from work by car it is claimed that he should be paid, in addition to payment for the time taken, 30c a mile for travel either way. 
There are many other quite startling claims which, if granted, will inevitably increase the need for an increased bounty. The Union claims that an employee should without loss of pay be allowed by his employer compassionate leave of 7 consecutive days in connection with the death of a husband, wife, next of kin, or any other relatives. We can imagine the rush of mother-in-law deaths we would have about test match time if that kind of thing were accepted. The Union is asking that a female employee who becomes pregnant be given 6 months' leave, 3 months before and 3 months after the birth. It does not mention how the father is to be treated. It is asking for a 30-hour week. If this kind of thing is continued the bounty we will be passing in this House, and which the Opposition will be supporting will inevitably have to be increased. 
There are other aspects of the industry that I think I should mention because they are relevant to the need for bounty protection. I am using as my source of information an article by Max Harris. It deals with the arrangements between the British and the United States publishers which make it very difficult indeed for the main sections of the Australian publishing industry. It centres on an arrangement whereby an American publisher sells the copyright to a book to a British publisher. This means that the book cannot be exported directly from the United States to Australia. I quote from  Mr Max  Harris's article in which he sets out the kind of damage that this does to the industry: 
It became almost a law of life that Australia could only purchase British editions, and that Australia could only publish nationally books of Australian authorship. Booksellers looked wistfully at American publishing lists and the invariable code letters OBE. 
That does not stand for the Order of the British Empire; it means outside the British Empire. He goes on: 
This meant that the American book could not be supplied to Australia because a UK publisher had taken up the copyright option to issue an edition which sometimes eventuated, sometimes didn't. 
This is an important barrier to the Australian publishing industry. Let me give some examples, and I quote again from this article by  Mr Harris: 
Charles  Mountford's  'Oceania, Australia', an important text on the art of our region, was published by Methuen in London. The title went out of print. Methuen are unlikely ever to reprint it. However, the American edition of a major volume on our Aboriginal art survived and was largely unsellable in the U.S.A. But the New York suppliers could not sell the copies to Australia, where the book is essential, because Methuen held the copyright. 
He gives many other examples which show the difficulties of the Australian publishing industry of which I think we ought to be aware on this occasion. Let me again quote directly from his article: 
Let me cite an everyday example. For the past six months you can buy a paperback of 'Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee' in France, Israel, India, Greece, Hong Kong, or the U.S.A. The title was potentially a gigantic bestseller in Australia. It was not the Englishman's cup of tea. A U.K. paperback may eventuate. We don't know when. What we do know is that if an Australian publisher had been able to bid for and produce a paperback for this country late last year he would have sold about 50,000 copies. The Australian publisher would have profited, the author would have earned sizable extra royalties, and the original U.S.A. publisher would have done better by negotiating a separate deal for a U.K. and an Australian edition. 
But the British system is one of united blackmail. The British Publishers Association will not, by private joint agreement, purchase copyright just for the U.K. 
There are many examples of this restrictive trade practice in operation. There is no doubt that it bears heavily on the Australian publishing industry or certainly those sectors of it that are not overseas owned, particularly in the United Kingdom. I ask the Minister when he is looking at this matter again to be aware of the concern that is felt by a great many people, including myself, about this practice. I will not say anything more about it except that the Bill before us continues the practice of the previous government in assuring that there is not a tax on knowledge. We are awaiting the Tariff Board report on this matter with great interest. The Opposition supports the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The Opposition, of course, supports this Bill. It would be quite a wrong decision to impose a tariff on agricultural tractors, which are obviously tools of trade for the agricultural industry. As we have to compete in export markets against world competition it would be quite a serious blow if we had to protect the industry by tariffs rather than bounty. Indeed, I hope that there will be more of this kind of thinking. I can think of many other tools of trade which the farmer uses which are protected by tariffs. I am glad to see that the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  is enthusiastically supporting me. He and I for many years have fought lonely battles in this place trying to get more realistic realisation of how heavily the tariff burden bears on those of us in the farming industry in particular, and in the export industry in general. So, 1 can assure the Minister for Overseas Trade and Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  that we gladly support this method of protecting the industry. We have to realise that this industry is pretty heavily protected. If no dumping duties are imposed the Tariff Board assesses the rate of effective protection at 50 per cent. If the dumping component is taken away, the protection is still 30 per cent. If this protection had been in the form of a tariff which would increase our costs, I can imagine how angry the honourable member for Moore would have been, and indeed rightly so. 
No. I am glad to hear the awakened interest of the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  in this matter. For many years we have been waiting for the Country Party to show the kind of concern that I was always hoping it would show. I hope that in the future I will get the active support of honourable members of the Country Party, as I have always been able to rely on the support of the honourable member for Moore, who has been courageous and capable in this lonely battle. 
The other thing that should be remembered is that this legislation follows a Tariff Board report, which, although the Minister does not speak of it, recommended a duty of 30 per cent on tractors with a power rated at less than 20 horsepower. They are not tractors that would be used generally in broad acre farming, but they are used in other aspects of horticulture - chiefly in limited fields of agriculture. I am sorry to see that the Tariff Board has recommended this, but I understand from reading the report that this will be a temporary arrangement while the Tariff Board presents its report on a number of farmers' requirements of other kinds. Generally speaking, on behalf of the Opposition I am glad to support the Bill. I only wish that this type of protection were practised more generally and not confined to this narrow field of tractors. 1 would be glad,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if you would like me to continue, to give an example of how the tariff burden is spread. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)The honourable member should confine his remarks to the Bill. 
In that case, I hope that the honourable member for Moore will now take up where I have let off. The Opposition will support the Bill. 
There are several things that I want to mention about this very important Bill. I am rather uncertain as to how far and wide we are allowed to range when talking to the Bill but I will, of course, be obedient to your wishes,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  However, I want to deal briefly with the fascinating subject of phthalic anhydride. I presume that as I am talking to the second reading of this Bill it would be competent for me to discuss this subject. As you have not signified any disagreement,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I will just make a passing reference to this industry which has received yet another of these Special Advisory Authority reports. When this matter comes up formally in the next session I intend to deal with it a good deal more thoroughly. 
I want to warn the industry that I am most unhappy about the present amount of protection that the industry is getting. As is the case with so many of the chemical industries the product of this industry lies at the root of other industries. This industry supplies the raw material for other industries such as the manufacturers of paint and plasticisers. There is only one manufacturer of this phthalic anhydride and that is the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd. I have always been critical of the expectation that big powerful rich companies such as CSR should get such generous tariff protection as they have been getting. In speeches I made about phthalic anhydride on 10 October 1962, 14 August 1963 and 14 April 1964 I pointed out the succession of tariff protection measures that have been taken to assist this industry. At one stage there were 2 organisations - the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and, I think, the Newcastle Chemical Co. - engaged in the industry. Then CSR Chemical Industries, as it was then known and which later became CSR, took over. It has since been getting successive measures of assistance under the tariff. 
This is another example of a Special Advisory Authority report recommending an increase in the rate of protection to help a company which one cannot say is really suffering. Let us have a look at the figures. According to the last annual report it made public - on 31 March 1972 - it made a profit of $20m and a return on ordinary capital of 27.6 per cent. The last half yearly report, which came out in September 1972, indicated that the half yearly profit had gone to $11.6m and that there was a 12.96 per cent higher rate of return. I cannot quite understand why an industry which is as important to other industries as this one is and which is in the hands of a firm that is as powerful and competent as CSR should need to have this kind of lavish protection handed out to it whenever it asks for it. If I had a good season but one paddock in the corner of the farm was a failure it would hardly be proper for me to go whining to the Government and say: 'Look I need some assistance. True I am doing very well overall but I am not happy about the return from the bottom paddock and I think the Government, the consumer or someone ought to do something about it'. 
I think there is justification for the imposition of wise tariff policies, but to expect the infant industry argument to carry on for so long and to have infants as large as CSR, which has indicated a profit return on ordinary capital of 27.6 per cent and a total profit of $20.5m is, I think, taking it a bit too far. I understand that I must not range over too wide a field during the debating of a validation Bill. But I issue a warning that when the matter comes up for consideration in the future I will deal with it in more detail. In the meantime it is suffice to say that the Opposition supports the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill 
Clause 3. 
All duties of Customs demanded or collected (whether before or after the commencement of this Act) on or before 31 December 1973, pursuant to Customs Tariff Proposals introduced into the House of Representatives on any of the following dates shall be deemed to have been lawfully imposed and lawfully demanded or collected: 7 March 1973 15 March 1973 29 March 1973 3 May 1973. 

 - Mr Chairman- 

Motion (by  Mr Keating)  put 
That the question be now put. 
The honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  and the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  made a very good case indeed for not having an inquiry by the Public Works Committee into the building of a pipeline from Gidgealpa to Sydney. None of us is arguing with this. We realise that an examination of this proposal has taken place in great detail. I agree with the honourable member for Macquarie and the Minister that this would be a wrong use of the Public Works Committee. It would delay the proposal. But that is not the point of the Senate amendment. As indicated by the amendment suggested by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  the Senate amendment is asking for a Public Works Committee inquiry into future pipelines. 
I will tell you why, in the future, projects should be subject to Public Works Committee examination. The Public Works Committee has never been expected to have any great expertise in building or in the construction of aerodromes, for example; but it does give an opportunity for a problem to be exposed. I am glad to see the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  in the chamber. He was an adornment to that Committee for many years and he would be well aware of the value that comes from a Public Works Committee examination. The problems are exposed. 
In this instance, the problems of the routes of the pipelines can be spelt out. The public can have an opportunity to present its case. There would not be one person in this chamber who would not accept that because of the operation of the Public Works Committee system we have had a much better understanding of the reasons for public works being constructed and the sites for them. Why should we not adopt this course in this case? I refer not to the pipeline from Gidgealpa to Sydney but to the future, when there will be great uncertainty in the public mind about the route of any particular pipeline. Why not have the problem exposed, allow the public to be reassured and allow an expression of opinion? I do not think anybody in this chamber who knows the traditions of the Public Works Committee would not accept that there would be a great deal of public acceptance and, indeed, understanding if that happened. 
It has been said that authorities are not necessarily subject to inquiries by the Public Works Committee. This, however, is not a hard and fast rule. Only, I think, 2 years ago the Public Works Committee made an examination of a project put forward by the Port Authority in Darwin. It is a separate Authority, but it was thought proper to conduct a Public Works Committee inquiry because of the issues of public interest involved. I accept that the pipeline from Gidgealpa to Sydney should not go before the Committee because of the delay that would cause. All the eloquence of the Minister for Minerals and Energy was devoted to making that point. However, I cannot understand why he will not accept the amendment suggested by the honourable member for Farrer, namely, that in future the projects be examined by the Public Works Committee. The Parliament and the public would be better informed if that happened. 
I cannot help smiling at the reference by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  to impertinence. He mentioned as one of the justifications for the Government's amendment that it would provide for a common price. I am certain that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has not realised the significance of what he is doing. The natural advantage that Alice Springs, for instance, would have will disappear because the price will be the same in Sydney. There will be no inducement for someone to establish a plant at Alice Springs if gas is cheaper in Sydney. 
Gas should be cheaper at Alice Springs because Alice Springs will have a natural advantage but under this proposal it will be the same price in Sydney as it is in Alice Springs. Obviously the natural economic place to establish a plant to use the gas will then be Sydney. The Gidgealpa pipeline will be close to Port Augusta. The South Australian Premier has suggested the establishment of a petro-chemical plant at Port Augusta where there is a natural advantage, but this advantage will disappear and a!l the economic pressures will be for it to be located in Adelaide. Adelaide is much closer to Gidgealpa than is Sydney but gas will be available at the same price in both capital cities. What inducement is there for a real policy of decentralisation? I am certain that the Minister has not realised the significance of the step he has taken. All honourable members have been preaching a real policy of decentralisation. I was glad to see it coming to fruition but what the Minister has proposed inevitably will result in a movement towards centralisation. I notice that the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  is listening and revealing his usual intelligent interest in such matters. If the pipeline passes close to Bathurst the natural advantage that Bathurst would have will disappear because the price of gas will be the same in Sydney as in Bathurst. Such a proposal must act contrary to decentralisation. 
Another aspect of the common carrier argument, which was tackled sensibly by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  is that one of the inevitable results will be that if a company is successful in finding gas yet knows that it has no right to get its gas into the system, and knows that the Authority can impose price conditions that make it unattractive, it must lose the incentive to go looking for gas. We are not trying to stop the Authority being formed; we just want to make certain that it will work in the way the Minister wants it to work. I issue the grim warning that there will be an inevitable barrier against searching for gas if people engaging in that risky exercise know that they will not be able to get their gas into the system. That is why we are putting this argument and I think it should be listened to with more respect. 
The Minister to whom I wished to direct a question is not here either. Where are they all? 
Is the Minister for the Environment and Conservation aware that the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation said that kangaroos have to be wisely harvested or they will either starve themselves or the sheep and cattle with which they compete for food? Is the Minister aware that this is also the opinion of the Wildlife Division of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and, indeed, of all other authorities who know anything about kangaroos? Is the Minister aware that South Australia has made proper arrangements to see that this harvesting is wisely done? If this is so, will he use his influence to see that the ban on the export of kangaroo skins is lifted in South Australia? 
The report by the Public Works Committee on this matter contains a map of the road. If honourable members would look at the map they would understand the debate more clearly. Last year the Public Works Committee considered this reference. The Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson),  who has the responsibility of introducing this matter today, was a member of that Committee and he, amongst others of us, decided to recommend that the road should not follow the cliff face all the way round. This recommendation was carried by the previous Committee with only one dissentient voice. It is worth noting that that dissentient voice was that of the honourable member for 
Hunter  (Mr James),  who had the courage to stand up for what he considered to be right. That report was received by the previous Government. A considerable amount of concern was expressed, firstly, about the route of the road along the cliff face. It was felt by many of us that it would endanger the cliff face in a rather serious manner. Subsequently the Department of Works was able to re-route the road to some extent and bring it back further from the cliff face. This changed the plans that were submitted to us again. 
Both reports - they should be considered together - are an indication of the kind of attitude the Public Works Committee adopts to its references. I have been proud to point out before that there has never been a political division within the Committee. The honourable member for Hunter opposed the first recommendation;  Senator Jessop  opposed it the second time for reasons which seemed good and proper to him. The reasons  are made clear in the report. I commend the Government for re-submitting this matter to the Committee. I think it was necessary to re-submit it. I changed my mind. I hope it is not the last time I will change my mind. I am prepared to change it when the logic of events suggests that I should do so. I pay a tribute to the honourable member for Hunter, who has been a very valuable member of the Committee, particularly in its work in the Northern Territory. We have missed him since he has left the Committee. We have other members, of course, of whom I am not in any way critical. The motion before us today shows just how right the honourable member for Hunter sometimes is. 
I want to make my position clear on this question. I am opposed to the resolution as amended. 
It will take me only a minute or two to make my position clear. I think that an inquiry of the kind suggested by the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  or of the kind proposed by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  would be wrong. I think that such an inquiry would light a bushfire of emotion that would lead to a lot of heat and smoke. It would cloud and not clarify the issue. I think we are getting into the habit of passing awkward decisions on to other people - the kind of decisions that we ought to take ourselves. We should gather the evidence quietly and responsibly. I cannot see that being done by this kind of inquiry. That is the reason I voted against the amendment and it is the reason why I. will not vote against the motion when it comes to a vote. I think it is the wrong way to proceed. I have a real anxiety about the gaps in my knowledge in this area. I am acutely conscious of them, but I do not think the gaps will be filled by an inquiry of this kind. 
If divisions are not to be called I can understand the reason. I just want to make public my support of the amendment. 
Does the Prime Minister realise that I attended his very interesting and informative Press conference last week in order to get information as a journalist which I cannot get as a member of Parliament? Does he also realise that he is for the time being chief custodian of the rights of Parliament? Is he aware that this practice of informing the Press of Government decisions before informing Parliament denigrates the position of Parliament? Will the Prime Minister use his influence to see whether procedures in this chamber can be altered to allow the Prime Minister, whoever he may be, to announce Government decisions before questions on at least one day a week so that members may hear of Government decisions directly and not second hand? 
It is a relief not to be talking about the importance of inflation. That is now accepted as a real problem on our plate. What we are discussing is whether the Bill before the House will be an effective method of inflation control. I find that many people, particularly younger people, in the community are deluded into believing that a policy of price control is in the long term an effective weapon against inflation. It is true, of course, that it has immediate attraction. We know the seriousness of the problem, and we are all anxiously looking for some method of tackling it. It is quite clear that in the long term a policy of incomes and prices control has not proved to be an effective weapon against inflation in all the countries in which it has been tried. This has been brought out by many of the honourable members who have preceded me in this debate. 
Such a policy dams up the demand and when the changes have to be made, as they must be made in a changing economy, the experience of all other countries has been that there is a further surge forward. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  used a very picturesque phrase when he said that it breaks the thermometer. I would say that it breaks the dam. When the dam breaks there is a further surge forward. It is an intensely disappointing fact that this is so. I have no philosophical objections to price control. The only reason why I objected to it was that generally it does not work. It does not work if it is separated from the other component it must have - that is, incomes control. We ought to look at it and ask why it works so badly. 
We ought to recognise the problems that we face. The first is that, if it is known that there will be an introduction of price control, inevitably there will' be a pressure on prices. Firms will put up their prices knowing that price control will follow quickly after. There is only one way in which to stop that and that is to alter human nature, because that is the way in which human nature works. It sees its problem in the future and it takes action to prevent it. Nothing one can do can stop it. The second reason why prices and incomes control generally does not work in the long term is that prices are the only signals people receive which determine what they will do and how they will use their resources. In a democratic system there is no other way whereby industries can determine where the. demand will come in the future. The economy is like a bucket of worms. It is turning all the time. Problems are changing and situations are changing. Demand slackens off in one field and increases in another. There has to be a continual change in prices to meet the changing circumstances. The only way in a democratic system by which the producer can know what is needed in the economy is for him to receive the market signals. 
If honourable members want a clear example of this they have only to look at what is happening to the steel production of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd at this time. Many of us have been critical, perhaps unwisely critical - I have been - of recent increases in BHP prices. Nevertheless, the fact that public opinion in Australia held prices down meant that the company was unable to use its resources to increase production of something of which the community needs increasing quantities. I am sorry that the system works like this but I do not think that anybody in this House would deny that in a democratic system that is the only way in which producers of goods will receive the signals to increase or decrease production. This problem is found not only within industry itself but also between industries. I am glad to say that in a viable, shifting economy such as ours is we will always find that resources must be taken from one industry and put into another. That is the way the system works. The only way in which we can achieve a proper allocation of resources in an economy such as ours in the long term is to keep these price signals coming through with crystal clarity. 
The only alternative is to have the Government saying what must be produced and where the resources must be developed. That is not a party political statement. As I think everybody must recognise, there are only 2 choices of how our resources can be used - the crystal clear price signals or government direction. Those who may cling to the idea that government direction is better than the present system - I do not think there would be many in this chamber who would agree with that - must realise that the best market for many of our products is countries that do this consistently. I refer to the communist countries, which believe that the government knows best. I do not think it is generally accepted on the other side of the House that the Government is good at this kind of direction. A while ago there was a feeling on the agricultural scene that the Government should make a realistic estimate of demand and should tailor production to meet that demand. But I am glad to see that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  is realising - he made a statement about this recently - that that was really economic nonsense. 
Of course, one of the problems is the weather. Even the Minister for Primary Industry would realise quite clearly that he has no control of the weather here, and if he did have it here he would not have it overseas. So we have a clear choice to make between keeping the price signals coming through clearly or having government control. 
It is quite clear that we can depend only on the price signals system. For that reason I think that the impending restrictive trade practices legislation is of inordinate importance. I am aware of the great power that some monopolies have, and the power they use sometimes, to take advantage of their position. I am quite definite in saying that if these price signals are to be used as an effective method of governing the economy we must have restrictive trade practices legislation that is effective. 
When one looks at a price control system one has to realise that other problems are involved. An important one is deciding which prices are to be fixed. Will it be the price of the lowest cost producer, the middle cost producer or the highest cost producer? Look at the position in South Australia. There is a system of petrol fixing which has been held up as an example to everybody. However, in Victoria one finds signs up everywhere advertising petrol at 6c a gallon off or 10c a gallon off. Maximum prices generally become the minimum prices in a government controlled prices system. 
One of the reasons why I asked to be put on the speaking list for the Opposition, against a good deal of competition from some very worthy members on our side, was to mention this fact: My father had the responsibility of being adviser to the Labor Government on agricultural prices between 1942 and 1947 or 1948. I am acutely conscious of the grave problems of black marketeering that went on in those days, particularly in the case of meat, for which my father had a particular responsibility. I could give a long lecture about this but I think this story illustrates the problem in all its starkness: Two doctors were in a lounge of a hotel discussing the problems of their practices. One said to the other: 'You know, I have 3 cases of meningitis in my district.' A chap sitting behind him who was not supposed to be listening tapped one of them on the shoulder and said: 'Look, I'll take the lot.' That was the problem in those days when the flame of patriotism reinforced the edicts of the Government. 
What chance do honourable members think we would have of having a price control system which would work now in a permissive society? In South Australia we are told that it is all right to break laws if we do not agree with them. With this kind of mentality in our people what chance do honourable members think we will have of holding the line? 
Younger honourable members would not remember what it was like during the war. It was not what you knew; it was whom you knew that decided what came out from underneath the counter. What chance will we have of making this proposal work when we could not get it to work when we had the flame of patriotism to reinforce it. I think that people have to realise that there is no sense in talking glibly about a system which cannot operate. The essential thing about price control is that it interferes with the law of supply and demand. Prices are held artificially low. As soon as this is done it creates a pressure for black marketeering, for the spiv, for the crook to get an undue advantage over the rest, the decent section of the community. I appeal to the younger members opposite who do not know of those days not to delude themselves that this will not be an overwhelming problem. 
We could make a prices and incomes policy work on the short term for a little while, but to pretend that we can make a prices policy work without an incomes component to it is just deluding ourselves. This has been brought out with cyrstal clarity by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  today. All the authorities point quite conclusively to this fact. I should like to quote another authority to whom I think everybody in this place would look up, namely, Professor Galbraith. One would have great difficulty in not looking up to a man as tall as he is. Professor Galbraith, in a lecture in Adelaide last Friday night, as one would expect gave a brilliant exposition of small '1' liberal thinking. At the end of it I had the temerity to ask him whether he could give me an example of a successful prices policy working without an incomes component. With delightful clarity he said immediately that he did not know of any such example that had been tried. Certainly he could not imagine any such policy that could possibly be successful. 
I think we all have to recognise that this is inevitable and that we cannot make one part of the system work without the other. Adoption of such a policy immediately exposes one to appearing slightly ridiculous. On the one hand the Government is saying: 'Let us encourage an increase in wages. Let us not appear before the Arbitration Commission to spell out the true economic position. Let us give the green light to wages expansion.' On the other hand the Government is saying that prices must not go up. As soon as it does this it just exposes the position as being quite ridiculous. I do not think there is one person in this House who does not realise that to have a prices policy without an incomes policy in the short term is just flying In the face of economic sense. This has been spelt out time and time again in this debate. The tragedy of our present situation is that not only do all economists in the country realise it, not only does Professor Galbraith realise, and not only do all the thinking members of the Government realise that this is so, but also the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  realises it. He knows what he is asking for. If he gets the power he seeks it will not make possible an effective antiinflationary program. The thing I regret more than anything else is that we are having our attention diverted from doing things that we know we can do, by going through this charade of a referendum on the subject, when we know that if we get the power we cannot make such a policy work. 
The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  spoke earlier. I think he was sincere when he said that the important thing that we are looking for is a breathing space. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has used the term 'circuit breaker'. Whatever we are looking for, whatever we call it, what we think we can make work is a short term incomes prices policy, knowing that we cannot make it work in the long term for the economic reasons I have spelt out. But we can make it work in the short term. However, it is not necessary to make it work in the short term to have the power given in this way to the Goverment. I am certain that we could get the co-operation of the State governments, in partnership with the Federal Government, to do something that we think ought to be done for a sensible, responsible attempt to have a circuit breaker or breathing space, to use the term of the Minister for Social Security. But to pretend that we have to go through this charade of having a prices policy without an incomes policy is just to defy all the laws of logic. As I have said, what I regret most about this Bill is that it will distract us from taking the steps that we ought to take. I certainly will oppose this Bill with all my ability, having no philosophical objection to a prices-income policy as such but knowing that in the long term we cannot make it work. To pretend that we could make it work without an incomes component is ridiculous. 
I rise on this occasion more in sorrow than in anger because I have an uneasy feeling that the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  either wittingly or unwittingly has deceived the House. I know that this is a very grave charge to make, but let me run over the facts - the few facts - in some detail. In the Budget Speech we were promised that the meat industry was going to be expected to pay an extra lc per lb for meat inspection. Our hackles rose a little at this proposal but, accepting the fact that this is the new look of the Australian Labor Party and, recognising also that the meat producer is doing fairly well, we accepted this as an additional burden. But then we found when this legislation came in to justify the increased charge that instead of the charge being lc per lb it was 1.6c per lb for beef cattle. We were given not one word of explanation for this change. I repeat the quotation, referred to by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  from the second reading speech of the Minister for Immigration. The Minister stated: 
 The purpose of this Bill is to impose  a  charge on meat exported from Australia in order to recoup the cost to the Government of export meat inspection.  Of course, we know that the inspection of cattle for brucellosis does not relate to the meat export inspection; it simply is a case of testing the beef cattle on the property for brucellosis. We are all interested to find out how this will be done and we are all anxious that it should be done because I need no convincing of the necessity for this brucellosis campaign to go forward. There is no argument about that. To my surprise and to the surprise of all of us we heard the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  who is Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt),  come into the House and say that the Government wanted an increase from lc per lb to 1.6c per lb in the levy on beef. Not one word of explanation was given for that rise. As I say, there could be only two possible explanations for this step, either that the Minister sought to deceive the House or that he did not know that the gun was loaded. 
It was only by accident that on that very day - if I might inject a personal note - I happened to go to the Prime Minister's Press conference. I heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  say that the charge on beef would be increased from lc to 1.6c per lb to cover the cost of brucellosis testing. When I returned to the chamber everybody was in a state of grave uncertainty. Everybody was asking: 'What is this increase from lc to 1.6c?' Because I had been at the Prime Minister's Press conference I was able to explain to them that the Prime Minister had spelt out why the increase was to be made. The reason for the increase had been explained to the Press but it had not been explained to the members of this House. It was not explained in the Budget. Even more important and even more devastating in its implication is the fact that it was not announced by the Minister when he introduced this Bill. The implications are clear. Either the Minister did not know - which is a grave enough charge - or he sought to deceive the House. There is no other possible explanation. 
I repeat that there is justification for the meat inspection charge. The honourable member for Maranoa has been eloquent in pleading the case for meat inspection to be of the highest quality. I am certain that no one on this side of the House will argue with that. But not one single word of the Minister's speech referred to the necessity for the increased charge of 0.6c per lb to be levied on beef for export. There must be some explanation. I notice that the Minister has left the table. I am glad to see that he is not hurriedly leaving the chamber. If he did do so I could understand why. He must be full of the most acute embarrassment. Not only has he seen a charge imposed on meat producers - we will accept that - but he gives the reason for the increase from lc to 1.6c as a charge for meat inspection when the Prime Minister has said that the increase is for nothing of the kind. He said that it is for brucellosis inspection on the properties and not for meat inspection. I hesitate to draw the inevitable conclusions. As I say, I rose more in sorrow than in anger. There are only two possible explanations. Either the Minister sought to deceive the House, which is a grave charge, or he did not know what he was talking about, and that is almost equally as grave a charge. 
When this debate began I had considerable sympathy for the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  because he would not be the first Minister who, acting for another Minister, has picked up a Bill with whose contents he was not fully au fait. I would be the first to admit that I made mistakes in my time as a Minister. I would have thought more of the Minister if on this occasion he had admitted quite frankly that he had an unfortunate conjunction of circumstances. Firstly, when he introduced the Bill he said that the money raised would be used for meat inspection, but we now find that it is to be used for brucellosis testing as well. But as I say, everybody makes mistakes, and I think that If the Minister for Immigration had admitted on this occasion that he had made a mistake we all would have thought more of him. 
What I think was his fault has been compounded now that we have had a clear exposition by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  followed by the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  who said that the difficulty is that under this Bill a payment will be made for something which we now find is different from the original purpose of the Bill. But allowing for that, the charge will be levied on the figure for estimated exports. Whoever pretends that he can get those figures right, as the honourable member for Corangamite says, is kidding himself. Indeed, what would happen if we had a complete change-about in the Australian scene? Even the Minister for Immigration would not pretend that he has any influence in this matter. We would have a complete alteration in, the amount of funds collected. I think it is. completely proper that there should be a trust fund into which moneys collected could be paid so they will be used for the intended purpose. We have no complaint that the industry is paying for tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication. We want to make certain that the money raised will be used for that purpose. 
I always think it is a silly thing that governments of whatever complexion will not admit they have made little mistakes. On this occasion a little mistake has been made in detail in some respects and ought to be recognised by the Government. Earlier in the life of this Parliament an honourable member opposite stated that the Government would not behave as if it received directions from on high; that if it made a mistake it would recognise it. This process of forming a trust account is quite a common process. All we seek to do is to ensure that the money that is collected is used for the purpose for which it is collected and is kept for that purpose. In offering friendly, fatherly advice to the Minister for Immigration I say that, if he would recognise, firstly that he made a mistake when he introduced the Bill and, secondly, that the formation of a trust fund is the common way of ensuring that moneys are used for the purpose for which they are intended, we all would think more of him. I repeat that I started off with some sympathy for him. It is now gradually evaporating. I am now seeing him more as a scarlet-breasted budgie bouncing around on a bough. I hope he would see the opportunity to redeem himself not only in our eyes but in the industry's eyes by accepting the very sensible and responsible amendment moved by the honourable member for New England. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
I want to make one suggestion. I was confused before I came into this chamber. I am far more confused now after hearing from both sides. I am not being critical in any way. I want to make the point that if we are to make a job of this Bill - I think that is the earnest endeavour of honourable members from both sides - this is no way to handle it. I have enough understanding of and belief in the system of a select committee discussing this matter in a responsible way to believe that in a case like this we could come up with legislation that we would be proud of. Instead of that, we are going on like this. 
It is a good point, all the same. 
As the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  said, we hoped when the new Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  took over in December we would have more industrial peace. The fact is that in the Government's period of office we have had twice as much industrial strife as occurred in the corresponding period of last year. But many people are still hopeful that the Minister will be able to make a worthwhile contribution. I am not pretending that I have easy answers to a difficult problem. I accept that the Minister has had a lot of experience in union affairs. We have heard of it in some detail on past occasions. Everybody knows that he is not a fool. No one could properly call the Minister a fool although occasionally he has been known to behave like one. I have never thought of him as a fool. Perhaps he is blessed with more cunning than wisdom but cunning is better than nothing and he is certainly well endowed with that attribute. When I consider the significance of this task I realise that there is no easy answer to the problem. 
I was very interested to hear that the Minister was going to Sweden. The experience of industrial peace in Sweden is in stark contrast to industrial peace here. In 1967, 400 man days were lost in industrial strife in Sweden 
In that year 705,300 man days were lost in Australia. That was a remarkable year and I do not think we ought to take it as a true sample, because it is not. There have been some bad years. During the years 1967 to 1971 an average of 161,000 man days were lost in Sweden. We had 1,360,000 man days lost. So, the Swedes obviously have a lot of knowledge and ability to tackle this problem. 
When I heard that the Minister for Labour was going to Sweden - knowing that he is not a fool - I hoped he would return with some answers which would help us solve this very difficult problem. As many of us know, the Minister is not noted for his reticence but since his return from Sweden he has been noticeably silent about his experiences. I wonder why. One of the many differences in industrial relations in the 2 countries is that Sweden does not depend on an arbitration system at all. It has a system of collective bargaining where employer and employee groups examine the relevant position in detail. Both groups, employer and employee, employ a large number of particularly well qualified people. They realise that they have the responsibility of setting the general guidelines. This is done with a great deal of ability on both sides. They examine with care the size of the economic cake that is to be cut up and realise that if an increase occurs in the size of the economic cake the worker is entitled to an increased slice. The big argument centres around how big the increase in productivity has been. I do not pretend that this argument can be easily settled between the 2 groups. As I say, the discussion is conducted with a great deal of professionalism on both sides. They decide the general guidelines that should guide the agreements between particular industries and particular unions. When this more detailed bargaining takes place leaders of both parent groups are present. The parent groups see firstly that the employers toe the line and secondly that the employees toe the line that has been set by the general agreement. Because of this, the most disciplined and the most competent collective bargaining is achieved. 
Having obtained the facts, both sides, which are competent and well trained in arriving at the facts, reach an agreement. Both sides of the industrial scene, the employers and the employees, are forced by law and are willing to abide by the agreements so made. I know the trauma that the Minister for Labour went through when he realised that one way to get a more responsible attitude towards industrial strife was to do just that - to reach voluntary agreements and then adhere to them. In Sweden, if a voluntary agreement so made is broken the employers and the employees both realise their proper responsibility is to take the matter to the labour court. Penalties are awarded against whichever side breaks the industrial agreement. This seems to be an eminently sensible system and I am certain, from past experience, that the Minister thinks it is an eminently sensible system that voluntary agreements when made, particularly when made with such competence, should be adhered to. If the agreements are not adhered to the civil processes of law should punish those who break the voluntary agreement. 
I am certain that the Minister for Labour has made it clear in the past that this was a system he very much wanted. Unfortunately, the unions turned him down flat. The other matter which interested me about Sweden was its different attitude towards piece work. For some reason or other, perhaps because of the previous history of industrial relations in this country, piece work tends to be thought of as a dirty word. No one can say Sweden is a backward country yet about half of its people are engaged in piece work. The Swedes realise that one can have sensible humane piece work conditions. I am certain that if the Swedes can have those conditions we can have them also. If there are such conditions we can provide an incentive to produce a bigger economic cake. In the long term it is only by the production of a bigger economic cake that the worker will get a bigger slice of it. I repeat that the Minister is no fool. I am glad that he went to Sweden but he has been noticeably reticent about the lessons he learned there. I hope he will tell us of them at some stage. As I say, he has had a great deal of experience in this field. Surely we could learn something from the experience of a country that has such a remarkable performance in industrial relations. 
In conclusion, I should like to say that I do not pretend that there is an easy answer to this problem. Sometimes with a feeling of complete despondency I wonder what possible solutions there are. Sometimes there is the monopoly power of a big industry group opposed by the monopoly power of a big union group. It often seems impossible that we will have any industrial peace in an economy with the forces ranged in this way. The only hope I have - it is a poor hope - for a solution is to recall the words of Nye Bevan, the left wing socialist leader in Britain who was asked one day by a questioner why it was with such a large proportion of the British electorate being unionists, the Labour Party did not win every election. He said " sourly that at each election the British unionist votes in condemnation of his own anarchy. This is a desparate kind of solution. We have to do better than that. This is the ultimate kind of discipline. The Minister for Labour has a real responsibility, with his experience in the union field and knowing that he has the support of this side of the House, to have a deeper look at the industrial front. We know that there are no easy answers. 
I should like to congratulate the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for a particularly thoughtful speech today which brought out the fact that we are tackling this problem with some humility and with the knowledge that we do not have all the easy answers. In conclusion, I hope that the Minister, when he replies, will do me the kindness of telling me something about his Swedish experience. I hope he will say that one thing we could learn from Sweden is the introduction of more employee participation in business management. I certainly accept that that is a responsible attitude if we have responsible unions, and I hope that we are gradually working towards that end. I would appreciate it if the Minister would give us the benefit of his experience in Sweden. 
It is a pleasure to follow the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  in this debate. I think he made a very sensible and responsible contribution to it, as we have come to expect of him. I do not know whether his reply to the charges made by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  was an effective one. I will leave it to the honourable member for Griffith to take up the matter at some future stage. 
The purpose of this legislation is to transfer power from the States to the Commonwealth - to give the Commonwealth wider powers. I have a desperate anxiety about whether that is a wise thing to do. I have no doubt about the enthusiasm and interest of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  or, indeed, about his eloquence. It was frequently said before he became a Minister of State, when he was a back bench member of the Parliament, that he would speak under water with weights on. Of course, that would not be said of him now that he is a Minister. But I do pay tribute to his interest, eloquence, enthusiasm and, indeed, generosity. What is worrying me is that I have considerable doubts about his wisdom. I think wisdom is much more important at this time in this field than generosity. 
I think it is essential to look very carefully at the proposition that the Commonwealth knows best. I think there is a great discipline in having to live with one's mistakes, as the States have to do. That applies as a general comment about the administration of the affairs of government. It applies particularly to the handling of Aboriginal problems, which are grass roots problems. I have found that there seems to be an inability so far by the Minister and his Department really to think things out. The Commonwealth has not been miserable with its money; no&lt;one can say that. Whether it has been right with the decisions it has taken is a much more difficult question to answer. At least let us take the matter out of the field of party politics. 
Let me give the House an example of what happened when the previous Government was in office. One day I went to an Aboriginal settlement, as it was then, and was received with glad acclaim. I said to one of the responsible officers at the settlement: 'To what do I owe such a welcome? Do I deserve it?' He said: 'You have been given credit for what the Government did last week'. I said: 'What did the Government do last week?' He said: 'It increased the unemployment benefit by between $10 a week to $17 a week and you have been given credit for it'. The officer also said that he experienced very great difficulty in getting the Aborigines to apply for work previously and that it would be quite impossible now. That is a sample of generosity as distinct from wisdom. We all know that in certain areas of our community there is a great disincentive to look for work or take work. Not to recognise the failure to look for work as a problem is just to blink the facts of life away. 
It is all right to be able to stand up before the United Nations and claim that Australia is treating everybody equally. But to do so at the expense of the happiness and well being of the Aboriginal population, as seems to bc done in many cases, is to pay for popularity at a price that is far too dear. It is all very well to sneer at paternalism and say that paternalism is a bad thing, but just to wash one's hands of the problem /because of the unpopularity that comes with authority and to let things drift along is to buy popularity at the expense of the well being of the Aborigines. It is all very well to give Aborigines the same rights as other people to obtain drink, but, in view of the way in which the drink problem is destroying them, the price of being popular in the general community is a very dear one. It is all very well for the Government to say that it will buy popularity by giving Aborigines land rights. But, if it is done, as it appears to be done in many cases, "without any wise guidance as to how the land rights should be used, it is done at the expense of the well being of the Aboriginal people. We have to be very careful that we resist the temptation to buy electoral popularity at the expense of the wellbeing of the people we seek to serve. This willingness to sacrifice the Aborigines on the altar of political popularity is one of the things about which I am acutely anxious. 
In conclusion - I have been asked to be brief - I add that it is no good thinking that the problems of the Aborigines can be buried under a mountain of money, because they will fester there. It is no good thinking that the problems of the Aborigines can be washed away in a torrent of eloquence, because they will still be there when the speeches are finished. As a community and as a Parliament we have an extra responsibility at this time to resist the temptation to think that there are any easy, rapid answers. I think the Minister is acutely aware of this. The honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  certainly referred to it. If we think that we can buy political popularity by rushing headlong into some halfbaked ideas, as there is a tendency to do, we run the risk of buying popularity at the expense of the people we hope to help. Members on both sides of the House have a very real responsibility to recognise that there are no easy answers and particularly that there are no rapid answers. In this field the only way that we can get wise and sustained development is by moving with extra wisdom and extra carefulness and recognising that the problems cannot be buried under a mountain of money. I beg the Minister, knowing that he has an active interest and a generous nature in this field, to recognise that in many cases wisdom is much more difficult and much more necessary than generosity. 
Has the Prime Minister yet received a request from the Premier of South Australia for a government contribution towards the cost of immense damage done to approximately 3,000 glasshouses in a freak hail storm which struck the Virginia district last week? If and when the request does come, will it receive his urgent and sympathetic consideration? 
I support the Industries Assistance Commission Bill. I admit immediately to 3 personal involvements which make my position perhaps rather unique. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his second reading speech made it clear that the Tariff Board will cease to be after the Commission is set up. I should like to pay a tribute to the unique contribution of the Tariff Board system. I think we in Australia have a unique system that by and large has served us very well indeed. I want to point out that it is not a question of expert members of the Tariff Board hearing public evidence and making reports. The first requirement is for a Tariff Board member to have wisdom; the second is for him to have independence. There should be wise people on the Board and they should be truly independent so that they can make economic judgments for the Government to make political judgments thereon. 
I speak with some feeling about this because my father was a member of the Tariff Board from 1929 to 1940. They were very trying years - in part the depression years - when to make a judgment not to grant protection was a very serious matter indeed. It really was a testing time for the Board. It had to weigh up the advantages that came from granting protection against the costs to the industry, to other industries and to the user industries. It had to measure the employment gained by giving protection against the employment lost by not granting it. I repeat: It was a testing time for the Board. I should like to pay a tribute to the Board for the work it did on that and other occasions. 
I have another personal involvement in this question. When I was elected to this place in 1959 I came with a main interest in tariffs. Some members of the House who have been here for some time will remember the lonely battle I had during the early years of my time in Parliament trying to get the House and the country to realise that there was another side - that protection, although necessary, could often be to the disadvantage of other industries and to the disadvantage of the economy as a whole. They were difficult years indeed. I suppose it was here that I first learned that personal abuse sometimes replaces argument. I used to suffer from both sides of the House - from my own as well as from the Opposition. 
I should like to pay a tribute to the memory of the late Arthur Calwell who one day when I was getting done over by friend and foe alike, came across the chamber and said: 'Look lad' - I was more of a lad then; it seems a long time ago - 'I don't believe in what you are saying but don't let them frighten you.' I used to battle alone in those days. I suppose there are 2 trials that an honourable member fighting a lonely exercise has to put up with. One is abuse and the second is the indifference of the House to the message he is trying to get over. 
One of the personal memories I have is of my wife, who used to get so sick of my not having an audience that she came in and sat in the Speaker's gallery. It was not crowded I might add. I was speaking about one of the tariff Bills and Laurie Failes, who was a Country Party member in this place, sat alongside her with one of his true blue Country Party disciples.  His  Country Party friend said: Listen for a while. This man seems to be talking sense, Laurie.' Laurie woke up with a bit of a start and, sitting alongside my wife, said: 'Yes, I know. But by cripes you get sick to death of him.' This indifference was a greater burden than the personal abuse. One does not mind boring other people but when it comes to boring oneself it becomes really hard work. 
Then the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  was elected to the House and helped to shoulder some of the burden. The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  occasionally used to come into the debates. But lately there has been a realisation that some of the things I said in the past were sensible. I know that my real, deep interest in the subject, particularly the question of the independence of the Board, does not give me any authority to speak about this Bill. But it does give me the right to claim at least some understanding of the subject. I see in this Bill the Tariff Board being superseded by the Industries Assistance Commission. I want to pay a tribute to the Tariff Board system which has served us so well in secondary industry and has given us the guidance that we needed to get an independent judgment and which has given the Australian people the opportunity to hear public evidence and see the public reports thereon. 
I say quite openly that I see the Tariff Board being superseded by the Industries Assistance Commission without any misgivings that the Tariff Board system or the system of protection for secondary industry will be damaged in any way. That is one of the reasons why I support the legislation. 
Another personal involvement that I have with the legislation is that for many years I, in conjunction again with my friend the honourable member for Corangamite,  Senator Sim  and others, have been fighting for and urging the establishment of a rural industries board. We felt it was necessary that rural industry problems should get the same kind of public examination and public report so that the benefits that flow to the secondary industries and our understanding of them should be felt in the primary industry field also. This was not an easy battle. We had to fight it through our party. As honourable members would imagine, there is no easy road tor a new development such as that and it was not an easy road in this case to get the proposal through the party room, through the rural committee and then through the LiberalCountry Party council. Again I pay an overwhelming tribute to the honourable member for Corangamite who took a prominent part in this battle. 
I do not claim to have authority to speak about rural industries but I claim to speak at least with some understanding. I represent a rural electorate which I understand is about twice as big as Victoria. My family has been farming the same country in South Australia for 100 years or more. I do not claim to be a good farmer, like the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  or the honourable member for Corangamite, and I do not pretend to be a big farmer but I do claim, and I do not think anybody would deny me this right, to speak with some understanding and with an anxious and urgent interest. Why should I be so concerned about the establishment of a rural industries board? The first factor that activated us was that we were concerned about the ignorance of city people as to the position in country areas. We have heard it said, and we hear it said continually, that rural industries are getting all kinds of help while the assistance given to secondary industries by way of tariffs is ignored. We were acutely conscious that in the cities there was a very tragic lack of interest in and understanding of what was happening in the countryside. This is one of the chief reasons why we felt that there should be a better understanding of the problems and a proper exposure of the problems when public evidence is taken. There would also be a published report so that the community as a whole and the cities in particular can understand the real problems involved. 
Another reason why we were concerned was that we knew that the proportion of people engaged in primary industry had fallen. We were concerned, and indeed we still are, because the rural voice, though clear, though eloquently and courageously offered, was a diminishing voice. There will be a lesser number of electors involved in the rural side of industry. That was another reason why we felt that there was a need for a buffer. The rural voice will diminish because the proportion of farmers is falling. Also, looking ahead with some realism, we recognised that there would be a change of government one day and that there then would be an even greater need for some kind of buffer to protect rural industries from some of the things that may be done to them. 
I and others also are concerned because we are fully aware that many of the problems that face us are not tariff problems. It has been said that the Tariff Board has been used and could be used to look at some of the rural industry problems. I refer to oil seed and so on. But those things represent only part of the problem. I am going to spell out some of the problems that are worrying me and, I think, worrying everybody. Wheat stabilisation is one of them. Everybody says, and I do not disagree, that wheat stabilisation has been a good thing. But are we going to have wheat quotas or not? This is one of the problems that we face in the future. Are we going to have a system whereby there will be a continual clamour for farmers to grow more wheat while we have a quota system to stop them from growing more wheat. Another of the problems that face us and which people seldom recognise is that this year, as in years past, money is to be taken from wheat growers and put into the stabilisation pool. I want to make a personal statement and say quite clearly that previously when I found, as a wheat grower, that I was putting money aside into a stabilisation fund I stopped growing wheat. The system of wheat stabilisation as we know it discouraged me from growing wheat when the world needed it most and encouraged me to grow wheat when the world needed it least. I do not think that anybody would deny that statement and the same thing is going to happen in my case again. I do not say that wheat stabilisation is wrong but it is the kind of thing that we should be looking into. 
We also should be looking at the effect of taking away the superphosphate bounty. We should be looking at what should happen in the case of rural credit. Should it be at low interest, should it be long term, or should it be both? What will be the effect if those things are done? Is it not possible that the advantages are likely to be swallowed up in high land values? 1 mention these things as examples of real problems that should be exposed by the proposed Industries Assistance Commission which will have the dual duty of looking at primary as well as secondary industries. I repeat that the first requirement of membership of the Commission is not that a person have expertise. That never has been the case with the Tariff Board and I hope it never will be with the Industries Assistance Commission. The first requirement is wisdom and the second requirement is independence. That has been the case with the Tariff Board. I think that great value will follow the establishment of this system by which problems can be exposed, as they have been in the Tariff Board system. Experts will be able to present sworn public evidence to the Commission and they will be questioned thereon. 
I turn now to my third involvement. I was pressing for a rural industries board.  Sir John  Crawford looked at the problem and said, in his wisdom - I think, on reflection, that he was correct in saying so - that it would be better to bring primary and secondary inquiries under the one philosophy and under the one roof. He said that they should be brought together. I would like to pay a personal tribute to  Sir John  Crawford. My third personal involvement is because of my great friendship, and my family's friendship, with  Sir John  Crawford. I honour him for the work he did for Australia and for the Vernon Committee, and the work he did in exposing the tariff problem officially and with authority in the first place. I accept that his solution of bringing the 2 industries together is the correct one. I know that it is going to be better in theory. If we are wise it also will be better in practice. However, I do not think that it is going to be an easy thing. I admit that I am worried because the Commission may get so much work that it will be unable to do its work well. That is the reason why I will urge, and I hope the Government will accept, that in respect of clause 23 (4) (g) the length of time before further inquiries are necessary be lengthened to 2 years. I am concerned that in its early days the back of the Commission may be broken because it is given too much work. 
As I say, I support the general principle of this Bill. I must admit immediately that I am opposed to the attitude of my Party on this question of temporary assistance and I will be engaging in the discussion on this matter when it is dealt with at the Committee stage. I would ask the Government to have a look at two other things so that is may be ready to deal with them when we come to them at the Committee stage. I ask the Minister to consider the effect of clause 20 which states that a commissioner shall not have a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any inquiry. I think that this provision is much too restrictive. If a commissioner who happens to be a farmer is examining, say, a request for a reduction in the tariff on tractors and he lowers the protection, it could be claimed that he has an indirect pecuniary interest. I think that this is unnecessarily restrictive and that the Government should have a look at it. 
I am also concerned about clause 6 (2) which states that a commissioner should give the whole of his time to his duties of office. I would have thought that it would be much better to say that he should be engaged full time in the duties of his office. I am not a lawyer but I would imagine that the expression the whole of his time* meant that he could not even go to church or go to bed or anything like that. I ask the Minister to look at that matter. But in general I support the Bill with a unique degree of feeling that it is an additional arm in the Government's armoury to see that primary industry receives the same kind of wise advice and examination that secondary industry receives. 
The Opposition supports the Government's attitude on this matter. The previous Public Works Committee recommended, at the end of the last year before Parliament was dissolved, that the limit be raised from $750,000 to $1.5m. This recommendation was made because of the great work load that the Public Works Committee found that it had to carry in the last year of the last Parliament. When the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton),  as  Chairman  of the present Committee introduced the report of the previous Committee, which he was obliged to do under the Act, he made the statement, and I supported him, that the limit could very well be raised to $2m. As I am on record as saying that, I have to support it, of course, and I know that the Opposition supports it. I am very glad to hear that the Government is proceeding with an in-depth study. I know that the present Minister for Housing ami Minister for Works  (Mr Les Johnson),  who was a member of the previous Public Works Committee, is well aware, firstly, of the work load that the previous Committee carried, and secondly, of the arguments involved in the Public Works Committee hearing references from statutory authorities. I know that he will be looking at those arguments with care and with a background of experience. 
I am not going to comment on this except to say that the Committee, under the chairmanship of the honourable member for Leichhardt, has sent to the Government a distillation of our thinking on this matter and on how we could alter our system of hearings so that we could deal with the references of statutory authorities if they were given to us. My own judgment is that with some streamlining of our procedures and with some alteration of our present system we could assume this duty. I think it would be valuable for the statutory authorities to have to justify their works before the Public Works Committee. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
Does the Prime Minister recall his assurance to this House that his Government should, and indeed would, take decisions on Tariff Board reports without referring them first to either Caucus or a Caucus committee? Does the Prime Minister realise inc immediate commercial opportunity that any Caucus committee member would receive if he were to know in advance whether a particular company was to receive a particular tariff advantage? Does the Prime Minister know that today's Press carries a story that the previously announced policy on this matter is to be changed and that Caucus or a committee of Caucus is now to have prior knowledge of tariff alterations? Does the Prime Minister think that this is a proper procedure? 
Each year, at about this time, we have a debate on wheat. In past years there has been a continuing criticism from city interests that the wheat grower was getting another handout - I think that was the word they used to use. It is true that, up to 1968, the wheat growers had received $156m from the taxpayer and, in the 5 years up to 1968 they had received $95m. This obviously was something which the community had in mind. 
I will come to that later. It is worth remembering that even in those days when the taxpayer was contributing to the wheat industry, no one seemed to worry very much about the contribution that the export industries were making in the form of tariffs. Just recently we saw a Tariff Board report which measured the consumer subsidy for the electronic industry at S30m a year. We have seen many measurements of the consumer subsidy which has been paid for in the end by exporters, such as the S300m a year paid to the motor car industry. Nobody mentioned those figures. 
As the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  so rightly says, people also forget that for many years the wheat grower has been subsidising the cost of living in this country. I will spell this out again because what is happening now is exactly the same as happened in the past. The wheat stabilisation scheme means that wheat is supplied to the flour miller at a considerably lower price than the price at which otherwise he could buy it. Let me give honourable members the world prices as at 16 November because, as far as I can gather, they are strictly applicable to our situation. The Canadian price for 14 per cent protein wheat is $3,805. The United States price for hard red winter wheat is S3.334 and the Australian export price is $3.66. In other words, we could sell on the export market at $3.66 wheat which we now sell to the Australian consumer at today's home consumption price of $1.85. This is a contribution that the wheat grower has made in the past and is making today to lowering the cost of production in an attempt to keep the inflationary pressures under control. 
Let us look at the stabilisation scheme as a general principle. I know that this is a bit like motherhood and that one should never criticise stabilisation. I am not criticising it. But I understand that motherhood is a pretty painful process and that there is a price to be paid for motherhood. There is also a price to be paid for stabilisation. I think that every now and again it is worth while to look clearly at the subject of stabilisation. I emphasise that I am not saying we should not have a stabilisation scheme. However, we ought to look at its defects and problems to see whether we can improve the scheme for the future. One of the things that happens, of course, is that stabilisation discourages the production of wheat when the world needs it most and encourages its production when the world needs it least. 
We have a tendency to think of the wheat industry as an industry. It is not an industry. Those who grow wheat are made up of a lot of farmers. To be more specific I shall identify each as Fred the farmer. They make up their minds what they are going to grow. They do not do anything by government direction. They balance up what they should do and what is the most profitable. Fred the farmer will look at the price he is going to get for his wheat, and he will know that he and the other farmers will be contributing $46m in a year to the stabilisation scheme, that he will lose at least 15c a bushel because that amount will go into the stabilisation fund. With, I suppose, an absence of proper consideration for the economy but with true consideration for himself he will look around to see what else he can grow. He sees that he can grow wheat, oats, barley, lamb, beef or wool and he knows that all these products are desperately needed. Fred looks at the 15c a bushel he is going to lose to help to provide the $46m which will be paid into the stabilisation fund and he is likely to say: 'I think I will grow less wheat', just when the world needs wheat most. This is one of the problems of stabilisation. 
When demand falls as it does fall - it falls in response to the increase in supply which is created by high world prices - Fred the farmer, who has not been growing much wheat, again looks at the situation. He sees the $46m which has been contributed to the fund by other farmers and he says: 'There is the certainty of a Government guarantee'. He knows that the Government is committed and that this large amount of money is in the fund and the price of wool is starting to fall. He says: 'I think I will start growing wheat again'. The tragedy or the difficulty of this situation is that Fred starts to grow wheat just as the world demand for wheat is falling. That is why the price is falling and that is one of the problems of stabilisation. I know that I will be branded later as being one who is against stabilisation but I am not against stabilisation. I am just pointing out some of the fundamental problems which we should try to measure and correct, if we can, when the scheme is being looked at. Because of the tendency for stabilisation schemes to increase the pressure to grow wheat when the world needs it least, there is always a pressure for production limitations, which is a nice way of referring to quotas. Fred the farmer would look at it in the form of quotas. 
 I will come to that in a minute. Why should Fred the farmer, who has not been growing wheat during the good times and who has not paid anything into the funds, be able to milk the fund when the demand for wheat falls? Another pressure for the imposition of quotas is that if we do not have some kind of quotas there will be a burden on the taxpayer when the price of wheat is really low and there exists a government guarantee that increases the price of wheat. This tends to create a very high burden on the taxpayer. In other words, honourable members must admit that stabilisation schemes always encourage quotas. There is always hidden behind stabilisation a pressure for product limitation and the amount of wheat that one can deliver. It always sounds pretty fair and logical until you start to look at it clearly. Then you come up hard against these awful facts of life. What happens if you are developing country? I notice that the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  is listening with intense interest. When you are developing new country and you have not been growing wheat in the past, so that you have not got a quota, it means that you cannot use your land to the best advantage. The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  would be acutely conscious of what happens in Western Australia. 
One of the other problems about quotas is how a quota is going to be fixed and people make apathetic effort to justify quotas. The Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  has been one of the leading lights in this regard. He always says - or he used to say - that we ought to tailor the supply to the likely market demand. That is splendid until the weather does what it does almost every year and lets us down. If it does not let us down in Australia, it lets us down in the rest of the world. I was hoping someone - and I know the honourable member for Moore who has expert knowledge in this regard will do it one day - would spell out the margin of error between quota expectation and quota realisation. 
This has been one of the awful examples of the fallibility of people. I would not say the academics. I am a classic example of making bad judgments about what is going to happen in future markets. If I had been able to make better judgments I would be a much richer man than I am. I have often said that people around me watch me and that when I buy cattle they sell them. I am not being critical of academics or other people who try to make judgments about quotas or about what the limitations should be. All you can say for certain is that they will be wrong to some degree, and, if you look at the experience in Australia, they will be greviously wrong. What are the other problems about quotas? Because they are going to be wrong, they are going to grow too little and that is what has happened in the past. One of the reasons why we get so little wheat to sell is due not only to bad seasons but also the effect of quotas in the past. 
What happens if we grow too much? We are left with wheat we cannot deliver. I know that wheat farmers in electorates other than Wakefield are inclined to .put wheat on to what they call the black market. The grain growers of the Wakefield district have much higher standards than that. We will find this is a continual problem. What does a wheat grower do? He suddenly gets a 20 per cent increases in his wheat yield. How is he to judge how much he is going to get? He does not know. He gets 20 per cent more and he has to do one of three things: He has to put it in the shed and hope that he can get it into next year's quota or he has got to feed it to stock or cart it across the border to the black market. Or maybe there is room in the quota for this year if the whole system has made a fundamental error of quotas and there is room in the system. 
What happens to the chap in the districts - the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  would be acutely aware of this - where the seasons are notoriously unreliable? In my district most of the people have a fair idea of what they are going to get. However, in the Murray and Mallee districts farmers get a high and a low; they get 3 lows and a high or 4 lows and a high. How is a chap in those areas going to gauge how much he should grow? And what happens when at last, if the gods are kind to him, he gets a high yield and he is left with a lot of wheat he cannot sell? 
These are the things we must think about when we start to have a look at this stabilisation scheme. Look at the other queer aspects of it. There is a case about which the honourable member for Moore would be aware. With his expert knowledge, he would be well aware of these difficulties. A chap I know has a beef feed lot. He runs his beef in one farm and he grows his grain, mostly wheat, in another farm a few miles away. AH he wants to do, poor simple man, is to grow wheat as cheaply as he can - he is a pretty good wheat grower - and feed it to his cattle and turn it into beef, which the world wants. But when he asks the Department of Primary Industry whether he can do that he is told: 'No, you cannot do that. You have to take it to the Wheat Board. You have to deliver it to the Wheat Board and then go down and get your own wheat out again'. 
I am not trying to score political points off anybody. I am begging the Government and indeed the wheat growers representatives to look with a good deal of clarity at the true implications of stabilisation. I could have made a speech - perhaps not as eloquent as others made here - picking holes in some aspects of the legislation, but I thought I would take the opportunity to urge the wheat growers first, the wheat leaders second, the Government third, and indeed some members of the Parliament also to realise that there are problems in stabilisation. It is not just good enough to say that stabilisation is a good thing. It is like motherhood. It is automatically good. I repeat, motherhood has some disadvantages, I am given to understand, although I cannot regard myself as intimately knowledgeable on the subject. But it is something that we ought to be looking at with a good deal more clarity and courage than we have shown in the past. I hope that this marking-time period will be used by all of us who want to have a look at the fundamental problems as well as the fundamental advantages of wheat stabilisation. 
 As a member of the Joint Standing Committee on Public Works, I should like to make a few comments. The Minister for Works  (Mr Les Johnson)  mentioned that the Committee was critical of the fact that approval for documentation was sought before the hearing commenced in May. Evidently there was a great deal of urgency about it between earlier in the year and May. But since 14 May, when the Committee heard the reference, all urgency seems to have disappeared. We have the queer picture that the Government sought and obtained approval for prior documentation to proceed, yet now we find that the length of time during which the work is to be done is to be extended by 2 years. It is quite clear that there is a difference in the urgency as the Government now sees it. 
It is probably related to what we understand to be the urgency that the Government sees for our defence requirements. The Government has said that there will not be any threat for 15 years. I guess that this explains the measured tread with which the Government is attacking the problem of refurbishing the Williamstown dockyard. It is quite clear from the programming for the destroyer refitting and rebuilding in particular that unless things are put in hand early there will be a very serious gap in our destroyer strength in a few years' time. The Navy spelt it out to the Committee with crystal clarity and said that there was an urgent need to proceed with the infrastructure - the dull business of building and refurbishing the docks - so that the vital requirement of having the destroyer strength ready to meet a future threat might be met. The timetable was exacting, so the Navy had to have permission for prior documentation. Then everything had to proceed in an orderly manner and with some urgency so that we could fulfil the need to refurbish the dockyard in order to have the destroyers ready to meet a threat. 
But evidently things are different now. Perhaps there is not a threat now. This must be the motivation behind the Government's decision to adopt this more leisurely pace. I presume, therefore, that it springs from the Government's assessment - as spelt out by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  - that there is no foreseeable threat for 10 to 15 years. I am not an authority on these matters, but I use again a quotation that has been used in this House before.  Mr John  Curtin said on 2 November 1938-I repeat the date, 1938- as reported at page 1095 of Hansard: 
Defence expenditure must depend entirely upon the conditions which prevail in the world from time to time. Obviously that must be the position. 
I do not think anybody would cavil at that. He continued: 
I say that any increase of defence expenditure after the Munich Pact so far as Australia is concerned appears to me to be an utterly unjustifiable and hysterical piece of panic propaganda. 
This is what I am concerned about. The Minister's assessment of the possible threat may be as wrong as  Mr Curtin's  was in 1938. Within a year we were at war. All I am expressing is my grave concern that the Government's leisurely approach to the refurbishing of the Williamstown dockyard inevitably places the destroyer strength in 10 or 15 years' time at grave risk. 
Destroyers are queer things. As soon as they are put in the water they start to go bad; their skin starts to decay because it has to be very highly stressed. They are like racehorses: If they cannot go fast they are no good at all. For that reason their skin has to be highly stressed. They have to be combatant ships because that is what they are for. They ought to be in the water as soon as possible because their time span is limited. We know that it is limited. The Navy spelt out how limited it is. The Government said to the Public Works Committee: 'Let us hurry up and hear it. Let us obtain permission for prior documentation'. The Committee met that request. Now we have dropped back to a slow walk after being urged into a brisk gallop. I express my concern that this is another judgment that the Government is making on the basis of its opinion that there will be no threat for a long time. The Government may take some comfort from that opinion; I certainly do not. 
I think it is proper that I should not let this motion be passed without drawing attention to one significant fact; so far as I know, this is the first open space secondary school proposed for the Northern Territory or the Australian Capital Territory. It is quite a step forward. The Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  will remember that the Public Works Committee had some very interesting inquiries into the open space system of teaching in primary schools, but this project is breaking new ground in open space usage in secondary schools. I think that fact should be mentioned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I did not come prepared to debate the question of the 25 per cent cut, although I will refer to it later in my speech. I came to take part in the debate on this very unimportant Customs Tariff Validation Bill that takes place in the closing stage of each Parliament when we validate these proposals that come up for future debate. I do not know when that will be. A measure such as this was always regarded as a machinery measure which gave legality to the proposals, because we were not able to debate them in detail. Because of that and because I hope that at some future stage these proposals will be debated in detail, I do not propose to do any more than make one point which I want the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who is at the table, to absorb because he himself has suffered under the system. The previous Government used it and I am sorry to see that his Government is now using it. 
By passing this Bill, we will validate 16 proposals. One year's work of the Tariff Board will go through the Parliament without a proper debate and the proposals will come up for debate at some time in 1974. However, by that time, other proposals will be added to the ones already listed for debate. This is not a good way to treat an important part of the political and economic system. As the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  said many of these proposals are important. The recent report on colour television is one which I should like to debate in great detail, but it is not proper for that proposal to be dealt with in the debate on a validation Bill. My plea to the Minister for Overseas Trade, which I should like him to take up with the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  for future consideration, is that it is not proper for the Committee stage of this Bill to be dealt with in this chamber. The second reading stage having been finalised and the principles on which the Government is operating having been examined, the only proper way to deal with these proposals is by an intimate committee system such as the Senate uses. If we did that we all would be able to sit around and educate ourselves and perhaps influence the Minister. At least we would be able to discuss the matter sensibly. 
I have suffered under the system. I remember coming here once and making prepared speeches on 16 different proposals. I have said before and I will say again that I do not mind boring other people, but in the end I was boring myself. Yet there were important principles at stake, and I dealt with them to the great discomfort and boredom of the whole House. The House is not a proper place in which to consider these proposals. The proper situation in which to handle them in detail is sitting around a small committee table where one can analyse Tariff Board reports. Knowing something of the way in which the committee system works, I know that there would be a first class examination of these proposals. We all would understand the problems much better and be able to make sensible comments on them. This is important now because, as I repeat, next year these 16 items will come up for debate. One of them, by the way, is a relic of the previous Government. It came in on 1 December and is related to our old friend phthallic anhydride which I remember with a good deal of bitterness over past years. But, when the time comes to debate these proposals, another group of proposals will have to be considered. 
What kind of examination can we give them in a House such as this? One of the problems we face in the way that this Parliament uses its time is the pressure that the Leader of the House puts on us. It is not altogether his fault, although I do not hold him entirely blameless. This pressure is due to the increasingly difficult and complicated government system. One way in which we could use the enthusiasm and ability of members of this House is to deal in detail with proposals contained in Tariff Board reports in the committee system so that we could get a sensible understanding of the proposals. 
I turn briefly to the question of the 25 per cent tariff cut. I do not know whether it will embarrass the Minister for Overseas Trade if I defend him, but I will just take a chance on that. I have made it quite clear that I support the Government's action. I think that, certainly, it was a courageous action. People have criticised the tariff cut as being too rash, but we must look upon it as being equivalent, to some extent, to an appreciation of the currency. That is one thing that should be done quickly and cleanly. I know that the Minister for Overseas Trade probably has pretty vivid memories of the necessity for it to be done quickly. This is one of the fundamental facts of life. One cannot flag this kind of action; otherwise one would have people taking advantage of it in a way that I believe is wrong. 
I think it is proper that I should defend the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board,  Mr Rattigan,  in relation to this matter.  His  committee was not assigned the task of examining what rates of tariff protection should be applied. The task of bis committee was to find some proper way of increasing imports - a completely different task from the one normally undertaken by him and the Tariff Board when they are asked to assess the level of protection that is needed for a particular industry. On this occasion, he and his committee were given the task of establishing the proper way of increasing imports. I repeat that this action was equivalent, to the extent of at least half, to a currency appreciation. My economics is not as good as it ought to be, but I understand that the tariff cut was equivalent to about a 6 per cent appreciation of our currency in relation to its effect on imports. I do not know whether that figure is exactly right; but, because it was equivalent to that action to that extent, it must have had the effect of increasing imports. I defend the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board because on this matter he made a judgment on quite different bases from those he uses when he and his Board measure the amount of protection that an economic and efficient industry needs. 
I should like to say something in support of the statements made recently by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  about floating the Australian dollar. Such a move would get us away from this problem of revaluation decisions. If we had a currency that floated, we would have each day an automatic movement in our currency which would tend to bring the imports and exports into balance. This always seems to be such a simple solution - so simple that I suppose many people look at it with suspicion. I know that this system used to be used; it probably was abused. But today we find that the currencies of many of our trading partners are floating and that those that are not floating are tied to currencies that are floating. We find ourselves bobbing uneasily on the economic sea, with some currencies going up and some going down. I support the Leader of the Country 
Party in his statement that floating the Australian dollar would be a sensible economic move. We would make day to day adjustments instead of allowing things to reach a trauma situation in the end, where people suddenly say: 'We have to move the currency'. We then have a great kerfuffle, people start to talk about revaluation compensation, and everything gets fouled up with politics. 
I do not carry any banners for myself. I do not think that I and many of my fellow politicians have very much ability to assess what the changes ought to be, but I do think that a floating system is the proper system to use. Perhaps in this way we would not have to implement these 25 per cent tariff cuts. However, I say quite definitely that I am not in any way critical of the Government for introducing the tariff cut. I made that clear at the time. 
I would not call my judgment a very educated judgment, but I would think that our currency would appreciate a little. I have not seen the figures. I am being asked to advise the Minister what he thinks the movement should be. I think the Minister would be able to get even better advice. I have an adviser whom he could use if he thought fit. 
Yes, his charges are reasonable and he gives his milk down when patted pleasantly. I think the Minister would find him a useful adjunct to his advisory service. Let me make my position clear, in case there is any disagreement or uncertainty as to my attitude. I have supported in the past and I still support the Government's action on the 25 per cent tariff cut. If members of the Government do not like being associated with me in that manner I am sorry for them. 
I want to be critical of the Government for accepting the amendment relating to temporary assistance. I made it clear during the second reading stage of the Bill when it was before the House earlier that I would certainly support the Government and oppose my Party on this question of temporary assistance. I did this for 2 reasons. One is, as some honourable members will remember, that I have fought the battle against the Special Advisory Authority system for many years and have been bitterly critical of the way it has been used in some cases. I saw the possibility that there may be some other authority standing outside the Board which may, in the future, be used in the way the Special Advisory Authority was used. That is why I made it clear in my speech during the second reading debate that I would support the Government's legislation. 
Unfortunately, the Bill was not debated in Committee for any length of time. With the usual tragic kind of trauma that seems to surround Bills that have a great deal of Committee content, it was hurried through the Committee stage. It went to the Senate and the Government accepted it. It has come back to this chamber with a different system from that recommended by  Sir John  Crawford who said that the temporary protection decisions ought to be taken by a group of people drawn from within the Commission. There are 2 very good reasons for this. One is that it is important that there should be one general philosophy about protection. I think it wrong to have one separate body making temporary protection recommendations, that body being withdrawn and separate from the rest of the Commission. The second reason is more mundane. There has been a lot of criticism about the need for fear of a large bureaucratic machine. There will be permanent commissioners and commissioners coming in on a temporary basis. They will be available, standing ready, with the support of the staff of the Commission to handle these temporary protection references. Some people have been saying that this will be a large organisation. But the Government accepts a separate authority which will be, in itself, a separate bureaucracy with a separate staff,I have no doubt. So I express my regret that the Government has accepted the amendment. I have been steeling myself for some time to cross the floor on the issue. Now I will not have to do that. 
But I am sorry that the Government has accepted the Senate's amendments. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Resolution reported. 
Adoption of Report 
My question is to the PostmasterGeneral. Is it a fact that 29 post offices in the Wakefield electorate have been scheduled either for closure or downgrading? Is this a greater number than in any other electorate? Is the Minister aware that this proposal would be a grievous blow to the people in my electorate and that it is also concerning the Union of Postal Clerks and the Australian Postmasters Association? 
I should like to raise two or three points in the few minutes available to me. There has been a lot of talk about the investment of the taxpayer in oil exploration. It has been said that $400m odd has been invested by the taxpayer in one form or another, such as taxation foregone and so on, and the question was asked: 'What have the Australian people, got out of it?' There has been some discussion in relation to Santos Ltd, an Adelaide-based company. The figures relating to this company's operations are interesting. They show that a 10 per cent royalty being paid on oil and gas is equivalent to about a 30 per cent ownership in the company. If one puts these figures together as has been done by an accountant friend of mine, an income tax rate of 47.5 per cent, plus the royalty payments, gives the Australian people - the taxpayer - about an 80 per cent return on their investment. I would think that is not altogether a bad return when one considers that there have been a great many other cases where a great deal of money has been invested and where the companies have not received back anything at all. 
My main plea which I want the House to consider is that it is time that we took a more responsible attitude to the question of overseas ownership, because this constitutes the mainspring of the Government's Bill. There is a fear that evil overseas ownership is going to get hold of our heritage - I think that is the word that is usually used - and squander it and we are going to lose our rights to it. Really, this is essentially nonsense. I think it would do us all good to consider the history of certain mining companies. I believe that Mount Isa Mines Ltd is a classic case because if one reads the history of that company which is very well and interestingly written by Blainey - I think it is in the book The Rush that Never Ended'- one can see set out with crystal clarity the problems experienced to obtain Australian capital. Everybody stood around and waited and an American company - a big overseas combine of people about whom honourable members opposite talk so disparagingly - came in and for years went without any return on its capital. This situation occurred again at Broken Hill. 
It is no good the Government saying that these people are bad because they come from overseas. There is a tremendous amount of risk and expertise in the mining game. It is going to do Australia a great deal of harm if we brand everything from overseas as bad. This is particularly so when one considers that, in the end, Australia has control. After all, the minerals and the oil are in our country and, if we are wise, by entering into a sensible kind of partnership and without terrifying the industry as we are now doing, we can prevent the exportation, if necessary, of what is dug out of the ground by overseas capital and risk takers. If it is in Australia's interests and if the minerals are needed here, we could step in and say: 'There is not going to be any gas, oil or minerals exported'. It is within our power now to do that. However, with the way that this Bill is going to operate, we are going to make certain that overseas capital does not enter Australia and does not produce the oil and gas that we then could control. 
This is my fear about the Government's legislation. It is not going to be a partnership. If it were going to be a partnership, I would not be opposing the Bill as I do now. I fear that the industry is just waiting for a takeover. It is vulnerable to a takeover. Anybody could walk into say, Mount Isa Mines Limited which has developed after a tremendous amount of risk taking, and take over. The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  could go in and say: 'Let us take over Mount Isa'. Perhaps this is not what the Minister has in mind at the moment, but this is what the industry is fearing with, I think, a great deal of justification. 
I never thought that I would be in this House when legislation so radical as this came forward. The Australian Labor Party would do well to consider what it is doing because there is in Australia - this was shown on Saturday - an overwhelming distrust of socialism as such. If this Bill does not expose the mining industry to socialism, I cannot understand either the Minister's second reading speech, the Labor Party's philosophy which was spelt out at its Launceston conference and which has been mentioned or, indeed, what has been said in this debate today. This is the fear that we all have on this side of the House. But, even more important is the fear that the mining industry has. I am certain that, while the present Minister is in charge of this Department, this fear will not be quieted. I certainly have a fear and it is not only a philosophical dread of socialism as such. It is just that I fear that there is going to be a kind of takeover at the very time in our history that we need, more than ever before, exploration and mining for oil to proceed. This is the time when the fear of socialism is going to stop the rigs working. That is why I oppose it. It is something about which the Labor Party ought to have another think. 
In the few minutes available to rae I wish to make it clear that I oppose the Bill and state the reason why I oppose it. My opposition is centred on a paragraph of the Minister's second reading speech in which he said: 
Our predecessors in office certainly sought development of our resources. The great difference between them and us was their policies, which exposed Australian initiatives to overseas acquisition and control. 
The difference is that at least our system worked. Our system of encouraging private enterprise to come to Australia and to put risk capital into this very risky process of exploring for and developing the mining of minerals and oil worked. That is one of the factors that is important. 
One does not just find oil. One does not drill for oil with one's mouth. One finds oil through people going out and putting holes down into the land or the sea. This is a most expensive and very risky business. Under our system, it worked. One of the facets of the Bill that I dread is this: I have the great suspicion that it will do one thing very effectively, that is, that it will stop the advancement of private enterprise in oil exploration and development. Who would put his money into the search for oil with the sure and certain knowledge that if and whenit was found - and the word 'if' is most important - he will not have control over it? It is quite clear according to this legislation that the Government can just walk in, have a document signed by a magistrate and take over the control of an oil or mineral discovery. I do not say that that will always happen. But the fact is that looming over industry now is the threat that it might happen. The threat is that the Government knows best. Big brother looms over the industry in a way that was never known before. This is the fear that the industry has in a most acute form. Industry cannot trust the Labor socialist philosophy. In particular it cannot trust the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  who is at the table. There is this overwhelming uncertainty in the industry. Development is steadying down just at a time when we need that development most. 
The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  has spelt out frequently how the pace of development has slowed down. Why has it slowed down? The urgency for exploration is more acute than it has ever been before. But who would put money into mining or into the risky business of oil exploration knowing that if - this is the important qualification - the venture is successful, the Commonwealth Government will have the ability to take over that discovery. This is the fear. It is not just a philosophical fear. It is an overwhelming fear that we on this side of the House have and which mining industry leaders have. As the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  so rightly said, the small mining companies have this overwhelming dread that the Minister for Minerals and Energy with his ideological bias is standing ready and willing to strangle the industry. People say that this is a figment of our imagination. The fact remains that while the present Minister is in office and the present Government has this philosophy so clearly- 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is the Government considering the formation of a joint parliamentary standing committee to consider Industries Assistance Commission reports? Will this committee be expected to consider these reports before or after the Government has announced its decisions thereon? Will the committee be able to call as witnesses the commissioners or associate commissioners who signed the reports? If not, will the committee be able to call members of the Commission's staff as witnesses? 
The Opposition takes the quite unusual step of opposing the motion that this proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report. I have never heard of a debate of this kind taking place. This is not something that the Opposition does lightly. I will now set out as clearly as I can the reasons why the Opposition is opposed to the reference of this work to the Public Works Committee. All references that I know of to the Public Works Committee - I am speaking as a present ViceChairman of the Committee, the past Chairman of the committee and a former Minister for Works - have been accompanied by documentation. The Public Works Committee met and discussed this matter this morning. It was told that the documentation in relation to the matter referred to on today's notice paper would not be ready for another 10 or 12 weeks. The Committee had to ask itself why it will not be ready. The Committee had to decide what it would do if it did receive the reference. It had to decide whether it could advertise the proposed investigation and put other matters in train. It was resolved without a dissentient voice that it would be quite impossible to do anything further because the documentation was not ready. The proposed investigation could not be advertised and the Committee could not take any of the steps that it would normally take when it receives such a reference from the Government because the documentation was not ready. Why has this reference been approached in this manner? Why was the decision made to refer it to the Committee 10 to 12 weeks ahead of the timetable that has been followed in every case of which I know? 
It is because there is to be an election? I have heard rumours of there being an election towards the end of the month. 
In Western Australia. Is it because the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has had to turn down the Alwest project and wants to be able to say to the Premier of Western Australia: 'We are going to give you a building instead'? 
It may be a matter for some levity, but I would point out that the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson),  who is at the table, as a former member of the Committee, would be more aware than most of the standards that the Committee has set itself and that its procedures stand above policies. In May 1972, when I was the  Chairman  of the Committee and the Minister for Housing and Construction was a member of the Committee, he led a very logical and rather telling attack on the then Government. I shall quote what he said. Apparently the principles that one has in Opposition sometimes disappear when one becomes a Minister. The Minister for Housing and Construction, as a member of the Opposition, had this to say on that occasion: 
The Public Works Committee is not a mere sycophant to act as a rubber stamp and to acquiesce with the Prime Minister. It is there to do an earnest job; lt is not there just to toe the line and to show its preparedness to engage in a facade of democracy. 
The Minister for Housing and Construction when he was a member of the Public Works Committee. 
Things seem to have changed indeed. He went on to say: 
If this Parliament is to delegate serious work to a Committee which can examine all the evidence on the matter and bring down a useful and reliable report, we must ensure in the future that the Prime Minister, the Minister for the Navy and every other parliamentarian come to understand the independent nature of the work to be undertaken. So, I express concern that the Prime Minister has transgressed in this way. I hope that he will give an explanation, if not an  apalogy,  to the Public Works Committee and to the Parliament for the manner in which he has violated the great and important traditions of the Public Works Committee. 
That was the Minister who has just 'moved that a matter be referred to the Public Works Committee when the documentation is not ready. The Minister said that on 24 May 1972. I have been proud of the traditions of the Public Works Committee, and it grieves me beyond end to see its traditions prostituted in this way. Principles are principles, whether a member is in opposition or in government. I cannot understand how the Minister, having uttered those fine phrases, could take the action he has taken today. The debate from which I have quoted and in which I also spoke dealt with the matter of pre-emption. The then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  had gone to Perth and made a statement which, in the opinion of the Committee and the  Chairman  of the Committee, as I then was, and particularly of the then honourable member for Hughes, had to some degree pre-empted the work of the Committee. As the then  Chairman  of the Committee, I regarded that as a serious matter. I too joined in the debate, and I think that the Minister will agree that I played my proper part as  Chairman  of the Committee in upholding the traditions of the Committee. I have in my hand a Press release under the Prime Minister's name, and I shall read it. 
I shall read just one paragraph. It states: 
A new plaza will be created in Forrest Place, Perth. In addition, the Australian Post Office proposes to construct a new Administration Centre adjacent to the existing Perth GPO. The 2 developments will be made possible by an exchange of land between the Australian Government and the Perth City Council. 
I leave it to other honourable members to discuss the exchange of land. But if that statement is not a pre-emption of what the Committee is expected to deal with, I do not know what is. It is much more definite than the pre-emption that was contained in the previous Prime Minister's speech. Let me read what the Minister for Housing and Construction said on that occasion about pre-emption and what 1, in more halting language, supported. I would like the Minister to listen to his own unexampled exposition on how important it is not to have a pre-emption. Talking about a statement by the then Prime Minister in Perth, he said: 
The effect of this statement is, of course, to pre-empt the decision of the Public Works Committee, and the Prime Minister in the same release has indicated that he is quite aware that this is the wrong thing to do. 
On this occasion the Prime Minister has made no reference to the Public Works Committee examination. He has made a great fellow of himself in Perth, or at least so he thought, by making a statement which pre-empts the decision of the Committee. Honourable members can imagine what will happen when this project comes before the Committee for examination. The Labor members of the' Committee know that their Prime Minister has promised the building to the people. What kind of examination will it be? On the last occasion that this kind of matter arose I mentioned that this is the kind of thing of which governments and Ministers have to be aware. They must not do it. The most eloquent and logical person who dealt with the subject was the Minister, who said that pre-emption of this kind dragged the name and tradition of the Public Works Committee in the dirt. Now that he is a Minister he is doing exactly the same thing. Is it any wonder that the Opposition opposes the reference to the Committee at this time. It seems to me that it is a case of the traditions of the Public Works Committee, and indeed of all standing committees, being traduced in a way that I find most regrettable. 
On a personal note, I cannot understand the actions of the Minister, who when he was a member of the Committee was a shining example of industry and also keeping the Public Works Committee above politics. I think he would pay a tribute to the Public Works Committee, as well as to others, for the fact that we did that well. What kind of example is it to us when the Minister does what he did today with an open admission - this is the information that was provided by the staff of the Public Works Committee - that the documentation will not be ready for 10 or 12 weeks. We are supposed to accept the position that the matter will go to the Public Works Committee for political purposes. I want to say to the Minister that I am ashamed of him. 
The Government is asking us to take a very serious step today. On only one occasion since I became a member of this House in 1958 has there been a case where the Government has asked for a public work of this magnitude to be treated as urgent and not to be subjected to examination by the Public Works Committee. Recently - before the Western Australian State election - we had what I would call a very grave exposure of the way in which the Government is beginning to use the Public Works Committee. The Public Works Committee, as the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  would know as he was once a member of it, has always prided itself on being above the baser levels of Party politics. Until today - we had one today - there has never 'been a division in it along Party lines. All the traditions have been dragged in the dirt by the Government and in particular by the Minister, who should know - who does know - of the quality of work and the standards set by the Public Works Committee. In the Western Australian case we had the Government hoping to get some political advantage out of an announcement that a Post Office building would be constructed in Forrest Place, Perth. That project was brought before the Committee 10 to 12 weeks before documentation was ready. I would say that it was one of the most glaring examples of the 
Public Works Committee being reduced to the level of a Party political machine. 
The project that is the subject of this motion is sought to be carried out without reference to the Public Works Committee for examination as it is regarded as urgent. No one denies that it is urgent. But what is wrong with the footwork so that the Government could not get it to the Committee earlier? The Committee always has a great interest in the timetable of projects. Knowing the nature of the projects that normally come to it for examination the Committee usually goes down to the end of the pipeline and listens for the things that are supposed to gush out. One of the things that was going to gush out some months ago was the Brisbane Airport proposal. What happened? Obviously the Government, for one reason or another, was not able to do its homework and get it to the Committee in time for examination. 
The Minister, who should know the kind of obligations that he has to the Committee, did not tell us why it was that this delay took place. There may have been reasons for the delay, but there has not been one word of explanation from the Minister about it. The delay is going to mean that work of this magnitude will escape examination by the Public Works Committee. I wonder what kind of attitude the Minister would have adopted if he had been a member of the Committee and he had been treated in this way. Either the Minister does not trust the Public Works Committee or the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee does not trust his Committee because the Committee met this morning and there was not one word of warning about this matter coming up today. If the Minister trusted the Committee, as previous Ministers did, he would surely have alerted the  Chairman  of the Committee to what was coming up. 
I did not see the notice of motion. Why is it that the  Chairman  of the Committee, if he knew about it, did not mention it to his Committee this morning? The Minister served as a member of the Committee when I was its  Chairman.  I ask: If I had done that to the Minister what would have been bis reaction? What would the reaction have been if I had not taken the Committee into my confidence and said: 'This is the problem. Let us have a look at the timetable. Let us have a look at the position in which the Government finds itself. There was not one word of consultation with members of the Committee from this side of the House. The Committee met this morning. I will be entering into the results of that meeting later in the day. But for now I want to express my acute concern about this treatment of the Public Works Committee, which the Minister knows and the House. I think, will accept has set a standard for objectivity, honesty and an ability to work together. In this case, with an election coming up, no one consulted this side of the House. I, as  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee, did not hear a word about this matter. What kind of treatment is that? I am justified in asking whether this is just a political gimmick. It may not be. I am not saying that there is not a need in this respect, but I am saying that this is shabby treatment of a Committee which in the past has set a standard in the operation of the democratic process of which the House and the Parliament has every reason to be proud. Now it finds itself being treated like this without one word of consultation. 
It might not exist, but its traditions will exist, in spite of what the Minister for Housing and Construction has done to them in his short term of office. It is of great grief to me to find that a previous member of the Committee who served it with distinction and loyalty, should now be the instrument for bringing it down to a level to which it has never descended before. I hope it will rise again in the future. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I too congratulate you on your appointment as a  Deputy Chairman  of Committees and a  Deputy Speaker,  and say how satisfactory it is to see. you adorning the Chair as you do tonight. The Opposition will not oppose the Public Works Committee Bill 1974. I certainly do not. I think that it is an inevitable result of the Act as it now stands. The Government, through the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  introduced the Public Works Committee Bill 1974 today and told us that the purpose of the Bill is to amend that Act in certain particulars. As the Public Works Committee Act now stands, the motion now before the House is necessary and I think that it is wise. 
It is necessary, as the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  said, because of the rate of escalation in the cost of building in the Northern Territory. The figures that the honourable member for Boothby has given are correct. 
I was at the Committee hearing at which  Mr Cole  spelt out these facts. May I say, for the benefit of those honourable members who have just come into the chamber, that  Mr Cole,  a most effective and efficient officer of the Department of Works and Housing told us at the Tennant Creek Hospital hearing in March that the rate of building expenditure had increased by 32 per cent in the last 12 months. He said that the rate was increasing and that in the last quarter it had gone up by 12.5 per cent. If that rate is to continue - and it is hard to see how it could not - one would multiply the 12.5 per cent by four and the result would be an annual escalation rate of 50 per cent. That is the reason why the Minister has found it necessary to bring in this motion. Because of the effect of inflationary pressures in the Northern Territory I do not oppose the motion. 
If one analyses the figures further one gets a queer situation. Let us apply the annual escalation rate of 50 per cent to the Tennant Creek hospital. I use this as an illustration of the justification of the Government's action. On the basis of an annual escalation rate of 50 per cent the Tennant Creek hospital would cost Si 1.5m instead of $4.5m by the time it is built. If one used a compound rate of escalation the cost would be $1 5.337m. It is interesting to note that the cost works out at $12.8 per minute. When I extracted this information from the departmental officer the immediate response of the Committee, the members of which have a very lively sense of the importance of public funds, was to expedite the hearing because it did appear that to prolong the hearing would just about break us. 
As I have pointed out, it is necessary that this motion should go through because of the rate of escalation of costs in the Northern Territory. The Government is faced with the position that as the tenders will be in excess of $2m, as the Act stands the project should be submitted to a Public Works Committee hearing. The Minster knows, and as I know, in such cases certain steps have to be taken, the documentation has to be different and advertising has to be gone through. By the time that Public Works Committee hearing was completed, with all the expedition that the Committee brings to these references, we would have found that the construction of the schools had been seriously delayed. Because of that and because there has never been any great area of argument in regard to schools in particular, I am glad to say that the Opposition supports the Government in this matter. 
Does the Treasurer recall the lectures that he and his colleagues used to give us about the evils of usury and the wickedness of usurers? Does he recall that at that stage the bond rate was less than 5 per cent? How does he regard himself now that the bond rate being charged is more than 10 per cent? 
The Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  when introducing this motion made the point that there was at least one member of the former Joint Committee on the Northern Territory who expressed some concern about the re-appointment of that Committee. I make no secret of the fact that that person was myself. 1 will outline the reasons for my concern. One is, as the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  has said, that there is a great degree of pre-emption. The Government - I am not being critical of it - has taken certain steps that have overtaken the Committee. For instance, the Committee was asked to advise the Government as to the manner in which the proposed new legislative assembly should be elected, what the proposed electoral divisions should be and what kind of electoral system should be introduced. In the meantime the Minister, for reasons I can understand - I am not being critical of him - had to move in and set the wheels in motion for a redistribution to be held. 
The Committee was asked to give specific attention to the kind of representation that should be given Aborigines. In this instance again the Minister has had to take action to set the wheels for redistribution in motion, making it impossible for the Committee to recommend a system of Aboriginal representation. I am not arguing whether that proposal is right. But that action has made it impossible for the Committee to make recommendations on some of the aspects that it was asked to study. That is one of my reasons: The Committee has been overtaken by events. 
There is another reason for my concern - this is a very much more important one - and I ask the Minister to pay particular attention to it. The Minister has said that the proposed new legislative assembly will have 19 members. Its membership was one of the matters upon which the Committee was asked to arrive at a decision. The Minister has had to make the decision and the proposed new assembly will have 19 members. Then the Minister, with the Committee's report in hand, is to have a discussion with these persons who will be elected under the redistribution, the machinery for which he has set in motion. The problem of the Committee will be to arrive at the kind of sensible report that will be needed if the Minister is to use that report as an aid in coming to his decision. 
Let me give some examples of this aspect. When the Committee took evidence, all departments in Canberra made their position clear. They said: 'Yes, we understand the position. It is a very good thing that the Northern Territory is to have self-government. But it does not apply to us.' All departments in Canberra believed that they had a much wiser and superior view of matters than did the local Northern Territory people. They said: 'The decisions are likely to be better made in Canberra than in the Northern Territory.' Throughout all of its sittings this is the problem that the Committee came across; and it is still very much on our plate. Let me give an example with regard to health matters. The proposal is to grant local self-government. The Department of Health is asked: 'Do you wish health matters to be run by the Northern Territory Administration?' The Department replies: 'Oh no. It would not work because of the difficulty of retaining medical people in the Northern Territory.' I admit that it is a very real difficulty. Yet, what kind of selfgovernment is it that does not have control of the health of the community? 
Another problem is education. If one asks the local people in the Northern Territory about education, they say: 'Yes, we must be in control of education - of primary education at least. That must be a function of selfgovernment.' Is self-government worth anything if it does not control education in the primary and secondary field? Yet, we know there are very great difficulties in attracting and retaining a small teaching service. I am not arriving at a conclusion; I am just telling the Minister of the overwhelming difficulties of the task that still awaits the Committee. Yet the Minister is asking for a report to be on hand when he goes to discuss the newly elected legislative assembly. 
Let me give an example relating to Aborigines. About one-third of the population of the Northern Territory is Aborigines. When one asks the local people of the Northern Territory: 'Do you want control of the Aborigines?' they reply: 'Oh no, that is too hard. Leave that to the Department of 
Aboriginal Affairs in Canberra.' Yet, what kind of self-government is it if one-third of the people in the area being governed are outside the control of the local selfgovernment? 
They are permanent residents too, as the honourable member for Hunter and the  chairman  of the former Committee says. Another example is the police force. All honourable members on the Committee know the urgent and active interest that the honourable member for Hunter has taken in this field. Should the Northern Territory have control of its own police force? People in the Northern Territory say: 'Well, if selfgovernment means anything surely it means having control of the local police force.' There are good reasons why this is difficult and the  chairman  frequently draws attention to them. For instance, if we have local self-government we have to have a separate civil service. This means very great problems of arriving at a system with Australian civil servants on the one hand and local civil servants on the other. The question bristles with problems in a way in which I have never seen in any other term of reference to a committee. I have worked on other committees. I pay a tribute to the  Chairman  of the Committee, who hounds us. He appears to be benign but he makes us work far harder than I like to work. But whatever he does to us he cannot, because of these problems, make us prepare a sensible report that will be of benefit to the Minister by the time he goes to discuss the matter with the newly elected House of Assembly. 
I want the Minister to realise that 1 will not sign an ill considered report. When I am given a reference to discuss I like to consider it as thoroughly as I can. I think it would be quite wrong for us to come up with a report and say to the Minister: 'You have asked us to report on these things and 1 know you are in a hurry so we will just make a few slick comments'. I can understand why the Minister is in a hurry. I did not want the Minister to reappoint the Committee because I know we will have almost overwhelming difficulty in bringing in a report of the quality he wants. However hard the  Chairman  of the Committee flogs us we will not be able to do it. 
One of the other problems we have to consider is whether we are to have one vote, one value. We, it is hoped, will express an opinion on that. In such a system electorates would have an average of about 2,000 people. There was a lot of argument for having a multiple electorate so that people of the required quality could be drawn to do this quite difficult job of forming a responsible administration in the Northern Territory. That question has been taken out of our hands. I can understand the reasons for that. But to expect us almost to trot alongside the Minister, who is certainly making decisions ahead of us, and then to discuss those terribly difficult problems and make available to him the condensation of the Committee's wisdom by the time he wants it, I think is impossible. The only reason I agreed to accept nomination to the Committee again is that I did not want to leave the  Chairman  and the rest of the Committee half way through an impossible task, and I do regard it as an impossible task. I warn the Minister that because of the nature and the complexity of the decisions involved he ought not to expect too much. We cannot give him the kind of report that he wants in the time scale in which he wants it. 
I remind the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  who spoke a little while ago, that we are not arguing about whether permanency is a good thing. We introduced it when in government. It is a good thing in theory. The difficulty is to make it work, and the awful fact is that since it was introduced in 1967 permanency just has not worked as well as we all hoped it would. We have had an escalation in the costs of handling conventional cargo at the rate of about 30 per cent a year. Many problems have followed the agreement of 1967, and I will spell out some of them in the few minutes for which the Whips have allowed me to speak. One of the problems is the sweetheart agreement. It is actually the problem. I would like the honourable member for Burke to listen to this because he criticised the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for not talking about what was really meant by 'overseas interests' in the context of overseas action and overseas capital on the waterfront. I thought the honourable member for Wannon spelt it out with crystal clarity. 
The fundamental problem on the waterfront is the sweetheart agreement between the Waterside Workers Federation and the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  knows, as we all know, that there is a sweetheart agreement. The employers of waterfront labour know that they are dominated - not owned - and controlled, because of the business linkage, by the overseas ship owners who because they are in the Conference system are able to pass the costs on. The sweetheart agreement between the WWF and the AEWL is the root of our problem, and the Minister knows that. He has often criticised sweetheart agreements in the past. This is a classic case. Let me illustrate why it has not worked. Nothing I am about to say will be my own opinion. I am taking it from what I would call neutral sources. Firstly, there is the problem of redundancy. The idle time bill rose from S824.000 in 1968 to S8m in 1972. It will fall to some extent this year. The reason - the chief reason - for this levy which is being continued is to pay for the idle time that is logged up. Even in time of full employ ment there will be some stevedores short of labour and others with a surplus of labour. Some stevedores will have labour permanently employed but at home sitting down doing nothing while another stevedore somewhere else will be short of labour. 
That is the kind of thing that we cannot afford and the economy cannot afford. It is the kind of thing that unfortunately has followed permanency of employment on the waterfront. We have the situation that it costs about $3,000 a year for each redundant waterside worker's idle time. These are the figures of 2 years ago. I have not checked on them recently. Yet under the agreement there was a golden handshake arrangement whereby redundants among waterside workers could be given a golden handshake of $3,000. No one can say that that is mean treatment. The fact is that hardly anybody has been declared redundant. Why is that? Here I do not give my own opinion; I quote from the 1971 report of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. The reason why people who are employed incur these costs in idle time is that the Stevedoring Industry Authority can declare these people redundant only on the recommendation of the AEWL and the AEWL just will not face up to the industrial strife that might follow such action. 
Honourable members should not take my word for this. I quote from the report of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, which said: 
On every occasion when there has been a need to implement the agreed redundancy arrangement the employers have been threatened with industrial dislocation by way of stoppages, bans on overtime and weekend work and go slow tactics. In the face of these threats the AEWL has not been prepared to make an application for a declaration of redundancy except after some agreement with the Federation. For its part, the Federation has been successful in limiting retrenchments to those men willing to accept the redundancy benefits payable under the agreement 
That is, the $3,000 handshake -  plus in the most recent cases the additional financial inducements offered, and leave the industry voluntarily. 
That is one of the problems, and I guess the Minister is well aware of it. One of the other parts of the problem is the lack of discipline on the waterfront. Those who know the waterfront well will agree that what I am about to quote is correct. I am not giving my own, others might say, biased opinion; I am quoting from the annual report of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority - a government institution - for the year ended 30 June 1971. It stated: 
There was no evidence of any improvement in industrial relations during the year. Discipline has deteriorated to the extent that in most cases it is now almost entirely related to the degree of responsibility exhibited by the men themselves. The expectation that the Conference arrangements would result in better industrial relations, freedom from industrial disputes and a reduction in unit and total costs has not been fulfilled. 
I repeat that this is not my opinion but the opinion of the Government Stevedoring Industry Authority. Let me give another example. Here I will quote from the transcript of evidence given before  Mr Justice  Moore. There was a discussion about a waterside worker who was accused of being drunk on the job. I am not pretending that all waterside workers are in this category, or that even many of them are; but this is a classic case of lack of discipline. The foreman was asked why he started this drunken man on this day. The foreman replied: 
No. I do not have to start him. As a matter of fact, I should not start him, but under the new system the man is supposed to be paid for the full shift irrespective of whether he works it or not. The ship owner is loath to put anybody off because of this. They have had occasions when men have been put off and the union has said 'If you do not reinstate them we will pull the whole port out'. 
That is a sample of the problem. The Minister would be well aware of it. I have here other quotations showing how agreements which were entered into have been broken but, because of the time factor and the discipline that I am under, I am unable to cite them. I will say this: The Minister knows that the waterfront is in a mess. The costs are going up. Discipline is bad. We all know that some solutions can be put forward and at which I know the Minister will be looking. One solution is the nationalisation of the waterfront. I say no more on that matter except that even that solution - it does not attract me - would be better than going on as we are. Another solution is to have a Government stevedoring industry company. I do not think that that solution would work because I think the ship owners would not deal with it. 
The one solution I keep coming back to is to put all waterside workers, whether they be clerks or members of the Waterside Workers Federation, under the control of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority to get some control and discipline in the industry, so that we will not have the problem of locked-up labour and of people being paid for sitting at home doing nothing when other employers are short of labour. I know that that is one matter about which the Minister will be thinking. I repeat it: Put all waterfront labour - clerks and everybody working in this area - under the control of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. I know that the Minister is aware of the problems. I just urge him to grasp the nettle. Because I want the Minister to grasp the nettle quickly, and because matters cannot continue as they are going at the moment, I support the amendments proposed by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for consideration at the Committee stage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. The justification for it is clearly set out in the second reading speech of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and I reiterate his reasons. We have to make a decision at some stage where the cut-off point should be when deciding whether a public work should be referred to the Public Works Committee. The decision has been made rightly that the cut-off point should be when Cabinet makes its decision on the work. The problem has arisen only recently because of the frightening escalation of building costs. The Government has found that a school which is estimated to cost under $2m will cost over $2m by the time it goes to tender. This is a by-product, and a very serious by-product, of the inflationary problems that face us. But it would be very difficult to fix the limit at the stage when the tenders come in, because we would have the situation where at the time of tendering the work was estimated to cost $ 1.75m and if the Act was not altered the work would have to be referred again to the Public Works Committee which, with all the expedition with which it could handle the referral, would mean a delay of many months and another increase in costs. For that reason I think the decision the Government has made is a wise one. 
I put to the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who is at the table if he would be kind enough to give me his attentiion, that it is important that the Parliament be made aware of how many times this sort of thing is happening. I would suggest that the Committee be asked to tell in its annual report to 
Parliament of the numbers of cases where an increase in costs has occurred for this reason, that is, in respect of cases which since going to tender have come out at over $2m. I do not think it is necessary to have this requirement written into the Act. A suggestion from the Minister should be sufficient that the Public Works Committee in its annual report refer to the number of cases in which this happens, so that Parliament can be made aware of the problem. It may not be happening many times. It has been suggested on our side that we should press for an amendment to the Act and this step may be thought necessary when it is considered further. I do not think it is necessary. A simple statement from the Minister to the Public Works Committee advising the Committee that it should be one of its duties to report on this question in its annual report should be sufficient. The Opposition sees a lot of sense in the Government's decision to amend the Act in this way and we certainly do not oppose it. 
-Something ought to be said briefly about this proposal to approve works at the Tennant Creek Hospital in line with the report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works of which I have the honour to be a member. Today is the first time that I have heard debate of the kind that has just taken place. I must admit that I was startled at the attitude of the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  who, I thought, made a quite unreasonable attack on the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  I would remind the honourable member for Burke that the honourable member for the Northern Territory, whom he accused of not having been present at a meeting of the Public Works Committee, has an electorate of over 500,000 square miles. 
I ask the honourable member to consider what it is like. I wonder how he would service that electorate. He represents a pocket handkerchief electorate one could ride a bike around before breakfast. I pay a tribute to the service that the honourable member for the Northern Territory gives to his electorate. I know of no one else who wears himself out in the service of his people as the honourable member for the Northern Territory does. I am ashamed to hear the honourable member for the Northern Territory attacked as he was by the honourable member for Burke, just because he did not attend a particular committee hearing, when he was almost certainly on the job somewhere else. I do not think that that is the kind of comment that should come from a member of the Committee. 
There are several things that could have been said quite usefully. The report we are debating is a two-barrelled report. This matter was referred to the previous Committee under the chairmanship of the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton),  and I was a member of the subcommittee that investigated it. But because of the chaos that was caused by the double dissolution, a report could not be brought into the House and the matter was referred back to the Committee. But some comment ought to be made about the matter. I know that the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  would want me to say something. The proposed work involves the use of village type accommodation. When both the Minister and I were members of the 
Committee we had a good deal to do in activating this procedure. It is an interesting development in accommodation and the members of the Committee would have done themselves more credit if they had spent some time looking at the principles behind this proposal instead of making half-baked political attacks. It is said that we should not mention housing. The Committee itself mentions housing in the report. For the benefit of the  Chairman  of the Committee I refer to the report that he himself signed: 
The representatives of the Tennant Creek Town Management Board expressed some doubts about the successful recruitment of staff to man the new hospital. ... To assist in attracting staff required for the efficient operation of the hospital, the Committee consider that care should be taken to ensure that accommodation of sufficiently high standard is available. 
That is what we said in the report. This is what the honourable member for Burke signed but then he castigated the honourable member for the Northern Territory and said that the honourable member for the Northern Territory should not have referred to it. 
That is exactly what you said. 
Should we not also refer to the cost of the project?  Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have your attention for a moment please! I seem to be subjected to some kind of crossfire from the other side of the chamber. One other question- it is an important point- is whether the Committee should refer in its report to the cost of a proposed work. When the matter first came before the Committee, the estimated cost of the work was $4.5m. The second time it came before the Committee the estimated cost was $4.83m. We heard evidence from officers of the Department of Housing and Construction that the work is likely to go to tender at $6m. We would then know that the rise and fall clauses would apply in the meantime. One matter on which I would like the Minister's guidance is whether mention should be made in the report of the amount at which it is expected to go to tender. I have always imagined that it is a function of the Public Works Committee to advise the Parliament of the cost of proposed works. 
At that time we did not have an escalation in costs of anywhere near the present rate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest that interjections cease and that the honourable member for Wakefield be allowed to make his speech without outside assistance. 
-I imagine that it is a proper function of the Committee to mention in the report not only the estimated cost at the time but also the amount at which it is expected to go to tender. I have been taunted from across the chamber about whether that was done when I was the  Chairman  of the Committee. It was well within the power of the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton),  who was then the ViceChairman of the Committee, to insist that it be done. When the previous Committee discussed this matter and divided on it, which was the first time I had ever known it to divide on party lines, I said that I felt that it was a function of the Public Works Committee to advise the Parliament of the estimated cost of the work when it goes to tender. I think that it is a proper function of the Public Works Committee to do so. Irrespective of whether it is done in the report, I think it is proper that the Committee should find out the amount when it hears evidence on the proposed work. The  Chairman  of the Committee would know that the Committee has been following that practice. He has been quite responsible in his chairmanship and has made no attempt to stop the Committee from finding out. 
Surely it is a function of the Public Works Committee to tell the Parliament as near as it can what the work is going to cost. It is not sufficient to tell the Parliament what it has been estimated that it will cost when it goes to the Committee because more than one stage is involved. This proposed work is a comparatively small project, but it will take 10 months to document it and 27 months to do the building. By that time the cost of the project will have increased. I am not trying to make political capital out of this matter. I am just trying to measure the increased cost. Is it or is it not a function of the Public Works Committee to advise the Parliament of the cost of the work when it goes to tender? There are many other things that could be said about this matter. It would have been better if we had concentrated on the principles behind the work and the problems of starting and completing it in the area as well as all the problems that are inherent in the escalation of costs that make it so difficult to plan for long term progress in the area. We have to recognise that as being a fact of life until we can bring the problem of inflation under control. Everybody recognises that there is a problem. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  recognises it today. Everybody knows that we have a problem. Until we overcome the problem of inflation it is the job of the Public Works Committee to advise the Parliament- not the Government, which is a servant of the Parliament- of the estimated cost. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. In his second reading speech to the Industries Assistance Commission Bill 1974 the Prime Minister stated that in future all questions of long term assistance to all industries would be referred to the Commission. Is the present assistance being afforded the wool industry long term and, if so, is it his intention to refer it to the Commission? 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, 1 present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
1 ) Area School at Yirrkala, Northern Territory; 
New Telephone Exchange at Haymarket, New South Wales; 
Central Health Laboratory at Woden, Australian Capital Territory 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
-As the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  has so rightly said, Tasmania is in a mess. But it is in a mess not only because of the shipping situation and the freight rates but also because it faces the problem of having in the State sphere as well as in the Federal sphere Labor governments which have shown an inability to tackle the problem of inflation and an inability to get any industrial performance out of the country because of the malaise that has hit Australia 
In rising to participate in this debate I want to pay a particular tribute to  Sir John  Williams, a former  Chairman  of the Australian National Line. I had the great fortune to travel with him on one occasion on the west coast of Western Australia when he was conducting an examination of the Western Australian State Shipping Service in an attempt to pin point the problems it was experiencing. It was exciting coming into Wyndham harbour to have him point out particular locations to me and tell me of the problems that were faced when a wreck had to be shifted from the Wyndham wharf in the middle of the war. He was indeed a tremendous person. He helped to make the ANL the kind of efficient body that it is today. 
Apart from that, I wish to make only two or three points in this debate. Firstly, I protest to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  about the decision taken to ship Christmas Island phosphate rock in Australian ships whenever possible. As the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  so rightly pointed out, that is going to place an additional burden upon the Australian farmer, who has had to face up to the withdrawal of the superphosphate bounty, who has had to face up to a very great rise in the price of superphosphate rock and who will now have an additional burden placed upon him that will cost him, it has been estimated, between $3m and $4m. That seems to be in keeping with the Government attitude of let the farmer pay. What happens to the farmer does not matter to the Government. He just supplies what the country needs. He does not get a holiday of 20 weeks a year, as the feather-bedding award provides in relation to the shipping industry. Under the 1974 award able seamen are getting $9,770 a year and 20 weeks annual leave. That is what I would call a feather bed of more than usual softness. If those farmers who will have to pay an extra amount for their superphosphate because it is to be shipped in this fashion were to get to hear about the 20 weeks annual leave entitlement being coupled with an annual salary like that, I do not know how we would be able to keep them on the farm. 
The second point I make is that I do not know how the Minister would be able to deal with his problems if he did not have the Opposition to help him. In this respect I pay particular tribute to the honourable member for Gippsland. An examination of the Minister's performance since assuming office will reveal that early in his career he introduced a Bill which sought to give TransAustralia Airlines a particular advantage. It was soon apparent that an error had been made either by the Minister or his Department and he was forced to admit that he had made an unwise move. With typical footwork- I pay tribute to his footwork- the Minister quickly changed his position and did what the Opposition said he ought to do. There was a monstrous provision in the Commonwealth Roads Bill whereby the local councils had to come to the Commonwealth Government cap in hand if they wanted to change a decision that had been made on local grounds. A road may have been washed out by a flood. A local council would quite rightly want some manoeuvrability in relation to the use of money on such roads. After the honourable member for Gippsland and other members of the Opposition had pointed out the position the Minister had the sense to realise that he had made a mistake and quickly rectified the situation. 
The Minister has again shown his versatility in relation to this Bill. He introduced the Bill the other day. Everybody- the honourable member for Gippsland and others- pointed out the serious errors that it contained. Firstly, under the legislation as it is before us the Minister has the right to impose a low or a high interest rate as it suits him. That would give a particular advantage to the ANL as against its competitors. He did the same thing in relation to income tax. The legislation we have before us takes away the responsibility for ANL to pay income tax and losses could have been hidden in a way that would have made it very difficult for competitor lines to compete with the ANL. Because of the activities of the honourable member for Gippsland in particular, and the Opposition in general, and because of the fast footwork of the Minister the situation is to be rectified. I will pay him a tribute by saying that when he does find out that he is in the wrong he is amenable to reason. He has had plenty of reasons put to him why some of the provisions that he introduced the other day were wrong. He has realised that now. I pay him a tribute for his generosity in seeing that he does his best to redeem the situation if he does make a mistake. Having paid that very sincere compliment to the Minister, I conclude by saying that I support the Bill. 
-I was sorry to see the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  drag his coat tail in the dirt when he gave credit in his second reading speech only to the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner for initiating the Tarcoola to Alice Springs railway line. I have great regard for the Commissioner, but I do not think it is worthy of the Minister to adopt such a rather cheap political attitude. When it comes to giving credit for doing things, particularly for the standardisation of railway lines, I would like to pay a tribute in this House to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  I was with him and other members of a parliamentary group which in the 1960s went along, firstly, the Adelaide to Port Pirie section worrying about the cost of the construction of such a railway line and the opportunities that it offered. We went then from Port Pirie to Broken Hill. 
As a result of his splendid enthusiasm and drive- no one could deny those 2 qualities- the Melbourne to Albury railway line was eventually standardised. I remind the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  that when he looks at his greens he should change the words 'broad gauge' to 'standardised'. As a result of the enthusiasm of the honourable member for Mackellar the Albury to Melbourne railway line was standardised and then the Port Pirie to Broken Hill railway line was standardised, which was a tremendous achievement. It is one of the success stories. It has lived up very well to the economic prognostications, but it made inevitable the completion of the other link- that is, the Port Pirie to Adelaide- as a standardised line. Nearly all of this line runs through my electorate. I have been anxiously watching and helping where I can to bring this project to fruition because it is going to make a good deal of difference not so much to the country through which it will run but to the whole railway system. It will make it much more sensible and economic. 
I am glad that the decision has been made to divert the present line to Red Hill and Crystal Brook. That seems to be a very sensible decision and I welcome it. I am glad that there is going to be a standardisation of the Snowtown to Wallaroo section. That will enable wheat to be taken to the Wallaroo terminal. I have no complaints about that part of the line. I think it is a splendid idea. The only problem that will arise is that the Gladstone to Wilmington section will be left out on a limb. The peculiar situation will then arise whereby a narrow gauge line will be coming into a standardised line. Anyone going on to Gladstone will have to go on to a broad gauge line. That will be a State government problem. I guess that a lot of planning will be done. How can the problem be overcome? I am afraid that one of the solutions is closure of the Wilmington to Gladstone section. It will probably be necessary eventually to close the Peterborough to Quorn section because it is hardly used- at least the Orroroo to Quorn section. Those are problems that will have to be overcome by the Government. I am not saying that they are going to be easily solved. They are problems, as the honourable member for Grey mentioned, facing particular towns and locations. I hope that both the State and the Federal governments will have these matters in mind- I have no doubt that they will- when they are doing the final planning. 
No one should have any complaints about the Tarcoola to Alice Springs railway line. The present line, strangely enough, is nearly all in my electorate. The new line will be in the electorate of the honourable member for Grey. I recognise, however, that it is silly to fight for parochial reasons against the inevitable. It is a wise decision that there should be a change in the location of the line and that it should go to the other side of the watershed, thereby getting away from the very bad river crossings. But it will result in a particular problem arising. . It will leave William Creek-Oodnadatta right out on a limb. That area will not have any rail connection. They are not large towns. If one were to go through William Creek very quickly one would not see it. 
The valuable cattle stations in this area have been supplying tremendous amounts of beef and they will be supplying this badly needed product for a long while to come. They are now supplying a great deal of beef to the Australian market. These stations will be isolated in a way that few other areas are isolated. They will not have a railway and there will almost be no road at all. It is inevitable that the line from Marree north to Alice will be closed. However, the line from Marree south, which of course is used by the coal trade from Leigh Creek south and also for the purpose of transporting cattle from the Birdsville Track, will have to be kept open because there is economic justification to do so. But there is no economic justification for keeping the line open north of Marree and so the railway will cease to operate in that direction. When that happens I hope that a real effort will be made to put in a decent sort of road system because, having taken away one of the lifelines of the people in that area, we ought to try to give them some kind of connection with civilisation. They will not have this unless something specific is done. 
These are the questions that I want the Minister to have in mind. Again I would like to pay a tribute to the honourable member for Mackellar. Those of us who have travelled with him know that he is even harder on others than he is on himself, and that is saying a good deal. He drove the standard rail gauge committee, as it was then, round Australia relentlessly but to some purpose. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, you will recall, no doubt, how many times I have stood in this House to make a plea for a more enlightened look at our system of tariff protection. It has not been easy. In the beginning it was an overwhelmingly difficult and lonely job, but gradually the economic lessons have been learned by the community as a whole and also by this House. I remember that insults were hurled across at me, I was told that I did not believe in the development of this great country of ours, and this kind of nonsense. Now there is general acceptance in the community that high protection is bought at a price and that there is no such thing as a free feed in the economic world, particularly in tariff protection. When I was first elected to this House I had a lively interest in the cost that the exporter was paying for high protection. This was the motive that led me to try to get the government of that day to look at its policies with greater clarity. This cost is generally acknowledged now. Everybody knows that the exporter pays in the end, that the cost is passed on and on until it comes to the exporter and can be passed no further. That is one thing that the House and the community have learned. 
Most people know that you do not create employment by imposing tariffs. You may create employment in one sector but you tend to lose it in another. I will quote from the annual report of the Industries Assistance Commission for 1973-74, which came out recently, and I do so to make a point on the question of employment. At page 7 of the report the Commission states: 
However, general measures such as fiscal, monetary and exchange rate management, are now widely regarded as more efficient instruments than the tariff for achieving macro-economic objectives, such as high and stable levels of employment. 
If that was not so what kind of picture would we have? Tariffs would rise if there were a large amount of employment and would lower if unemployment fell. What kind of planning situation does this place business in? We recognise that the advantages of employment gained in one industry by protecting it are always paid for by employment lost in other industries. There are so many examples of that, that I do not have the time to take the House through them. 
But the chief change that has come about in the last few years is the change in my thinkin is well as in the community's thinking in genera-. It is now becoming increasingly recognised that a high tariff protection system warps the way that we use our limited resources. People pretend, particularly when they are making speeches in this House, that we are a country of limitless resources. But everybody knows that they are limited and limited in a way which most people do not generally recognise. The fact is that a system of high protection means that we tend to use our resources in a more wasteful way. I think that this would be better illustrated by a quote from page 18 of the Industries Assistance Commission's annual report for 1973-74. 1 think it is one of the basic matters of economic thinking in this field and is gradually coming through to thisHouse. As paragraph 121 the Commission's reported: 
Thus if the community's resources are to be used more efficiently, in the interests of promoting economic growth and thereby improving the well being of the people of Australia, - 
That is an objective we all have-  resources must be encouraged to move into activities which require low levels of assistance, or none at all. The community will then obtain directly, from local production, those goods and services for which the Australian environment and resource endowment are best suited; it will exchange its surplus production of those goods and services for that of other countries producing more efficiently the other goods and services it needs; and it will concentrate industry development in the types of production most suited to local conditions. 
I repeat: Unless we have this long term objective we have no real economic planning at all. The economic use of our limited resources is one of the changes that has come over our thinking in recent years. Another one is the fact that we are growing up, and that as a developed economy a greater percentage of our work force is employed in secondary industry than is employed in secondary industry in the United States of America. One could justify high tariffs in some cases at the beginning by the infant industry argument, but I repeat that a greater percentage of our work force is engaged in secondary industry than is engaged in secondary industry in the United States of America. We cannot claim any longer that we need high tariff protection for infant industry purposes, except in a few special cases. 
I do not know whether we have learned, but we ought to have learnt, that the tariff is too blunt an instrument to bring about decentralisation. There are many reasons for which I would support the movement of secondary industry away from the capital cities into decentralised areas. I think that is an objective we will have increasingly in the future. One hears it said often that tariffs should be increased across the whole of an industry in order to support one section of industry in a particular location. I think this is something that we ought to learn from the IAC report. It is a very important question and will become increasingly important in the future. At page 1 19 of the report the Commission stated: 
A more appropriate method of encouraging decentralisation would be by means of subsidies which discriminate between different locations - 
I emphasise ' locations '-  in Australia- for example, between metropolitan areas and country areas generally, or between metropolitan and selected country areas. Attempting to promote decentralisation more indirectly, by assisting particular industries, could be much more costly. 
Then the report gives examples of the textile industry to show that if one is to increase the effective rates by 10 per cent one will increase the subsidy that will go to the metropolitan section of the textile industry by $2Sm, and $5m will go to the decentralised section. The report points out that the far more effective way to do it is to subsidise this area directly rather than try to increase tariffs across the whole field. In this case many of them would encourage industry to develop in metropolitan areas which they should be encouraged to leave. I hope that point will be absorbed by us in the future, if we have not already done so. Because of the Government's decision on motor vehicle components, the Borg- Warner company at Albury will be placed at some risk. If it is decided for social reasons of decentralisation that that company should be helped, it would be much more effective to help it in the form of a direct subsidy to it rather than spreading the benefit and the cost across the whole industry. 
One of the other problems that high tariff protection brings in its train and which I hope is now becoming generally recognised, is brought out with crystal clarity by the Brigden report, that famous old document published in 1929. That report stated: 
The most  disquietening  effect of the tariff has been the stimulus it has given to demands for Government assistance of all kinds, with consequent demoralising effect upon selfreliant efficiency throughout all forms of production. 
The Industries Assistance Commission report states: 
The Commission believes that the warning given by the Brigden Committee in 1929 is even more relevant today. 
This is the kind of thing that we ought to recognise. We are becoming a nation of leaners leaning on the government for far too many things. It has been encouraged by the system of tariff protection. People say: 'Well, let us get a subsidy from the consumer; let us depend on that'. There has been far too much of it and it is going right into the rural sector now in a way that worries me. 
The other thing that we have learnt- or I hope that we have learnt- the hard way is that we have to trade with the undeveloped countries. The ever-widening gap between them and us is something that this House ought to think about more often. In 1966 I went to a milk factory in Bombay which reconstituted Australian milk powder. I asked whether there were any problems and I was told it was impossible to get foreign exchange to buy the milk powder. In the afternoon I want to the Bombay dyeing factory and saw sheets being made. I asked the management representatives whether they had any problems with Australian trade. They said they had great difficulty in getting their goods into Australia over our high tariff wall. That brought out in a way that I have never forgotten that the very things that we are so eloquent about in helping the undeveloped countries are being deliberately hindered by policies of high protection. 
The change that has taken place is the change in the thinking of the community in general and of this House in particular. We are becoming more alive to the problems of high protection. Why is it that making necessary alterations is so difficult? This brings me to the real problem. Everybody knows that what I have been saying is sensible and right and that the difficulty in the long term is to bring it about. It is much more difficult to bring about than people generally recognise. May I ask the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  a question? If I interrupt my remarks now, will I be able to continue them at 8 o'clock? 
I will close my remarks hurriedly by saying that recognising the economic wisdom that we are gradually acquiring in this House and recognising the infinite pain with which we have learnt our theory we are still hard up against the fundamental factor of putting it into practice. This will be far more difficult than people generally realise. We know that it is an objective towards which we have to work, but no matter which political party in government may take tentative steps along that hard path, a scream of rage will go up about the creation of unemployment and all that kind of nonsense. 
-Well, they have to be tentative steps. I know the practical political realities of it all but I want to see a continuation of increasing economic responsibility in this place so that we can encourage the slow but certain progression of the economy towards a better use of our limited resources as set out in the LAC report. I am not one of those who makes any kind of personal criticism. I pay the IAC in general and  Mr Rattigan  in particular a very warm tribute for having taken up this burden, unpopular though it may be, and I would not like this occasion to pass without making my stand on this matter known. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
My question to the Prime Minister relates to the correspondence between him and  Mr Rattigan, Chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission, in which the Prime Minister obtained an assurance that the IAC will not make recommendations that adversely affect employment in the short term. Is the Prime Minister aware of the fundamental problems inherent in this new arrangement in that instead of getting clear-eyed economic advice as to the best use of our limited resources in the long term, the IAC might now be tempted to give too much weight to short term problems and so its more important long term view might become too clouded? Would it not have been better to confine the IAC to the narrower task of advising about the long term position only and expecting that in unusual times the Government might have to take the responsibility of altering the IAC recommendations, at least in the short term, to suit unusual situations? 

 -Mr Chairman 

Motion ( by  Mr Nicholls  ) put: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Chairman 

Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister aware of the concern felt in the rural industries about the possibility that the duty may be increased on 4-wheeI drive vehicles such as Land Rovers and Toyotas? Is he aware that these vehicles are essential tools of trade for the economic development of rough, tough country? As there is no local Australian production of 4-wheel drive vehicles to protect will he assure me that the duty on completely built up Toyotas will not be increased to 45 per cent and that the duty on Land Rovers, which are imported in a knocked down form and assembled here, will not be increased to 35 per cent, as seems to have been suggested by him in his recent statement on motor vehicles? As those of us who believe in lower tariffs now have hardly a feather left to fly with, will the Prime Minister at least see that we have a vehicle left to drive? 
I hope the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  with characteristic frankness and fairness will accept this amendment. As he knows, I am particularly concerned about the way in which the Australian Government's writ runs in relation to kangaroos. I think that a far greater place of responsibility ought to be given to the States. Far more than people generally recognise the States live with their problems. They are aware of their problems in a way which I am afraid is not generally recognised. I am acutely afraid that because of the Commonwealth decision to forbid the export of kangaroo skins in the salt bush areas there will be an illegal program of poisoning kangaroos. The operation of the Australian law has been such that in many of the areas in my electorate the kangaroo population has been breeding and it will have to be controlled somehow. 
The Commonwealth has made it economically impossible to shoot kangaroos. This is a grim kind of warning which I sound to the Minister. If the kangaroos are not to be shot they will be killed in some far more reprehensible way which will have no regard for the propagation of the species. All kinds of other animals will be killed which should not be killed. I am concerned. I know that many States- including my State of South Australia- have a very clear and, I think, generally a wise program of control of the kangaroo population. I ask the Minister, with his customary fairness, to recognise that there is a place in these kinds of grass roots things- I shall come to this in the next Bill also- for a more intimate way in which the States could help to make conservation work. I hope that the Minister will accept the amendment. 
I am going to make some criticisms both of the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass)  and of this legislation. Before so doing I think that I ought to spell out my reasons. They are important, at least to me. I have had a great deal of intimate association with the soil conservation service in my State. Indeed, in 1938 1 constructed the first contour banks in South Australia to guard against water erosion. I remember my father coming over on a Tariff Board matter, seeing these large gutters, and saying: 'Look, young fellow'- I was young once- 'you had better cure this'. I remember getting in touch with the Bank of New South Wales and obtaining a booklet that the bank had. I made an 'A' level which had 200 inches from one leg to the other, I cut 2 inches off one leg, put a spirit level on a cross piece, and then set to work to build the first contour banks in South Australia. Following that, we built up a soil conservation service in South Australia on which I had the honour to serve for 17 years or 18 years until I came into this rather queer way of occupying my time. 
I do understand, firstly, that this is a grass roots problem. One does not solve the problem of soil conservation by eloquent speaking. It is done by an exact understanding of the biological and vegetative systems within which one works. Let me outline what worries me about the legislation now before us. This is illustrated by the discussion which the Minister and I had about kangaroos earlier in the day. I pay a tribute to the Minister because of his sympathy for kangaroos and because of his willingness to do everything he can for them. If he is frank with me he will agree that it is inevitable that if the present restriction on kangaroos stays there will be a poisoning program which he and I will regret to the utmost. If the same decisions are made about soil conservation as have been made about kangaroos we will be dealing with a grass roots problem. The thing that worried me about this legislation when it came before us and before I had an opportunity to talk to the Minister is exemplified by clause 4 (2). I am sure that the 
Minister is not responsible for this monstrosity. 
Clause 4 (2) reads: 
A submission of a program to the Minister under subsection ( 1 ) shall be in writing- 
in a form approved by the Minister . . . 
That is carrying bureaucracy to the limit. If a State department which knows its problem, which has worked with its problem and which has worked to conserve thousands of acres year after year has to conform to a form approved by the Minister, we are starting off on the wrong leg. I criticise not the Minister but those who drafted this clause. It is really making a ridiculous fetish of conformity. But what really worries me is clause 4 (5) of the Bill. I have talked to the Minister. I understand that he will make a statement on it afterwards. It states: 
An approval of a program, or of a variation of an approved program, under this section may be given or made subject to such conditions, not inconsistent with this Act. as the Minister thinks fit. 
I say, in speaking with some knowledge of this subject, that a Minister with all the competence which he can gather together within his Department is not competent to judge things which come to the grass roots level. The present Minister may be able to do so. Generally speaking the judgments which will be made on soil conservation and the actions which will be taken, will be taken by people who live close to their problems, who have a grass roots involvement in their problems. It is not so much a matter of expertise. It is a case of doing the job. 
As one who has walked over a good deal of country in South Australia which has been tackled and as one who has known the problem at the grass roots level, I do not think it is good enough to accept the proposition that the ivory tower- I say this in the pleasant sense of the words- attitude in Canberra can gauge the problems which lie at the grass roots. It is this which concerns me. I pay a tribute to the frankness and flexibility of the Minister. I say that in the nicest sense. Ever since the Minister made the unforgettable statement that flood plains are for floods -it has a kind of basic wisdom which not many have the courage to propound- I have had him on a pedestal. So I am not saying that the Minister does not have the willingness to see the problem in its entirety or the courage to put his convictions into effect. 
Until I had some conversations with him my hackles rose at the thought that my soil conservation group in South Australia which has done the job so well would be under the domination of someone living in an ivory tower. But that is not so. The Minister will make that assurance clear to me. I think that is something we on both sides of the house ought to recognise. We could get every vote there was if we talked eloquently about conservation. We could say that there was a great national problem which threatened our heritage. When eloquence is over the way to tackle the problem is by making judgments on what to do about the texture of the soil, what should be the slope of a countour bank, where the outlets should be, should there be a wider rotation and should there be a different rotation system. These are the kinds of things which will make for success or for failure. 
Although making eloquent statements on both sides of the House about a fundamental grass roots problem may make us feel better and may get us votes in the election, it will not solve the general problems of soil conservation. I understand that the Minister will spell out the solution to the problem which is worrying me in relation to 'as the Minister thinksfit'. The Minister has some qualifications which I think will satisfy me. But there is another point which is a point of principle. The Schedule attached to the Bill shows that South Australia which has 9.3 per cent of the population in the next financial year will get 5 per cent of the amount which will be voted and it will get 4.4 per cent of the amount for the following year.I ask whether this table showing grants to the States for soil conservation when compared to State population can be incorporated in Hansard. 
I appreciate  the statement made by the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass).  He makes the position clear to those in the House, but what he says is not in the Bill, nor will it be in the Act. I think the Minister will recognise my concern. If the Minister had come into this debate on the Opposition side of the House and if he had seen in the Bill that approval of programs may be subject to such conditions as the Minister sees fit, he would have had the same kind of uneasy feeling as I have. Because I have respect for the Minister's integrity, his honesty and his willingness to give way and not stand stupidly on a pinnacle of power, I will accept what he says. I pay tribute to the Minister for the way in which he has handled the matter. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
-This is a Bill which has been brought down only because of the problems to be found in the Australian economy at the moment. The thing that worries me about it- and the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  brought this out with crystal clarity- is that there are no guidelines for what is spelled out here as the national interest. The Minister is going to make the judgments on what is in the national interest. He has just said that he has got broad shoulders. Indeed he will need them, because this is a sample of the decisions that he is going to make unaided, with a legal background that no doubt gives him a fine flow of words and a good mind; but he has got to tackle probems that lie right at the heart of the Australian economy. Firstly, as the honourable member for Berowra said, he has got to make judgments about the economic use of resources. Do we think that the economic use of resources is a good thing? It would be a bold man who said that it is not. Is he going to say that employment is in the national interest and that we have got to create employment, at any price, by tariff protection? An example of this has only just come to light in the last day or two with the increase in the tariff on textiles making the position impossible for those who make up those textiles into garments. The Minister has got to weigh up employment, and if employment is the thing by which he is measuring national interest, then he has got to measure the employment gained in the textile industry against the employment lost in the garment making industry. That is no small task. Is he going to say that it is in the national interest to protect the car industry at the expense of $300m a year consumer subsidy? He has got to measure the cost of the employment lost in the transport industry and the increased cost of transport against this $300m a year subsidy. 
I would not wonder if the Minister never slept again. He has got the most difficult set of problems that he has got to measure, unaided, in the national interest. He may have the benefit of advice from his Department, but all the talk we used to hear about open government and decisions being made in the open is gone now. The decisions are going to be made by the Minister. Are we going to see the advice given to him? I see the Minister shakes his head. Are we going to see the advice that the Department gives to the Minister? As far as we in this House are concerned, we are going to see judgments made by the Minister in the national interest on these kinds of questions. Let us take it further. The Minister is going to make judgments in the national interest on whether it is advisable to help an industry that is being hurt by imports from less developed countries, cheap labour countries. 'Cheap black labour' is the kind of brand that was used. 
The Minister has got to weigh the damage done to our posture in international affairs. We make eloquent speeches about knowing that trade is more important than aid, and we all know that that is so. We all know that the greatest problem that haunts the world, and should be haunting us far more than it does, is this everwidening gap between the developed countries and the underdeveloped countries. It is going to be the Minister's responsibility to weigh up which industries are going to be helped, knowing that if some are helped it will be in the national disinterest because it will dimmish the opportunities of the underdeveloped countries, to have some chance of existing- not of expanding but of existing. The Minister has got that cross to carry too. He has got to measure up whether that is in our national interest. 
To take it further, the Minister has got to measure the cost of taking action to stop imports coming in from other countries and from the less developed countries which will have an immediate effect on our export industries in Australia. I will give again an illustration of this that has haunted me for many years. When I was in Bombay I went one morning to a factory where they were processing Australian skim milk powder. I asked them did they have any problems and I was told: 'We have got one real problem. We cannot get the foreign exchange to buy the skim milk powder that we need and that the people of Bombay so desperately need.' In the afternoon I went to another factory in Bombay where they were making sheets and I asked if they had any problems. I was told: 'We have got one overwhelming problem. You have got a 45 per cent tariff wall. We cannot get our goods into Australia because of your method of protection' 
The Minister has got to measure the benefits gained by that policy against the damage done to our export industries. He has got no small task, and he has got no official body to guide him. He and he alone is going to be the mentor, the decision maker in a field that is desperately important, not only for Australia's economic well being but for our future survival in the long term.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later hour. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-When the debate on the Structural Adjustment (Loan Guarantees) Bill was adjourned before the suspension of the sitting I was pointing out the terrific responsibility that falls on the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  who has to make a judgment as to which company will receive a guarantee. That judgment will be made not in the light of any guidelines laid down by the legislation but on the basis of what is in the national interest. I was pointing out the dreadful responsibility that devolves on the Minister because, on his own responsibility, he has to make judgments that I think should be made with the benefit of some advisory committee, board or organisation which is to help him in his terrific responsibility of judging which things will be in the national interest and which companies will receive such a guarantee. I was pointing out that one of the problems that the Minister will face is whether he will assist industries that are competing with imports from less developed countries. 
I referred to countries such as India which are trying to export some of their products to us in order that they may have some hope of expanding their exports so that they can perhaps buy some of our exports. I was using the illustration of the Bombay case that I know so well. It involved the company that was using Australian skimmed milk powder to make what it called a tone milk to give to the inhabitants of Bombay who badly needed milk protein. That company was unable to carry out its plan because it could not obtain the foreign exchange to import skimmed milk powder from Australia. Earlier in my speech I also referred to a textile factory which was making cotton sheets and which complained bitterly that it was not able to export the cotton sheets to Australia because of the high tariff barrier imposed on imported sheets. I referred to the fact that decisions made by the Australian Government at that time were inhibiting the growth of the skimmed milk powder industry in Australia and also the cotton textile industry in India. That is a sample of the problem that the Minister for Manufacturing Industry faces when he takes upon himself the responsibility of deciding what is in the national interest. This is another example of it: He may have to say that certain Japanese companies that are manufacturing cars in Australia will receive such a guarantee when we know that one of the reasons why it is difficult for Japan to import beef from Australia is that Australia is placing barriers in the way of exports of motor cars from Japan to Australia. That is just another sample of the problems that the Minister for Manufacturing Industry faces. 
Another problem involves this question of decentralisation. We all know that one of the greatest problems facing Ausatralia is whether we can get a greater percentage of our people away from the capital cities. We know that in Australia a greater percentage of the population lives in the cities than in the country than is the case in any other country. We know that this is one of the fundamental problems which our economy has to face. The Minister will have to weigh up these facts when taking into account what kind of action he will take to encourage decentralisation. This is one of the things that is worrying him. That is why he is wearing that' mournful expression that he has on his face now. He has suddenly become conscious of the fundamental facts that face him. It is not an easy problem to solve. It is usually accepted that the way to encourage decentralisation is to give increased protection to those industries which have some sectors of their activities in decentralised areas. 
If the Minister thinks about the problem he will realise, as is spelt out in the annual report of the Industries Assistance Commission, what will happen if the import duty for the protection of Australian textiles is increased by 10 per cent. This is one aspect of the argument that is used to justify high protection, that this high protection will encourage decentralisation. But if he reads the IAC report further he will see that $25m of the consumer subsidy is to be used to encourage the production of textiles in the cities and $5m is to be used to encourage the production of textiles in decentralised areas. This is a measure of the problem that faces the Minister. What kind of assistance will he give to particular industries? Will it be done, according to this Bill, in the national interests? With all his erudition and education he will be faced with some of the most fundamental problems that I think any Minister has ever been asked to solve in the history of Australia. 
Another one of the fundamental problems that will face the Minister, a problem that I would not like to be faced with, is the judgment that he has to make as to whether the private sector ought to be encouraged. In September the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  made it quite clear that we ought to be increasing the percentage of our effort put into the public sector. Then 2 months later came the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that an increasing percentage of our effort ought to be put into the private sector. The Minister, with all his wisdom, education and legal training has to make a judgment whether the national interest demands that an increasing proportion of our limited resources shall go into the public or private sectors. I do not say that he cannot do it. What I am doing is hammering home to him the size of the responsibility that he bears. 
Another one of the responsibilities that he has to carry, and it is no small one, is to make a judgment whether it is in the national interest to encourage employment at the expense of growth. We all know that employment can be encouraged at the expense of growth. The Minister could say that he intended to encourage decentralisation. He could say that by encouraging certain Australian industries that were competing with imports he would help those Australian industries by the use of tariff protection. He could say that by doing this he would encourage employment in Australia. But then, in the last resort, he has to make a judgment between employment and growth. It is not an easy decision to make. I am not saying that I would have the easy answer to it. But the easy way in which the Minister has assumed that because of his education and legal training he has the background to make this kind of judgment rather frightens me. 
Another problem that he has to face is whether industry should be protected because of the results of their own mistakes. In the case of the glass industry, for instance, we know that one of the things they did was to wrongly assess the demand for Australian glass, not recognising that there was going to be a downturn in demand. The Minister has got a way out for himself. He has got to decide whether or not in the national interest- and I come back to the Bill- he ought to protect companies that have made basic mistakes. That is not going to be an easy decision. If you are going to accept the responsibility for protecting companies that have made mistakes then you create a natural kind of encouragement for people to make mistakes. That is another one of the awful dilemmas that face the industry. That is a sample of the problems that the Minister faces. Chiefly, he faces the problem of whether or not we are going to be a country that depends increasingly on government intervention. I presume that his political philosophy would accept that one of the things that governments have got to do is intervene in the economic scene. If he does that, a tremendous burden is placed on him. One of the great dangers in tariff protection is that you encourage companies to lean on one another, to lean on the economy as a whole. The Minister nods his head. He agrees. 
But what I want to bring home to him is that he himself has now got this dreadful responsibility of saying that those industries that have leant the hardest are going to be helped the most. He might not agree with that, he might not say that they should be helped, but when one looks at the industries across the Australian economic scene that have been helped one sees that the ones that are most economically ill adjusted to the Australian economic environment are the ones that get the most help. The dreadful responsibility that the Minister will shoulder after this Bill is passed is that he will have to judge whether those who employ a lot of labour, and are perhaps the most unsuited economically to our situation, are the ones that are going to be helped. I hope that the Minister realises the dreadful burden of responsibility he will carry from the time when this Bill is passed. I would not like to carry that responsibility unassisted by some kind of outside body to hold things even. There is nothing in the Bill which takes away from the Minister a responsibility that I do not think he should be asked to carry and which I would not like to carry myself. 
The Prime Minister with his profound classical education would be well acquainted with the significance of the quotation: Beware the ides of March'. Does the Prime Minister recall that it was during the ides of March 1973 that the then Attorney-General made his famous ASIO raid and that it was during the ides of March 1974 that the same person made an awful mess of the Gair affair? Will the Prime Minister assure me that his transfer of the 
Attorney-General to the High Court was not activated by the imminence ofthe ides of March 1975 rather than the legal eminence of his accident-prone colleague? 
-This debate began with the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  paying a tribute to a great many people involved in this Darwin tragedy. That was followed by another eloquent tribute by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  He not only paid a tribute to the heroism and self-sacrifice by the people concerned but also had the grace to pay a tribute to the Minister for the Northern Territory. I would like now to pay a tribute to the honourable member for the Northern Territory. I understand that some attempts have been made to besmirch his performance in Darwin. I heard rumours to that effect in this House yesterday. The honourable member for the Northern Territory has been careful not to tell me of his performance, but there are a great many people in Adelaide who have been glad to pay a tribute to the work done by the honourable member for the Northern Territory, and I think that that ought to be recognised. 
I am sorry to see that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  is leaving the chamber because I think it is important that he hear what I am about to say. I was sorry to hear the uncharacteristic meanness of his attack on the honourable member for the Northern Territory who carried out what I think would be a proper function of a member of the Opposition. He had a look at the legislation in detail. None of us will deny that we need a commission. No one is arguing about the necessity for some machine to tackle the task that is not going to be cluttered up with the red tape that is characteristic of governments in general and the Northern Territory Government in particular. No one is arguing about the need for a commission. 
I should like to make my position clear. For many years as a member of the Public Works Committee I visited Darwin and the Northern Territory continually. I agree with clause 54 of this Bill which states that this work should not have to run the gamut of a Public Works Committee inquiry. I agree that we need a better machine to do the job. We must have a much more effective construction authority there. No one is arguing about this, but surely we are entitled to have a look at the legislation that sets up the machine. Just because it has been set up with good intentions does not mean that it is the right machine. It does not mean that we cannot improve it. 
To hear the Minister picking on the worthy attempts of the honourable member for the Northern Territory to have a critical look at the way the machine is put together through this legislation is to detect uncharacteristic meanness on his part. I thought that the honourable member for the Northern Territory performed his task splendidly. He has a sense of responsibility. He knows that we must have a different machine for the task and he was looking at the way it was put together through this legislation, as indeed he ought to. 
I want to raise two or three questions. One of them deals with the way this legislation has been pushed through. I would have liked more time to look at it. I would have particularly liked more time for more local involvement, the theme that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development has been so keen about in theory but which does not seem to be eventuating in practice. I am sorry that the Bill was rushed through. I resent the speeches made yesterday by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  who pushed it through in what I would call the brutal manner of a commissar. I have the feeling that when the Leader of the House hears the prayers in the morning he has an idea that the word 'daily' in 'give us this day our daily bread ' has no ' i ' in it. I think he has delusions of grandeur and expects us to dance to his calling. This is the Minister who denied assistance to one of the young newly elected members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly who went to Adelaide to try to help the establishment of the rescue operations and to try to follow the refugees down the track, helping where he could. 
The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  quite properly offered him the facilities of his office. He received a telegram from the Minister for Services and Property saying that he could not use Commonwealth property in that way. The person who was trying to help the citizens could not get the kind of help that in every other case would be agreed to. Really I cannot understand what came over the Minister for Services and Property. He must have had a rush of blood to the head thinking that perhaps some advantage was to be gained because a political person was going to use someone's rooms at a time like that. It is not worthy of the man. 
I will indeed get back on to the Bill. One of the points I want to raise which has worried me about this legislation is that there has not been that proper degree of consultation or local involvement that we hear so much about. I speak with some concern about this matter. Under the chairmanship of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  who has been following the proceedings with his usual breathless interest, I served on a committee whose task it was to advise the Parliament as to the proper system of government for the Northern Territory. The Government formed and encouraged the development of self government there. It said: 'We will give the Northern Territory self government'. It arranged for an election to be held at the end of last year, and an election was held. Then the Government appointed the Committee on which I had the honour to serve. We had to advise the Government as to what system of government ought to work in the Northern 
Territory. We made many recommendations. One of them was that the problems of urban development should be a function of a local executive. It was a matter of balance. I am not for one minute suggesting that in a time of crisis such as this the situation ought to be under the sole control of the local executive, but we did state something which ought to be borne in mind continually. We said: 
The Committee wishes to formally record and stress its view that without close and responsible co-operation between the National and Territory Executives, this brave experiment in self-government in the Northern Territory is doomed before it even takes the vow. 
This legislation has been drawn up, I understand, without any consultation or co-operation between the Federal Government and the newly elected Legislative Assembly. It is of no good for the Minister for Urban and Regional Development to lecture us about the need for cooperation and local involvement. The Government promised these people self government and gave it to them. Having given it to them, in a matter as vital as this the Government did not go to them and say: 'This is what we have in mind'. My understanding is that the elected members of the new Legislative Assembly have not been consulted about the legislation which will govern their lives for 5 years. They have not been consulted. The plea of the Northern Territory Committee was a heartfelt one, that unless there was active involvement and consultation with the local people this brave exercise in self government would be doomed before it even took the vow. Yet in a case like this, when the lives of the people in Darwin will be under the control of the Commission, in the drawing up of the legislation to control it the members of the new legislature were not consulted. This is not good enough. It is no good talking about involvement unless one really means it. 
This is an important piece of legislation. It gives the Minister the most unique control. I do not say that he should not have this control, but I am saying that to take this action without consultation with the Legislative Assembly that the Government encouraged to be set up seems to make a mockery of the effort for local involvement. My plea to the Minister is that from now on there will be closer links not only between the various citizen bodies- this seems to be clear in the legislation- but also between the Legislative Assembly members themselves. Only one member of the Assembly is on the Commission. I would have thought it better to have more. I hope the Minister will give us a reason why there is only one. Co-operation is indeed sought. No-one will deny that to have a new Darwin there has to be a new spirit as well. There has to be a greater sense of co-operation than there has ever been, particularly when the people of Darwin will have their own self-government and a greater degree of responsibility. There must be a greater effort to have consultation not only with the citizens in general, but also particularly with the members of the newly-elected Legislative Assembly. 
I do not oppose the Bill in detail and I will not criticise it with the expert eye and responsible manner of the honourable member for the Northern Territory. I should have liked to have had a greater time to consider the Bill. I am anxious to get the considered opinion of the citizens of Darwin and particularly the members of the Legislative Assembly on this new machine that wil govern them. They perhaps could make suggestions for its improvement. To suggest, as the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has done, that because we are critical of some aspects of the Bill we are trying to rewrite it, is nonsense. There is no legislation designed by humans, and I presume Ministers would reluctantly admit to the soft impeachment that they too are humans, that is not likely to have faults in it and which could not be made better. The honourable member for the Northern Territory did his task in spelling out how it could be made even better but the Minister for Urban and Regional Development criticised him for, as the Minister put it, trying to rewrite the Bill. I hope that when the Minister for the Northern Territory replies he will show a greater degree of generosity and statesmanship than did his colleague. 
I want to make a few criticisms, and heartfelt criticisms, about the Government's decision in this matter. It is true that the Public Works Committee inquired into this matter in 197 1. It is true, as the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  says, that he was a member of that Committee, as I was. I remember distinctly, and I think he will, the hearings that we had in Alice Springs and at Henbury. I think the Minister will remember coming back in the bus from Henbury leading us in what he euphemistically called singing, full of virtue about work well done and full of the hospitality of that generous area. It was a moving time for all of us. I did not know that he had these attributes. It was a bit startling in parts. But we did hold this inquiry, and if the Minister will cast his mind back he will recall that the emphasis of the whole inquiry was firstly on the route and the justification for it, but a large part of the evidence dealt with the width of the road. We had an even more dogged member than the Minister on the Committee in those days,  Senator Prowse,  who once he latched on to the subject, would never let go. But the Minister was not far behind, and ceaselessly and doggedly they pursued the question of how wide the road should be. The Minister ended the inquiry with typical generosity and graciousness. I, as the  Chairman  of the Committee, asked the Minister, who was then just the honourable member for Hughes, if he had any questions regarding the question of road width, which was then to be 20 feet. He said: 
I must be frank. My anxieties were rapidly placated as the evidence went on and I have no questions. 
So he thought that the width of the road ought to be 20 feet. We all thought that the width ought to be 20 feet. It starts off, I think, at 16 feet for the first few miles and then jumps to 20 feet. Now it is going to go to 22 feet. Surely that is a question which should have been referred to the Public Works Committee. It was right in 1971 for the width to be 20 feet, and the Minister was eloquent about it then. Why is it wrong now? Why should it be 22 feet now? That is one question. The second question is the matter of urgency. On 5 December last year the Public Works Committee received a letter from the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  asking it to excuse this matter from inquiry. Obviously there was some error in the footwork, in the way the matter was handled. The Committee replied over the signature of its  Chairman  that it appreciated the courtesy, but at that stage it was said to be urgent. I had discussions at that time with the Minister and we went over the problems. I said I would accept it and would not raise any real problems in the House because of the urgency, and because the contracting teams were there and the Committee did not want to make a fuss about it. I think a sense of responsibility would have led us to excuse it on the ground of urgency on 5 December. 
The Minister will be well aware that there are only 2 justifications for escaping a Public Works Committee inquiry. One is urgency and the other is security. In the case we are considering it obviously was not security so it must be urgency. If the reference was urgent, why was not urgency claimed in December 1974? The Public Works Committee could have heard evidence, if the reference had been referred to it, in December and there would not have been any hold-up. I presume, from the way the Minister spoke, that documentation of this reference must have been proceeding. I think he said in his speech that they could go to tender in March 1975. If that is so, documentation must have been proceeding without prior notification to the Committee. The Minister will be aware that there are occasions when documentation does proceed prior to a Public Works Committee inquiry, but never is it done without the courtesy being paid to the  Chairman  and members of the Committee of informing them. Documentation must have been proceeding if- and I think I heard the Minister correctly- - tenders were ready to be called in March 1975. Did I hear the Minister correctly on that? This is what was contained in the speech which the Minister just read. 
-I simply said that I thought that the Minister pointed out that tenders would be ready to be called in March 1975. The Minister only has to look at the transcript of his speech to see what he said. I am not asking what I said; I know that. What I am saying is that if tenders will be ready to be called in March 1975 documentation must have been proceeding. There is no great sin in that but the Minister, when a member of the Public Works Committee, was very quick to criticise any decision to go ahead with prior documentation before reference to the Committee. So, on the ground of urgency- I speak only for myself but I think that other members of the Committee would agree with me- it would have been proper to excuse it in December. Therefore I believe that the Minister cannot use the ground of urgency as an excuse 2 months later when we could have had an inquiry in December. We did not have to hold the inquiry in the Northern Territory. It could have been held in Canberra. 
The real anxiety that I have concerns the extra cost that will result from the increase in width of the road from 20 feet to 22 feet. If it was right to agree that the road from Alice to Erldunda be 20 feet to begin with, why is it wrong now? There may be good reasons. I am not criticising on the basis that there are not good reasons. I am saying that it is a proper function of the Public Works Committee to examine standards. We could have examined this reference. We would have been only too willing to do so, particularly in regard to the question of standards. The route of the road is pretty well decided. This matter could have been referred to us for examination in Canberra. We could have received some backing for a change in the standards, which the Minister when a member of the Committee accepted as correct. The Minister even then had this sonorous manner of speaking which we used to admire so much. In relation to the recommendation that the road width be 20 feet said: 
My anxieties were rapidly placated as the evidence went on and I have no questions. 
If this decision was right then, it is wrong now. This is the kind of thing that should have been examined by us in December. As I have said, there are only 2 reasons for a reference to escape a Public Works Committee meeting-. One is urgency, and the other is security If this reference was urgent it could have been referred to the Committee. We would have exempted the project with a sense of responsibility in December. I find it very hard to do so 2 months later. 
-Although I am going to speak only briefly, I do not want anybody to think that I do not feel deeply about this legislation. At this stage of the debate there is very little that can be said that is fresh. My main reason for speaking is to spell out briefly but sincerely where I stand on this important matter, because that is my responsibility to my constituents.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you would know, as other members of the House would know, that I am a conservative person and I represent a conservative electorate; I would be one of those who would be expected to vote against the Bill. I want to make it clear at the outset that I am going to vote for the Bill and I am going to vote against the amendment. I am going to vote against the amendment mainly because, although it was not meant to be a device to confuse people, it has confused a great many people and I am one of them. I am afraid that it has been a divisive element in the debate and has clouded a great deal of the logic that otherwise would have been present. 
I am going to vote for the Bill. I am a puritan person; I am a puritan by nature. However, I have found with some concern that I am much more interested in other persons' morality than my own. But if I could pass a law that would make marriage permanent I would do so. I am not the kind of person that believes in liberty to excess. If I could think of a form of law that would make marriage permanent, I would do my best to have it passed and then to enforce it. But because I know I cannot do that and because I know there is no way of making people good in the sense that I use the word, I am going to vote for the Bill. 
There is an element of sordidness in the present method of the inevitable dissolution of marriage that occurs sometimes, no matter what the legal position. In the breakdown of marriage within the present system there is something that is unutterably sordid and I do not want to see it continued. That brief introduction indicates why I am going to vote for the Bill and why I am going to vote against the amendment. However, it is not because I do not cherish the ideal of marriage as, indeed, does every member of this House. When the Bill comes to the Committee stage I intend, as persuaded by the logic of argument, to consider the proposition put forward by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  Dissolution of marriage after one year if there is mutual agreement; after 2 years if divorce is contested; and immediately for unnatural offences. But I will leave that to the Committee stage. 
The main reason I have for rising is to recount a story which I think has far more impact than a long lecture about the kind of understanding that this Bill has received or which it received when first introduced. It is receiving less now. This is a true story and it deals with one of the members of the Senate committee which examined this legislation with a great deal of care. I will not indicate who the honourable senator was but he was immersed in consideration of the legislation. Those honourable members who have read the Senate debates will recognise the quality of the examination that the Bill received in the Senate. The honourable senator to whom I refer knew the Bill backwards. On one occasion he went to mass and the priest was thundering about this evil legislation. He said, in ringing tones: 'I guess there is no one in the congregation who has even read the Bill*. So moved by his eloquence was he that he challenged again: 'Is there anybody in the congregation who has even read the Bill? If so, would he please put his hand up'. The honourable senator who had read the Bill backwards, who had been a member of the committee and who had been through every dot and comma of the Bill, was moved to raise his hand. He was asked to come around to the presbytery afterwards. When he went around the priest said: 'You have read the Bill?' The honourable senator replied: 'Yes, father, have you?' The priest replied: 'Not really. I meant to '. 
My main reason for rising was to tell that story. It is a true story and it has a great moral in it which is probably worth a good deal more than the eloquence which others can command. I repeat that I want to make my position clear: I will vote for the Bill and I Will vote against the amendment. I have spelled out briefly the reasons why. Because the reasons are briefly given I would not want it to be thought that they are not sincerely held. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Last week the Treasurer told us about his policy of using deficit financing to lower the present level of unemployment. How is his solution of burying the unemployment problem under a mountain of money actually working out? If printing money is a good solution to the unemployment problem why not print more of the stuff and get rid of the unemployment problem altogether? 
-My main concern about the state of the economy is encompassed in a fairly simple question which I asked the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  on Tuesday of this week. I think for the benefit of the House I ought to repeat it. I asked: 
Last week the Treasurer told us about his policy of using deficit financing to lower the present level of unemployment. How is his solution of burying the unemployment problem under a mountain of money actually working out? If printing money is a good solution to the unemployment problem, why not print more of the stuff and get rid of the unemployment problem altogether? 
The Treasurer replied: 
We might do precisely that. 
That conjures up a pretty poignant picture. I see in my mind the Treasurer down in the bowels of this building with tears in his eyes, with sympathy for the people, oozing the milk of human kindness, turning the handle of a printing press, turning out money to bury his unemployment problems. That is just the kind of thing on which Australia wants to concentrate its thinking. What kind of Treasurer have we? He is a man who says that he can bury his unemployment problem by turning out more money. We know what will happen; it is not hard to see it. There would not be an economist in the country who would not recognise the inevitable wrath to come. We know that consumer spending will rise. It must rise because of this flood of money being pushed out by the printing press down below. We know that, inevitably, with measured tread will come the doom that follows this kind of exercise. In every case, for example in the history of Germany and the South American republics, any country which has tried to solve its problems by turning the printing press faster has come hard up against the inevitable facts of economic life. Probably in a year's time we will have an escalation in the rate of inflation. I think everybody in the House knows- except perhaps the Treasurer- that it will come again- a reckoning in the form of unemployment. It will be an almost insoluble problem. This is a tragedy for Australia. 
The Treasurer thinks he can bury his unemployment problem with all the sympathy which he has. He does not have an option on sympathy; he is not alone in his concern for the unfortunate. But a person in a place of responsibility such as the Treasurer, cannot bury his problem of unemployment by turning the printing press faster. As the Treasurer said on Tuesday, he is really making a problem which, if he stopped to think about it, he would recognise as one which will make the future problem much more serious than the one we have at present. Why would this happen? Why Will it be inevitable? Why will the doom, the wrath to come, stalk inevitably after the Treasurer? It is not because demand will not rise; it Will rise. At the end of the year we will have an increase in demand fed by this money which is being turned out so earnestly by the Treasurer. But the fundamental problem about Australia's economic situation is that no one is prepared to invest so that we can produce better goods. Fewer goods will be produced in the futuremaybe by the end of 1976- because no one will invest money in industry. 
Who would put money into mining with the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  waiting to clobber anybody who made a success of it? Who would put money into farming? There may be a few people- I am not one of themmaking money out of farming. But who would put money into farming at a time like this, knowing that the inflation doom will follow so inevitably? The Treasurer probably knows- there certainly would not be one honourable member opposite listening to me who did not recognise itthat there is an inevitable doom overtaking us because of this idea that problems can be solved with more earnest application to the handle of the printing press. There would not be one of us who did not recognise the fundamental problem with which we are faced is that industry will not invest its money. It is not going on strike, although I know that is a fashionable word nowadays. People who have money are funny; they will not invest unless there is a reasonable chance of profit from it. I think there is not one honourable member opposite who would not recognise that the problem of inflation will be worse in 1976 than it is now. As a result, unemployment will be worse. 
The more vigorously the Treasurer turns the handle of that printing press downstairs, or wherever he does it, the worse will be our position with regard to unemployment. Despite all his sympathy for the downtrodden ones he most wants to help, these are the people who in 1976 are going to suffer most because of his earnest application to the handle of a printing press because he thinks- I do not think he thinks; he feels- that may bury his problem under a mountain of money. I think that not one person in this House does not recognise that, although the Treasurer feels that he is doing right, he must know he is doing wrong. As a result of his actions everybody is going to get, as the Treasurer would hope, more equal slices of the economic cake. That is a philosphy which I can understand and I do not denigrate. But the inevitable result of what the Treasurer is doing downstairs today is that the economic cake is going to be smaller. It is going to be cut up in more equal slices, I grant, and I can understand the philosphy behind that; but the fact is that the cake is going to be smaller. Everybody is going to have equal shares of misery. That is a phrase that was used by the Leader of the Opposition after the announcement of the British Budget this week: 'Equal shares of misery'. If one is dedicated to having equality at any price, I can understand that. But one should remember that the inevitable result of this is that there will be a smaller economic cake to cut up. People may think that that is a price they are prepared to pay; but inevitably all the fine things one wants to do- and I am not denigrating them; I think there are a great many I would want to do- can be done only by cutting up an economic cake and the cake is inevitably made smaller because of the dedication and the fine sentiments of the Treasurer down below in the bowlels of this Parliament swinging on the handle of a printing press. 
I have been asked to confine my remarks to 10 minutes, and I see that 10 minutes is up. I just want to emphasise to the people of Australia who are listening and to the few people on the Opposition side of the House who are listening that in a choice between having a bigger economic cake, cut up in less equal slices maybe, and a smaller economic cake cut up in equal slices of misery, the decision will be the Treasurer's, because he is better able to arrange it than anybody else has ever been able to do. The dedication he applies to that handle of the printing press will do more to bring about the cutting up in equal slices of a cake of misery than anything else, if that is indeed what they want. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
Prior to the Industries Assistance Commission's release of its report on aluminium in draft form, was he aware of the Commission's intention to change its procedure in this way. 
Did the Commission originally intend, as suggested by  Mr Callaghan,  the director of the Australian Industries Development Association, to publish the draft report and receive objections privately. 
Did  Mr Callaghan,  as reported in the 'Canberra Times' of 9 April 1975, make representations to him regarding the change in the procedures of the Commission in releasing its aluminium report in draft form. 
If so, what were these representations. 
-I do not oppose this legislation. But I want to point out some of the queer effects of past legislation and I wonder whether the Attorney-General and Minister for Police and Customs  (Mr Enderby)  would advise me whether this legislation before the House will solve the case I put to him. I shall quote directly from a rather modest article that appeared some time ago in the 'Financial Review'. It spells out, rather succinctly I think, one of the effects of the legislation that we are repealing. It states: 
But in many cases the system - that is our previous dumping legislation- encourages our importers to pay unnecessarily high prices for imports. Let me give an example. The price of paper is fixed in Scandinavia by the big manufacturers; the arrangement is called the 'Scanfin Convention' and it is a truly restrictive trade practice arrangement. There is no doubt that the domestic price in Sweden is held artificially high in this way. 
Now if a manufacturer in Sweden quotes paper to us at $90 a ton instead of $100 a ton (the price fixed by the price ring) a dumping duty of $ 1 0 a ton would be imposed - 
It would be imposed under the previous legislation; I wonder whether is will be imposed under this legislation- because the price was $10 lower than the domestic price in Sweden, i.e. the restrictive trade practice price. 
Suppose a keen Australian marchant goes to Sweden and finds a man who is prepared to sell him paper at $10 a ton cheaper than the cartel price. When they start to talk business he realises that he might as well pay $ 100 a ton, it will cost him the same in the end; the dumping duty would bring it up to $100 anyway. And after the deal is closed, the Swedish merchant would, I hope, take the Australian to dinner to spend some of this $10 a ton he has unexpectedly received as a gift from Australia. It would be a pretty lavish meal I guess. But you can imagine the poor Australian trying to puzzle out why, if restrictive trade practices are bad in Australia, we should deliberately encourage them overseas, and why it is thought good for Australia to have to pay the fixed ' price, when it could be obtained for less. This seems a queer way of helping Australia, although I can easliy see how it would help the Swedes. 
That spells out the other side of the problem, namely that in many cases the dumping duties that used to be fixed under the previous legislation were a direct product of restrictive trade practices legislation which, because of the administration of the previous Act, we were deliberately encouraging. I go back to the meal in Sweden. I understand that meals in Sweden, when an expense account has the carriage of the meal, are pretty lavish and pretty intimate occasions. It seems funny that the exporter who has been encouraged to seek $10 a ton more for goods, because of the previous legislation and because of the existence of the restrictive trade practices legislation, should be able to take people out to an expense account meal- I hesitate to use the words I was going to use- of considerable elegance. 
I should like to raise several matters with the Minister. I should like to get his attention. The matters I intend to raise go not to the principle of the Bill but to the details of the Bill. I know that the Minister always has an interest in constructive suggestions. I should like to make one or two suggestions in particular. The honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  has raised the question of like goods. I know that the Minister has received representations on this matter directly from the people who raised it with me. It is quite obvious that we should compare like with like as best we can. But it would be wrong not to make allowance for quantity. If there are large quantities one would expect the price to be lower. That is common throughout the whole of the commercial world. I know that that is a commercial stance of which the Minister would approve, so I do not think he will argue that there ought to be an allowance for quantity as well as for similarity of the goods. 
I have had some anxiety in going through the Bill. I keep seeing the words 'like goods'. Clause 5 (5) reads: 
Where the normal value of goods exported to Australia is " the price paid for like goods and that price and the export price of the goods exported- 
are modified in different ways by taxes or the terms or circumstances of the sales to which they relate. . . . 
The honourable member for Fisher quoted something which appears both in Article VI of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and in the code. It states: 
Due allowance shall be made in each case for differences in conditions and terms of sale, for differences in taxation and for other differences affecting price comparability. 
The honourable member for Fisher asked the Minister to state why the GATT and the code phrasing was not used in the Bill instead of the rather difficult to understand phrase to which I have referred. The Opposition will be interested to hear the Minister's reply. I think the Minister will agree that it is generally of benefit to set out things clearly. I do not pretend to have a very great understanding of legal phraseology but, to my layman's mind, the code and GATT express the position much more clearly than does this rather loosely worded paragraph (c) of clause 5(5) which I have quoted. I would like the Minister to tell us the reason the wording of the code and GATT, which is the basis for all of this legislation which we do not oppose, has not been used because it seems a much more easily understandable way of expressing maybe the same thing. Perhaps the Minister, when he comes to explain it, could spell out with his usual exemplary logic why that phrase is used in the Bill instead of the wording in the GATT antidumping code and Article VI of GATT. 
There is another matter I wish to mention. Perhaps it should not have a place in legislation but it is the kind of thing that should be mentionedI hope it will be- by the Minister when he replies. The GATT code says quite clearly that importers should be given an ample opportunity to present in writing the case that they hope to present. That is pretty important; much more important in fact than most people realise. I have noticed what I would call a glaring example of people not being given such ample opportunity, and I think it should be brought to the notice of the House. Only yesterday a reference was made by the Minister to the Temporary Assistance Authority on kitchen and table glassware, and the evidence has to be ready by Tuesday. The Minister will be able to see the significance of that. What hope have people in the industry of preparing a case opposing that reference to the Temporary Assistance Authority if it is to bring down its recommendations on Wednesday? It is an impossible situation when we consider that people in the industry have only Thursday and Friday- which is Anzac Day- of this week and Monday and Tuesday of next week to prepare a case. I would like the Minister's assurance that, to guard against this, the importers will be given an opportunity to present their case in writing. The GATT code goes on to say that all information so presented should be available to people contesting one side or the other. Maybe this is not a proper provision to put into the legislation, but I would be gratified if the Minister could assure me that in the interests of proper understanding of the problem an opportunity will be given for a full and open exposition of the case. 
I am not contesting the legislation. I want to point out that I think in this case it is a better piece of legislation and certainly it will be better to administer. It will cut out some of the legalism that surrounds the present situation. It is not often that I welcome non-reference to the Industries Assistance Commission. I recognise that the LAC should not be burdened with the work load of considering references for usual dumping cases, most of which follow departmental submissions. I am glad that the legislation has been introduced. However, I would be grateful if the 
Minister would respond to the specific recommendations I have made. 
I want to come back to the question which I raised and on which I did not receive an assurance from the Minister for Police and Customs  (Mr Enderby).  I will spell it out. An example of the problem can be seen in clause 5 (7) (b), which states: 
Where- 
the Minister is of the opinion that the normal value of the goods should be ascertained for the purposes of this Act as if the country of export were the country of origin, . . . 
That is an example of the responsibility of the Minister. I am not denying that it is a proper responsibility that the Minister ought to carry. But the problem is briefly that previously in all such dumping references there was an Industries Assistance Commission or Tariff Board report in which the problems were spelt out in public and in which the parties had the opportunity to hear and contest the case put forward by the opposing side. The Minister has said, I think quite wisely, that it should not be done in this way and that it should be done more or less by a departmental inquiry followed by ministerial decision. At the second reading stage I mentioned the problem that is spelt out in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade which states that the people affected should have an opportunity to present their cases. I spelt out a rather frightening example that there could be a Temporary Assistance Authority reference yesterday and an expectation that a reasonable case could be presented on Tuesday with Anzac Day intervening. I spelt that out as an example to show that the system must not be allowed to exist. That is why under the GATT code it was made obligatory that a person have an opportunity of spelling out his case. That having been done, it was obligatory that the opposing side have an opportunity to look at the evidence that had been presented. If the Government is to take away, as I think it should, the obligation for an LAC reference, I think there is an additional obligation on the Government to ensure that the opposing side sees the case that has been presented and has an opportunity to answer it. I can see the Minister nodding. All I am asking for now is an assurance from him that he will ensure that the legislation, when it is enacted, will be administered in this way. 
I ask the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby),  when he is replying, to deal with another part of clause 14. Continuing from where the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  left off, it states:  the parties have considered a reconciliation with the assistance of a marriage counsellor . . . 
What is the significance of using the words 'have considered'? That seems to me to be a rather loose form of words. 
Clause 14 (6) (a). Sub-clause (6) states, in part:   the court shall not hear the proceedings unless the court is satisfied that- 
the parties have considered a reconciliation with the assistance of a marriage counsellor . . . 
One would have thought that words of more definite meaning than 'have considered' would have been advantageous. Would the AttorneyGeneral, when replying, explain why that rather loose phraseology is used? 
-The Opposition has made it clear that it will not oppose the Railways (South Australia) Bill, but some criticisms ought to be made about it. The first criticism I make is that it is the wrong way to go about it. I think that there should have been from the South Australian Parliament an expression of opinion that it wants this agreement. I am not certain whether or not the South Australian Parliament will oppose the agreement; I do not know. However, I will be surprised if the South Australian Parliament does not oppose some parts of the agreement. Of course, the first part is that the metropolitan section of the railways will be separate from the other section. This will be a dog's breakfast of the worst kind and an administrative monstrosity. 
I presume that there will be workers employed by the Commonwealth controlling trains that are owned by the South Australian railways. I presume that these trains will be running on tracks owned by the Commonwealth or the South Australian railways- no one has said- and maintained by the Commonwealth or the South Australian railways-no one has said. I do not think that the Commonwealth or the South Australian railways knows that yet. It is clear that, if the 2 sections are to be separate, the proper decision should have been to do it across the whole State. If it is not done it will put hobbles on the new machine and will make it awfully difficult to be operated efficiently. Honourable members should just imagine the problems that will be involved in the Australian Government being responsible for paying the employees and yet operating trains owned by the other arm of government. If this must be done at all it seems a great pity that it should not be done across the whole field. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  must feel that this will handicap the new system in a way which I think will be a great pity. 
I am speaking for myself. I was hoping that the Minister would follow my logic. The second reason why I expect the South Australian Parliament to alter at least some parts of the Agreement concerns the question of road transport. Sub-clause 13 (2) of the Agreement states: 
Nothing in this clause shall operate to restrict the introduction of new freight or passenger road services . . . 
That means that there is nothing to stop anybody operating a road service. Sub-clause 13(5) states: 
Australia . . . shall not be liable to pay any fees, taxes or other charges in respect of the application or approval ... in connection with the operation of the road services referred to in this clause. 
That means categorically that the Commonwealth could just put in a road service which does not have to pay taxes- ton-mileage taxes or any other kind of tax- and can put the existing road services out of business. The Minister has not said that he will do that, but there is clear provision in the Agreement for that to be done. 
I would be surprised if the South Australian Parliament did not have a very clear look at this matter, because it has made it clear that the State 
Government insurance organisation, if it is to operate in competition, must operate in fair competition with private insurance companies, must pay taxes and must be on equal terms. If the Minister does what he is allowed to do under this Agreement, he would not need to close down a line but he could leave a line open and run a parallel road service in quite unfair competition with the private hauliers. I hope that the South Australian Parliament would have a long cold look at this Agreement because it does not look good to me. 
That brings me to the question of closing down lines. I listened with some attention to my friend the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis).  I do not adopt the same attitude as he does. I think that if a line is a bad one it ought to be closed down. If it is uneconomic it ought to be closed down. It is one of the great handicaps of a railway system that it must carry the uneconomic lines which in many cases are kept open mainly because of local pressures including local union pressure. I do not shelter from the fact that if a line is a bad economic project it ought to be closed down. I was a bit surprised to see the qualification that has been put into the Agreement which states that it can be done only if the State agrees. But when one comes to think of it, that does not really mean much because a line does not have to be actually closed down. A train could be run every 3 weeks and the line would still be regarded as being kept open. A train could run on only the day before Christmas and it would still be regarded as being kept open. The point is that the Commonwealth would be able effectively to close down any line and put in a road service that would compete on unequal terms with private industry hauliers. I think that that is a warning that ought to be sounded. I presume that the South Australian Parliament will have a good hard look at that aspect also. 
One matter ought to be mentioned. I do not intend to spend much time on it. I refer to the eloquent plea made by the Minister for Transport in his second reading speech. The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  quoted it. I think I ought to do the same. The Minister said: 
One may ask why the Government does not just provide the States with sufficient funds to bring their railways up to an acceptable standard. I must admit this solution has an elementary plausibility, in that it would appease the States. But it would be a denial of our responsibility to the railways and the people of Australia- that awesome responsibility that accompanies the spending of public money. We cannot, and will not, divorce the responsibility for raising funds from the spending of them . . . 
I suspect that the Minister wiped a tear from his eyes at that stage. That is why he is saying: 'I am going to do this. I am going to have a say. I am going to pay over the money that the Treasurer is knocking up in the bowels of Parliament House with his printing press. I am going to give that to the States and then I am going to run them'. He did not say but he knows that he is going to do the exact opposite with the metropolitan section. He is just going to pay the States the money and they are going to run it. There is a complete difference in the points of view. The Minister must have been so sorry to see that the States would not hand over the metropolitan sector also because he is going to have to pay the money to the State railway systems to run the metropolitan lines. The Minister has made the claim that he is going to put his mouth where his money is- to reverse the usual phrase- when it comes to the country lines, but when it comes to the metropolitan lines he is just going to pay over the money and let the States run the lines if not take the decisions.  Mr Johnson,  I want to make it clear - 
-In preparing for this debate I have been reading in Hansard the speeches which preceded and followed the 1967 agreement which brought in permanent employment. One thing that is abundantly clear is that the expectation and hope that all of us, including myself, had at the time was that we would have a new situation on the waterfront. It is now clear that the whole business of permanent employment has been a bitter disappointment to everybody. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  has spelt it out with crystal clarity. If one wishes to measure the failure of the scheme one should look at the cost of handling conventional cargo. An increase in costs of handling conventional cargo is occurring at the rate of about 30 per cent a year. Prior to the suspension of the sitting the honourable member for Corangamite spelt out the problem of indiscipline on the waterfront. I think I could do no better than repeat the quotation in the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority's annual report which we have just received. It states: 
No improvement was noted in industrial relations between permanent employers and their employees, nor in the standard of supervision and disciplinary control by employers. Some responsible officials and members of the Federation - 
That is the Waterside Workers Federation- have expressed concern at the failure of employers to exercise appropriate and consistent control in relation to undisciplined behaviour by a minority of waterside workers. 
I heard the honourable member for Corangamite pose that as the greatest kind of indictment that one could have of the operation of the present system. He spelt out the position, so that we could see it clearly, about idle time. We want a greater number of people to work ships, yet we have an equal number of people, or in many cases a greater number of people, locked up and being paid for doing nothing when the port desperately needs people. We have a postion of redundancy. We know that under the conference agreement which we hoped would bear fruit, people can be declared to be redundant by the Authority only upon a request from either the Waterside Workers Federation or the Association of Employers of Waterfront Labour. Obviously neither body will ask for people to be declared redundant, although if people are declared redundant, according to the Authority's report this year, they get a golden handshake of $3,263 a year. 
We have to ask ourselves- I know that the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  would be asking himself this continually. Why has the result been so disappointing? The whole history of the waterfront has proved desperately disappointing- I think as disappointing to the Minister as to us. We get the problem of the sweetheart agreements. I quote from page 42 of the report of  Mr Foster,  who adorned this place some time ago: 
Companies generally agreed that these practices - 
These are the restrictive practices on the waterfront- which were designed to make jobs last longer or employ more men, should have ceased with the introduction of permanent employment. 
They did not, and the Minister knows that they did not. Because we have sweetheart agreements on the waterfront. I know that the Minister knows this, because of the necessity or the desire of the ship owners to get a quick turn around of their ships the ship owners always agree to what the Waterside Workers Federation puts up. I have asked many stevedores: 'Why did you give in?' They all say to me: 'We have to. If we are not owned by the ship owners we are clients of theirs. We depend for our livelihood on the business of the ship owners'. The ship owners have one overwhelming drive: They must not have their ships held up. I can understand that. As the honourable member for Corangamite mentioned before dinner, it is very expensive for a ship, particularly a container ship, to be held up. 
The Association of Employers of Waterfront Labour is always under a compulsion to make a sweetheart agreement with the Waterside Workers Federation. Therefore the costs continue to rise in the way that the honourable member for Corangamite mentioned. A 50 per cent increase in the levy does not really matter to the employers of waterfront labour. They know that because of the conference system they can recover their costs by putting up their freight rates. So we have the continual pressure of the Waterside Workers Federation leaning on the shipowners through the AEWL, causing a continual increase in costs which, as the honourable member for Corangamite spelt out so clearly earlier, is imposing a dreadful burden not only on the exporter but also on the community as a whole because the costs of imports and exports are increased by these sweetheart agreements. Although it is the sweetheart agreement which is the basic problem, there is one other problem which brings the situation home to the shipowner who is squeezed in a way that not many people understand. The Waterside Workers Federation can move in on a ship and take particular action and the shipowner will always give in because he is at the mercy of the Federation. So it is the sweetheart agreement that the Minister knows is in existence which we have to recognise. 
I return to this report of  Mr Foster.  I would like to be critical of a remark which appears on page 56 in the following terms: 
It is painfully clear that the industry continues to be operated for the convenience of shipowners alone . . . 
That is not so. It is not operated for the convenience of shipowners alone. The tragedy of Australia's situation is that it is operated for the convenience of the shipowners and the Waterside Workers Federation. That is the bullet that we have to bite on. It is not the fact that the ship owners are getting their way. The fundamental problem that we face is that the shipowners and the Waterside Workers Federation are getting their way. They are dining out at our expense and are forming sweetheart agreements. There is a long record of agreements being broken, of demands being given in to. That is the grim record of the sweetheart agreements which are the basic cause of our problems. 
I do not blame  Mr Foster  for his observation. He was a waterside worker before he came into this place and since he left it he has been operating in this field. I would expect him to come out publicly and say, as he has said in his report, that the industry is operated for the convenience of shipowners alone. It is not, and he knows it is not. The Minister knows it is not.  Mr Foster  no doubt knows that it is operated for the convenience of the Waterside Workers Federation and the shipowners. They have made the sweetheart agreements and it is for this reason only that the costs have risen in a way that must be alarming the Minister. I know it is alarming me and I know it is alarming the honourable member for Corangamite and must be alarming every thinking person in this place. It is not the shipowners alone who have brought about the problems; it is the sweetheart agreements which are made possible by the present system. So we have a responsibility to try to work out what we ought to do in the future. 
I am not going to be critical of the Minister because he has not to this stage introduced a new model of legislation that will tackle the problem. He is driving a model of the previous Government's making. It is the previous  Government's  machine that he is operating. We in this House have a particular responsibility in the few months that remain while the levy that is proposed under the legislation or under our proposed amendment is in operation. I do not know whether the levy will be sufficient to enable the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority to meet its proper obligations. We have to go through the painful process of rethinking the way in which we ought to tackle the problem. 

 Mr Foster's report spells out 3 possible solutions to the problem. He suggests that we might back away from the area altogether- leave it. One thing is abundantly clear: We cannot go on as we are going. I think that we all agree on that. I think the Minister for Labor and Immigration nods his head at that. What solutions can we offer? We have a duty to offer some solutions. As I say, one is that we could back away from the area and leave it altogether. The levy could be abandoned if the legislation were dropped. We could leave it to the supply and demand situation. I do not think for one minute that that would be acceptable to the Minister or to us. So I do not think that it is suitable that we should back away from the problem and leave the matter in a laissez faire situation. No one will accept that we ought to go on as we are going, because it is imposing on the exporter and the importer- on the economy as a whole- a burden that no one should be asked to carry. 
Another solution can be divided into 2 parts, and  Mr Foster  refers to them all too briefly. Perhaps we could restore the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority to the place that it once held before the 1967 permanent employment situation arose. We could give that Authority control over labour on the waterfront. Perhaps-  Mr Foster  referred to this- there should be a wider union than the Waterside Workers Federation covering the employment on the waterfront. Maybe all the unions should be brought into one area. This is something that I have not had an opportunity to think out. We could give the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority control over the labour force and get away from this nonsense of a SEAL pool and so on that we know has worked so badly and has created this locked-up employment situation. That is another solution. 
The other solution is to bite on the bullet of the nationalisation of the stevedoring process on the waterfront. Probably it could be done under the Constitution in relation to overseas shipping, I do not know. However, I would say definitely that we cannot go on as we are going. I would prefer that we backed away from the area and left the Commonwealth out of it than to go on as we are going. At present we have this cost-plus situation, as  Mr Foster  points out in his report, which is intolerable. I do not speak for my Party here, but in looking at the matter with all the capacity that I can muster, I cannot see any solution other than the nationalisation of the stevedoring process on the waterfront, I do not put that forward lightheartedly. I do not put it forward with any great hope that it will be embraced by the people in my Party. But I do not know of any other solution. 
We have 2 possible alternatives. The first is to have nationalisation pure and simple, and the second is to have a common pool of labour which is controlled and refurbished, if necessary, by the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. But we must have one of those alternatives. We cannot go on as we are. For the benefit not so much of the Minister as of the people in my Party I pose the grim alternatives that face us. We cannot go on as we are with the cost escalation that is dogging us and that is imposing a burden on the whole community. Any thinking person in this place would admit that. We must examine the matter with all the care, courage and urgency that we can muster and we must bite on this bullet before it is too late. 
-As the Minister for Labour and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has said, we cannot go on - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put- 
That the question be now put. 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. I have often heard people say that the Treasurer is deliberately getting the economy into a mess so as to bring about what he calls a change in the system. Is this true? If he is not doing it deliberately, can he make an even bigger mess if he puts his mind to it? 
-Firstly, I wish to protest- not so much to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  but to the Parliament- about the way in which this tariff debate is being handled today. We are discussing a tariff validation Bill. No opportunity is available in this debate to examine the actual proposal and details. Twenty Tariff Board or Industries Assistance Commission reports lie behind the proposals that we are now to validate. There has been no opportunity for any discussion of those reports. The way in which we handle these reports is not the fault of the Attorney-General; it is the fault of the machine. Really, this practice has gone much too far. 
Look at the kinds of figures involved in this. We are validating without any reasonable discussion a decision of the Government that has given a consumer subsidy to the car industry of $300m a year. This is the kind of matter that Parliament ought to be considering. I do not say that it is wrong, but I think it is wrong of Parliament not to examine it. We are reaching the stage at which these very important decisions- boring they may be- are being made without any parliamentary examination. It is not good enough that the system should be allowed to continue to work in this way. 
The system used to work with infinite labour and with considerable boredom. We used to follow a system in which there was a second reading tariff debate in which we would examine the principles by which the protection system operated. Then the House would go into Committee where we could take apart each of the proposals, if we so desired. I remember taking 1 7 such proposals apart, to the infinite boredom of the Committee. But this is the kind of thing which has to be done. For the present system to continue is not good enough. 
Many of these reports award great advantage to some industries; other industries suffer great disadvantage. That this examination is not being carried out by the House is a grave reflection on the procedures of the House. Since this Government has been in office, there has not been a proper debate on tariffs in which we have had time to examine the proposals in detail. Since the advent of this Government, 43 reports from the Tariff Board, the Temporary Assistance Authority or the Special Advisory Authority have been presented. Only one of those has been mentioned in some detail. This was done last year by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  These has not, however, been any proper discussion. 
I can understand why this has not occurred. We are under too great a pressure. There is no time for this to be done properly, but for it not to be done is a grave reflection on our procedures. I have on many occasions, and I will do so again, made the plea that a standing committee of this House should be appointed to look at each report of the Tariff Board, as it was, or the Industries Assistance Commission, as it now is. That committee should not examine the policies relating to protection; they rest with the Government. 
That committee should go through the leg work of looking at the various reports and making some examination of them. 
Yesterday a debate involving a considerable amount of time and a large amount of eloquence took place in which the House discussed the advantage of a grant of $650,000 to Associated Pulp and Paper Mills. Yet, a subsidy of $300m is going each year to the car industry and is not being debated. Our failure to consider these reports is a grave reflection on the Parliament. 
We are entering a field that is complex beyond belief. I know how difficult it is. I know how boring it can be. But the work must be done. The Government, God bless its soul, has just brought out a Green Paper on the valuation for duty procedures. Just this week we have been informed that the system of by-law administration is under examination. I pay tribute to the Government for putting that information out in public documents. But I draw attention to the difficulty for any person to take those 2 reports properly apart and to examine them so that the great advantages which are given under the by-law system may be understood and so that we may know what we are doing. This is a duty which ought to be laid on the Parliament. If it cannot be done by the Parliament, I beg the Attorney-General to use his influence to see that this is done by a standing committee of this House which could have a look at each proposal in detail. 
Our Party has a committee on tariffs. It is under the brilliant chairmanship of the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards).  I guess that the Labor Party has the same kind of instrumentality. But I do not pretend- 1 am certain that the honourable member for Berowra would support me- that we are giving the intimate and careful examination that we ought to give to each proposal. That is one thing. I think it is an absolute scandal that the Parliament- not the Government- should allow this to go on, should allow these great benefits, and sometimes costs, to be given to particular industries and not to be examined in this House at all. The way in which I hope it would work would be for a committee to agree on proposals and then they would not need to come into the House; but if there was disagreement and they did come into the House at least there would be informed discussion instead of this waffling around and jumping from one proposal to the other, as we are inclined to do with these reports. I beg the Minister and the Parliament to take this position in hand because it should not continue as it is. 
I want briefly to come back to some of the points of principle that I would hope to raise in a proper tariff proposals debate, which we have not had in this House since November last year. I want to refer to this 25 per cent tariff cut. I know I am out on the end of a limb but I have been there before and it is not as uncomfortable as people seem to think it is. The 25 per cent tariff cut is blamed far too much for the ills that are afflicting the economy. It is easy to pick this out as the cause but the figures show that a 25 per cent tariff cut is equivalent to a 4 per cent to 5 per cent currency alteration. Since the Government has been in power we have had a 20 per cent currency appreciation and this has had far more impact- at least three and probably four times as muchthan the 25 per cent tariff cut that has got all the blame. Coming to the fundamental guts of th, problem, we have to face up to the question of a more flexible exchange rate. 
The decisions that are made to alter the exchange rate are far more influential than the tariff cuts about which we are so eloquent. I do not say that we ought to have a flexible exchange rate which is not controlled to some extent with capital inflow, but on trade balance matters it ought to be something which corrects itself. The Government gets the blame every time there is an alteration to the exchange rate but, God bless my soul, it would have to be done every now and again. I am hoping that we will have a system whereby it is done in gradual steps, little steps each few days or each week, so that we get a gradual adjustment of the economy to the changing circumstances of the trade balance problem. For far too long we have been backing away from this question. It is said that we put ourselves in the hands of the gnomes of Zurich, but that is just nonsense. If New Zealand can do it, why cannot we? What is wrong with us that we will not bite on this bullet and get away from this nonsense, this trauma we go through every now and again when we have to alter the exchange rate? Anybody who says that we do not have to alter it is out of his mind. It has to be altered in big steps if we want to continue with our present system. What I want is a more flexible and gradual system. That puts the 25 per cent tariff cut in focus with the alteration of the exchange rate. An exchange rate alteration is far more important, yet we never hear much eloquence wasted on it. This 25 per cent tariff cut is something that is easy to see and we can pick on that. 
The alteration of wage rates has been far more important than the effect of the 25 per cent tariff cut. Knitting is one of the problem industries. A 25 per cent tariff cut is equivalent to an increase in wages that ranges, depending on what basis of calculation one uses, between 6 per cent and 13 per cent; yet between December 1972 and September 1974 there has been an increase in wages averaging about 60 per cent- 56 per cent for men and 73 per cent for women. That is the kind of thing that it is much more difficult for the industry to adjust to than the 25 per cent tariff cut but it is the kind of thing we never talk about on either side of the Parliament. The Prime Minister brought it into focus and said, quite rightly, that the increase in wages, particularly female wages, is far more important than the tariff cut. We want to bring the disease into focus and I put it no less than that, which is affecting our thinking on these problems. I have used this quotation before and I will spell it out again. It is from the old CoplandGiblin report of 1929 which spelt out the basic philosophy which led our tariff policy along pretty wise roads for a long while. It deals with the problem of tariff protection and I quote directly from the report: 
The most disquieting effect of the tariff has been the stimulus it has given to demands for government assistance of all kinds with consequent demoralising effect upon self reliant efficiency throughout all forms of production. 
We are getting this in Australia in an acute form and we see it exemplified in our discussion on the 25 per cent tariff cut. There is a tendency to lean which comes with government assistance through the tariff and in many other ways and is one of the things that is eating into the efficiency of this country. We are becoming a country of leaners 
The other matter I want to raise is of some principle, and there are no votes in it for me. It is the question of tariff compensation. This is put forward as the solution to the problems of the rural sector which has to carry the costs of tariff protection. I refer to the Green Paper of the 4 wise men- Crawford, Honan Harris and Gruen, the latter being not an unknown name- which contains an admission of what tariff protection really means. The report states: 
The prices of virtually all the inputs, including labour, used by export producers reflect the costs of the tariff, the rural exporter- and to a considerable degree the mineral and manufacturing exporter- is generally unable to pass them on any further. 
I have been saying that again and again in this House until I am almost hoarse. Then they go on to spell out the second best solution, and I quote from the report: 
The preferred course, replacing the tariff with an exchange rate devaluation and leaving the tariff to be used for special situations, such as infant industries, would therefore provide difficulties for these industries. 
They would be mainly political difficulties probably, but they did not say that. The report continues: 
Given the practical difficulties, such a course is likely to be followed at best, only slowly. There is then a case on economic grounds for a second best course of action, for providing some compensating protection that is of assistance to the export sector. 
This has become a very fashionable policy and we would not be surprised to learn that it is supported by people of that quality, but no one seems to look at what it really means. For instance, Professor Keith Campbell, a man with the acid kind of logic that would not go down too well in Parliament, does clarify people's thinking. In a report in the 'Agricultural Economist' journal of December last he spelt out, as one would expect him to do with this kind of awful logic, the fact that tariffs were instituted to redistribute income from the exporting sector to the manufacturing sector. Now there is a system of tariff compensation to redistribute income back again. When one starts to think about it clearly, one realises that it is a policy of utter despair. We have a policy under which income is redistributed away from the export sector and then redistributed back again. Only Professor Campbell could spell it out in the way that he has. 
Let me take the matter further. Which industries are to be compensated for loss of income due to tariff measures- all of them? If compensation is not given across the whole export sector, resources will be pushed into the industries that need them. That is a good and an attractive political argument, but we must realise what that means. It means that when industries are getting into trouble because supply is outrunning demand, resources will be channelled back to them. If care is not exercised the position of these industries will be worsened. The main problem is that the existence of a tariff compensation system destroys the incentive for the exporting sector to try to press for lower levels of tariff compensation. That is pretty logical and equitable. But what kind of picture do we end up with? We tend to have a system of continually rising tariffs and continually rising levels of tariff compensation. The Government tends to foster a community in which people take in one another's washing, with representatives of the Government standing at the corner of the street saying: 'A bit more here and a bit more there '. 
The honourable member knows very well what I have advocated. I have had a great deal of trouble getting it into his nut. We hope that the Jackson Committee can lead us by the hand through this difficult area. It bears a dreadful responsibility, because we are ending up as a community in which people are looking towards taking in one another's washing. We hear the captains of industry thunder eloquently about the virtues of private industry, but having done that they say: 'Yes, but now we would like another handout of tariff assistance'. I think that the Jackson Committee has a terrible responsibility to lead us away from that kind of wishywashy thinking. If we believe in private enterprise, we should adhere to that belief and not drift along and say to the Government: Although we believe in private enterprise, we would like another handout, please'. We, as a Parliament, have a responsibility, and the Jackson Committee has a particular responsibility, to tackle the problems that the country faces. We do not face them in this House, but I would hope that the Government will do what it can to see that we have an opportunity to face them better. 
-The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  set out with crystal clarity the Opposition point of view. Briefly, as he said in his inimitable way, we would not have a bar of the scheme and the only reason that we are supporting it is that it is an agreement between 2 governments. For that reason and that reason only we are not opposing the Bill. I think the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  ought to be more careful about the way he speaks about the mandate of the South Australian Government. As you would know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  Labor lost 3 seats in the last election in South Australia, all of them in the country. Port Pirie was certainly looked upon as the bluest of blue Labor seats which just could not be lost. That was won by an independent. Two other seats, Millicent and Mount Gambier, were lost directly as a result of the concern of the country people over this railway agreement. I know that this is a fact and I am certain that the honourable member for Grey admits it also. 
The South Australian Parliament agreed to the proposal because the Australian Government holds the money. I can understand this. It is a clear example of the power of the purse. The South Australian Parliament was bought. It agreed to the proposal to get rid of its deficit. It was in some trouble. The Dunstan Government has been very lavish with expenditure. The mass of public relations people on the staff of the South Australian Ministers is only a sample of its profligate use of money. Because of this South Australia's deficit was getting large and the South Australian Parliament grasped the opportunity to unload its financial problems on the rest of Australia. It is quite clear that there will be no advantage from this agreement. The railways will not run any better. They will probably be run worse- some would have said, even worse. They will have the same people running them. But what is more, the Australian Government has imposed on them a system which the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  if he were frank with us, would admit just could not work or, if it does work, will work with immense difficulty. 
He will put the South Australian railway system in hobbles. Railways do not run well in hobbles. A lot of people would say that they do not run well anyhow. But put them in hobbles by having a metropolitan and a country system both running over the same lines and there will be an administrative mess that, if it is not impossible to work, will work very difficultly. So the proposal will make it unlikely- I would say impossiblethat the system will work any better. My own judgment is that because of this problem of division of direction between the country and metropolitan sections the system will not work so well. So we will probably have a total cost that is bigger than that proposed and it will have to be met not by South Australia but by the taxpayers in other areas. The Government will use this proposal as a reason for other States to be treated in the same way. Then we will have a picture in which the increased deficit on railways will be met by taxpayers in other States. I suppose then South Australia will have to pay for the other people's losses. 
There are other problems. The honourable member for Grey mentioned the problem of the co-operative bulk handling. I hope the Minister can answer this. I know it was pursued relentlessly in the Lower House in South Australia and, I think, in the Upper House where the members could not have inserted into the legislation a clause which forbade the taking over of the CBH facilities. I have always said that no government- even our present Governmentwould be stupid enough to do this, but I should like an assurance from the Minister that it is not likely. The question that has been raised on this legislation which makes my blood run cold, as was mentioned in the previous debate on the Bill, is in relation to clause 13 of the schedule, which states in part: 
Nothing in this clause shall operate to restrict the introduction of new freight or passenger road services- 
It states further: 
Australia or the Commission shall not be liable to pay any fees, taxes or other charges in respect of such services - 
This provision gives the opportunity for the Commonwealth Government to come in and just put road transport operators out of business. I hope the Minister will give us an assurance that this is not his intention. I am glad to see the honourable member for Gippsland pressing the Minister on this point. This is the real reason why the people in the south east of South Australia turned savagely on the State Government in Mount Gambier and Millicent. There is a genuine fear that the Commonwealth now has the opportunity to choke the private industry road transport. I have yet to hear the Minister explain why this provision is deliberately included in this legislation giving the Commonwealth Government the opportunity to break the private sector. 
I want to raise another point of principle, that is, that this legislation is another example of the erosion of the State functions. I do not say this process altogether started with the present Labor Government. We were in it too. Legislation in regard to universities was probably the first example. We came in with our superior money power and took over the responsibility for tertiary, secondary and primary education, and we went on to assume responsibility for roads. Under this Government responsibility has been assumed for local government and health. Now this legislation proposes to assume responsibility for railways in South Australia. It will not be long before members of the State Government do not have any real responsibilities except opening things. There may not be any functions left for them. Members of the Australian Labor Party- I give them credit- are quite open about the fact that this is their aim. They want to get rid of the State governments. 
The Opposition has to admit that by agreeing to this proposal it is putting another nail into the coffin of the federal system. I repeat that the Australian Labor Party will be glad about this. It would like the federal system to be replaced by a unity system. On our side of politics I think we ought to be more aware than we are- than we generally are, anyhow- about what we are doing by acceding to the South Australian Government's plea for its railways system to be taken over. It is being taken over because the Commonwealth has the money. That is the only reason for it. It is another nail in the coffin of the federal system which the Australian Government will drive in with enthusiasm and which I see driven in with real regret. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Is it correct as reported in the Press that the Government is considering buying out  Mr Clunies-Ross's  interests in Cocos (Keeling) Islands? Is this being done to make us or the Cocos Islanders happy? Is it true that the Cocos Islanders use plastic money while we have to make do with paper money which seems to be rapidly losing its value? Is this fair? Does not the Prime Minister agree that the Cocos Islanders have no right to expect to be happy and contented forever while we suffer under socialism here? 
-The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  has spelt out a grim picture of a situation which we cannot allow to continue. I think that the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  would agree that we cannot allow the present system to continue. It is doing many things, but chiefly, for the Waterside Workers Federation, it will kill the goose that lays the golden egg. It is effectively killing interstate shipping. If the situation continues, these costs will break any sensible transport system. Everybody knows that. I think that the Minister knows it. I am certain that the previous Minister knew it. We cannot go on as we are going. I am very sorry to hear that the Government has decided not to allow the Opposition to join with the Government in a committee to try to solve this problem which is imposing a serious burden on the community in general. What alternatives are open to us? We cannot go on as we are going. The incentive for sweetheart agreements that have been made in the past and that will continue to be made under the present system, costs being passed on in this way and the necessity for a levy for idle time of up to $4 an hour just cannot be allowed to continue. 
Solutions have been put forward by various sections of the industry. One was to nationalise the stevedoring section of the industry. Honourable members who have some philosophic attraction to that proposal should look at how the Australian Post Office is running and how the railways are running. If they have any real hope that a nationalised waterfront will work well, I think that they are kidding themselves. Another solution proposed was that we should go back to the old system, which we had before permanent employment, and have the Stevedoring Industry Authority controlling and disciplining the labour and hiring it out to the stevedores. The difference would be that it would now be permanent employment and not temporary employment as it was before. I always come back to this system with a good deal of hope. If one reads the Foster report one sees continual criticism of this system. All the same, I warn the Minister that any system that is popular will not do anything to contain the costs. I look with some cynicism on the criticisms I hear about the operation of the old stevedoring industry system. Any system that discourages sweetheart agreements will not be popular, but any system that does not discourage sweetheart agreements will not be worth starting. In the meantime I intend to have a good look at the way in which the previous Authority system worked. I repeat- I think everybody should realise this- that if the Government is looking for popular solutions, any solution that is going to discourage sweetheart agreements will be unpopular. Any system that does not effectively dampen down or get rid of sweetheart agreements largely is not going to be worth it. It is not going to cure the problem. 
The other alternative put forward is that we could form a company of the WWF, the stevedores, the ship owners and the Government to do the same kind of thing- to control the labour and to hire it out to the stevedores. That is a possibility which I know has been canvassed. This has the problem the previous suggestion, model 3, had relating to the authority controlling the labour. There is a separation between the people who are engaging the labour and the people who are employing it. There are problems and I am looking at them, I would hope, clear eyed. I see no essential difference between the Stevedoring Industry Authority that operated in the past and a company, which I have heard suggested, of the various components of the industry to do the same kind of thing- to engage the labour, to discipline the labour and to hire it out to those who do the work. 
The other suggestion that is put forward often is that the Government should back out and leave the industry to sort itself out. There is a great deal of sense in that. It would put an automatic brake on the idle time problem. No one minds employing extra labour if other people are going to pay for it and it would get rid of this locked up labour problem. It would provide a direct incentive. If people were not required, automatically they would not be kept on. But it should be remembered that inherent in this proposition is that there have to be at the maximum 2 stevedoring companies in the conventional area. That sounds pretty sensible and it attracts me, but the thing that worries me is that there is the same economic drive to have one stevedore in the conventional area. That is something that does not fill me with any great happiness because the waterfront is a pretty rough school. I would not like to see the conventional area, particularly in Sydney and Melbourne, left to one stevedore. 
The other kind of problem we have to face is this: Are we going to separate the terminal and the conventional cargo areas? It is quite unthinkable that we should have in the very intricate terminal areas, a turnover of people who have not had the necessary experience and training with the very intricate equipment. So we have to make up our minds whether we are going to separate the conventional and the terminal areas and whether we are going to have a progression of people through them. If the WWF insists on a roster system throughout the terminals we will make the terminals impossibly inefficient.' 
They are the kinds of problems we face. I am very disappointed in the Government, which I know is fully seized of the seriousness of the problem. You do not have to be a genius to see the problem clearly. I can see the problem clearly. What I cannot see yet is the solution. Yet we know that we have got to find the solution. The Minister poses a problem in saying: 'When we have done it, then we have got to get it accepted by the Senate'. That is the problem that he faces. Yet seeing it so clearly, he says: 'We are not going to ask the people who could possibly influence the Senate to pass legislation on this matter to take part in a committee exposure or examination of the situation'. I think the Government is off its nut in not accepting the offer that was made by people who have a very great interest and incentive to have a better system. Some of us have done a great deal of work on the system. The Minister knows something of its background, and would have had the goodwill of a committee system that does work. I think he would know how effective a good committee can be. Certainly the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  in another place knows, because he has been very competently operating in Senate committees himself. Why the Government did not eagerly seize the opportunity I just cannot understand. I can assure the Minister however that the Opposition will do all it can to expedite the end of the present hopeless system and bring in a better system. If the Government brings up a system as good as it has to be, I can assure the Minister that the Opposition will take what steps it can to see that it gets through the Senate. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the cost of all the expenditure items incurred by the Australian Government in holding the Women 's Conference that began in Canberra on 31 August 1975, including items such as fares, travelling expenses, consultants fees, and advertising. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to. 
That the question be now put.  Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
Has the Department, at any stage, hired a private consultant,  Mr Eric  Walsh. 
If so, what were his duties. 
What were the fees paid to him. 
Has the Government met any of the costs incurred by  Mr Walsh  in the performance of his duties; if so, what are the details. 
For what period was he hired. 
Has he presented any written reports; if so, will they be tabled; if not, why not. 
Has he given any oral advice to the Department or the Minister; if so, what was its substance. 
Did  Mr Walsh  advise the Department or the Minister at any stage that the Australian Government Insurance Corporation legislation would not be opposed by the Opposition. 
9) Did  Mr Walsh  accompany the Minister to Tasmania at the time the Minister appeared on  Monday Conference. 
It will not surprise honourable members to learn that I wish to talk about tariffs. I think that at a time such as this, with unemployment a problem as it has not been in the past, that there is need for greater clarity of thinking than there usually is on this problem. There will be some old fundamentalists on both sides of the chamber who think that employment can be created by increasing tariffs. That number is diminishing as education becomes more of an influence. There are not many on either side of the chamber- I am not saying that there are not a few on my side and I know that there are some in the Labor Party- who do not recognise that it is a fundamental fallacy to think that employment is created by increasing tariffs. Let us look at the textile industry. There would be some honourable members here who know the industry in detail. In order to create employment, the fundamentalists would increase the tariff on textile yarns. There may be magnificent ceremony when a textile yarn factory is opened. Everybody thinks that the employment problem has been solved. The honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  is too well educated economically to believe that kind of nonsense and so would most honourable members be. But that is the way in which people used to think, forgetting about the people who use the yarn to make it into fabric and about those who have to use the fabric to make it into garments. They know that employment is diminished in the user industry by increasing tariffs. As I look at the rather serried ranks of those opposite, I do not think that I can see anyone in the chamber now who would not believe that that is the economic truth. 
If the matter is taken further and a duty is put on garments to stop them coming in the reality of the situation can be seen. We mouth platitudes about trade being more important than aid and at the same time put duties on goods which are made by what honourable members on both sides of the chamber used to call cheap black labour. Now we call it cheap Asian labour because some of us are sensitive about these things. But almost everyone on both sides of the chamber knows this fundamental fact that you cannot continue forever to deny access to products made by what might be called cheap Asian labour but which I would call labour from the developing countries. If we do not trade with them, by some means or other they will bring about the destruction of civilization as we know it. We all know that and anybody who does not recognise it would be a fundamentalist of the worst kind. There has been nonsense talked on both sides of the chamber about tariffs creating employment. I concede that many honourable members know that it is economic nonsense. 
Let me refer to another matter which should be given attention at a time such as this and that is the Industries Assistance Commission. The first question is whether it should be an independent body. There are some who think that the reason for having an IAC is to insulate the Minister against political pressures. If there is a factory that is demanding protection in the Minister's electorate or in some particular electorate, then if there is an IAC of present days or the Tariff Board of the past, it can be interposed between the political pressure and the affected industry and the Minister may be sheltered. I do not believe that that should be its function; that could be part of its function but it would have a far more important function to perform. It is not the duty of the IAC to make government more comfortable. I emphasise this. The task of the IAC as it was of the Tariff Board is to give the Government independent economic advice. The Government is then charged with the responsibility of taking political decisions thereon. 
I shall take up the honourable member for Berowra on other matters shortly if I have time. The LAC should be independent. The members of the Commission should be people who are able to do more than stand between the Minister and the pressures. There should be a body which is able to give independent economic advice. To say that all that is wanted is a shelter for the ministry-something to make government more comfortable- is not to have a clear picture of the real requirement. The Government has to take the political decision. I never thought for one minute that the LAC or the Tariff Board should. 
Let us consider tariff on motor cars. The LAC gave a crystal clear economic decision in that matter and the Government took the political decision thereon and weighed up the social cost. I think the Government was wrong but I think it is its function to take those kinds of decisions. To pretend that it should be the LAC's task to measure anything else but the economics of things is putting too great a load on it. I would always hope that we would get clear independent advice from the IAC. I repeat that it is the Government's task to take political decisions thereon as it has done. 
I should also like to refer to some points raised by the honourable member for Berowra. I wish to pay a tribute to  Mr Rattigan,  the  Chairman  of the LAC. I think Australia owes a tremendous debt of gratitude to  Mr Rattigan  for the way in which he has carried the torch for independent economic advice in the face of considerable difficulties. I have heard him castigated on this side of the chamber and on the other side. I want to make my position clear: I think Australia will honour his work in the future if not now. I do so now. The honourable member for Berowra speaks frequently about this 25 per cent dividing line. There is far too much criticism in this regard. I have the figures for last year; I could not get this year's report because it is not yet available. For 30 per cent of the industries dealt with last year, the IAC recommended an effective rate of over 25 per cent. If honourable members want me to spell that out, I will. The honourable member for Berowra made a speech which I must admit I did not hear but most of which I am not particularly proud of, concerning heavy earthmoving construction materials worth $125m. There was an effective rate recommendation of 47 per cent. Honourable members can go right down the list. It is not true to say that the IAC is egg-bound with a rate of 25 per cent. The IAC is making sensible assessments of what the percentage ought to be. It is not true to say that the IAC has the idea that it cannot go above 25 per cent. Last year 30 per cent of its recommendations were above an effective rate of 25 per cent. 
There are other things I would like to come to. There is far too great an acceptance by secondary industry of saying to the IAC: 'Look, it is aU right to give us a tough ruling but what you ought to do is tell us what we ought to do instead '. That is utter nonsense. These are the people who go around saying that they believe in private enterprise and they believe in standing on their own feet. When there is a recommendation which they do not like they want to be told what to do next. What will happen, as in all walks of life is that a third of them will make a mess of it, a third of them will do well and a third of them will be average. The third who make a mess of it will come crying to the Government saying: 'You told us to get in and do this'. That is a policy of utter despair both in farming and in manufacturing and I want to make that clear. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
1 ) Which Government Senators and Members, including Ministers are supplied with Government cars. 
What was the individual and total cost of these cars during (a) 1973 and (b) 1974 in each case. 
What is the formula for all the items used to ascertain the costs, including depreciation, administrative costs and running costs. 
Are such cars for depreciation purposes costed on market price although the Government only pays landed price. 
5 ) What is the difference in value between the two prices. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Department, at any stage, hired a private consultant,  Mr Eric  Walsh. 
If so, what were his duties. 
What were the fees paid to him. 
Has the Government met any of the costs incurred by  Mr Walsh  in the performance of his duties; if so, what are the details. 
For what period was he hired. 
Has he presented any written reports; if so, will they be tabled; if not, why not. 
Has he given any oral advice to the Department or the Minister; if so, what was its substance. 
Did  Mr Walsh  advise the Department or the Minister at any stage that the Australian Government Insurance Corporation legislation would not be opposed by the Opposition. 
Did  Mr Walsh  accompany the Minister to Tasmania at the time the Minister appeared on  Monday Conference. 
I am going to speak about conservation. I think I have got to the stage of life where I can give the Minister for Environment  (Mr Berinson)  some kind of fatherly advice. The thing I want to concentrate on is the need for keeping his feet on the ground. I speak with real sincerity when I say I was a member of the South Australian State Soil Conservation Service for 17 years and I do know that there is a job of overwhelming importance to be done, but I know also that you do not do it by going around making speeches. It is grass-roots wisdom, grass-roots understanding, that is required to make conservation work. If only these problems could be cured by eloquence they would not be nearly as insidious or as difficult as they are. 
The examples I am going to give are examples of the way we tend to treat conservation as a subject for vote catching, something to make stirring speeches about instead of doing something about it. The first example I give I have written about in another place. One of the items of expenditure which the previous Minister, I presume, recommended and which was agreed to referred to John Paterson Urban Systems Pty Ltd, who were asked to study this question- 'Time as a social indicator-study of time allocation and preference as an indicator of social welfare.' I shall repeat that. I do not know whether anybody knows what it means. The Minister may know. I repeat: 'Time as a social indicator-study of time allocation and preference as an indicator of social welfare'. If the Minister is going to do anything about conservation I trust that he does not do it by going around talking that kind of nonsense. If there is a task to be done, the proper thing is to spell it out so that members of Parliament know what the job is and so the people who are asked to do the task know what it is, but to trot out this type of verbiage is nonsense. I repeat it yet again so the Minister can realise the utter awfulness of the mess he has to clean up in his own Department. John Paterson Urban Systems Pty Ltd was asked to study: 'Time as a social indicator-study of time allocation and preference as an indicator of social welfare'. 
No-one knows. I guess the Minister will find out what that means from his Department but it is a good idea to spell things out so that ordinary people can understand. 
I turn to another example of the kind of sloppy thinking with which conservation is cursed. The previous Minister for Conservation had trouble in talking sense about kangaroos. I think he did the best he could with the previous Minister for Customs and Excise,  Senator Murphy.  It has been a silly kind of business. Kangaroos have risen to plague proportions and now the Department is allowing them to be killed under carefully controlled and wise conservation conditions. I approve of that. You are now allowed to shoot kangaroos- it must be- but one thing you must not do is export them. I do not know whether kangaroos can talk but if you asked a kangaroo whether he would rather be exported and kept under carefully controlled conditions and live in a zoo and be looked after, or be shot, I think I know what would be his answer. I think it is a pity kangaroos cannot talk, but galahs can talk. Some galahs talk quite well. You are allowed to shoot galahs if they are a problem. You can shoot them in thousands. But you are not allowed to export them. If you asked a galah who could talk whether he would prefer to be shot by Fred the farmer or to be exported on a padded perch in a gilded cage so that he could go overseas and propagate his kind in luxury, his answer would be short and eloquent. It would not be like this mumbo jumbo that we are fed with about preference as an indicator in a study of social welfare. What is wrong with a Department of Environment that cannot grasp a nettle such as this? We all know that kangaroos have to be harvested. They have to be shot or controlled somehow. Why not let the poor beggars go overseas in comfort? Why not let the galahs go overseas in comfort? They do not have to be jammed in suitcases as the present laws are causing them to be. They could be exported in the greatest comfort. Yet the Department will not bite on that bullet. The Minister must see that it is nonsense to treat in this way a subject as serious as this. 
The other point I want to make is serious to me. The Minister knows the matter to which I refer. The Minister has done what he could to cure a position that arose. I shall spell it out to honourable members briefly. An agreement was made by the previous Minister to purchase some land from a group of people in my area and other areas in South Australia. Then because of financial stringency or some other reason the Department was 'forced', it said, to go back on its word. I have taken this matter up with the Minister. He agreed that it is the kind of thing that should not occur. He has done his best to undo the damage done. The important thing is that when people act like this they besmirch the fair name of conservation. I ask the Minister to do what he can to see that it never happens again. I know that if any of the farmers I know in private enterprise had behaved like that the finger of scorn would have been pointed at them as people who broke their word. The Minister did what he could as quickly as the Government machine, poor old bureaucratic stiff-jointed thing that it is, could act to set things right. But it is bad to see conservation besmirched in the way that it has been. 
I am not being critical of the Minister. He was lumbered with decisions made before he assumed his portfolio. We want conservation to be a real fact of life and not just something to talk about. We do not want it as a banner to talk under but as something to do something about. We should get down to the fundamental facts of life instead of bleating away about our heritage in the way that these eloquent beggars talk. Why not tackle the problems at the grass roots and not go round forbidding the export of galahs or kangaroos which are allowed to be shot in thousands- under properly controlled conditions, I know? Why not let the poor beggars go overseas in comfort instead of shooting them, for good reasons, here? I will be glad to hear the Minister's reply to that. I hope that he has the common sense, as well as the wisdom and the courage, to tackle the task. It is a task far bigger and harder than most people think. It needs a real down to earth approach which I hope the Minister will have. 
I have never spoken on this item before and I have never made a personal attack on a person in this Parliament before, but I am going to do so tonight. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  thinks himself to be a great wit. I think he is a mixture of cunning and a contriving plotter. I am going to spell it out now so that even he can understand. I wish to illustrate just one simple point by mentioning one polling place in my electorate, which is about twice as big as Victoria. I could mention other places, but I am going to mention only one. I want the Minister, with all bis brilliance, cunning and humour, to get one into his head, because I think it is going to follow him for a long while yet. 
I refer to a place called Oodnadatta. It is not a big place. The number of votes recorded there in the last 3 years has been 57, 47 and 40. The Minister has closed it down as a polling place, I guess, in the name of economy. That may have been a sensible move to make in other cases, but in the case of Oodnadatta it was not. Oodnadatta has closed down. What is a citizen in Oodnadatta to do? I guess he can go to the next polling place. 
It is 270-odd miles away over the roughest road in Australia. The Minister no doubt will say that there is another alternative and that a person can make a postal vote. Those of us who know the postal service that looks after Oodnadatta will know that if a person living in Oodnadatta does everything exactly right and his footwork is impeccable, he can perhaps apply for a postal vote. But a person who lives 60 or 70 miles out on a station, say, at Mount Darah, cannot ever vote again. He cannot lodge a postal vote. Unless he goes 270 miles to Marree and 270 miles back he cannot vote again. 
The Minister can grin as much as he likes, but this is something he will wear until the end of time as far as I am concerned. He has deliberately disenfranchised people outside Oodnadatta, say, at Anna Creek or on the other stations, forever. He may say that he did not know the gun was loaded, that he did not know what he was doing. He can grin as much as he likes. I wrote to his district returning officer on 5 May. I wrote to him on 8 May. I got no reply. I wrote to him again on 15 July. I had no acknowledgement, no reply whatever. The Minister may claim that he did not know what he was doing. Either he did or he did not know what he was doing, but any Minister who can deliberately set to work to disenfranchise a small section of the community- there may not be many of them and they may vote against his Party- is doing a scandalous thing. 
I have never made a personal attack on any member in this Parliament before, but I do so now. The Minister has wantonly and deliberately disenfranchised the people of Oodnadatta. I can say the same about Blinman, Olary and many other places. This is something I hope the Minister will wear and never forget. Will he please stand up and say how the people who live 20, 30 or 50 miles out of Oodnadatta, who get mail once a fortnight, are going to apply for a postal vote at 
Kadina and get the papers back in time? I say that the Minister deliberately disenfranchised the people of Oodnadatta. He did it with his eyes open and with that smile we have come to despise across his lips. 
The Minister and other members of the Government frequently wonder why the people who live in the bush despise the Government. It is not just because it has abolished the superphosphate bounty and things like that. It is because the Minister and people like him have set to work to see that these people will never get a vote again. That is something I want the Minister to reply to when his time comes. I do not want him to just show some smart footwork and a bit of wit and humour. Let him tell me why the people who live 30 miles out of Oodnadatta will never vote again. 
I shall speak for only about 5 minutes but I hope to receive a reply to what I am about to say because it is a very serious matter. In his second reading speech the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr Daly)  said: 
At present, a period of 10 days' grace after polling day is allowed for the receipt of postal votes by the relevant returning officer. This practice hinders any attempt to speed the count, especially for Senate elections. It is therefore proposed that postal votes be returned so as to reach the appropriate returning officer not later than the close of the poll. 
The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  when speaking on this matter, said that all electors should be given an equal opportunity to vote. Let me put this to the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan):  The polling place at Oodnadatta is to be closed. People there will have to travel to the nearest polling booth at Marree, 271 miles away. If Cockburn polling booth is closed people will have to travel 126 miles to Yunta, the next polling place. If Olary is closed people will have to travel 50 miles to Yunta and if Blinman is closed they will have to travel 69 miles to Hawker. If the footwork of the people living in these towns is good enough it will be possible for them to use the postal voting system but we know the state that the postal service is in. 
If the people living in those towns do everything perfectly they will be able to get a postal vote. They will have to apply for one at Kadina and then the application will go to Adelaide and come back to Kadina. However, the people who live 20 miles or 50 miles out on stations who get mail once a week will never be able to vote. There will not be an opportunity for them to vote. There are not thousands of people involved; there are only a few people living in these areas. Under present circumstances they come to the towns to vote and make the visit a social occasion but under what is proposed they will not be able to vote. I am talking about equality of opportunity to vote. The Government is deliberately making it impossible for these people to vote and I will refer to this matter again in a moment. The Government also says that it is going to insist that the vote be returned to the returning officer by polling day and this will make it even more impossible for the people I have mentioned to vote. It was very difficult before. 
The Minister for Housing and Construction is a sensible and responsible person. I ask him how he thinks it will be possible for people living 50 miles out from Oodnadatta to vote when they only get the mail once a week and the postal service is like it is? Perhaps they ought to get mail more often but they do not. Some of them get it twice a week but most get it once a week. How does the Minister think they will be able to vote? Does he think that if their footwork is fast enought and the postal service good enough they will be able to vote? 
I said that this is a deliberate act on the part of the Government, and it is. I wrote to the Minister for Administrative Services about this matter but I did not oppose a great many of the proposals. I think it was sensible and responsible to close many polling booths. But the group I referred to, and there are others, is the worst affected. I wrote to him about the matter on 8 May because I thought that he could not have a complete grasp of every detail in his Department. I set these matters out for him to understand and so that he could see what he was doing. I got no answer. I wrote again on 1 5 June and again got no answer. I expected to get some kind of an answer. The Minister cannot claim that he did not know what he was doing. He did it with his eyes open. I would have thought that this was an accident if I had not written to him but he is deliberately disfranchising a small number of people. I suppose that because there are not many people involved this case will be dismissed from the minds of some people but I do not dismiss it. I hope that the Minister for Housing and Construction will not dismiss the case I have brought forward relating to Oodnadatta, Cockburn, Olary and Blinman just because not many people are involved. Not many are involved. This action will make it almost impossible, if not impossible, for them to vote. It is proposed that this be brought so that the postal votes have to be back at Kadina by polling day. 
The honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  must know what is involved because this area used to be in the Grey electorate. Imagine how the whole system will work. An application for a postal vote has to be lodged by a station owner 20 miles out from Oodnadatta and the mail service will take it to Oodnadatta. From there it gradually will filter to Kadina and be dealt with there. Then the application will have to go back to Oodnadatta and stay there until the mail goes out to the station. If the owner is waiting for it at the station and is not away from it doing his work he will sign it and it will then go back to Oodnadatta. Then, under this proposal, it will have to reach Kadina by voting day. The Minister must see that it is literally and logistically impossible for that to happen. I am not complaining about a whole lot of other matters of high principle; I am making a plea that this kind of action be not taken to disfranchise a limited number of my people. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
What was the cost of placing photographs of the Prime Minister in Australian Government offices and buildings during 1974-75. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he receive representations from any of the parties involved in the takeover by Amatil of one of the food divisions of Marrickville Holdings. 
If so, did he subsequently direct the Trade Practices Commission to grant an authorisation to the parties to allow the takeover to proceed. 
Did a consultant,  Mr Eric  Walsh, make representations to him on this matter. 
If so, what case did  Mr Walsh  present to him, and which of the parties did  Mr Walsh  represent. 
Is it a fact that the Trade Practices Commission determined that if this takeover proceeded it would lessen competition in part of the food industry. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question relating to the recently published Jackson committee report. Does not the Prime Minister agree that with the committee containing members with such diverse backgrounds as  Mr Hawke  and Professor Wheelwright on the one hand, and Messrs Jackson and Carnegie on the other, it "is a considerable achievement for the report to be signed at all? Does the Prime Minister remember Samuel Johnson being asked about women's preaching and his answer:  'Sir, a  woman's preaching is like a dog walking on his hind legs. It is not done well but you are surprised to see it done at all'? When can we expect that the committee member who did not sign the report-  Mr Rattigan,  the  Chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission- will present his minority opinion? 

 -Mr Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put 
I wish to speak only about the recently published Jackson Committee Report which has just come to us. Strangely enough it came to us on Thursday of last week when this debate was listed. It came at the same time as the Industries Assistance Commission annual report. I was terrified that we would have to debate it without reading it. To have this debate without reading either of those 2 documents would have been to do them grave injustice. Several things ought to be said about the Jackson committee report. I mentioned one of them this morning. I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  whether he did not think it was a significant achievement that a report could be signed by a committee with such a diverse membership in that it is made up of  Mr Jackson  and  Mr Carnegie  from the management side and  Mr Hawke  and Professor Wheelwright from what one calls the socialist camp. It was quite remarkable that they could come together and sign a report. I could not help thinking of Samuel Johnson's remarks about woman's preaching. He said: 

 Sir, a woman's preaching is like a dog's walking on his hind legs. It is not done well; but you are surprised to find it done at all. 
There are several things about the report which I find rather confusing but I am surprised to see them said at all. I am so impressed by what I am saying that I draw attention to the state of the House.  (Quorum formed) 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the honourable member for Wakefield be not further heard. 

 -Mr Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Does the Minister recall the Clausewitz dictum that the most important element in defence is self-defence? Is it a fact that the dark and wide glasses which the Minister wears disguise glowing testimony that the Minister has, with typical dedication and devotion to duty, been practising this art? Can we believe that the partner with whom the Minister has been practising was last seen hurriedly disappearing along the corridors of power, with the Minister- if I may use a phrase which he has frequently used- in hot pursuit? 
Is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware that Australian exporters are at present subsidising the Australian car industry at the rate of $300m each year and at the rate of $4,000 for every person employed in making cars and components? Will the Minister assure me that the size of this burden will be borne in mind when decisions are made on how to protect the car industry in the future? Is the Minister aware that the decision to revert to a 95 per cent component plan may increase the size of this burden? 

 Mr HOWARD The honourable gentleman's question raises the issue of the Government's intentions regarding the car industry in Australia. This matter will very shortly be the subject of detailed Cabinet consideration and it would be premature of me to speculate regarding that matter. However I can assure the honourable gentleman that all interests, including those to which he drew attention in his question, will be taken into account during the Cabinet considerations. 
I am glad to be able to follow the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in this debate because he is what I would call a typical South Australian- benign, generous- sometimes, people say, to a fault. I have often heard stories of his forgiving nature. I would say he is proud of his scheme- the National Employment and Training scheme- and he has every reason to be proud of it as it was conceived. When he is as old as he is, conceiving schemes is not easy. I can understand his affection for his scheme because one conceived so late in life does have attractions for a man, I guess. The trouble is that from then on the child that he conceived suffered the same faults as other children conceived in old age. It got spoilt. It was just about his only child and it became spoilt in a way.  His  scheme became the laughing stock of Australia. It became the laughing stock of my electorate. 
People think that farmers have not got many brains. Those people who think like that underrate them. It was not long before I started to hear rumours about this NEAT cow that Cameron had bailed up down in Adelaide and people said: 'Let us go down, Bert, and milk it'. Some of them went down and they were startled to see the former Minister with typical dedication and devotion to duty sitting there pulling frantically at this cow. The only trouble was that half the milk was going on the floor. It became almost a scandal in my area. People would come to me and say: 'Look, Bert, we ought to get into this racket'. I would say: 'Now you must have a sense of responsibility'. I would give them a lecture as befits a man of my modest nature. I used to give them a talk and say to them: 'You must not behave like that'. They would brush me aside and they would say: 'Bert, if there is a cow in a bail like that we are not going to be caught for want of a bucket. It is your job to help us get into this racket'. I would say to them: 'You go away and do it. Go to the Minister himself. I guess they did and with his typical generosity and benign nature he would say: 'Yes, certainly'. I do not know whether he did, but the cow was milked frantically and enthusiastically by all who passed by. 
I have to add another experience. I remember a doctor's wife coming to me and saying: 'This is not fair. I understand that this scheme has been cancelled and there is going to be a means test applied. I have been getting $93.44 a week and now the whole thing is cut off. It is not fair'. That was the child the honourable member for Hindmarsh conceived so late in life. It was good in principle. It looked a fine upstanding baby until he started to spoil it. There is another example involving a parliamentary colleague whose name I cannot mention for reasons which honourable members will understand. Things were not too good at one stage when parliamentary salaries had not increased for some time.  His  wife thought that the scheme was a way to relieve the situation so she went along to the Department and told her story about how more money was needed in that parliamentary home. The Department said: 'Certainly, we would like to help'. She was enrolled. There was no means test. She was not a very bright lady. I do not think she got all the facts clear, but she said she understood there was a $500 dress allowance. There was, I understandand she was rather disappointed to find this- a means test on that, but generally speaking she was startled to find how generous the scheme was. She will not hear to this day a word of condemnation of the honourable member for Hindmarsh. She said that this is the kind of personthe Father Christmas- we have been looking for, who will do what we want when we want it. She then started to study. I remember my colleague coming to me and telling me with tears in his eyes that one day he came into the home after being away in Canberra for a week and there was his wife sitting at the table surrounded by books. She did not jump up and give him the warm welcome he used to expect. She just sat there studying. My colleague said rather caustically: 'What are you doing, dear?' She said: 'I am on this NEAT scheme'. He said: 'Yes, I can see that, but what are you doing?' She said: 'I am studying to become a member of Parliament'. 
That is the kind of nonsense which arose in respect of this scheme of the Minister. I mean the honourable member for Hindmarsh. I keep on calling him the Minister because we think of him still- we think of his mistakes as Minister for Labor. This was probably his greatest mistake of all and it was conceived, as I said, in generosity, with typical generosity that one would expect from a man of such a benign and forgiving nature. He set up a scheme of which he ought to have been able to be proud and of which we will be proud too. I do not think we ought to dismiss it. Of course, we do not. We are going to improve it. We will be able to look back with pride just as the honourable member for Hindmarsh will. He conceived this scheme and other people, particularly the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to whom I am proud to pay tribute, have altered and made it more sensible and responsible because it was a good scheme in conception. The way it was administered made it a laughing stock of Australia. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a statement on the same subject. 
I wish to reiterate what the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  has said and particularly to pay a tribute to  Senator Poyser  and  Senator Jessop.  I thought that both of them served the Committee very well indeed. I should also like to pay another tribute and that is to the present vicechairman, the previous  chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  I am certain that 1 speak for all the members of the Committee when I say that he handled his job very well indeed. The members of the Committee are in his debt for the way in which he upheld the traditions of the Public Works Committee. 
It is with some satisfaction that I follow the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  as I did, indeed with some modesty, on  Monday Conference  last night. 
Indeed, he got the final word, as I might on this occasion. I want to make it clear that I support the statement of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  about an 85 per cent component plan for one reason only- that the present situation in the industry, as held in a vice grip by the 95 per cent component plan, shows the fallacy of a policy on protection that is carelessly handed around. 
Let us look at the situation as it is now. We have in Australia a market for about 500 000 cars. At present we have 3 manufacturers of motor cars in Australia. The United States has a market for 1 1 million cars and has 3 manufacturers. Because of careless protection we have a fragmentation of the Australian car industry that makes it impossible for the industry to work efficiently. If honourable members want a measure of its inevitable inefficiency let me give them 2 figures. If we want a minimal economic size for stamping panels for motor cars, a throughput of 600 000 units is needed. In 1973- the last time this throughput was measured- we had a throughput of 425 000 units. We should have had one factory pressing those units, but instead we had five. A throughput of 350 000 engines is needed. In 1973 we made 300 000 engines. Instead of making them with one factory, we did it with four. We have then an inevitable pressure to produce things in the dearest possible way. 
Let us look at the results of this. The number of cars that an employee makes in Australia in components and assembly is 5.9 in a year. In Japan, Nissan makes 37.2 cars a year and Toyota makes 40.5 cars a year a man. The reason for the difference between the Australian and Japanese figures is that in Australia we have fragmented our industry by careless protection, by a 95 per cent component plan which makes it impossible for our manufacturers to compete efficiently with the people who have a larger throughput. The secret of the Japanese, American and Swedish performances is not that the people work betterthey probably do in the other countries; people work badly here- but is chiefly because of the throughput. Because we have a fragmentation in Australia that is encouraged by a 95 per cent component plan it is impossible for the Australian manufacturer of cars to compete with overseas manufacturers. If honourable members want a measure of the mistakes we have made I shall give it to them. For every man we have in Australia making cars the Australian consumer of cars, the purchaser of cars, pays $4,000 extra. 
They are contained in the last report of the Industries Assistance Commission; they are not my figures. If honourable members want it measured in per car terms, it means that the subsidy in the form of the extra cost to the Australian consumer of cars for a $5,000 car at the retail level, works out at $1,400. That is a measure of the mistakes we have made in the past. I am not going to apportion blame. I am not trying to make any cunning political points; I am not built that way. I am just saying that the measure of the mistakes we have made is that for every person engaged in the industry the user of cars is paying $4,000 and for every $5,000 car the consumer of cars is paying $1,400 extra. They are not fiddling figures; they are not. my figures. But that is the estimation that I get. The subsidy may be worth it. I am not saying that it is not worth it, but it would not be a bad idea to measure it sometimes. It is the kind of burden that the exporter carries. I repeat, the exporter carries a burden of a price increased by $1,400 for every car at the $5,000 retail level. When I began this lonely battle on tariff matters I used to think that the farmer would only be concerned the year he bought a car. But now he realises that every time he buys a car he pays this increased burden and every time the city slicker buys a car inevitably the burden is passed on to the exporter. The thing that I am heartened by is the feeling that now people realise that there is no such thing as a free ride. Now people realise, the exporters, the farmers in my electorate, realise that every time a car is bought, they are paying the price. 
Let us have a look at the implications thereof. If we take the matter a step further, the reason for the car industry being in such a mess is that we have so carelessly protected it. Take the Volvo company in Sweden. Sweden does not protect its car industry at all nor does it put its industry into strait-jackets which make it impossible for it to perform economically. Volvo supplies only a small proportion- about 20 per cent- of the Swedish market. The Volvo is only about 60 per cent Swedish made. But this is the kind of figure that is desperately important. Volvo makes 290 000 cars a year and exports 77 per cent of them- because it is not held in a strait-jacket like the 95 per cent strait-jacket of the olden days. Volvo is able to buy where the market demands and to sell where the opportunity offers. The company sells more Volvos to the United States than to anywhere else because it is not held in a strait-jacket like we put the Australian car industry into when we put a 95 per cent component plan on it. We are moving away from that component plan. We are getting towards an 85 per cent plan, which gives manufacturers some freedom in which to manoeuvre. But I want honourable members to realise that the next step is not going to be so easy. What gives us some hope that we can have an economic car industry out of the mess that we have made of the industry is the fact that some plants will have to be closed. The honourable member for Port Adelaide spoke eloquently about supporting the plan; but, to make it work, some of the uneconomic plants will have to be closed because the reason we are in the mess we are in now is that we have encouraged the proliferation of plants where we should not have them. 
The honourable member cannot resist, just as he could not resist last night, the opportunity to make cunning political points. I am not engaged in that exercise. I am trying to point out the way the industry should expand. I remind the Government and the honourable member that it is all right to talk about an 85 per cent local content plan, but in doing so they should recognise that before we can achieve the economies that must follow from such a plan and before we can get the kind of advantages which are sought under the plan there have to be alterations to the production of plants which everybody knows are uneconomically engaged at the moment. 
It is comparatively easy to make this statement, but the real crunch point will come when it becomes clear that some of the components produced in some of these plants will not be needed under an 85 per cent plan. That is what it is all about. It is easy to make speeches at this stage, as the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  did- if he will excuse me for saying this- but the crunch point comes when the inevitable progression follows the implementation of the plan. To make the system work we will have to close some of the uneconomic plants. I hope and pray that when that time comes we will have the courage to take the industry out of the strait-jacket into which we put it in 1964 and which made it impossible for it to continue. 
The other point that I want to make is this- and it is a more simple one that I think the honourable member for Hindmarsh could follow: A lot of easy political advantage has been taken against me because people in South Australia say that I do not really fight for South Australia. The thing to do for South Australia, they say, is to fight to have an engine plant in South Australia. I just want to say this to the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to give one illustration of the problem: When I became Minister by the effluxion of time, I was given a very special lunch by a special group that wanted me to fight for South Australia. At the end of the lunch these people said to me: 'Did you like that, Kelly?' I said: 'Well, it was a splendid lunch'. They said: 'We want you to fight for South Australia'. I said: 'Any time you want me to fight for South Australia against the interests of Australia, would you please put your request in writing?' This is what it is all about. I said: 'If it is expected of me that I am to do something for the benefit of South Australia that will be to the detriment of Australia, would you please put your request in writing?' There is another way. If people really want to defend the barriers of South Australia, what about having a Customs post at the border? What about going back to the colonial times? Is not Australia a country? Is Australia a country, or is it just a collection of colonies? We have to face up to the facts. The honourable member for Port Adelaide and the honourable member for Hindmarsh, who are sitting together, are seeking to interject. 
I am not picking the honourable member. I am just saying that the challenge is laid on him equally as it is on me. We have to decide whether we do something for the benefit of Australia chiefly. Our responsibility is not to our own State; it is to our own country. When people close in on me, as they will after this speech, and say 'You are not loyal to South Australia', I will just have to respond to them by saying: 'If you want me to do something to the detriment of Australia, please put your request in writing '. 
Will the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs ensure that representations to the Government about the White Paper on manufacturing industry are made public so that public understanding in this area can be increased? 
-Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  was making an impassioned appeal for a more sympathetic attitude to the electronics industry. I have here a quotation- I will not mention who said it until after I have read it- which says: 
In the postwar period, the economy was one of the most highly protected in the world. 'The Australian economy had the support of a massive protection racket that would have turned Al Capone green with envy', he said. 'In 1973, for example, the consumer electronics components industry in Australia produced a wider range of components than in any other country. 'The rate of protection in many instances was around 1000 percent'. 
That is a quotation; it is not my opinion. 
The  speaker  was  Mr John  Halfpenny, the State Secretary of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. Not only do people like myself speak for the exporters of this country; people like  Mr Halfpenny  speak for the consumers. Let me read what he said again: 
In 1973, for example, the consumer electronics components industry in Australia produced a wider range of components than in any other country. 
The rate of protection in many instances was around 1000 percent. 
Who was paying? It was the consumer. That is not my opinion; it is  Mr Halfpenny's  opinion. I would hesitate to put myself up alongside  Mr Halfpenny  as an authority in this area. 
The reason why I became interested in tariffs when I came into this House some years ago was firstly because I represent a rural constituency which depends on exports. I became aware that the farmers in my area were paying the price for the tariffs on weedicides and agricultural machinery. I became interested and indeed angry about tariff protection on that score. I know that always the cost of tariff protection is carried by the exporters and no one else. Tariff protection may be justified, but we ought to realise that it is paid by one group and by one group only in the end, and that is the export industry I am surprised and disappointed that not one member of the National Country Party is on the speakers list so far and that Party claims to speak for the exporters. I hope and I am always hoping that we will have from them the kind of interest and support that we need. But gradually I became increasingly aware that not only was the tariff on weedicides and on agricultural machinery a burden on the exporter but also the tariff on other tilings- things that the farmer might not buywas paid in the end by the exporters. We have had some discussions recently about the effect of tariffs on the motor car industry. We know that the tariff induced cost on a $5,000 car worked out at around about about $1,500 a car. I used to think that it was only at the time that a farmer bought a car that he had to pay that sum but I know now- and no one will deny it- that the exporter is paying not only the $ 1,500 on the car that he buys, if he can afford to buy one, but he is paying also $ 1 ,500 on the car that everybody else buys. 
No one would deny that the tariff is passed on to and paid by exporters in the end. No one, even the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards),  great economist though he is, will deny that tariffs are a tax on exporters. I am not saying that tariffs are not sometimes justified but in the economic field there is no such thing as a free feed. Someone always pays for tariff protection. One of the things that is gradually dawning on this country is that there is a price to be paidthere is no such thing as a free feed in this world. The cost of tariff protection, justified though it sometimes may be, frequently is a cost which is borne by the exporters in the end. That was the second thing that became evident to me- that it was not only the tariff on the things that the farmer bought but it was also the tariff on the things that he paid for as an exporter across the whole gamut of the economy that he had to meet. 
Another thing that became obvious to me was that there is another price to be paid. Let me give a clear case in point. There are many other examples also. I was in Bombay some years ago and I went in the morning to a skimmed milk factory which was using Australian skimmed milk powder which we had running out of our ears then, as we have now. We cannot find a market for it. I was shown the equipment that we had supplied to them under the Colombo Plan. I said: 'Have you got any problems?' The people at the factory said: 'There is only one problem and that is that we cannot get the foreign exchange to buy the skimmed milk powder'. In the afternoon I went to a textile factory which was making sheets. After trying to pretend to the people there that I understood the intricacies of the manufacturing process I said: 'Have you got any problems? They said: 'Only one. We cannot get our sheets into Australia over the tariff wall'. That pinpoints the problem. The Australian export industry is being damaged in that way also because our market opportunities are limited. We have seen this occurring again in the case of the quotas on knitted goods from the Philippines. I am ashamed to say that we have seen it occurring again in connection with the tariff on ceramic earthware that has been increased against the Philippines.That is another thing that made me angry from the point of view of the exporters. 
Then I began taking another wider view as experience taught me the hard economic facts of life. I used to think that although tariffs did impose a burden on the export industry they were necessary because they created employment. People used to point out the immediate employment opportunities that were gained once you increased the tariff in one area. But gradually I became aware that the employment gained in one industry by unwise tariff protection jeopardises the employment in other industries. 
Thousands of examples could be given. I give three. One is that there are about 10 times as many people processing the plastic granules as there are people making the granules. If we increase the price of the plastic powders by tariff protection, we diminish the employment opportunities in those sections of the industries which employ 10 times as many people making the granules into plastic products. I give honourable members another example. I am glad to see that the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Peter Johnson)  is in the chamber. If the tariff on yarns is increased, the competitive position of the maker of piece goods is made more difficult. If the tariff on piece goods is increased, employment opportunities in the garment manufacturing industry are much more limited. 
Motor cars have been the subject of great eloquence in this House. There are twice as many people servicing motor cars as there are people making motor cars and car components. Not many people know that. In many instances if we really want to blanket employment opportunities we clamp down on the opportunities for worthwhile service industries. I found that the people who came to me most frequently complaining about the cost of tariff protection were not farmers but those whose employment opportunities in secondary industry were damaged by high protection in the early stage of the industry. It is nonsense to say that tariffs create employment. All they do is transfer employment from one section to the other. Anybody who believes the nonsense that tariffs create employment is just kidding himself and everyone else. 
That is the kind of progression that took place in my thinking on tariffs. I do not pretend that it is a shining example of economic thinking. It is the way in which I plodded drearily along this tariff path. But the group which started to bring it into focus for me first was the Vernon Committee around 10 years ago. That Committee spelt it out. I know that in those days the honourable member for Berowra had a clearer vision then than he sometimes seems to have now. 
-Yes. It was the Vernon Committee first, then the Tariff Board, followed by the Industries Assistance Commission, the Tariff Board's successor, which realised that we can produce anything in Australia but that if we use our limited resources wastefully, the size of the economic cake will be diminished, and that if we are not careful, the opportunity to do all the things we want to do will diminish. We could grow bananas at the South Pole, but it would be a silly, wasteful use of resources. 
One of the things that is becoming increasingly obvious is that we have tended to use our limited resources wastefully. It is only silly people, perhaps some members of Parliament, who say that we are a country of limitless resources. Only those who know farming as I do and know the country as many honourable members do will know how limited and tough our resources are. To pretend that we are anything but a country of limited resources is nonsense. We now knowthe IAC has led the way in our thinking- that because we are a country of limited resources, if we want to have a better standard of living, a higher material standard, we ought to use those limited resources sensibly. 
I think we owe a great debt of gratitude to  Mr Rattigan,  the  Chairman  of the IAC, in this regard. I am quite open about the fact that I think that  Mr Alf  Rattigan is one of the greatest civil servants who has ever served the country. I have heard people talk about 'a search and destroy mission' and other such nonsense. Anybody who knows Rattigan and his works and the way in which he spelt out with clarity and courage the necessity to use our limited resources must feel ashamed of the things that have been said. One of the reasons for my grasping the opportunity to speak in this debate is that this will be the last time I shall speak in this House while  Mr Rattigan  is the  Chairman  of the IAC. I would like to pay a public and heartfelt tribute on behalf of myself and people who think like I do and say that  Mr Rattigan  has with consummate courage and ability spelt out an unpopular message, maybe, but a necessary one. I think that  Mr Rattigan  himself may take some comfort from a quotation from Adam Smith of years ago. I have often taken comfort from it myself when littleminded men in this House and in other places have taken the opportunity to denigrate people who look at things with a wider vision. Adam Smith said: 
The member of Parliament who supports every proposal for strengthening this monopoly ( by increasing tariffs) is sure to acquire not only the reputation of understanding trade, but great popularity and influence with an order of men whose numbers and wealth render them of great importance. 
Adam Smith. He continued: 
If he opposes them, on the contrary, and still more, if he has authority enough to be able to thwart them, neither the most acknowledged probity, nor the highest rank, nor the greatest public services, can protect him from the most infamous abuse and detraction arising from the insolent outrage of furious and disappointed monopolists. 
I wish I could write like that. The things that have been said about  Mr Rattigan  and the LAC in this place I think are shameful. I would like to pay a tribute to a man who with courage has carried the can for economic sense in a way that few people have in this chamber or indeed anywhere else. 
I turn now to what I think will be my final point. We in Australia have every right to be concerned about the ever-widening gap between the developed and the under-developed countries. Into that gap we will go one day unless we can do something about closing it. By far the most effective way that we can do something useful to close the gap is trade and not aid. The people in these under-developed countries are trying to pick themselves up by their bootstraps. We are always telling them that they must do more to help themselves. Yet when they start to do something to help themselves, what do we do? We put a duty on ceramic earthenware from the Philippines and on anything that threatens to come into this country cheaply. These people are not trying to do something evil. They are not threatening an invasion. They are just trying to sell us something cheaply. Having polished our halo publicly we say: 'Well now, of course we mean to help you and we will do it, shortly, but in the meantime we refuse to let you supply us with the things we want cheaply. ' 
I think it is about time that Australia started to face up to the fact that lecturing people in underdeveloped countries about how to behave is not enough. If we are one world and if we are not to become an island economy we had better start re-thinking about the opportunities we have to help people by helping ourselves- by buying the things which they want to supply to us cheaply. If we do not we will go down the same drain as the world did in the Depression years. The thing that brought the Depression to a head was economic nationalism. We should have a greater vision than we sometimes show and I fear are likely to show in this decision on the reduction of preferences to less developed countries which is said to be in the offing. If we are not careful we will encourage Australia to go down the same economic drain that the world went in the 1 930s. 
The question is much more important than people think. We are at the crossroads in our thinking. We have to decide whether we will become an economic island and refuse to take up the opportunities of advancement that are available if we are determined to live sensibly with our neighbours and to buy from them the things that they are good at producing so that they can buy the things from us that we are good at producing. If we do not do that there is no hope for us or for the world and we all know it. The only thing that saddens me in a debate such as we have had today is that there has not been one real item of consideration given to this aspect of our economic thinking. 
I conclude by saying that if there is one thing we ought to be doing in this House so that we can understand our problems better it is to think again about establishing a committee to examine the LAC reports. There is a real need for this. Great financial advantages or disadvantages are given to particular companies. I hope that we will have a committee such as this to help our understanding of the question. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Has there been a significant increase in the number of stock mortgages and bills of sale made by the Pastoral Houses to primary producers which can be attributed to the prolonged strike by the Storemen and Packers' Union in the wool stores. 
-Firstly I would like to point out that what I am going to say tonight will be said on behalf of the coalition 
Parties, the Liberal Party and the National Country Party, which I understand because of some pressure of time are allowed only one  speaker  in this debate. The essential pan of this Bill is to extend the temporary provisions of the present system. Everyone who knows the stevedoring industry well, as the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  undoubtedly does, knows that there has been an extension from one temporary period to the next with monotonous regularity. If the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has his way and if I have my way in supporting him, this will be the last time that a Bill such as this comes into the House. It will be the last time that these temporary provisions are renewed.  (Quorum formed).  I repeat that the intention in this Bill is to extend for the last time the temporary provisions that have applied for so long on the waterfront. The Minister, in his second reading speech, not only spelt out this fact, but also spelt out all the steps we should take so that we can properly face the problems of the future and have a better situation on the waterfront and so that the disastrous situation that has applied on the waterfront for so many years is not continued for any longer than is absolutely necessary. 
To give a measure of the significance of the size of the problem I will give only 2 examples. One of them was brought forward by the honourable member for Gellibrand and that is that we are spending at the rate of about $8m a year to the idle time bill for the people who are working on the waterfront. The amount is perhaps more than $8m at present. Let me put the position in more measurable terms. I use an illustration given to me specifically by people in the industry. A ship tied up alongside the wharf at Sydney can be loaded with cargo at the rate of nine to ten tons per gang hour. The same cargo can be unloaded from the ship at Norfolk Island, anchored not at a wharf but at the anchorage with the lighter and the ship bobbing alongside one another, at 3 times the rate. That is a measure of the mess we are in. There would not be one honourable member from either side of the House who did not have a sense of acute awareness that the present situation, wherever the blame may lie, is one of utter disaster. We know that we cannot continue it. I am glad that the Minister has spelt out that this is the last time the temporary provisions will be extended and the present disastrous situation continued. Everybody knows how bad it is. I am not casting aspersions on any group. The previous Government knew with crystal clarity how bad it was. We in Opposition know how bad it was. We spelt out time after time that the present position, if continued, would be disastrous. The honourable member for Gellibrand did not say so in specific terms, but he knows that the present situation on the waterfront is so serious that it cannot be allowed to continue for one minute longer. 
As a result of the previous Government's interest and anxiety about the matter, it appointed  Mr Justice  Northrop to look at the problem. He spelt out the options open to us. One is to go on as we are. I repeat- the honourable member for Gellibrand supported this point of view- that no one would countenance going on as we are. We would be in a position of utter despair if we went on as we are. The second option is to nationalise the stevedoring industry and the waterfront. I must admit that I have looked upon this option with some favour in the past but I have to admit firstly to the philosophical problems we would face in adopting it and the performance of other nationalised industries does not give one any optimism that this industry would work any better. 
The third option that has been put forward by a great many people and some very responsible bodies such as Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, the British Phosphate Commission and the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority is that the Authority should engage the labour and hire it out to the stevedores. This is something that has attracted me for some time, but I turned away from the idea when I imagined myself running a wool shed at shearing time with someone else engaging the labour and my being responsible for the wool shed's operations. When one looks at the matter in those terms one sees the clear problems it would impose. I do not say that it is impossible. If companies like BHP support it they obviously recognise that it is possible but it is not the kind of proposal that I can support after some examination of the industry. The fourth proposition put forward in the Northrop report is for the Government to back out and leave the industry to sort itself out. This immediately makes one quite pale with anxiety because those of us who have studied the industry know the fundamental problem that has dogged the industry is that the agreements, the sweetheart agreements as they are called by honourable members opposite- I used to call them that- that have been forced on the shipowners through the monopoly power of the Waterside Workers Federation have encouraged the cost escalation, the cost plus sytem, on the waterfront. 
Let me tell a personal anecdote. When I was looking at this problem a year ago and talking to some responsible shipowners, the employers, we discussed the 4 alternatives. One of them, with splendid logic, spelt out why nothing should be altered and that we should go on as we were. I told him: 'I want you to understand one thing clearly. I do not know what the new Government will do when it comes into power but I will tell you one thing: Things will be different. If the Government backs out a responsibility will be laid on the industry to act responsibly and to cease these forced agreements and force both employer and union groups to face up to the facts of life.' I should like to add one thing and that is the simple message that nothing clarifies the mind like the knowledge that you are going to be hung in the morning. In the morning, when the Opposition takes government there will be a different system. If it turns out to be a system where the Government backs out, 1 beg those concerned to concentrate their minds on the problem. I am glad to say that the indications so far are that they will do so. 
What are the definite steps that have to be taken if we are to have a waterfront position that is sensible and that can do what the Australian community wants it to do- to handle the goods on the waterfront sensibly, responsibly and at a reasonable return? The first thing is that we have to have a flexible work force for a flexible task. It is nonsense to talk about permanent employment when we know that what we want is a system of weekly hire. I do not want to go back to the old days of casual employment, but I think for many reasons we have to have a system of weekly hire. We have to get rid of this position on the waterfront now where the chap who is a member of the Waterside Workers Federation has certainty of employment until he dies, unless he is bought out with a golden handshake, which is the envy of all the community. Secondly we have to have some system whereby the picking off of certain ships or certain lines is made impossible or very much more difficult. We know, the WWF knows and indeed everybody in the industry knows, that there is a practice whereby a certain ship comes in and the WWF will say: 'Well now, look, we know they want to get this ship out. Let us impose conditions which we know are irresponsible but which we think we can force on them'. That is another problem. We have to get rid of this power to pick off certain ships and certain lines, which exists at the moment. 
The third and perhaps most vital thing that wc have to change is the power of the WWF to impose these fixed agreements. They used to be called 'sweetheart agreements', but that is the wrong term. Under these agreements, because of the economic cost of keeping a ship tied up at the wharf, particularly these high capital cost ships with containers on board, which have to be got out, a cost is imposed on the shipping industry. I must admit that the WWF is given in to far too freely by the shipowners- although I can understand their problem- because of the monopoly power that the WWF possesses. 
The Government has accepted the employers' and the employees' plea that the Government should back out. The WWF, the employers of waterside workers labour and most of the other groups involved asked the Government to let them sort out the matter themselves. We have accepted this. From now on the WWF, the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour and the various components of the industry will be doing the driving. We will not be driving from the front or the back seat; perhaps there has been a bit too much of this in the past. It is very easy and a comfortable position to sit in the back seat and do the driving. The Minister, in his speech, has made it clear that the driving will be done by the people concerned, the people who know the industry- the WWF and the shipowners. They know the situation and they will be doing the driving. We are not going to be ready to grab the wheel all the time. I can understand the anxiety of all sections of the industry when they say: Well, what is going to happen now? Is the process of the past where the forced agreementsthe sweetheart agreements- have imposed burdens through the freight system and the conference system going to break us?' 
The Minister has referred to the sanction of the Prices Justification Tribunal. I do not place any great weight on the Tribunal. I know that I could delude almost any prices justification tribunal that came onto my place to examine the cost of my growing wheat or anything else. I would leave them for dead. So I do not place any great weight on the Prices Justification Tribunal. Hanging over the industry is the knowledge that we can withdraw the restrictive trade practice sanction which gives a particular advantage to the conference system by which the shipping lines can make freight increases which they have imposed to offset increased costs. That is a sanction we can use. But above all, the industry must realise that the Government stands ready and willing so that if the industry itself cannot do what it asks us to do and sort itself out, we will take action. We must be prepared to impose a system of authority control of the industry with a bite that would make an alligator go pale with envy. 
The present situation just cannot continue. We have accepted the plea of the industry to let it sort itself out. It is with a feeling of utter thankfulness that I find that the industry seems to be facing up to its problems both on the Waterside Workers Federation side and on the shipowners' side. There seems to be a realisation that this is the end of the nonsense of the past and that we are going to face up to the situation. I just want to say to the groups concerned- not so much to the House- that we as a government will do our best to see that we never drift back into the old system. We know that when the marriage is consummated and the honeymoon starts, everything goes swimmingly for a while, but in 2 or 3 years' time the old temptations emerge. When the temptation to get the ship out at any price rears its ugly head, I want the people concerned to know that we will do what we can to stop the present situation being pertpetuated. For the sake of everyone in the country, the people working on the waterfront and the people working on farms, we cannot continue the present situation. The Government cannot back away from the problem in the future. When the honeymoon is over people may say that surely there must be room for negotiation. There must always be some room for negotiation; I am not pretending that there is not. But we must face up to the problem that we have to make the waterfront a much more efficient tool so that it can serve the people who work on it responsibly and well and so that it can also serve the country in the way that it ought. 
I have a message here which states: 
The Minister has indicated that in relation to the staff of the Authority he will carry forward his expressed intention to ensure that their interests are protected. He has already told the unions concerned that discussions on these matters will take place once this Bill has been passed. The Minister will act to see that the fears the Authority's staff may have are settled as quickly as possible and that they are treated fairly and responsibly. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I would like to say how glad I am to follow the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Short).  I have been claiming both outside and inside this House that the new intake of members of Parliament is unusually intelligent and competent and the honourable member for Ballaarat has given us a demonstration of this today. He has the training and the intelligence to take a long, cool look at the tariff problem and he has shown his quality as indeed have many of my colleagues on this side of the House. I have not yet heard so much from the new intake of members on the other side, but no doubt we will hear them shortly. I used to be a loner, as you know  Mr Speaker,  in this lonely battle on tariffs but I now find that I am joined by a great many other much more intelligent and much younger people. I am glad to say to the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  that I agree utterly with his suggestion that there must be a better way of handling these tariff debates. Tariff matters should be discussed across a committee table, as I put forward in evidence to the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. When one looks around and sees the disinterest in the House- I might say even when I am speakingone realises that we should be handling tariff matters better than this. Great advantages are given to particular companies. We ought to be examining tariff matters across a committee table. 
In the remainder of my speech I wish to deal with only two matters. I shall not make this a full dress debate. I wish to deal with the- question of the subsidy equivalent that is inherent in tariff protection. I come to this matter easily because we are having a discussion inside and outside this House about the future of the shipbuilding industry. We are not rushing in to subsidise the shipbuilding industry because it is now clear that a price has to be paid. The protection to the shipbuilding industry is in the form of a bounty so the money comes from the taxpayer's pockets so people are anxious about it and question it. We were told by a Minister in another place that it would cost about $13,000 for every man employed in building ships for the Australian shipbuilding industry to compete with overseas yards. So everybody says now that we must look at the question carefully. But no one worries about the subsidy equivalent of tariffs very much. Anybody who has done any economics at all will know that the subsidy equivalent that is inherent in tariff protection is a cost paid by exporters, not by anybody else. 
Some people think it is paid by consumers, but it is not. If one looks at the case of the tariff on sheets one may ask how the exporter pays it. This is the way it works: The price of sheets is increased. The consumer price index goes up. The price of wages goes up and the cost is passed along until it comes to the exporter in the end. So the subsidy equivalent is something the exporter pays. Perhaps people want him to pay it. Perhaps no one thinks it matters. Perhaps the country decided long ago, as the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  said in the last debate on tariffs, that this is a decision that was made a long while ago and we have to continue down that road. That may be so. I am not arguing. All I am saying is that the subsidy equivalent is inherent in all tariff protection. If we get that fact into our heads it is a start towards understanding the problem. There is no such thing as a free feed. Tariff protection is paid for by the exporters in the end. Getting that clear in our minds has been a long and bitter battle from where I stand, but I think people are now understanding that there is no such thing as a free feed. Tariff protection is paid for by exporters in the end. 
Let us look at the subsidy equivalent of simple things. In this legislation we are validating the Government's actions on spectacle frames. Everybody would say: 'That is simple. No one cares much about spectacle frames. They do not get built into the cost of shearing sheep or anything like that.' However, the figures show that the subsidy equivalent for ophthalmic frames is $570,000. If one adds the cost of sunglass frames, mentioned by the Minister the other day, one arrives at a figure for subsidy equivalent of $ 1 m. Maybe that is worth while. My figures show that about $2,000 subsidy will be paid by the exporters for every person employed in the industry. Maybe that is worth while. I am just doing the measurement. It is an interesting kind of measurement when one realises that a $lm subsidy equivalent is paid for by exporters in relation to that simple action. 
Debate interrupted. 

 -Mr Speaker, I think your intervention was almost providential. I was about to move away from this subsidy equivalent question to the question of our trade with the less developed countries. For the benefit of my Indian colleagues I shall tell again the story that I have told in this House before. When I was in Bombay on one occasion I went to see a skim milk factory for which we had given a great deal of help to make available skim milk- 'tone' milk as it is called- in Bombay. At the end of the visit I asked: 'Do you have any problems?' The reply was: 'Only one,  Mr Kelly.  We cannot get the foreign exchange to buy the skim milk powder we need'. I knew then that we had skim milk powder running out of our ears, as we have now. But people at the factory said that they could not get the skim milk powder. In the afternoon I went to a textile factory and had a look at its sheets. Afterwards I asked: 'Have you any problems?' The reply was: 'Only one,  Mr Kelly.  We cannot get our sheets into Australia so that we can get foreign exchange'. The foreign exchange was required so that India could buy our skim milk powder. The honourable member for Cunningham speaks about standing on our own feet. Sometimes we are standing on other people's feet. Let me illustrate it by the remarks of no less an authority than the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  speaking on Tuesday night with these unexceptional sentiments: 
There is a great need in general for more practical recognition of the significance of international economic relations for the developing countries. More than any other single factor the developing countries need access for their products to the markets of developed countries which we believe would come to be reflected in more appropriate terms of trade for their exports. 
Surely no one in this place is ignorant of the fact that this ever-widening gap will cause civilisation as we know it to go if we do not do one simple thing; that is, trade with the people who are trying to sell us things cheaply. We cannot brush the question aside, as it was brushed aside on our side today, by saying that things come from cheap labour countries. What kind of future for the world is there if that is the way our thinking runs? The Prime Minister spelled out the situation clearer than I have heard him do it before. We have a path to follow. I have heard the honourable member for Cunningham speak on this subject before. I understand his problem and I understand the problem of all the honourable members who speak for particular industries in their areas. But the honourable member for Cunningham, with his grasp of history, should remember one thing: What made the world war inevitable was the economic nationalism of the late 1930s. He says to us today: 'We are going to go the same way again; we are going to go that pathway to inevitable doom to which economic nationalism always leads. 
We have to recognise what we are doing and try to stop it. I do not pretend that it will be easy, perhaps not be as easy as maybe I have said in the past. The honourable member for Ballaarat said that violent action should not be taken in relation to some of the problems. I can see that on some occasions I have been rather too radical in my plea for lower tariffs. From now on we have to be a community that really faces up to the problems, and not just accede to the wishes of particular industries in particular areas. We should bear in mind the Prime Minister's overwhelmingly serious warning that if we do not face up to these things we will deserve what we inevitably will get. The House must think about that much more than we ever have in the past. 
I certainly support the Bill. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  said in his second reading speech that $104m had been paid out over the 9 years this legislation has been in operation. This works out to an average of $50,000 per company. That is not necessarily the best kind of help. It may be better to spread the money a bit more thinly and to give some of it to smaller firms. 
Yes, this system will do it. I have only one real worry about this legislation. As far as I can see from the second reading speech and the Bill, the people who will get the advantage of this legislation will be companies. Everything is expressed in terms of companies. This to me does not seem to be a wise restriction. A person or a partnership may be doing the same land of thing as a compay does. As I see it, under this legislation, a person would not fulfil the conditions. 
As I see the position, it cannot. A grant can be given only to companies. I may be wrong about this. I talked to the Minister for Industry and Commerce about it last night. I think there is something about the Bill we should look at in the future. The modern world seems to measure everything in large lumps. Individuals do not seem to matter. If you will excuse me,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I will tell you a short story that illustrates this modern tendency. It is about a school teacher in the United States of America who was lecturing her class about the romantic life of the American Indian. At the end she said: 'Has anybody got any Indian blood in their veins?' Tommy put up his hand. She said: 'How very interesting, Tommy. Which tribe?' He said: 'It wasn't no tribe, Mum, it was just a wandering Indian'. 
This is not an easy audience to which to tell jokes. The joke illustrates the tendency of the modern world to measure things in large lumps. Unless I am unwisely advised or I am wrong- I frequently am wrong- this legislation gives research grants to companies. I do not say that companies should not get the grants. I say that people also should get them, if they fit the other criteria. Quite exciting developments are being made not necessarily by companies but by people. A rather extraordinary person called Geary in Victoria is doing all kinds of exciting things, both with fodder conservation and wool harvesting techniques. As I understand this legislation, he would not be entitled to a research grant. If I am right- I hope I am wrong- I trust the Government will look at the matter. I do not think for one moment that the Government wanted to do anything as silly as exclusing people. I am certain the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  would support me and would be critical too if he thought the grants were not going to people as well as to companies. All I am asking is that the Minister have a very clear look at this matter while the machine is being set up. If the assistance is to be limited only to companies I think we are doing a great injustice to people. 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Development of Navy supply centre and Army workshop facility at defence establishment, Zetland, New South Wales. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I have been attacked bitterly and I should like to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  in a most uncharacteristic personal attack on me, said that I, the honourable member for Wakefield, was interested only in exporting employment from this country. He should know that my main endeavour since I have been in this place has been to have a healthy export industry so that employment opportunities could occur in that area. I think it is most unfair and unkind that the honourable member for Corio should make a personal attack in that way. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I read in yesterday's Press that the Government had rejected the Industries Assistance Commission report on storage batteries, which indicates that the Press must have been notified of the rejection on Tuesday. Why has Parliament not yet been notified of the Government's decision? Does the Minister realise that by not making a statement in this House he has denied the House the opportunity to examine and criticise the Government's action? Does the Minister realise that the Press have been given copies of the IAC report on this subject while members of Parliament have not yet received their copies? Will the Minister assure the House that he will not again handle similar matters in such a way? 

 -Mr Chairman, it will be no surprise to you or to the Committee that I am going to espouse the cause of tariff reform while we are dealing with these estimates for the Department of Industry and Commerce and the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. I have learnt from bitter experience that people who deliver unpopular messages have a pretty rough time, in this House and in other places. The bearers of bad news used to be beheaded by the Roman emperors. I have noticed, with regret and shame, the treatment that was meted out to the previous  Chairman  of the Industries Assistance Commission,  Mr Alf  Rattigan, from both sides of the House. I say, with a proper sense of shame, that he was castigated for saying the things that had to be said. I could think of phrases like 'search and destroy missions' to describe the cheap puerile criticism of a man who was saying what had to be said. 
It is interesting that the new  Chairman  of the IAC,  Mr McKinnon,  has made his first major speech. He did so recently in Perth and in it he spelt out the same kind of message spelt out by  Mr Rattigan.  I think honourable members ought to recognise that these people speak from conviction, knowing that there are no easy ways and knowing that if they are to do their job they have to be unpopular. Let us consider some of the things said recently by  Mr McKinnon,  the new  Chairman  of the IAC. People used to speak scathingly about  Mr Alf  Rattigan when he spelt out things relating to resource allocation so frankly and fearlessly.  Mr McKinnon  said in his speech: 
But we simply cannot afford to persevere with a policy of ever-increasing assistance to industries which seem to be becoming less economic for the Australian environment It reduces the opportunities for the more economic industries and those which have good prospects of growth. 
That is the same kind of thing as  Mr Alf  Rattigan was saying, something which has to be said in this place, unpopular though it may make one.  Mr McKinnon  went further and spelt out another message which people hate to hear and that is that tariff protection is a subsidy paid by exporters.  Mr Chairman,  you have heard me on this subject many times. Tariffs increase cost and they are passed along until they come to the end of the line, to the exporter at the end of the line who can pass them no further. But people think it is only Kelly speaking for the rural sector, and in a rather faltering voice. Let us listen again to what  Mr McKinnon  said. I quote from page 7 of his speech: 
Other industries or sectors pay later for favours (i.e. assistance) to some industries (e.g. exporting industries pay for assistance to import-competing industries). 
The burden of tariff assistance is borne not by the consumers in general but by the exporters in particular. Whether they can bear this burden any further is a subject of some argument, but do not let us have any doubt that the burden of tariff protection is borne by the exporters in particular. I am glad to hear honourable members on the Country Party side saying 'Hear, hear! ' because I am beginning to wonder when it will be that people who speak for the rural sector will recognise the weight of the burden that is carried by the exporting sector. 
I will come to the weight of it in a moment. I was glad to hear that interjection. Frequently, when talking to groups of people, particularly the captains of industry in Sydney or Melbourne, the great and powerful people, they have said to me: 'That is all right about you, Kelly, but you do not realise that the farmers are getting far more subsidy than secondary industry. ' Let us look at that matter. I have not measured this myself as I am not very good at arithmetic, but I refer now to the IAC report which came in today. If honourable members look at the amount of subsidy going to the rural sector they will find that it is $61m. That is not ungenerous. If they look at the direct subsidy going to manufacturing industry they will find that it is $159m. If they look at the burden of tariff protection, which is measured at page 140, they will find that it is very difficult to follow. I certainly could not follow it so I came back again to  Mr McKinnon  who did measure it and said that the subsidy equivalent of the tariff is about $3,900m. Those are not my figures; I did not dream them up. This person appointed by the Government to be  Chairman  of the IAC came out and did some measuring. This is the kind of cost that the exporting sector is being asked to carry. Themining sector is asked to carry it, the manufacturing and exporting sectors are asked to carry it, and the rural exporting sector is asked to carry it. The burden is borne by the exporters, whoever they may be. Let us go further and see how proper it is to impose that extra burden on the rural sector which supplies about 50 per cent of the exports and therefore bears about 50 per cent of the burden. I have given some figures to the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  I hope he will agree that they ought to be incorporated in  Hansard. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="101131197610063_53_0.jpg"></graphic>

-The figures spell out the position. It is said that we cannot reduce the real income of people. Let us look at the real income per farmer. We start in 1973-74 at $10,835. For the next year the figure dropped to $5,690; for the next year it is $4,864; and for the next year it is $3,611. This is the parlous position of the people who are carelessly being asked to assume more than their share of the tariff burden. I am glad to hear at last the support from honourable members in the National Country Party corner. I am getting rather sick of having to carry the burden on this side of the House with the assistance only of some of my more valiant friends. 
There is an almost pathetic kind of confidence that when the White Paper on manufacturing industry sees the light of day there will be a wonderful white rabbit to pull out of the hat which will give us an easy solution. Anybody who deludes himself that there are any easy, popular solutions in this area is kidding himself and other people. I shall cite 2 examples from the highest authority. One example is the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who has spelt out the fact that we cannot take refuge in tariff protection forever. He stated: 
Australia cannot afford to pursue courses of action that isolate us from external competition. As in our domestic affairs, we must face up to the reality of a competitive outside world. If we fail to do so we will run the risk of ultimately becoming a country of second-raters. 
That is what this matter is all about. We ought not kid ourselves that there is an easy solution in the White Paper. There are no white rabbits. There is no hope that we can suddenly pull out an easy, popular solution. As soon as everybody on this side and on the other side of Parliament recognises that we have to face up to problems and not just talk eloquently about them in the hope that we will find a white rabbit, we will be better able to face the many problems that need to be faced. 
My question is for the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister aware that it was his Government that encouraged the Industries Assistance Commission to use the draft report procedure so that there could be an opportunity to test the IAC's tentative conclusions at further public hearings. Does the Prime Minister realise that the Government's action in announcing the Government's decision on some aspects of the IAC draft report on the performing arts before the final report is received jeopardises the draft report procedure? To avoid this, would the Prime Minister want the public hearings on the draft report to continue and would he advise interested parties to continue to give evidence? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Because of the consistently strong competition from New Zealand, will the Minister see what can be done to put a tariff on New Zealand horses in order to prevent them running faster than our home produced horses? 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, 1 present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Consolidation into Bankstown of the Bankstown and Lidcombe Government Aircraft Plants operated by Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty Ltd at Bankstown, New South Wales. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
-It will be short. Can the Minister assure me that it is still the Government's intention to tackle inflation with courage and determination? Is he aware that the devaluation decision is equivalent to an 80 per cent rise in tariff protection for imported protected goods? Does not the Minister see that not to tackle the tariff problem with confidence and resolution will allow the inflation horse to bolt, and it is likely to kick the trap to bits before we catch it again once it gets away? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, as you know, it is not unusual for me to be heard talking in this House about tariffs. Originally when I started out in this House on this rather lonely campaign to get a more sensible and responsible attitude towards tariffs, I tackled it from the point of view of the damage that unwise tariff protection was doing to my rural constituents. As my thinking developed and as I was led along the road by other people, I realised that even more important than that was the question of resource allocation so that we could use our limited resources in the best possible way, so that the standard of living of the people generally could be raised. I will not talk about either of those 2 matters today, because today I am interested only in the impact on inflation of the Government's decision to devalue. The cost of living is the long winded way of saying it. I do not pretend to be one of these high fliers or high steppers. I am a modest man by nature, with a limited kind of intellect. I do not pretend to be able to take apart an economic problem in the same way as some people can. 
I believe- I have been told- that inflation is the number one problem which the country faces. It was not hard to understand this. It is the kind of thing that a man of my intellect can grasp. We had the example set by the Australian Labor Party when  Dr Jim  Cairns was grinding out the money down in the bowels of the Parliament, and the rate of inflation was rising and the level of unemployment was rising also. It was clear- anybody could see- that a country which has a high rate of inflation will not attract investment. A country which has an inflation rate akin to that of a banana republic will not attract investment. Everybody said to me that we had to get the rate of inflation down. I could see those kinds of problems clearly. There was something that was kind of pathetic, I suppose, in that attitude. 
I have been a member for a long time. I have seen these brilliant young people going past me in a steady stream. I often wondered why. Then I realised what I must learn to do. I had to polish up my footwork and forget the things which I had been told were important if I were to get on in this political field. Until now, because I do not have this wide ranging and eloquent way of looking at life, I stuck with the problem that is clearly before us. Inflation is the number one problem. That is what they told us, and that is what I believe. I think if one looks at what is happening around the world it is not hard to realise it, to echo it and to mean it sincerely. We must do something worth while about inflation. 
Then the decision to devalue was made. From where I sit, I am not in a position to criticise that decision. One needs to be in the Cabinet to know whether it ought to have been made and, if it were made, how large the percentage ought to have been. I waited around because I knew the Government was dedicated to the task of defeating inflation. I knew that shortly there would be some strong, competent, anti-inflationary action taken. I knew there were only a limited number of things which it could do. I knew that one of the limited options was to have an appreciation- to get rid of the problem by going back to where we were previously. This has started to happen. I think it is very sensible. I am not trying to be funny. Of course the exchange rate must rise. It is one of the things. Revaluation is one of the things that can save us from inflation-one of the limited options to get us away from this dreadful problem of inflation which everybody is saying is so serious. 
Another option is to work out some way- this is where I am well outside my sphere of knowledge- in which, when the money comes flooding back in, it is grabbed and put in a particular yard. That is the kind of word which I would use. People with the competence of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  would have a finer, flowing phrase for it. Either that or interest rates will be put up so that the money is kept in the Government's hands and is saved from sloshing around on the cowshed floor and upsetting inflation again. I am sorry if my more rural illustrations offend the Minister, but that is the way I think. These are 2 options. 
The third is to freeze wages and prices. I have heard of that suggestion previously. It is the kind of thing that everybody talks very wisely about. It was tried in the United Kingdom. We know it did not work, except for a short while. It would not be easy in Australia because we have constitutional problems of division of responsibility between the States and the Commonwealth. 
However, that is one option. We must do something. My belief is that if the Government really means what it says it will do something about inflation. That is the third of the limited options. 
The fourth option is to take some action on the tariff front. There are 4 options. There may be others. Maybe brighter people here will think up another one or two. They are the four which I have on my list. We know that if we do not use one we must use one of the other three. We must do so more courageously because they are limited options. If we are earnest, as I assume we are, in our determination to beat inflation, one of those 4 measures has to be used. I repeat them: Revalue and grab the money, raise interest rates, freeze wages and prices, or take tariff action. 
Things can be done with tariffs that will affect inflation. We know that the price of imported goods is going to increase by about 20 per cent. About 60 per cent of these imported goods come in duty free and the prices of these goods will rise by about 20 per cent. Indirectly most of these goods go into manufacturing goods. So obviously the people who use those manufactured goods will have to put up their prices. We know also that a devaluation of  IVA  per cent increases the level of the barriers to imported goods by between 70 per cent and 75 per cent- one cannot be specific. In many cases the extra height of the tariff wall will stop the flow of goods coming into Australia; and the price of the Australian goods might not necessarily rise to the duty paid price, although in many cases it is likely to do so. So there will be an increase in the price of tariff protected goods. 
Even more importantly, behind this greatly increased tariff wah is the opportunity for sweetheart agreements between people who now have a great deal more fat to use- who have a great deal more room to manoeuvre than they had before. Sweetheart agreements can then be made with the workforce. This was a chronic problem prior to the review of tariffs. That is why the metal trades were always likely to be leading in any wage demands. We know what happened with General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd who demanded and indeed received from the Government an increased protection which enabled them to negotiate a sweetheart deal with their people. One can always pick a person who is dining out on an expense account by the enthusiasm with which he summons the waiter. The fact is that in this area people can make sweetheart deals because someone else pays for them. The impact of this is likely to be devastating on the wages front. 
The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs said in his second reading speech that the Government hopes to stop such agreements by telling companies that if they do that kind of thing they will not receive tariff protection. Being a youthful person, the Minister would not remember wartime when we used to have rationing and the like. We were trying to stop the supply and demand pressures from working naturally. In those days we had the flame of patriotism to reinforce the edicts of the law, but those measures did not work at all well. 
Honourable members might remember the story of 2 doctors in a hotel lounge talking about their practices. One said to the other: 'I have 6 cases of meningitis in this district'. The chap sitting behind him patted him on the shoulder and whispered: 'Look, 111 take the lot'. With the best will m the world, nobody can pretend that any arm of government can control the pressures of supply and demand for long. Perhaps it can be done with the big companies, but we all know of ways to beat the system. I am looking at the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  who is smiling knowingly. In his time he has used most of those ways to beat the system. Of course, he would not talk about them now, but from his past he would be well aware of what is done and will be done again to beat the government system. I knew that tariffs were important and that something could be done in that direction. Of course, I knew that the Government had the stern example of the United Kingdom before it, knowing that if something is not done following devaluation the country will go down the economic drain. Maybe it will go down with its eyes shut and its mouth open but, whatever happens, a government must be tough after devaluation. With the example of Britain clearly and sadly before it our Government must have been determined to do something. I sat back waiting. I thought: Now the Government means to do something about inflation. On 3 December I asked the Minister whether the Government was still keen to do something about inflation. With typical eloquence he spelt out the position yet again. So I waited confidently for the statement that I knew would shortly come. 
I was not confident about across-the-board tariff cuts, because I must admit that I think that the Government has almost believed its own eloquence about the damage caused by a 25 per cent tariff cut. I find that I often have to defend the Whitlam Government's decision on this because the nervous Nellies of the Labor Party- I think honourables members have heard of them before- are not willing to take up the challenge. But I shall do so because the nonsense that we have talked on this side of the House about a 25 
Eer cent tariff cut is now doing us a great deal of arm. I hope the Minister will listen to what I have to say. I hope that if he can challenge my figures he will do so. If he does not do so, I hope he will stop talking as he does about the damage done by the 25 per cent tariff cut. All of us who are in the game and who have studied the matter know that the 25 per cent tariff cut was the equivalent of about a 4 per cent alteration in the exchange rate. When the Labor Party was in government it altered the exchange rate by 20 per cent, which influenced industry about three times as much as did the 25 per cent tariff cut. 
We know that the main reason why secondary industry is in trouble lies in wage increases. We could take the knitting industry as an example. The 25 per cent tariff cut damaged that industry to about the same extent as an increase of about 13 per cent to 16 per cent in wages, depending upon whether they were male or female wages. Actually, wage rises during that period amounted to 60 per cent. So to blame the problems of the industry onto the tariff cut is demonstrably wrong. I am sorry to have to come again to the aid of the nervous Nellies on the other side of the House, but I am sorry that we have made goats of ourselves by talking with great eloquence about the 25 per cent tariff cut when most of us knew we were wrong in doing so. So I did not really hope for across-the-board tariff cuts but I felt that something significant would happen. 
Then last night the Minister made his statement. To say that it backs away from the problem would be putting it at its mildest. There are so many things in it that are nonsense. The Government is going to reduce the tariff barriers on black and white television. Honourable members can imagine what an impact that is going to have. I think it missed out on wagon wheels. If we go through the tariff quotas we find that Government is making great fellows of itself. But do honourable members realise that the tariff barriers on cars are now about 100 per cent? We would have to crawl up the tariff wall in a fourwheel drive car or push our way through with a bulldozer. That is the only way we will get cars into Australia over this tariff wall of immense magnitude. The Minister says: 'We will take off the quota restrictions. But if any more cars come in we will put the restrictions on again'. That is a very statesmanlike position to adopt! 
I will not go right through the matter again. There is no doubt that the Government has not used the tariff as an effective weapon against inflation. The Government has not made any worthwhile difference to the situation. Anybody who has studied the question will know that there are no effective anti-inflationary pressures from this area contained in the speech of the Minister. So more has to be done in other fields, I assume. I go over these fields again: Interest rates, money control, wages and prices or revaluation. It may be that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  will give us one or two other options. But they are the other options I have, if the Government is going to do anything about inflation. 
Tax cuts have been mentioned by some of the more brighter ones in the community. I will stick with the matters I have spelt out. The options are closing in. If we are to do anything about inflation we have turned away from using the tariff as an effective antiinflationary measure. There have been only a few tinkerings with the tariff. If the Minister can prove how much will be done in the antiinflationary field by tariff adjustment I will be interested to hear from him afterwards. If he cannot do so, he ought to be able to do it. So more will have to be done in relation to other options. I repeat that my other options are interest rates, wages and prices squeeze or revaluation, or will we let the inflationary fires run? Are we going to back away from a problem about which we have been so eloquent? Are we going to say 'I know we meant to, but it was too hard'? In a year's time, we may look back on 7 December, with a great deal of sorrow and regret because we have let an opportunity pass us. 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, 1 present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Modernisation of HMA Naval Dockyard (Stage 2), Williamstown, Victoria. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to his statement to the Melbourne State College on 2 1 February, yesterday, in which he said that because of rising labour costs employers were tending to use machines rather than people in the productive process, and if tariff protection were reduced this trend would worsen. Does not the Prime Minister realise that replacing manual labour with machines has been a continuing process since Adam started farming and Eve started spinning? Does the Prime Minister want us to go back to farming with horses rather than tractors because by so doing we would employ more labour? Should we not use hand looms instead of power looms, for the same reason, or wheelbarrows instead of trucks? Does not the main hope for increasing our standard of living rest on increasing productivity? Is not the replacement of men by machines an integral and important pan of this process? 

 -Mr Speaker, I desire to make a personal explanation. When the voting on the Constitution Alteration (Senate Casual Vacancies) Bill 1976 took place last Thursday night, you will remember, the division bells were not rung but the doors were locked. I was unable to obtain entrance to the chamber and my vote in favour of the Bill was not recorded. Would it be possible for my vote to be so recorded? 
-It will be no surprise to the House that I am going to devote my 20 minutes of speaking time to discussing the rather difficult but, to me, important question of tariff protection. I have to admit that recently there have been made about this subject a large number of rather loose statements which I think ought to be put in their proper place. The first thing I think we ought to examine is whether there is a tariff burden. I have been saying that there is and I have been trying to measure it. But at last we have some authoritative people speaking on the question. I refer particularly to  Mr W.  Henderson, the Director-General of the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia who, in a recent speech, said: 
I fully accept the IAC argument that the consumer must pay for tariff protection. There is no question about this. I will also accept the arithmetic that the cost is around $4,300m annually. 
This is not my arthimetic; it is the arithmetic of the Director-General of the Associated Chambers of Manufactures. There is a price to be paid for tariff protection. I would never have thought that it would be as high as that but we know now that it is a high price.  Mr Henderson  says that it is $4,3000m annually. We ought to look at who pays the price. Anybody who thinks about the subject will not doubt that the subsidy of $4,300m has been measured as best it can be measured. I do not accept that the figure is accurate and nor would  Mr Henderson  pretend that it is an accurate measurement. But the sum is around that degree. It is paid by export industries in the end. It is true that some of that amount will be paid by the people on fixed incomes- and there are not many of them left because they have all been washed up on the economic beach. Some of the $4,300m will be paid by those who are competing against exports. But generally speaking, in the end, those people get tariff protection. It is generally accepted by anybody with an economic training that the subsidy is paid in the end by export industries. If we accept that, we ought to work it out from there. I do not say that it is too big a price to pay but it is a price that is paid by exporters. Exporters pay an additional price. 
Today's  Australian Financial Review  exposes yet another problem and that is the retaliatory action that is encouraged by the action we take to stop imports coming to Australia. The Philippines has now taken yet another retaliatory action because we have stopped their imports from coming to Australia. We export 3 times as much to them as they export to us. In spite of that, they have put a barrier against our exports because they say that they have been clobbered by the action we have taken to stop their exports coming to Australia. This sort of situation has happened again and again. We were all very righteous about the quotas that the Americans and the Japanese imposed on our beef, but we do not generally admit that we are imposing quotas on the import of cars from Japan and America. I do not say that this is wrong but we ought to measure the size of the burden the exporter carries. Because the rural sector supplies about half Australia's exports, about half the burden is borne by the Australian rural sector. Again, I do not think this is wrong but I am just measuring the burden they carry. Half the burden- this $4,300m that  Mr Henderson  admits to- is borne by the rural sector. That figure is just a useful measurement.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you represent the rural sector and you will know that that sector is not in a position to carry this burden forever. Its size of the burden is about half of the $4,300m-let us say $2,000m in round terms. People say that the rural sector gets direct subsidies. It does indeed. If one looks at the last Budget figures one could measure them. The direct subsidy to the rural sector is $ 1 64m. That is spelt out in the Budget Papers. It is not a small amount. The direct subsidy to the manufacturing sector is $169m. If one does a balance sheet one sees that the rural sector is paying a price for tariff protection, at the rate of about $2,000m a year. It may be that people think that that does not matter, that the rural sector can carry the burden effortlessly. People say that the rural sector has lots of natural resources and how splendid it is at shouldering these kinds of burdens. I repeat that the measure of the burden is about $2, 000m a year. It would be silly to be more precise than that. I think it would be rather less than that but it would be of that order. 
When I talk to manufacturing groups, as I do, they always express surprise that this burden is borne by exporters. Their surprise can take 2 forms. Firstly, they become petulant. They say that it cannot be true. Let us examine how the system works. It does not work by accident. If there is a tariff on weedicide which the farmer pays, it is easy to see that that increases his cost. There may be a tariff on sheets. Maybe the farmer does not use any sheets. It does not increase his cost. People say that he should use a super bag. If he does not buy any sheets, the cost gets built into the cost of living. It gets passed on from one section to the other. It gets built into wages. I see the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  nodding wisely, as he should; his electors buy sheets. It gets built into the cost of living. It gets passed along the line. It goes from one section to another, from transport to the doctors, even to members of Parliament, until it goes to the group which cannot pass it any furthernot necessarily to the farmer but to the exporter. He cannot pass it any further. The exporter tells the purchaser overseas that he has to raise his price. The man overseas says that that is very sad but he can buy the same material from Canada and he does not think that he should buy it from the Australian producer. 
The cost of tariff protection is borne in the long term by the exporters. No one who has any economic training will argue that. People will petulantly protest about that. It is not a simplistic argument: it is not a theoretical argument. It is a straightout economic statement that no one can argue against. Because of the burden that we are asked to carry, there is a continual complaint by the rural sector- the exporting sector- that something ought to be done to alter the situation; there ought to be a change. One of the things we must realise is that the economy is like a bucket of worms. I hesitate to use such a simile in your presence,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  knowing the finer view of life that you take. A bucket of worms that cease to turn dies. The result is awful beyond belief. The Australian economy must continue to change. It is like a bucket of worms. It must change. It has changed. I have shown to the Opposition a table which shows how the economy has changed over the years.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I ask for permission to incorporate this table in Hansard. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969,I present the fortieth general report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a brief statement relating to the report. 
-It is an exciting day for me to be able to support this Government in its method of protection of industries in this way. Sometimes I have had some difficulty in supporting the Government in tariff matters but today I find myself enthusiastically and with gratification supporting the Government. The reason is that this time the Government has taken the course of using bounties to protect Australian industry and not the other two recognised and all too frequently used methods of quotasquantitative restrictions, call them what we like- or tariffs. The disadvantages of quotas are clear for anybody who knows anything about the system of protection. Some people seem to think that because only a definite limited quantity of goods is allowed to come in it does not have to come in over the tariff wall and is less costly to the consumer. In fact, of course, that is not true. What happens is that where a limited quota is allowed in Australian prices are allowed to rise and there is a windfall gain to the person who has an import licence to import a quota which gives him an immediate financial advantage. 
This exposes Government departments to opportunities. I know they do not abuse their positions. But control of these matters is a dreadful responsibility to place in the hands of any civil servant. An import licence is almost a licence to print money. One of the great advantages of the tariff system, with all its disadvantages, is that it allows free competition. Anybody may import if they pay the duty. But with an import licence or with a quota the number of people able to import is limited. Such licences are usually given on a historical basic. That means that the people who were importing before are now the only ones allowed to import. The up and coming young chap who wants to get into the industry is kept out because he cannot get a quota. I repeat that it is one of the grave dangers. Import licencing is banned almost throughout the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade area because of the opportunities the system gives for windfall gains for unearned advantages. I have always insisted that although this system is attractive to many people and although one hears a great many people talk glibly about the advantages of quantitative restrictions, they are dangerous even if they stay for a short time. If they stay for a long time they are doubly dangerous. They ossify the industry in its present condition. I have used the simile before and I use it again: Any economy is like a bucket of worms and anything that stops it turning and shifting and new people coming into replace the old and tired people going out is bad for the industry in the end. 
I warn Australia that a too ready, glib acceptance of the system of quota restrictions is a danger because it gives immediate financial advantage to particular people without any legal backing. Just because they were in the business before they get an immediate advantage which is almost like a licence to print money. There are ways out of the problem. I think quotas should be auctioned so that this windfall gain at least goes to the taxpayer, to the general revenue, and not to the man who is fortunate enough- I use those words advisedly- to get a licence. This has been suggested many times. I think the same approach ought to be used with wheat quotas. The wheat quota system is open to the same criticism. I know it well. I beg the Government to realise that, unless it is prepared to face up to the administrative awkwardness and unpopularity of selling the quotas, it faces a problem that I am certain it has not yet recognised. 
However, the Government did not use the quota restriction and it did not use the tariffs. At least in this case the admitted cost of the tariffthe $4,300m that  Mr Henderson  of the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia admits to- will not be carried by any particular group, in particular by the exporter. It will be carried by the taxpayers throughout the country. The burden is not going to be transmitted yet again to the rural sector nor to the exporter who, as everybody knows, has been Carrying the tariff burden up till this stage. If protection is given by bounties, the advantage is there for everybody to see. Everybody can see that the bed sheeting industry is getting a bounty of around half a million dollars. It is there for everybody to see. But when tariffs are applied the figure is hidden away and no one knows what it is. That is another reason for being pleased to see that the bounty system has been used. It keeps the Government honest because the bounty is there for everybody to see. It comes up every year in the Budget Papers. Keeping the Government and everybody else honest is something that we are all very keen on these days. I am pleased to see that this bounty method will be used again. I wish it were used more often. I am in good company on this. I quote directly from the Jackson Committee report which states: 
We advocate less use of the tariff and more use of bounties to encourage desirable attributes in industry. . 
Bounties are often a more desirable form of protection than tariffs in special cases where additional assistance is required. 
Later, the Committee states: 
A major advantage of bounties is their public accountability through the budget. In addition they are very flexible tools and may be used to discriminate between regions, types of employment, etc. 
So, the bounty system is a good one to use because it is there for everybody to see. It is open to the public gaze in the way in which tariffs are not. 
It keeps governments honest, which is what we all want to see. It does not impose costs further down the production line. In these 3 items with which we are dealing today, if a tariff had been put on tractors it would have been unjust because it would have imposed an extra cost on the tractor user who also has to pay extra as an exporter. It would have been intolerable. It would have been intolerable also to have imposed a duty on cotton sheets. This would have made more difficult the competitive position of the factory engaged in printing imported sheeting in Hobart. If the automatic data processing industry were to be protected by tariff, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  , said, this would have inhibited the growth of that industry. It would have been a very serious step to have taken. So, I am glad that the bounty has been used in this way and we have not applied tariffs. 
It is interesting to see that the costs of protection are not eliminated. The cost per person employed in the sheet industry works out at around $1,500. If the honourable member for Port Adelaide checks his arithmetic later, he will see that my information that 40 per cent of the work force he mentioned are employed in the production of these bounty goods is correct. The subsidy from the taxpayer for every man employed in the ADP industry and in making tractors works out at $3,000. 
Yes, per year. But it is not an amount paid this time by the exporter and that is the important thing. It is paid on this occasion by the taxpayer instead of the exporter as has been the case with the tariff for so long. 
I turn now to tractors and to tractor parts. At the moment the Prices Justification Tribunal is carrying on an interesting inquiry into the component parts of tractors. It is interesting to note that if one bought a group of numbered parts for an International 806 tractor in Australia the cost would be $2,048. If one bought the same numbered parts in New Zealand the cost would be $1,007. If one bought them in the United States it would cost $709. One can understand that there would be a fair mark-up difference between the United States price and the Australian price. But what annoyed me was to find that the Australian price was $2,048 while the New Zealand price was $1,007. As a result there has been a Prices Justification Tribunal hearing into this queer increase in prices. Some quite startling facts have emerged. One of them concerns a large company- I will not mention its namewhich makes tractors as well as other parts. The turnover for all the company's operations in Australia was $197m and its profit was $6. 2m. No one can say that that company was making an excessive profit. The figures I cited- the $197m and the $6.2m- included the turnover for the spare parts division. But the spare parts division, taken by itself, had a turnover of $30.7m and a profit of $6. 8m. In other words, the spare parts division, with a turnover of $30.7m was making more profit than the rest of the company's activities put together. I do not know whether this is traditional practice in the industry. I am told that Henry Ford used to say that he would sell his cars at a loss as long as he could make a profit on selling the spare parts. 
-I did not know that. But in this case, on the figures, one would probably be justified in saying that the company ought to sell its tractors at a dearer price and the spare parts at a cheaper price. If that happens people are encouraged to repair their machinery. It is clear that there is a tremendous mark-up. The admitted mark-up on the cost of machinery and parts bought in the United States on the Pacific seaboard which are sold in the bush in Australia is 300 per cent. I know how easy it is to get angry about these figures. I am not going to be critical of them at this stage. But I am going to be critical of the fact that if there is a tariff on a $100 partlet us say a 15 per cent duty is applied- by the time that part reaches the farmer, the tariff induced cost will not be $15 but $45 because we get this multiplier effect. So there is room for grave concern about the way in which the tractor industry is operating in some fields. Because the Prices Justification Tribunal is still hearing evidence on the subject, I have no basis for being critical at this stage, except to go back again to the startling figures. I repeat that the cost of certain parts in New Zealand is $1,007 and that the same parts in Australia cost $2,048. Obviously the people in New Zealand are paying too little or we are paying too much. I am not going to say which is the case. 
The only other thing I want to do is again to congratulate the Government. I am really going to make the most of this opportunity to congratulate the Government. There has been a certain amount of concern in my district about the statements made in this house recently that we ought not to be using certain labour saving equipment. One of the farmers in my electorate has been going round pricing harness for draught-horses. He was delighted when I was able to announce to him that the Government was going to pay this $5m bounty for tractors. He thought that he was faced with a future of having to go back to using horses. That is another reason why I want to congratulate the Government. As I have said, I am almost wallowing in my pleasure on this occasion. 
I repeat that my main satisfaction, however, is based on the fact that on this occasion the Government has used the bounty system. I only wish that it would do so more often. Some people think that the subsidy equivalent is something that is just in the mind, but the subsidy equivalent is what the tariff costs. If we were to protect the Australian industry by bounties we would have a bounty bill- a subsidy bill- of about $4,000m a year- or so  Mr Henderson  says, and who are we to argue with so distinguished a gentleman. On this occasion the Government is using a method which does not impose a burden on the exporting industry, It imposes a burden on the taxpayer which is open for everyone to see. It is examinable every year in the House. No one except the poor old exporter knows the weight of the tariff burden. In this case the burden of protecting the industry is to be borne by the taxpayers. I only wish that the Government would use this system more often. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Does the Minister remember telling the House last Wednesday that an alteration to the level of protection to the textile industry was imminent, yet when the action was eventually taken the particulars were given to the Press and not to Parliament? Does the Minister not agree that this is a discourteous and improper procedure to adopt when the House is sitting? ls this not a particularly dangerous precedent to set in cases such as this when particular advantages are being given to particular people to the great disadvantage of other people? As the Minister has already announced what action the Government will take before the report of the Industries Assistance Commission is even received, does the Minister not realise that by so doing he is making nonsense of the philosophy that evolved the IAC and the Tariff Board system, namely, that before special advantages are given to particular people there must be sworn public evidence and a publicreport? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, 1 present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
RAAF Base, Point Cook, Victoria. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I direct a question to  Deputy  Prime Minister, Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade. Now that he and the Government accept what some of us have been saying for many years, namely, that in the long term Australia would benefit from a steady reduction in tariffs, will he now take the next step and see that the Government's short term actions on tariffs do not inhibit the long term reduction now seen as so desirable? Is the Acting Prime Minister aware that though in a particular industry employment may benefit from emergency protection there almost certainly will be corresponding costs which will result in employment being lost in other industries, particularly export industries for which the Acting Prime Minister has a special responsibility? Finally- 
-In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969 I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Primary school at Katherine South, Northern Territory. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I promised our Whip that I would try to say what I had to say in 5 minutes. I have a fair bit to say but will have mercy on the House and not say it all at this stage. Above all I want to make one point. The only real justification for doing what we are doing today is to give back to the rural sector some of its own. As the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  so rightly said, the rural sector has been carrying a great cross in terms of high costs caused by tariffs. This Bill is some compensation- not good or efficient compensationfor the damage that the rural sector has had to suffer because of the tariff policy of this and other governments. One of the disquieting things about the tariff policy is the way in which it teaches and encourages people to lean on one another, and here we see it happening again. Now even the rural sector has had to go to the Government because it has been leant on by secondary industry through the tariff system. This was revealed in the Brigden report back in 1929, which said: 
The most disquieting effect of the tariff has been the stimulus it has given to demands for government assistance of all kinds with consequent demoralising effect upon self-reliant efficiency throughout all forms of production. 
We are seeing that again now. The rural sector has had to ask for tariff compensation because it has had to carry this immense extra cost which it should not have had to carry. The tariff policy has turned Australians into a mob of leaners. People are always bragging about their belief in private enterprise but as soon as they have finished making their resounding speeches on the subject they slip around to the door of the Industries Assistance Commission or to the Government and say: 'We would like a bit more assistance for this and that'. Now even the rural sector has to ask for tariff compensation. It will not be fair compensation. There will be many people in my saltbush areas and in Queensland who do not use superphosphate but will have to pay through taxation for the compensation that will be paid to other sectors. This is yet another example of the implications of the tariff system and of the way it is destroying the private enterprise system. Even farmers now have had to ask for tariff compensation in this way. 
Let us look at the case that the graziers' association made when it said that it would rather have a reduction in tariff than the superphosphate subsidy. It was right because the rough balance sheet shows that last year secondary industry received SI 59m in direct subsidies and $4,000m in indirect subsidies through tariffs. It may be thought that these are my figures, but they are not. I am quoting  Mr Henderson,  the DirectorGeneral of the Associated Chamber of Manufactures of Australia. No one could say that he is a lightweight. Certainly no one could claim that he is not generally a high protection advocate. He said: 
I fully accept the IAC argument that the consumer must pay for tariff protection. There is no question about this. I will also accept the arithmetic that the cost is around $4,300m annually. 
That is the size of the burden. The rural sector produces about half the exports so it carries half the burden. It has hanging around its neck a $2, 000m albatross which is beginning to do what dead albatrosses do, which I hesitate to mention,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  in your distinguished company. It not only is heavy but also has that other attribute. The rural sector got only $6 lm in direct subsidies last financial year. It now will get another $50m which is what this superphosphate subsidy will cost. Yet it will have to pay about $2,000m, that being its share of the tariff burden because it produces half our export income. The rough arithmetic is that secondary industry is getting $4, 15 9m in the form of subsidies while the rural sector is getting minus $ 1 ,889m. That is the kind of justification, indeed the only justification, for this Bill being before us. 
Let me put it more sharply into focus.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you will be well aware that a lot of superphosphate goes away in bags. Just recently there came into this House a tariff decision on bags and the subsidy equivalent of this Government decision works out at about $5m. I did not see anybody giving tongue about the featherbedding of the bag manufacturers. No one mentioned that. Yet $5m was provided in one simple Bill as the result of one simple tariff decision. In the IAC report the IAC estimates that the cost of having to carry the rock in Australian manned ships is $10m. Again no one mentioned that. People sling off about the featherbedding of the farmer but no one says anything about the flagrant featherbedding of the sailors who carry the rock in Australian ships at an extra cost of $10m. The justification for the Bill before us today is that we are getting a little bit of our own back. That is not a good reason for doing anything but it is better than doing nothing when the rural sector has hung around its neck this great albatross weighing $2 ,000m each year. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (4.41)-The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  has given us the benefit of his knowledge on the effects of tariffs on our rural industries. I am inclined to agree with him that no doubt they have a very serious effect on our rural industries. I also agree that perhaps there are better ways of giving assistance to the rural industries than paying a bounty on superphosphate. The only thing that had me worried was that I thought that as the honourable member was warming to his subject he was going to deprive me of my opportunity to have a few words on this matter. I support the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Amendment Bill. It gives effect to the Industries Assistance Commission report of 20 October 1976 which recommends the continuation for another S years of the payment of a bounty on the production of phosphate fertilisers for use in Australia. This is very important. It seems to me that the various industries have enough trouble getting their problems before the Industries Assistance Commission. When they get them there and a report is brought down I think that the Parliament has some obligation to take notice. 
There is no doubt that most of our rural industries are at present faced with rising costs and falling prices. As the honourable member for Wakefield said, tariff protection is one of the factors that vastly increases the cost of production. There is no doubt that this will have a resulting squeeze on farmers' incomes. The Australian Labor Party has never opposed giving assistance to industries which require it. We are opposed to assistance going to the people who need it least of all. I shall not deal with the people who receive the superphosphate bounty. I think it is well known that many people who benefit from this bounty do not require it. Many other sections of our rural industry vitally need some kind of assistance and it is not reaching them. 
In my electorate a good deal of support for the superphosphate bounty arises from an emotional issue. The bounty has been given so much publicity that it seems to be a status issue. People believe that if the Government does not give them a superphosphate bounty it is doing something bad for the rural industry. I am inclined to agree with the honourable member for Wakefield that we should be looking at other ways of assisting people in rural industries. We should be giving assistance which is of more benefit than the superphosphate bounty. The reason there is so much emotion about this issue is that Australia has a long history of assisting the use of phosphatic fertilisers. A bounty has been paid in most of the years since 1931. It is easy to understand that many of our farmers have become used to using superphosphate and they depend vitally upon it for their results. 
Although much has been said about the Labor Party's actions in relation to the use of the bounty we should have a look at the first interim report of the Industries Assistance Commission. It gives some idea of the justification for the Labor Government removing the bounty. Page 2 of that report states: 
At the time the decision was taken, economic conditions within the rural industries were generally buoyant. Since then, the average ex-factory price of single superphosphate (in bulk) to users has risen from about $16 to about $55 per tonne. 
The price is much higher today. That gives some indication of the justification of the Labor Party in removing the bounty at that time. When these measures come before the Parliament they should not be attacked from a political viewpoint. There is no doubt that many of our rural industries at present are undergoing severe economic pressures. Until we put into effect some of the suggestions of the honourable member for Wakefield the superphosphate bounty seems to be justified. 
I eagerly take the opportunity to discuss the White Paper which burst upon the country last week. I think the best comment about it was made by Tony Thomas of the  Age  who said that the Green 
Paper went into the operating theatre, was vasectomised and emerged amiable but impotent. Really, the comment was made in the kind of splendid English to which I aspire; but I could not come up to that standard. It is pleasing, however, to be able to say something nice about the White Paper. As I say, it is intensely disappointing in its shallowness- it says a bit here and a bit there. But it has some sound things to say and at last it spells out something that all economists, all rural people, but very few politicians, have been game to face up to, and that is, that in the long term Australia would benefit by a gradual lower.ing of tariff barriers. 
I have been saying the same thing here in a halting way for 20 years. People used to sneer at me and say: 'You are only a little Australian. You do not believe in the development of this great country of ours'. That kind of abuse would be heaped on anyone who said what the whole world knew, that is, that to deny ourselves of the best and sensible use of our limited resources would be a policy of utter despair. At last the Government has come to recognise in a cleareyed manner that in the long term it cannot continue to support a system of high protection that has become almost the laughing stock of the Western world. 
So at least this pathetic little document has some attributes. It says that in the long term we must face the challenge of change. I think that the last time I spoke about this matter I spoke about the challenge of change being put in America in the form of a comic description of the railways being likely to supplant the canal system. I will not go over that again, although it is a splendid story. At least the Government has girded its loins and said that we have to face the inevitability of change. Two days ago the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  said exactly the same thing in a news commentary. He said that we must face the inevitability of change and that we must have more imports so that we can have a better standard of living. It has been a long and painful battle for me to get that into the head of the Government. I repeat that almost everybody else in the country realised that it was an inevitable progression. We have got there painfully, but at least we are there. 
That is about all I can say that is nice about the White Paper. There are 2 glaring omissions from it. One of them is an almost tragic one. In this White Paper of 83 pages in length there is one small paragraph that spells out the great problem that we face in the world with regard to relationships between the underdeveloped and the developed countries. I will read it because it ought to be exposed. It reads: 
There are also persistent pressures on Australia to provide our trading partners with greater opportunities to sell their goods in the Australian market, particularly from those developed countries in the Asian and Pacific regions, and particularly for industrial products directly competitive with the products of local industry. 
That is a pathetic exposure of how little we are concerned with the greatest problem that Australia and the developed world faces. This matter received the attention of the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton).  During the weekend, as he left our shores, he had something to say about it. I will quote from the Press release about it that I obtained from the Minister's office this morning. It reads: 
Australia has a very, very small market for clothing and textiles with a population of only 1 4 million people. Per head of population we are the biggest importers of clothing and textiles in the world. 
That statement attracted my attention. I have shown the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  a table that I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard.  It is a table that the Minister for Industry and Commerce included in a paper that he delivered at the Hilton Hotel on 17 May. The table shows clearly that Australia has imported more per head than some other countries. 

 The table read as follows- (Speech by Minister for Industry and Commerce to Malaysian Trade, Investment and Tourism Mission, Hilton Hotel, 17 May 1977) 

<graphic href="105131197706010_28_0.jpg"></graphic>

I have been fortunate to get the table from which the previous table was taken and have found that there are quite surprising omissions from the first table compared with the table from which it was taken. I have shown that table to the honourable member for Corio and he has agreed that it should be incorporated in  Hansard. 
-On behalf of the exporters of Australia, I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics estimates that the income of farmers will fall in real terms by between 12 per cent and 14 per cent this coming year? Is he aware that the cost of maintaining the textile and footwear industries in their present form is estimated to be about $800m a year and that this is a subsidy paid in the end by exporters? When the Industries Assistance Commission is again inquiring into these industries will the Minister ask it whether and, if so, how this grievous burden can be lifted from the bent backs of the farmers? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969,I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
1 ) Military Area at Randwick, New South Wales; 
RAAF Base Edinburgh, South Australia; 
Animal Quarantine Station at Wallgrove, New South Wales. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
-Firstly, I would like to pay a tribute to the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  and to say how much I appreciate the tribute that he paid to the way in which my continual representation of a lower tariff structure has influenced his thinking. I might say that I have. always had a hunger and a longing for the day when someone who represents the National Country Party of Australia woke up to the significance of the burden that the exporters have had placed on them. We on the Liberal Party of Australia side of politics have a need for the support of the thinking National Country Party members- and there are plenty of them. I hope that many others will follow the example of the honourable member for Leichhardt and recognise so clearly that it is to the benefit not only of the other nations but also Australia to trade with one another. I appreciate the tribute that he paid and I welcome very sincerely his contribution to the debate. 
The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  challenged me to say how people would find employment if the tariff structure were reduced. That is the kind of comment that I get passed at me very frequently. Let me say just one thing about that. It is interesting that the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  is sitting alongside the honourable member for Corio at the moment. The things which we are good at and the things with which we have a natural advantage are things like iron and steel. We could be much more competitive in the exporting of iron and steel if the iron and steel cost structure were not influenced by the same cost structure as the exports of primary and secondary industry. There is no such thing as a free feed, and everybody knows it now. If only we could get our cost structure tuned to the world situation so that we could compete. We have a natural advantage in respect of iron and steel. We should employ our people on things that we are good at instead of persisting in employing them on things that we are not good at. 
That brings me to my main concern about this ministerial statement. I am most concerned about the highly protective attitude of the Government. There is a kind of pathetic belief that we ought to trade with other .countries for the sake of those other countries. I think it is a good idea, but the main thing that we ought to do is trade with them for our sake. If one looks back over the history of our trade with Asia one will see that before the war everybody said that Japan was an unfair competitor. The Japanese concentrated on the things they were good at and took advantage of their lower rate of wages and gradually Japan became a significant trading nation and the largest market for our primary products. Exactly the same thing has happened all over the world. The world is indeed like a bucket of worms. The world's economy is changing all the time. The textile industry in Japan had the natural advantage of lower rates of wages. The textile industry shifted off shore. It went to Taiwan and Korea. Those countries developed a textile industry and, in the same way as Japan, became very significant markets for our products. Things happened in a natural manner. 
The process is continuing. If one looks at the figures one will see that because the rates of wages in the countries forming the Association of South East Asian Nations are lower than in Korea and Taiwan the textile industry is shifting to the ASEAN countries. We poor, pathetic people are trying to stop the inevitable march of progress. Honourable members should look at the figures. The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  spelt them out in his usual logical manner. The labour force in South East Asia will virtually double between 1975 and 2000. Indonesia's labour force will jump from 45 million to 80 million; the Philippines' labour force will jump from 14 million to 28 million; Malaysia's labour force will jump from 4 million to 7 million; and Thailand's labour force will jump from 20 million to 35 million. By contrast, ours will rise from 4 million to 5 million. By sitting here like King Canute and saying that we are going to keep things the same we are trying to withstand the inevitability of change- change that will be to the benefit of not only the ASEAN countries but also Australia. 
One of the things that we have to realise is that every barrier to imports is an automatic barrier to exports. Every time we sit on the shore like 
King Canute and say 'Do not let these textiles come in', we automatically, because we have a flexible exchange rate that moves in relation to the trade balance, make it more difficult for exports to go out. Yet we sit here in the pathetic belief that we are creating employment. This is the tragedy of Australia's situation. With so many opportunities opening up before us we sit here like King Canute. I am probably doing him an injustice. He was trying to hammer home to his courtiers that it was the wrong way to behave but we still sit here while the opportunities wash around us. 
We have appointed a Minister for Special Trade Negotiations to tackle the problems in the European Economic Community. I have been unable to obtain the balance of trade figures between Australia and the EEC. I do not know whether we have a problem. I am certain that no one has a clear opinion of it. The opportunities that are opening up before us in the ASEAN countries are startling. Honourable members may be surprised to hear me pay this tribute but people in the EEC countries are splendid farmers.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you would be the most knowledgeable in this area. You know how good they are. I heard you say so the other day. The things we want to sell them are the things that we are good at growing such as wheat, flour and beef. Those are the products that they are also good at growing. They have a natural hesitation to trade with us. They put up barriers against imports in the same way as we do. 
The opportunities are boundless for us to sell to the ASEAN countries the things that they do not grow which we have a natural advantage in producing well. They need wheat, flour, beef, iron and steel and dairy products. We are messing around with the EEC and thinking that this is where our opportunities lie when those of us who know our farming realise that farmers in the EEC countries are very good at growing those things themselves.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I repeat that you would know more about this matter than anybody. Yet we are pretending that we will solve the problems relating to the EEC when the opportunities in the ASEAN countries are boundless. I am pleased to see that the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations  (Mr Howard)  has entered the chamber. I hope he will listen to my plea and realise that the opportunities do not loom in the EEC. I have no doubt that if they did he would squeeze every drop of juice out of that lemon but the real opportunities lie to our north. We have an advantage in that the ASEAN countries need the kind of things we produce naturally. Yet here we sit like King Canute saying that we must stop imports from these countries whatever we do. 
I want honourable members to remember that we cannot stop the inevitability of change. It is inevitable that we need to increase the tariff burden to keep out textile, clothing and footwear imports. We say that we are going to stop them and that whatever happens we will save employment in these industries. We are dedicated to the people serving in these industries and we will protect their employment. If we protect all these industries it will pay, even now, to go to Singapore to buy clothes. I have a friend. He dresses a lot better than I do. I suppose you would call him a flashy dresser. He had to buy three suits. I have never bought three suits at one time in my life. You may frequently do that,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because you are always the picture of sartorial splendour. This chap is also very well dressed. He wanted three suits and he was staggered to find they were going to cost him $900.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  do you know what he did? He bought a package ticket to Singapore. He bought the three suits he wanted and came back with $ 1 0 in his pocket. 
Even at the present rate of protection it is inevitable that we cannot stop the tide coming in as King Canute knew and demonstrated to his courtiers. We sit here pretending that we can stop the inevitability of trade. It is no good saying that we are going to stop imports at whatever cost. Perhaps we will then have to stop people going overseas. We will live in a citadel Australia. Yet we have always kidded ourselves that we live by exports. One of the things we ought to realisehonourable members on this side of the House and the Government are always most eloquent in saying this- is that inflation is the real problem. I often wonder whether they recognise that inflation is a long-winded name for rising prices. The category of goods which rose the fastest in the last cost of living figures was clothing. I knowthe Minister knows- that inflation is our problem. Yet we are pathetically trying to stop the inevitability of change and not recognising that we increase inflation by increasing the cost of clothing. 
Wherever one goes one finds the most eloquent criticisms of the people who have the nerve to place quotas in the way of beef and try to stop sugar coming in. Yet we have a range of quotas which has hardly ever been matched in the world. Perhaps that is not a fair criticism. There are other countries which are even worse but we are demonstrating that we can catch up with most. We criticise people who put barriers in the way of our trade while we demonstrate with frightening efficiency that we are determined to stop trade with other countries at almost any price. The tragedy of the ministerial statement is that we are denying ourselves not only the opportunity to help the ASEAN countries but also, above all, the opportunity to help ourselves. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations, upon notice, on 23 August 1977: 
Since Britain joined the European Economic Community, what imports and exports have passed between the EEC and Australia, classified by years and by commodities. 
