Constitutional responsibility for Southern Rhodesia resides in the United Kingdom Government. We have always accepted that position. For this and other reasons we have not recognised the Smith regime in Southern Rhodesia and we have no intention of changing our policy. 
As to the first two questions asked by the honourable gentleman, I should let him know that the administrative responsibility relating to the High Commission in London is within the jurisdiction of the Prime Minister's Department and not mine. But nonetheless I will try to obtain a copy of the statement that was alleged to have been made by the Australian High Commissioner. I will send a copy to the Prime Minister and at the same time I will have a look at it myself. As to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, again it is not within the jurisdiction of an individual Minister to do as he asks. If any member of this House wants, under the rules of free expression of opinion, to say what he honestly and sincerely believes ought to be said, he has a perfect right to do so. 
It is well known to the House, and I believe it is well known to the Australian people, that the North Vietnamese, assisted by the Communist Pathet Lao, have re-occupied the Plain of Jars and have pressed westward to Muong Soui after capturing Xieng Khouang, the airfield. Previously this field had been occupied by the Vang Pao forces. So we have clear evidence that the North Vietnamese are engaged in these operations. Souvanna Phouma, the Prime Minister of Laos, has informed us that the numbers involved are of the order of 50,000 or more and confirmatory evidence of this estimate comes from United States sources. I also mention to the honourable gentleman that Communist road builders are constructing a road from Chinese Communist territory down to Pak Beng on the Mekong River, close to the Thai border. This, of course, is of great concern to the Thai Government. The honourable gentleman also asked about the opinion of  Sir Robert  Thompson, one of the world's experts on guerilla and insurgency operations. He said, and has repeated, that he believes in the domino theory.  His  words were: T do not only believe in this but I have confirmation from the dominoes themselves'. He obviously meant by that comment that during his discussions with the governments of South East Asian countries they have expressed the opinion to him that the domino theory is valid. 
In the last part of his question the honourable gentleman asked about the validity of the theory itself. I have said in this House and I repeat, because we may now be witnessing the possibility of this theory becoming a fact, that the domino theory is valid in this sense. If Laos were to fall there is no doubt that the theory would apply and that the danger to neighbouring countries would correspondingly increase.  Sir, if  in a crucial area South Vietnam were to fall to Communist domination and Communist influences we would again have proof of the validity of this theory. I add one statement to what 1 have said: We on this side of the House make it clear, as the Americans have made it clear, that we will protect South Vietnam's right of self-determination and that we will not permit it to be subverted by outside influences. We do not want to see the dominoes given one further push to the south and closer to our shores. 
I did read the statement said to have been made by the honourable member for St George, which he can contradict if he wishes to, in which ho attempted to ridicule the Australian aid effort in South East Asia and other ports of the world. I think the best way to resolve this problem is to quote from the  Chairman  of the Development Assistance Committee which is under the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development - the authority, and the only authority, that examines aid programmes and which makes comments upon the size, equity and justice of them. Ambassador Martin said this: 
It is these days unfortunately a rare pleasure to be able to review an official aid programme which is growing steadily and substantially in volume and is also already at a high level in relation to national income by standards of international comparison. Australia's official aid programme however fits this pattern. 
Therefore we have from the very highest authority commendation of the Australian aid effort and what Australia is attempting to achieve. I do not want to argue that we are not prepared to or should not do more. There are always opportunities to do more and, of course, we regard the efforts we make to aid the South East Asian countries as having the highest priority. 
But as to four of the statements made by the honourable gentleman - who was quoted as being the  Deputy  High Commissioner but who happened to be a councillor, and I want that fact to be known - I want to show where the truth lies. In the first statement he said that we are purchasing wheat in order to get rid of a substantial surplus that has developed. In fact, the Minister for Trade and Industry negotiated the relevant Grains Arrangement and the Food Aid Convention in 1967 before the problems associated with the glut of wheat either in Australia or on the world markets appeared. So, far from trying to get rid of a surplus, it was done for humanitarian reasons. I well remember my approach to the question when the Minister for Trade and Industry first mentioned it to me. 
As to the second point raised by the honourable gentleman, that is, that three countries, Pakistan, India and Indonesia, because of the green revolution that has occurred in those countries, no longer have any necessity for wheat, I point out to him that not only have they a necessity for it, but they are importing it now because they need it in order to feed their hungry millions. The number of demands that have been made upon us to supply wheat under the Grains Arrangement and the Food Aid Convention is far in excess of our commitments, that is, 225,000 tons, and as far as I can make out from the forecasts given to me for next year, the demand will be even higher. 
The third statement of the honourable gentleman was that our grains assistance was of the order of 50%. It happens to be 30%. On the last point, that is, that we were supplying wheat at lower prices to Communist China, he obviously was badly misinformed here because all sales take place at current prices in the market where wheat is being sold. The differential in some cases is due to the grade of wheat and the cost of transporting wheat from Australia to the recipient country. 
Already the Prime Minister of Laos, Prince Souvanna Phouma, has asked the Co-Chairmen of the nations which were party to the Geneva Accords to call a conference in an endeavour to settle the problem or come to an accommodation with the North Vietnamese and Communist Pathet Lao. It is under consideration now. An attempt to refer the matter to the United Nations would not only delay it but also, I think, reduce the prospect of getting any sort of solution. Honourable members are probably aware that the Prime Minister of Laos did make an offer to the North Vietnamese Government for consultations in an attempt to arrange neutralisation. 
Souvanna Phouma. As you would expect, he got no reply. For that reason he had no alternative but to put the matter before the Geneva countries. 
The information requested by the honourable gentleman was made known to the House by the Prime Minister yesterday. I can confirm- 
For reasons that ought to be well known to the Leader of the Opposition, based on law which he claims to have some knowledge of but obviously not a great deal. It is a well known fact that during the Korean campaign the gentleman referred to by the honourable member for Lilley acted as a propagandist in the enemy lines on behalf of Communist forces. It is also well known and was made plain yesterday by the Prime Minister that the gentleman concerned did interview Australian prisoners of war and interrogate them in a way that was designed to lower their morale and which could have affected their attitude to the war. It is also known that during the Panmunjon discussions he operated as an agent or as a propagandist for the North Korean and the Communist forces, and that he made false allegations about bacteriological warfare during the course of the Korean campaign. Now, these are, I believe, sufficient reasons to refuse a passport to the gentleman concerned. I also point out to the honourable member that of course this gentleman is now trying to vindicate his conduct during the Korean campaign and also his conduct during the South Vietnamese campaign. But this conduct cannot be vindicated; it can only be abhorred by every person who holds the good name and reputation of this country in esteem. 
It is the policy of the Government and of my Department whenever it is thought to be reasonable and practicable to ensure that Australian cars are used in the missions and posts overseas. The only reservation is that if there are difficulties of maintaining the vehicles and of getting replacement parts, permission is given to purchase vehicles of overseas origin. So far as the heads of mission, ambassadors or High Commissioners are concerned, we have not insisted that that rule be observed. I do not think in these circumstances we should insist that they have vehicles manufactured in Australia. 
I assume that the honourable member's question refers to Embassies established in Australia at locations outside Canberra, and not to non-resident Ambassadors who are dually accredited to Australia. If this is so, the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (4) The Embassy of Lebanon, which is in Sydney. 
Lebanon had a Consulate-General in Sydney. It was converted into an Embassy in February 1968, and it was agreed at thai time that the Embassy would be removed to Canberra within a reasonable period. It is still the intention of the Lebanese Government to move the Embassy to Canberra. 
The Department of External Affairs has been discussing with the Embassy the moving of the Embassy to Canberra. 
I did not see the telecast of the interview with  Mr Smith  but I have since read a transcript of what he said. It is not for me to delve into the mind or the thinking of  Mr Ian  Smith, and I have not attempted to do so. Everybody who has read the transcript will have formed his own idea of what  Mr Smith  intended to say and what he thought. What I can say is that in recent days the United Kingdom Government has submitted a recommendation to the United Nations Security Council asking for confirmation that the unilateral declaration of independence is illegal and uncon stitutional. All nations have been asked to confirm their stand of not recognising the illegal regime. I can say on behalf of the Australian Government that we confirm it. Countries have been asked not to assist this illegal Government in Southern Rhodesia. The House may rest assured that we have no intention of giving any assistance to that Government. 
McEWEN HOUSE 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Between 19th August 1969 and 5th March 1970, which was the day the treaty entered into force, the following countries signed it in one or more of the depositary capitals (London, Washington and Moscow) on the dates indicated: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia was among the co-sponsors of resolutions at the 23rd and 24th General Assemblies of the United Nations on the problems of the human environment, and has given strong support to a Swedish initiative to focus world attention on the effect on human life of science and technology. The then Minister for External Affairs devoted to this subject a considerable portion of his statement in the general debate in the United Nations General Assembly on 22nd September 1969, and the full text will be found in Current Notes on International Affairs* for September 1969 on pages 477 to 479. 
In order to provide a framework for comprehensive consideration within the United Nations of these problems and to identify aspects of it that could best be solved by international cooperation, the 23rd session of the General Assembly decided to convene in 1972 a United Nations Conference on the Human Environment. At the 24th session of the General Assembly it was decided to establish a Preparatory Committee to advise the Secretary-General on preparations for the Conference to be held in Sweden in June 1972. 
Australia is not a member of this committee, but will be represented by an observer delegation at the first meeting, which will be held in New York from 10th to 20th March. 
In the light of reports from this observer delegation the Government will continue to give close consideration to the contribution which Australia might make to the work of the 1972 Conference. 
In addition, various aspects of pollution and conservation are involved directly or indirectly in the work of the international agencies, and Australia takes a full interest in this where it is relevant to Australian conditions. 
Treaty on Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (Question No. 44) 
the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The legal position is that Australia has never withdrawn recognition from the Governments of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania which were forced into exile by the U.S.S.R.'s invasion and occupation of those States in 1940. Australia has not explicitly extended recognition to any particular Government which may regard itself as a successor to one of those Governments which Australia recognised in 1940. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
It is premature to consider action. 
The Government deplores any atrocities or acts contrary to the dictates of humanity and the rules of war, regardless of who commits them. If such an act were committed by American forces, it would be an isolated incident and not an act of Government policy. The United States Government has set itself, publicly and privately, against acts contrary to the rules of war. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There is no record of any such case being brought to the attention of the Australian Ambassador to the Republic of Vietnam by either Vietnamese or United States authorities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At its 24th session- in 1969, the United Nations General Assembly approved two resolutions on the subject of chemical and biological warfare, numbers 2603 A and B. Resolution A declared as contrary to the generally recognised rules of international law, as embodied in the Geneva Protocol of 1925, the use in international armed conflicts of any chemical agents of warfare and any biological agents of warfare. Voting on it was 80 countries in favour, three (Australia, Portugal and the USA) against, with 36 abstentions. The abstaining countries included Canada, France, Israel, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and the United Kingdom. 
Resolution B called for strict observance of the principles and objectives of the Geneva Protocol; invited all slates that had not yet done so to become parties to the Protocol; and asked the Geneva Disarmament Committee to give urgent consideration to reaching agreement on the prohibition of chemical and biological warfare. Voting on this resolution was 120 countries (including Australia) in favour, none against, with one abstention. Australia co-sponsored this resolution. 
The Australian Government strongly supports efforts to negotiate, with a minimum of delay, such further effective methods of international control over chemical and biological warfare as may be necessary to ensure its prohibition. Australia is a party to the Geneva Protocol. Resolution 2603a, however, raised serious problems both from a legal point of view and from the point of view of substance. The Australian Permanent Representative to the United Nations explained these difficulties in detail in a statement in the General Assembly on 9th December 1969. 
There was no consensus at the Genera] Assembly in favour of the proposition of law asserted in resolution 2603a, and the Assembly itself has no power to make international law by resolution. - The measure of disagreement in this case indicates that Australia's misgivings were widely shared. 
Further informed and serious consideration of the problem of prohibiting chemical and biological warfare will be necessary in the Geneva Disarmament Committee before an acceptable and effective solution can be devised. The Government hopes that the Committee will give this matter the highest possible priority. 
See answer to (1) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (a), (b) and (c) Australia is not at present considering initiatives or proposals under these headings. The General Assembly of the United Nations will consider at its 25 th session this year an item which was deferred from its 24th session entitled 'Need to consider suggestions regarding the review of the Charter of the United Nations'. In the brief discussion of the subject at the 24th session of the General Assembly, opinion was divided on whether there was  a  need for revision of the Charter. The representative of Colombia who introduced the item noted that many present members of the United Nations had not been present at the drafting of the Charter. He considered that an opportunity should now be given them for making known their views on it. Some other delegations took the view that the Charter in its present form offered possibilities that had not all been used, and that revision might not add to its effectiveness. (d), (e) and (f) The relationship to revision of the Charter of these items is not apparent. With regard to (d) there is a Committee to Study the Peaceful Uses of the Sea-bed and the Ocean Floor of which Australia is currently a member. Australian delegations to sessions of this Committee receive instructions in accordance with Government policy relating to the questions which are under consideration. Similar considerations apply to (f). Australia is represented by an observer delegation at a meeting of the Preparatory Committee for the United ' Nations Conference on the Human Environment which is meeting in New York from 10th to 20th March, 1970. Australia is also currently  a  member of the United Nations Preparatory Committee for the Second Development Decade. Both these Committees report through the Economic and Social Council to the United Nations General Assembly. 
First of all, the assumption of the honourable gentleman is wrong. The answer to the second part of his question is no. 
Already the Fijian Government has initiated discussions with the Commonwealth Government to ensure that milling operations at least during this sugar season are carried out without interruption. Some days ago I received a cable from Ratu Mara, the Chief Minister of Fiji. He suggested that, he might come to Australia in order to have discussions with me and that, if possible, I should arrange discussions with the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd. The fact is that the sugar mill in Fiji is owned by the South Pacific Sugar Mills, which is to a large extent owned by the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd, although there are local shareholdings in the mill. I contacted  Sir James  Vernon, who arranged to meet me over the weekend before last with- several of his top officers. They informed me of all the facts and later informed me of the trend of the thinking of the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd and the way in which they would advise the South Pacific Sugar Mills. 
I immediately sent a cable to Ratu Mara. At the same time I informed  Sir James  Vernon and his colleagues that the Commonwealth had a great interest in this because of our very friendly relationship with the Fijian Government and that we did not want the present sugar season to be disrupted in any way. I must say that I thought the representatives of . the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd took an enlightened view. They informed me of the kind of action that they felt they should recommend to their board. That was done.  Sir James  went to Fiji. The company has agreed to accept what is called the Denning award', which is the arbitration award relating to pay and conditions in the sugar industry. The company will enter into the necessary agreement with the Fijian Government to operate for 3 seasons but has indicated that it may have to give under the agreement notice of termination which . will end at the expiration of the third period of the sugar season. I have just received a cable from Ratu Mara thanking the Australian Government for its attitude, and indicating that the sugar season will proceed normally and in the intervening period of two clear sugar seasons - that is, three seasons in all - his Government hopes it will be able to come to an agreement with the South Pacific Sugar Mills that will solve this very difficult problem. 
The answer to the first question asked by the honourable member is no. The answer to the second one is that I am one of those who have never been able to work out the internal workings of the Australian Labor Party, and I think that as it has been in Opposition now for well over 20 years it is clear that the Australian electorate in general also has never been able to work out how the Labor Party functions. As to the last question asked by the honourable member about a face saving compromise, I do not know because - again I have to give a now somewhat familiar answer - I can never work out the thinking of the Leader of the Opposition. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  extended the courtesy of letting me know the 2 amendments that he or one of his representatives intended to move when the motion was brought before the House. When thinking of the way in which this should be handled I decided that I would give the reasons why, after consultation with my colleagues, the first recommendation of the Opposition should not be accepted. There is nothing I can add to what I said in the speech that I just made. Regrettably the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  who spoke on behalf of the Leader of the Opposition, did not deal with the fundamental problem which is that the carriage of foreign policy is an executive and not a parliamentary responsibility. For that and for other reasons that are set out in the paper we feel that the amendment would introduce a dangerous element into the conduct of externa] affairs and consequently we are not prepared to accept the amendment. 
by leave -  Mr Speaker,  in this, my first speech to Parliament as Minister for External Affairs, I will not attempt a detailed round-up of world events. Instead I will try to describe some of the important movements in world affairs which an Australian Government must take into account in developing its foreign policy. Profound changes are taking place in the Asian and Pacific region - it is here we live and where we can make our greatest contribution. The effects of these changes cannot all be predicted with certainty. Consequently, we must remain sensitively aware of their effects and always ready to make adjustments where necessary. 
It is also the beginning of a new decade and a suitable time for us to take stock of what has been happening in the last few years of the 1960s and to assess it against the background of the broad objectives of Australian foreign policy. It cannot be repeated too often that the supreme objective of our foreign policy is to protect and enhance our security and other vital interests - political, economic and social. We must do this with the knowledge that our own welfare and security are inextricably bound up with the welfare and security of others. We must know precisely what the circumstances are, what dangers they present and what opportunities they offer, and in the context of such knowledge decide what we must do to solve our problems. 
In describing the major trends I believe it is the responsibility of an Australian Foreign Minister to present them objectively and candidly to Parliament. I also believe that the people of Australia must be taken fully into the Government's confidence about the problems which it faces in our international relations. I do not think these problems can be dealt with successfully unless the Australian people understand them and support the solutions which we propose. In foreign affairs candour is not always easy. Official confidences have to be respected and the feelings of our friends and allies have to be considered. The effect of our words on the public opinion of other countries also has to be weighed. Notwithstanding these limitations it is possible for the Government - indeed it is its duty - to speak frankly and to expose its policies to the fullest public debate. 
In the years following the Second World War practically all of our neighbours have ceased to be dependencies and have attained full sovereignty as independent nations. Throughout these 25 years each of them has struggled to establish stable and efficient administration, to maintain order and harmony within its territories and to raise the living standard of its peoples. By their own efforts and with economic and other help from friendly nations all of them have made significant progress. They have laid a solid basis on which, given favourable circumstances and the continuing co-operation of their economically more favoured friends, they might reasonably expect to make even more significant progress in the coming decade. 
As we enter the 1970s, however, we see a number of major trends which introduce important new factors which bear on future developments and which in some cases carry new strains and new problems for the region. The major trends in world affairs with which I propose to deal are: Communist policies; the reduction of British influence east of Suez and in particular the withdrawal of British forces from Malaysia and Singapore; the dramatic growth of Japan with the promise this has for greatly increased influence in the world at large and in our own region in particular, and the comprehensive doctrine enunciated by  President  Nixon concerning the world role of the United States. 
by leave - I move: 
That  a  joint committee be appointed to consider foreign affairs generally and to report to the Minister for External Affairs upon such matters as are referred to it by the Minister. 
That the committee consist of eight Members of the House of Representatives appointed by the Prime Minister, six Members of the House of Representatives appointed by the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives, four Senators appointed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, three Senators appointed by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and one  Senator appointed  by the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party in the Senate. 
That every appointment of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. 
That the Minister for External Affairs shall make available to the committee information within such categories or on such conditions as he may consider desirable. 
That the members of the committee shall hold office as  a  joint committee until the House of Representatives expires by dissolution or effluxion of time. 
That the committee shall have power to appoint sub-committees consisting of four or more of its members; and to refer to any such sub-committees any of the matters which the committee is empowered to consider. 
That the committee or any sub-committee shall have power to adjourn from place to place and to sit during any recess or adjournment of the Parliament and during the sittings of either House of the Parliament. 
That the committeeand its sub-committees shall sit in camera and their proceedings shall be secret unless the Minister at the request of the committee otherwise directs 
That seven members of the committee constitute  a  quorum of the committee and three members of a sub-committee shall constitute a quorum of that sub-committee 
That (a) on every occasion when the committee reports to the Minister on any matter pursuant to his request the committee shall inform  the  Parliament of the fact that it has so reported, otherwise the proceedings of the committee shall not be reported to either House; 
the Minister shall forward a copy of any such report as he has requested to the Leader of the Opposition for his confidential information; 
the committee may communicate with the Minister but all communications with the Minister and the fact of any such communication shall be confidential to the committee and the Minister. 
That the committee shall have power to invite persons to give evidence before the committee. 
That with the consent of the Minister for External Affairs, the committee shall have power to call for official papers or records. 
That all written and oral evidence submitted to or received by the committee in camera shall be confidential to the committee and the Minister. 
That any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report, but the protest or dissent may not introduce new matter not referred to in the main report. 
That the committee have power to consider the minutes of evidence and records of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs appointed in the previous Parliament relating to any matter on which that committee had not completed its consideration. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
That a message be sent to the Senate acquainting it of this resolution and requesting that it concur and take action accordingly. 
I want first of all to give an historical background of this Committee, a Committee which has worked well and which has brought many members of the Parliament into detailed contact with a multitude of foreign policy issues of concern to Australia. The establishment of a Foreign Affairs Committee was first proposed in 1949. After the return to office of a new Government, the Governor-General's Speech of February 1950 announced the intention to form a standing committee on foreign affairs - I quote from that statement - 'to give opportunities for full study and to serve as a source of information to Parliament'. The Joint Foreign Affairs Committee was subsequently established in October 1951, but for reasons which I shall not traverse here the Opposition did not appoint members to the Committee. Since it could not in practice be a joint committee at that time, the vacancies were filled by appointing additional members from the Government side of Parliament. 
This situation continued in successive parliaments until the expiration of the Twenty-fifth Parliament . in 1966, after which it was possible for the parties to agree on arrangements which would bring into being a joint committee, which the Government had always wanted. At that time early in 1967, following discussions between the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the then Minister for External Affairs, certain changes were proposed to the text of the resolution under which the Committe had functioned in the Twenty-fifth Parliament. These proved acceptable to both sides of this House and the Parliament passed a resolution in May 1967 establishing a joint committee on the agreed basis. This committee functioned throughout the last Parliament, as had been originally intended, with representation from both sides of the Parliament. The Government now proposes a continuation of these arrangements with some modifications of the committee's membership. 
The terms of the resolution now before the House are the same as in the motion agreed to in 1967, with one small change: After consultation between the Leader of the Opposition and myself and subsequent consultations within the parties, the representation of the Opposition members of the House has been increased from 5 to 6. Thus a minor alteration has been made to paragraph (2) of .the resolution. I hope that the House will adopt this resolution and allow the Committee to continue the valuable work which it had undertaken in 1967. The Government believes that the Joint Committee functioned well and successfully during the last Parliament. Its members had and took the opportunity to become more fully and deeply aware of matters of foreign policy of concern to this country. I have every hope that the Committee of this Parliament will carry forward the constructive, thoughtful work that was done in the previous Parliament and will contribute to a clear and considered view of international matters facing Australia in the years ahead. 
On 12th March the Leader of the Opposition proposed to me that the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs consider any matters that might be put by either House of the Parliament and that the Committee should as a general rule conduct its proceedings in public. The Government understands and has some sympathy with the objectives of the Opposition's proposal, lt does this insofar as those objectives are more fully and deeply to inform the Parliament and the Australian public on matters of foreign policy. Matters of foreign policy will often be vital to our national security. It is important therefore that the Parliament and the public should be as well informed as possible. That has indeed been the Government's purpose over the years in establishing and supporting the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs. The only question is: What are the procedures which will most effectively inform members of the Parliament on foreign policy issues and allow them to give consideration to these issues in depth? 
We must remember that the conduct of foreign policy is essentially a function of the Executive. It is the Government which must be responsible for formulating policy and for carrying it through on a day to day basis. This is a responsibility which the Executive cannot and should not abdicate. To have an erosion of the Executive's responsibility for foreign policy would be to abandon an approach which has been accepted in the past by governments of all parties and which is a tried and tested part of our constitutional practice. There is. I might add, a great difference between on the one hand the responsibility which rests on the Parliament in the matter of public finance and which underlines the operation of the Public Accounts Committee and, on the other, the responsibility which rests on the Parliament in the matter of foreign policy. An informed Parliament in matters of foreign policy is, in the Government's view, not only desirable but essential. A Parliament which can and is determined to debate in an informed way matters of foreign policy is again, the Government would say, not only desirable but essential. However, it would be quite inappropriate for the Parliament to go beyond its legislative function and beyond the bounds of informed public debate into the field of execution of our foreign policy. There would be other difficulties in agreeing to the Opposition's recommendation. 
In the past, the proceedings of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs have been in camera. If they were now to be in public the whole character of the Committee would be changed. The freedom which the Minister for External Affairs has had in placing information before the Committee would be greatly reduced. The freedom of witnesses appearing before the Committee would be greatly circumscribed. Australian officials could not serve the Committee with the frankness they do now if proceedings were, as a general rule, to be in public. Other people who appear before the Committee might naturally and properly show a much greater reserve in talking to the Committee than they do now. But even more than this, I think that members on both sides of the House are human enough for their behaviour in the Committee to be affected if the proceedings were held in public. If that were the case I think that members of the Committee might from time to time be inclined to take stands which might be publicly expected of them. 
One of the great strengths of the Committee in the past has been the manner in which members of the Committee have approached the issues before it. Generally the Committee is not divided along party lines and members have been concerned with national interest rather than party benefit. The Committee's report on the Middle East, which was tabled in the House last May illustrated the way in which Committee members were able to work together on a matter of serious international concern and to produce a balanced, impartial report. This is something which we want to see continue. 
The Government is therefore unable to accept the request made by the Leader of the Opposition. That would change the fundamental character of the Committee. But I would like to emphasise again the Government's long standing and determined policy to keep the Parliament informed on foreign policy issues. The Government's rejection of the Opposition's request does not derive from any intention to depart from that policy. On the contrary, the Government believes that it can best carry out its policy of continuing the arrangements for the Committee which have worked so well in the past. 
 I can but repeat what I said earlier and that is that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  had been courteous enough to let me know of both amendments which were to be proposed on behalf of the Opposition. Already one has been dealt with but the two happen to be interlocking and 1 will therefore of necessity have to deal with both of the resolutions in what I intend to say now. First of all, might I mention that there is nothing new in these debates because those honourable members who have a good memory or who have cared to look up the reports in Hansard will see that exactly the same problems arose in 1951 and exactly the same questions and answers were given then as are being presented to the House tonight. So there is no novelty at all in what the Opposition is putting to us. There is no novelty whatsoever in the arguments which it puts and which have previously been rejected. 
The second point I want to make is one which ought to be made again and again in this House. It is a constitutional problem which at least one member of the Opposition recognised, that is the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  But the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  who put the second proposal obviously do not understand it. Under the constitutional system as we understand it there is a division of function between the legislature, the Executive and the judiciary. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b). The Government has not yet made a decision on either of these matters. 
Aircraft: Anti-pollution Devices  (Question No. 67) 
Recently the Australian Government was advised that the French Government had decided to continue nuclear tests in the Pacific area close to Tahiti. We have since advised the French Government officially that we object to the tests being carried out. We did so for two reasons. Firstly we think it is unfortunate that when considerable thought is still being given to a comprehensive nuclear test ban the partial nuclear test ban treaty should be defied. We regard it as a fundamental step towards outlawing the use of nuclear weapons completely and as a basic step towards total disarmament, if they can ever be achieved practically. 
There is a second reason. We believe that the people in the Pacific area are entitled to lead their lives free from the fear of atomic fallout or some sort of harm to their way of living. We are not able to say exactly what kind of test it will be, but we have expressed our very deep regret to the 
French Government that it should find it necessary to carry out any kind of atmospheric test in this area. We do hope that the French Government will take some notice of our protests and those of other governments. 
It is true that in the recent General Assembly there was a resolution by the United Nations on co-operation to avoid racial discrimination. We are giving the resolution the closest consideration. The honourable member may be assured that it meets our full wishes and we wilt do all we can to implement it. 
It is critically important to us that there should be a balanced presentation of the Australian point of view in relation to the retention of troops and our ultimate objectives in Vietnam. Our purposes are clear. We are there - as we originally went there - in order to attempt to maintain the freedom and the independence of the people of South Vietnam. 
Opposition members - Oh, no. 
I am glad that by its reaction the Opposition identifies itself here. Its obvious reaction illustrates the wide difference that exists between the Opposition and the Government. We are there to protect freedom and decency and the right of those people to look after themselves free from intimidation and from aggression from outside. As to the objectives of the Moratorium Campaign, what is of significance is that it urges the immediate withdrawal not only of Australian troops but of foreign troops and it does not specify that the foreign troops include the invading forces of North Vietnam. So anyone who participates in this kind of moratorium march, or whatever else it might be, is therefore, unless, some correction can be made, supporting the forces of aggression and supporting those who want South Vietnam to be dominated by other countries rather than by the people of the country itself. 
As to a balanced presentation, 1 believe that other countries will take little or no notice of the moratorium marchers. By way of illustration I can point to the failure of the moratorium marchers in the United States of America towards the end of last year. The final march was abandoned because the marchers found that the silent majority were strongly expressing their resentment to what the left wing minority in that country were doing. Consequently,  Sir, you  are entitled to think they will do the same in this country if they get the opportunity to do so. As to the meeting attended by the Leader of the Opposition, I have been informed that he did attend a meeting of the Queensland Trades and Labour Council. 
It is well known that that Council as distinct from the New South Wales Trades and Labour Council, which the Leader of the Opposition nominally supports, is under strong left wing control. 
Opposition Members - Oh! 
Again I am glad to see the divisions opening up between the Government and the Opposition because it it some time since we have seen these sharp divisions between the Government and the new found Opposition benchers, who as ye: have not been able to control themselves. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)There is no point of order. I point out to the honourable member for St George that he should not abuse the Standing Orders of the House. 
We will learn more about the honourable member for St George as the days go by. 
We will see. 1 finish on this note. There is no doubt that the Leader of the Opposition was present at the meeting of the Queensland Trades and Labour Council and there is no doubt that the matter of the moratorium marches was raised. I am informed and I believe it to be true - but if it is not true either as to his presence or as to his comments he can deny it. This in itself will be significant - then when the discussion was over- 
Motion (by  Mr Uren)  negatived: 
That the Minister be not further heard. 
I have only this to say: The Leader of the Opposition can, if he wishes, deny it but he is also asked to deny whether he said when this question of the moratorium march was completed: 'I am with you. I go along with you and I support you.' 
I had no contact with  Mr Burchett,  nor would I ever wish to have any contact with him. So far as my Department is concerned. I read in the newspapers that he was anxious to establish a rapport with the Department and I think if he had established any my Department would have let me know. If he had asked to contact me, I probably would have unwillingly said yes without any kind of enthusiasm whatsoever. 
As to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, I have not heard anything about the matter he raises. Nonetheless I will make inquiries for him and let him know whether the Department knows any more than he appears to know at present. 
by leave - I am sure the House will be pleased to learn that the Commonwealth Government has decided to make a grant of $53.8m - $US60m - in economic assistance to Indonesia for the 3 year period 1970-71 to 1972-73. In the current financial year 1969-70 the level of our assistance will be about $15m. The increase clearly shows the Government's desire to assist Indonesia's enormous developmental needs. Following the remarkable recovery of the Indonesian economy during the past 3 years it also shows the Government's confidence that assistance is being used effectively to promote economic development. 
In 1966 the Suharto Government inherited an economy that was in great difficulties externally, with strong internal inflation and a declining productive sector. By 1969 inflation had been brought under control, exports were increasing and the productive sector was moving forward again. Credit for this dramatic improvement in the economy must be given to the sound policies of the Indonesian Government. These efforts have been backed by a flow of international assistance from Western donors. Indonesia is now in a position to move from the stabilisation stage into the development stage, which began with the five year development plan in 1969. 
The problems faced by Indonesia are still immense. The heavy legacy of economic neglect of earlier years will take time, resources and determination to overcome. Reflecting these needs and the greater opportunities for an effective attack on these problems, Western donors of the 
Inter-governmental Group on Indonesia have endorsed the assessment by international agencies that Indonesia requires $US600m in assistance for the period up to 31st March 1971. This compares with a request for$US500m for 1969. Australia's commitment of $53. 8m forms a part of this international effort. Of course, it relates to a longer period than the $600m Indonesia requires up to 31st March 1971. In the past our aid commitments have been made, in accordance with our budgetary practices, on a year by year basis. However, this year we are making a commitment for 3 years, so that theIndonesian Government, with this forward knowledge, can integrate our aid commitment into its own planning. 
We envisage that our aid will be disbursed on a rising scale, so that expenditure will be greater in the last year of the 3 year period than in the first. As in the past this assistance will take the form of balance of payments support through what is called the B.E. or export bonus system, supply of commodities, including wheat flour, economic development projects, technical assistance and student training. As Indonesia turns from the immediate problems of stabilisation towards the longer term goal of economic growth, we think there will be a shift in our own programme with greater emphasis on project aid. 
We are continuing the current railway rehabilitation and telecommunications projects and in the coming year plan to start on projects for the renewal of town water supply systems in Bogor and Den Pasar. We are investigating in a preliminary way a projectto rehabilitate the port of Tjilatjap on the south coast of Java, where a number of Australian firms plan investment. 
I would like to mention the AustraliaAsia university aid and co-operation scheme. Whilst it is not financed from the Indonesian aid vote which I announced it is being directed principally to Indonesia. This programme is designed to set up a framework of co-operation between Australian universities and universities in Indonesia and also in Malaysia and Singapore. It will provide fellowships for research and staff training in Australia, travel awards for Australian university staff to work in the recipient universities and supply of library books and laboratory equipment. 
Initially the scheme will concentrate on research and training associated with food production. This bilateral aid by Australia and other donors is being supplemented by assistance from the multilateral aid institutions to which Australia contributes, such as the International Development Association and the Asian Development Bank. 
I should add that none of Australia's aid is debt relief. This is simply because all our aid has been on a grant, not loan, basis. Thus, Australia is not one of Indonesia's creditors. But Australia shares Indonesia's concern that a satisfactory long term solution must be found to the huge international indebtedness inherited from the previous regime. If Indonesia is to succeed in the task of raising living standards, her creditors must reach a realistic settlement of these debts. This settlement must be within Indonesia's capacity to pay. Australia cannot stand back from the problems which Indonesia faces. Indonesia has been, and continues to be, the largest recipient of our bilateral aid outside Papua and New Guinea. I believe that the decision to give Indonesia $53. 8m over 3 years reflects the wish of all Australians to play their part in the international effort to assist our nearest neighbour in the task of raising the living standards of its 118 million people. I commend this to the House. 
The  answer  to the  honourable  member's  question is  as  follows: 
and (2) The Australian Government does not recognise the so-called German Democratic Republic, nor, therefore, any territorial claims it might make. In the view of the Australian Government, the Four Powers still retain those rights and responsibilities for Berlin which they assumed after World War  II. 
The  answers to the honourable member's questions are  as  follows: 
In law a treaty has no force in nonparticipating states. 
Australian Ministers have made numerous statements in recent years in answer to questions in Parliament on the subject of chemical and biological warfare generally and, more specifically, on the use of non-lethal chemicals in Vietnam. These are available in the Parliamentary library. The United States Government has also made numerous public statements on both matters. The latest of these, which dealt with United Slates' policy on chemical and biological warfare, were made by President Nixon in Washington on 25th November 1969 and by the office of the White House Press Secretary at Key Biscayne, Florida, on 14th February 1970.  In  addition, the United States and the Australian Governments maintain close contact,  at  all appropriate levels, on the use of non-lethal chemicals in Vietnam. None of these activities, however, could be described as an exchange, or exchanges, of policy statements between Australia and the United States. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 
Australia subscribes to the principles of the United Nations Charter in respect of selfdetermination. In the Territory of Papua-New Guinea, where Australia has primary responsibility, Australian policy has long been based on those principles. In respect of other dependent Territories in the area, the responsibility under the United Nations Charter rests on the administering powers. The objective of co-operation between the countries of the area is one which I strongly commended in my parliamentary statement on 19th March 1970, andthe Australian Government has from time totime taken any available opportunities to promote it. 
It has been repeatedly made clear in the United Nations that Australia fully accepts the principle of self-determination and that we do not support policies or actions of governments which might deprive peoples of their exercise of this principle. 
Communist parties do not play any part in determining the Government's policies. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has not received any request from the Ceylon Government for the provision of cool- . store facilities to enable potato seed to be preserved. If such a request is received, it would be considered along with any other requests for aid. Australia's approach is to respond to requests from aid-receiving countries based on their assessment of their needs. 
If the Ceylon Government should make a request for the provision of seed potatoes under the Australian aid programmes, this would, of course, be considered. Seed potatoes from Australia were supplied as aid in 1966-67, but more recently Ceylon has given priority to assistance in the development of its sugar industry and, in response to requests, Australia has supplied equipment and advisers for this purpose. 
-The last part of the honourable gentleman's question is a little peremptory. As yet I have received no official information or no official request whatsoever from  Mr Holyoake,  the Prime Minister of New Zealand. I have read some newspaper comment. I shall make inquiries as soon as I leave the chamber to see whether a message is in the Department but has not yet been delivered to my office. As messages are usually quickly delivered I should be surprised if there is one there. 
I should tell the honourable member that already  Mr Schurmann,  the French Foreign Minister, has floated - I use the word as it indicates his intention - the idea of an international conference relating to the whole of the Indo-Chinese peninsula. He envisages that the signatories to the Geneva Convention plus representatives of the International Control Commission, the Provisional Revolutionary Government, the Vietcong and various other groups weighted heavily towards what could be called the left should be convened in a Geneva type conference. He made it clear that he merely floated his idea to try to get a reaction, and that he will not go any further until he ascertains whether there is sufficiently great support for his proposals to permit him to do so. From what I have been able to find out - at the moment the information is tentative and I cannot regard it as conclusive - there does not appear to be any enthusiasm at all on the part of the Communists for the proposal put forward by the French Foreign Minister. 
I did read in a prominent national newspaper an article headed Japan Should Re-arm'. The article attributed to the Ambassador designate to Japan the statement that economic interests would lead to a military presence of Japan in the Pacific theatre. Prior to his departure for overseas the Ambassador designate left with mc a copy of the speech he intended to make upon arrival in Japan. He asked the Embassy to distribute the speech for him. I looked carefully at that speech before and after the Ambassador designate's arrival in Japan and I have come to the conclusion that there is nothing in the draft of the speech which could create the impression that he was in favour of Japanese re-armament and a Japanese military presence in other parts of the Pacific. If the Leader of the Opposition would like to see a copy of that draft 1 will be only too happy to make it available. 
It did not have to be approved, and when the Leader of the Opposition sees it he will see there is no reason for it to be approved. I referred this matter to  Mr Freeth  and this day received a cable from him in which he says: 
The report is, I need hardly say, completely misleading in both the heading and the opening paragraphs. The tenor of my remarks on the question of Japanese military efforts outside Japan was that the Japanese themselves had made it clear that they were not contemplating any sort of a military role beyond their own territory and thai their contribution to ' regional stability and security would be limited to the economic field. 
If the Leader of the Opposition would like a copy of this cable I will make it available to him. I think it wise that when misrepresentations of this kind occur, in fairness to an ambassador designate - for that matter in fairness to anyone associated with this House - I should put the matter beyon'd doubt and clarify the position of the person involved. 
We have informed the French Government that we will not give it access to Australian territory either by use of air space or land space if its aircraft concerned are carrying fissionable material. I believe that this is as far as we can go, but I certainly will watch this matter with the greatest caution to see that our objectives are achieved. 
I want to express deep regret both on my own behalf and on behalf of the Government about those frightful events which took place in Guatemala City. They are to be regretted, and our sympathy goes to the relatives of those people who have suffered. As to the safety of our representatives in some South American countries - and I would not like to identify them - we have instructed each of the posts to let us know whether they feel that any special precautions should be taken and whether there is any help we can give by . communicating with overseas governments or by advising our diplomats on what precautions can be taken. 1 have already received at least 2 cables in answer to the cables we have sent to them. Those who have replied have assured us that they do not feel any danger and that for the moment they do not want any special action to be taken. As soon as I get answers to the other cables we have sent 1 will advise the honourable gentleman. 
The honourable gentleman will be disappointed to learn that no report of this nature was made by  Sir Keith  Waller, the former Ambassador to the United States. I did see a report in a reputable weekly newsletter to this effect. It is incorrect. It is true we did receive through normal diplomatic channels and staff sources a commentary on the Nixon report that had been made to the United States Congress. It would take me a whole second reading speech to go through it, but I can assure the honourable gentleman that the interpretation that he has placed upon it is wrong. In fact I have read to this House from the report the exact paragraphs relating to South Vietnam. As to whether there has been a downgrading of any country, I do not think this is a fair interpretation to make. As has been pointed out by the United States authorities, this is a world review. I do not think for one moment that the sequence of presentation can be taken as indicating the order of priorities of  President  Nixon. I want to point out that he does not state that the major theatre of danger in the world is the Middle East countries. If we take the order of presentation of ideas we see that he would give priority to Western Europe and would give it importance over any other area. The fact that he does not mention such matters as the ANZUS treaty or does not deal in detail with the problems of Vietnam must not in any circumstances be taken as indicating that he is not interested in or has a lesser interest in these areas. The Nixon Doctrine, the Guam Doctrine, is sufficient indication of his interest and the statement that I made to the House on Thursday, 19th March last, shows that it is a clear indication of his opinion of Vietnam. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. As I informed Parliament on 18th March, 1 have been in contact with the Chief Minister ofFiji Ratu  Sir Kamisese  Mara, and the General Manager of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company,  Sir James  Vernon. 
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. and/or its subsidiary have been operating in Fiji for many decades and the company has invested considerable capital in its operations there. Over the years its aggregate profits have been substantial. 
The secrecy provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act do not allow the Commissioner of Taxation to disclose the taxation affairs of a particular company. However, any company that is a resident of Australia for income tax purposes is allowed a rebate of tax in respect of dividends from abroad, paid out of overseas profits and included in its taxable income. The company accordingly does not, in effect, pay Australian tax on such dividends. Tax is, of course, payable by individual shareholders in the company when these dividends are re-distributed as dividends by it. 
The Australian Government has on a num-. ber of occasions made clear its friendly interest in Fiji and in the welfare of its people. In 1968-69 Australian bilateral aid to Fiji amounted to $A853,785. In addition, substantial assistance to Fiji was provided under multi-lateral aid programmes to which Australia is a contributor. The Australian Government is not responsible for private Australian companies in Fiji or in other countries. The future of the sugar industry in Fiji is primarily one for the Government of Fiji, the Colonial Sugar Refining Company and its subsidiary in Fiji, South Pacific Sugar Mills. The Australian Government is aware of the importance of the sugar industry for Fiji and is naturally con cerned that the question of the future of the industry should be resolved to the satisfaction of the parties directly involved. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Trainees from the following countries have attended Foreign Service Training Courses: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The review of the terms of Australia's acceptance of the compulsory jurisdiction of the Internationa) Court of Justice, mentioned in my pre 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2)  Mr James  was issued with an Australian passport in February 1969, but I have no knowledge as to whether he had this passport when he entered Mainland China. 
When it was reported that  Mr James  had not been seen after he had travelled from Canton to the Hong Kong border and concern was expressed as to his whereabouts, inquiries were made immediately to locate him. These included inquiries through the appropriate channels to the authorities in Peking who have not yet replied. 
The Department of External Affairs is continuing to seek information through any channel which might lead to ascertaining the present whereabouts and ensure the well-being of  Mr James. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No Australians have been killed, wounded or reported missing in Laos since 1960. 
I did not hear the radio broadcast and consequently I do not know of its full contents. What I can say, without any thought of approval of either the philosophies, the policies or the international potential relationships of the Peking Government, is that the word 'Communism' has lost its original meaning - that is, from each according to his abilities to each according to his needs. As well, the idea of the dictatorship of the proletariat has long since been abandoned in favour of the idea of the dictatorship of the Communist parties whether they happen to be in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, China or any other part of the world where Communism prevails. What I can say about the philosophies of the Communist movement is that wherever the Communists have set up a government it has been a domination of the rest of the community by the Communist Party. All elements of democracy have ben abandoned and all liberal theories and principles - as, for example, the liberal reforms that were attempted in Czechoslovakia - have been abandoned and there is a rigid repression of any kind of liberal thought. 
So whilst I. cannot comment on the exact phraseology used by the Chinese Communists 1 can at least say that none of them approves of the principles of democracy. Where we see Communism in action we see the destruction of the rights of human beings as individuals. 
Neither the United States nor the South Vietnamese signed the Geneva Agreement of 1954 or the Accords of 1962. Therefore the statements made by the honourable member for St. George are inaccurate. What did happen was that the United States, consistently with the United Nations Charter, declared that it would abide by the provisions of the United Nations Charter. But it went on to say, consistently with the United Nations Charter, that if there was a breach of the peace or a threat of a breach of the peace it would regard this matter as of great concern. 
The second point raised was whether the South Vietnamese Government signed the Agreement. It did not sign the Agreement and therefore the honourable gentleman was again wrong. The South Vietnam Government did make a declaration saying that it would do all in its power to ensure that there was peace throughout the whole of Vietnam. It went on to protest against the Agreement that had been made because it said it was contrary to the long term interests and the wishes of the people of South Vietnam who had a right to independence and freedom and did not want aggression within their own territory. The simple fact is that the Agreement and the Accords of 1962 were violated and flagrantly abused by the North Vietnamese Government and the Vietcong. That is where the responsibility lies. The honourable gentleman asked whether Australia aided and abetted the breach of the Agreement. I repeat that the violation of these Agreements came from the North. 
As to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, which related to the standard of efficiency of the Department, I want it to be known that I do not regard the honourable member for St. George as reflecting either the standard of efficiency or the integrity of the Department that I have the honour to administer. If he wants one other illustration of his lack of capacity for the truth I will mention what happened when he asked for permission to make a personal explanation. He said that he had written that part of the document which related to aid to Indonesia. He had nothing whatever to do with the collection of the facts or the writing of the document. He happened to be in the information and distribution section where he had the responsibility for distributing and editing it, but he had not part whatever to do with the collection of the information or the presentation of the facts. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The present career diplomatic staff of the Department of External Affairs number 288, divided into the following classifications: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia's contributions to the Laos Foreign Exchange Operation Fund (F.E.O.F.) have been: 
1 had neither heard nor had 1 been informed of the statement alleged to have been made by  Mr Chamberlain.  But if it is true then neither his- facts nor his analogies are correct. In the first place, Czechoslovakia was invaded by the Soviet and other Warsaw Pact countries. It was a violation of Czechoslovakian independence, and the subsequent effects were that the liberal regime - the Dubcek Smrkovsky regime - was in fact replaced, Dubcek was sent out of the country, all liberal reform ceased and NeoStalinism was once again resumed in that country. On the contrary in the case of Cambodia there had been a violation of the Cambodian territory by the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong. The United States-South Vietnamese action is designed with 1 purpose and that is to protect the lives of free allied forces, because unless those sanctuaries in Cambodia are cleaned out they will in fact be used by the Cambodians as a sanctuary and consequently places where they can go and remain free from attack. So,  Sir, the  analogy is totally wrong. The invasion in both of these cases is by Communist forces and they are the ones,  Sir, who  are guilty of aggression. May I correct one word? I said Cambodians. I should have said North Vietnamese - Vietcong.  
It does nol get away from the fact that it is invasion. 
It is true that in the 1954 Geneva Agreements North Vietnam and Communist China - continental China - joined in assuring the territorial integrity of Cambodia. That is clear. But North Vietnam never abided by the provisions of those Agreements and in fact, as the Leader of the Opposition has said, a little more than 5 years ago the North Vietnamese Vietcong attacked and violated the territorial integrity of Cambodia. As for the last part of the honourable gentleman's question relating to Sihanoukville and the supply routes to III and IV Corps areas of South Vietnam, the fact is that well over 85% of the total supplies reaching III and IV Corps areas go through Sihanoukville. This is a privilege that could not be given under any kind of international law or international understanding. This is another indication of the fact that the invading forces in South Vietnam - the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong - were being supplied through this channel. The sooner it is stopped the sooner will the war itself be stopped. 
Some time ago the United Kingdom Government approached the co-chairman of the 1954 Geneva Convention and asked that the cochairman attempt to have the International Control Commission again take over its supervisory roles in Cambodia. The Government of the Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics refused point blank to do so. Independently, the matter was referred by the United Kingdom Government to the various nations concerned. So, too, did President Nixon of the United States of America make a plea that the International Control Commission be re-established. Efforts are being made not only in those 2 countries but elsewhere to achieve this objective. So far there has been no success. In the Government's view reconvening of the Commission would be wise. I think it can be taken for granted that it is 1 of the 3 objectives for which we will press at the Djakarta conference. These objectives are, firstly, to establish the fact that we do not believe in interference in the affairs of other nations; secondly, that we believe in the right of each country to determine its own future; and thirdly, that we hope to achieve the reconvening of the International Control Commission or, if that is not possible, something equivalent to it. 
Yes, I have received widespread adverse comments about the operations of the North Vietnamese and Vietcong in Cambodian territory. In the substance of his question the honourable gentleman asks about the application of the Brezhnev doctrine. I have not heard the speech made by the honourable member for Lalor but I have been made aware of the contents of that speech. He in effect said that he agreed with the statement made by  Senator Fulbright  that the North Vietnamese had the right to secure friendly governments in neighbouring countries. He went on to explain that he meant by neighbouring countries' Laos and Cambodia. Prompted by somebody in the background he then included Thailand in the description of the countries that he felt could be occupied by the North Vietnamese without violating international rights in any way. This to me is a pecular doctrine. It claims that because you happen to be a North Vietnamese and therefore from a Communist country you have the right to violate the territorial integrity of other countries. This is something that no-one on this side of the House believes and we will see from the Opposition whether all honourable members on the other side of the House agree with the honourable member for Lalor. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has been involved in four of the many Mekong River projects. These are the Sambor Dam in Cambodia, the Pa Along Dam on the Laos/Thailand border, the Prek Thno Dam in Cambodia and the Nam Ngum Dam project in Laos. 
Details of Australia's expenditure on these projects are: 
The numbers of Australian experts who have been engaged on these projects are - 
Sambor and Pa Mong . . . . 18 
Prek Thnot . . 33 
Australia has not undertaken any ecological studies in connection with these projects. 
Australian participation in the Sambor and Pa Mong projects (geological investigations) was completed in 1962 and 1963 respectively. Construction of the Prek Thnot Dam began in November 1969. Construction of the Nam Ngum Dam commenced in November 1968. 
Construction of the main works at Prek Thnot is expected to be completed by the end of 1972. Work at Nam Ngum is scheduled to be completed in late 1971, although it is possible that the Nam Ngum project may not be completed before 1972. 
Laos: Foreign Exchange Operation Fund  (Question No. 635)  Mr Barnard  asked the  Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
How much has Australia contributed to the Laos Currency Stabilisation Fund in each year since its inception. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Most of the countries of the Maphilindo area are already co-operating together both bilaterally and in the context of such organisations as ASEAN, ASPAC and ECAFE. Promotion of co-operation is a matter for the countries themselves. The Australian Government has publicly welcomed such co-operation. 
There are no independent Melanesian countries. The metropolitan governments responsible for Melanesian territories promote co-operation between them in the fields of health and economic and social development through the South Pacific Commission which was established in 1947 on the initiative of Australia and New Zealand. 
Border liaison arrangements are in force between Papua-New Guinea and the Indonesian Province of West Irian, and the administrative authorities of the two territories co-operate in such practical fields as health and quarantine procedures. 
Members of the TPNG House of Assembly have visited Malaysia to examine Malaysian national and rural development policies, and exchange visits have been facilitated between Papua-New Guinea and Malaysian officials concerned with land development. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following reports of the Foreign Affairs Committee have been tabled in the House: 
1 11th September, 1952 - Report relating to the Peking Peace Conference. 
25th November, .1953 - Report relating to the Committee's Activities and functions. 
24th October, 1956 - Report relating to Extradition. 
22nd May, 1963 - Report relating to the status of Berlin as it affects the relationship between the  Major Powers  and Australia as an integral part of the Western World. 
13th May, 1966- Paper on the United Nations, dated May, 1966. 
28th May, 1969- Report on the Middle East 
The number of meetings held by the Committee in each year, and totalling 401 meetings, is shown hereunder: 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Australia did not give reasons for its abstention on the vote referred to in (2) below. However, shortly before this vote was taken Australia supported an amendment by Ghana which would have had the question referred to the Committee for the Twenty-fifth Anniversary of the United Nations. This committee, which had been requested, among other things, to consider proposals 'for increasing the effectiveness of the United Nations' would have been requested to report 'as appropriate' to the Twenty-fifth session of the General Assembly. The Ghanaian amendment was defeated. 
Yes, except Albania, whose vote was not recorded. 
We are not aware of any formal proposals to this effect. 
Australia is aware of these and other views expressed during debates of the Twenty-fourth General Assembly. These views were stated in general debate and the Australian delegation did not indicate either support or opposition. 
(a) Australia voted in support of the recommendation of the General Committee to include the Colombian item on the agenda of the Twentyfourth General Assembly. The vote was 74 in favour, ill against and 16 abstentions. The item was allocated to the Sixth Committee without objection. 
Australia abstained on the vote in plenary session of the Assembly where the resolution recommended by the Sixth Committee was adopted with 69 in favour, 11 against and 22 abstentions. 
Australia did not express its views in these debates. Australia was not a member of the General Committee where the question of placing the item on the agenda was considered initially. 
Official records of the United Nations are available at the Australian National Library, in public libraries of the State capitals and in some University libraries. These records would offer the best source of material for those who are interested in the study of this subject. Copies  of  the United Nations Charter are obtainable  on  request from the United Nations Information Centre at 20 Bridge Street, Sydney, or the United Nations Association  at  126 Phillip Street, Sydney. 
The  answer  to the  honourable  member's  question  is  as  follows: 
and (2) In substance the question is the same as Question on Notice No. 1241 addressed by the honourable member to the then Minister for Labour and National Service. I have nothing to add to the answer given to mal question (Ilansard' 29th and 30th May 1969. page 2, 607). 
The  answer  to the  honourable  member's  question  is  as  follows: 
The information given below in response to the honourable member's question has been supplied by the authorities in the countries and territories concerned. Where figures for wage rates are available they have been converted to Australian currency at prevailing rates of exchange: 
American Samoa, Guam and Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands 
There are no minimum cash wages for plantation (farm) workers. The plantations, or farms, in these areas are worked as family projects by family groups and there are no contracts as such. Medical treatment is provided by the respective territorial governments on a nominal basis or at no cost if the patient is unable to pay. There are no prescribed hours of work. Crops grown are mainly copra and taro. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
In 1968-69, the latest year for which figures are available, Australia provided $35,012,000 in non-military aid to Asian countries. No aid is given to Japan or Mainland China, although there is a programme of reciprocal fellowships with Japan under the cultural relations programme. 
According to information available to the OECD Development Assistance Committee, Western donors provided $2,750m in non-military aid to Asia in 1968, the latest full year for which such information is available. Japan was a net aid donor. No figures are available for Mainland China, but Mainland China is believed not to be  a  recipient of aid from any source. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The recommendations of the Sunderland Report on Medical Aid to Vietnam have been accepted and adopted as listed: 
As recommended by Professor Sunderland the main emphasis of the Australian medical aid effort in Vietnam continues to be the provision of a patient care service with a surgical bias. 
The scale of the medical aid programme has been reduced and modified. At the lime of Professor Sunderland's visit, the Australian Surgical Teams in Vietnam comprised: 
Vung Tau - 7 members Ba Ria - 4 members Long Xuyen - 8 members Bien Hoa - 17 members These have been reduced to: Bien Hoa - 17 members 
Long Xuyen - 2 members (now a subsidiary of the Bien Hoa team). 
As recommended, the Surgical Team pro-' gramme has been concentrated at Bien Hoa. 
In the light of the recommendations against indefinite commitments for medical aid projects, time limits for the surgical teams have been accepted as follows: 
Bien Hoa - 1974 
Long Xuyen - reviewed at 6-monthly intervals. 
Along the lines recommended by Professor Sunderland Australian medical staff at Bien Hoa Hospital now consists of five surgeons and two paediatric doctors supported by an anaesthetist, a laboratory technologist and nursing staff. Radiographic support is provided by Vietnamese staff trained by Australian radiographers. 
Professor Sunderland's recommendation against any substantial involvement by Australia in the Public Health field has been accepted. 
With regard to the recommendation for assistance with rebuilding the Bien Hoa hospital, a substantial renovation programme has been completed since Professor Sunderland's visit. Consideration  is  being given to an expansion of this building renovation programme. 
I can but repeat what I said in this House on the 23rd of last month in answer to a question by the honourable member for Diamond Valley, and that is that neither the United States of America nor South Vietnam was a signatory to the Geneva Agreements of 1954. Since they were not signatories to those Agreements under no circumstances could they have committed a breach of them. As I said, both Governments made a declaration in relation to their attitude to the Geneva Agreements of 1954 - that is, that they wanted to maintain the territorial integrity and the freedom of the former states of lndo-China. As to elections, 1 can speak from personal experience. 1 was in South Vietnam for 4 days during last month. I was able to meet the hamlet councils and the village councils in 3 separate areas - in Hue, in a place called Cam Vu and in another place called Gia Dang-. On each occasion I was able to converse with them. 
When 1 was in Phuoc Tuy Province I was able to discuss problems with some South Vietnamese. The story that they related to me was that the fellow who had topped the poll in the village elections a few weeks previously was ruthlessly murdered by members of the Vietcong. What you find is that in fact there were free elections in South Vietnam.  President  Thieu was elected by- 
I do not know that and the honourable member for Reid does not know it either. He does not understand the method of voting if he can make that sort of comment. Arrangements are now being made for elections for the Presidency to be held. There is no doubt whatsoever that it is the policy of the South Vietnamese Government to have free elections and to have them by universal suffrage. It must be remembered that this is being done during a time when there are operations going on and there is a large scale loss of life in those areas. There is one thing I would like to make clear in relation to this point. When I spoke in answer to a question previously I did refer to Laos. The Geneva Accords of 1962 do not relate to South Vietnam exclusively; they relate exclusively to Laos. On that occasion these Accords were signed by South Vietnam and also by the United States of America. 
In relation to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, it is well known to most of us that  Mr Chamberlain  has taken a somewhat dogmatic and, if I can say so, partisan view about the free States of the former Indo-Chinese peninsula. In these circumstances it would be fair if he were willing to participate in a debate on radio or television with my colleague, the honourable member for Evans or. if he wishes, some other person chosen from this side of the House. I will speak to him about this. He is usually only too happy to engage in controversy on radio and television. I shall ask whether I may approach his board of directors or his managing director to see if he too would be willing to permit the honourable gentleman to participate in the debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
11 December 1969. I have arranged for a copy of the resolution to be forwarded to the honourable member. 
In Plenary the resolution was adopted unanimously. Australia supported its adoption. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Meetings of the Commonwealth Sanctions Committee were held in London, and attended by the Australian High Commissioner in the United Kingdom, or senior members of his staff, as indicated in the schedule hereunder: 
The answer to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
This report has been noted. Certain of the proposals in this declaration are actively pursued through our participation in the work of the United Nations and its Specialised Agencies. It is noted also that the body which drafted this report and which has its headquarters in New York has suggested that its draft declaration be adopted at the Twenty-fifth Anniversary session of the United Nations General Assembly. In this connection the General Assembly has established a Committee for the Twenty-fifth Anniversary for the purpose, among other things, of 'considering proposals and suggestions in relation to the anniversary for increasing the effectiveness of the United Nations'. Australia is not a member of this Committee but will have an opportunity to express its views when the Committee's report is available to member states. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 assume that the honourable member is referring to the Preparatory technical maritime Conference which was held in Genoa from 15th- 26th September 1969. The 54lh Session of the International Labour Conference will be held in June 1970. The 55th (Maritime) Session of the International Labour Conference will be held from 14th to 31st October 1970. The Preparatory Technical Maritime Conference gave preliminary consideration to 6 items which will be discussed at the Conference in October. The Australian Government Representatives voted for the adoption of the reports on each of these items. 
The following I.L.O. Maritime Conventions have entered into force On the dates shown: No. 7 Minimum Age (Sea), 1920 (27th September 1921) No. 8 Unemployment Indemnity (Shipwreck), 1920 (16th March 1923) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since the answer given to the honourable member on 25th October 1962, the Australian States and some Territories have enacted new maintenance legislation, based on the uniform Maintenance Bill prepared at the direction of the Standing Committee of Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General. This legislation made some alterations to the substantive maintenance law. It also varied the basis for making reciprocal arrangements with overseas countries. Where the laws of  a  country enable its courts to make maintenance orders of a kind that may not be made in Australia, the Australian legislation provides for reciprocity on a restricted basis only. As  a  result, the arrangements referred to in the previous answer do not in all cases continue to be effective. The Commonwealth, on behalf of the States and Territories, examines the legislation of overseas countries to see whether reciprocity can be arranged under the new legislation. Action is then taken by each State or Territory. The following countries and Canadian Provinces have been declared reciprocating countries for the purpose of the Australian Capital Territory Ordinance (with full reciprocity): 
The Leader of the Opposition must know that we in Australia will do whatever we can to assist Fiji in its bid for independence and I have gone out of my way to try to help the local sugar industry there achieve its goal of ensuring that South Pacific Sugar Mills will in fact mill sugar products over the course of the next few years. If there is anything that we can do  I  am sure that Ratu Mara will contact us and let us know what his wishes are. As to the actual question by the honourable gentleman, as yet we have not come to the problem he has mentioned but I can assure him we will look at every aspect of it and make up our minds according to where we think the best interests of Fiji lie. 
 Mr Speaker,  I  have read the propaganda document that was issued by the Soviet representatives in Canberra, lt is written in the same turgid phrases that we have been accustomed to from this propaganda agency. It lacks both literary and also intellectual quality and is but a ceaseless repetition of the tripe we get from this propaganda organisation and have received for very many years. As an illustration of the tendentious quality of these articles I mention that one of them states that Indonesia is supplying arms and equipment to the. Cambodians. This,  Sir, is  false. The Indonesian Government has denied it and to the best of my knowledge no arms and equipment are being provided from this country and you,  Sir, would  not expect it to be as it is a neutral country and now has taken the initiative to call a conference to try to ensure the neutrality and the independence of Cambodia. 
Secondly,  Mr Speaker  I think you can find running through the article the unhelpful attitude of the Soviet not only to peace in South East Asia but for that matter,  Sir, so  far as peace in the Middle East is concerned. As to the conference called by  Mr Malik,  who is the Foreign Minister of Indonesia, all I can say is that he has asked many, many countries, including Communist China to be present. It is not his fault that it is only those countries that are associated with the ANZUS Pact, and the ASPAC countries that have decided to go. But what this does mean is that Communist countries do not want peace in South East Asia. We on the contrary - the countries that are going - have but one object and one goal in view: That is to play our part, however humbly, and however good it might be, in trying to ensure there is peace on one condition, and that condition is that we want these people to be able to make up their minds as to how they should govern themselves and that they should be able to govern free from interference. 
This is a somewhat frivolous question. The language in which it is couched shows an attitude of frivolity to what is a very grave and unfortunate incident. I think that everyone in this House ought to regret deeply the loss of life in the United States as we would regret deeply the loss of life in this country. The incident there, while it is regrettable and is a cause of very deep concern for us, is one that primarily involves the United States Government. Already, the  President  has made his statement regretting the deaths and pointing out what will happen if demonstrations become violent and there is resort to use of force by those who participate in them. 

 Sir, this lesson ought to be taken to heart by all those who are taking part in the Moratorium marches during the course of the next 3 days. The lesson ought to be learnt particularly by the honourable gentleman who asked the question and by all those honourable members who wear Moratorium badges and who sit near and behind him. As to what should happen domestically- 
Yes, it is- and for the worst. 
As to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, the Lon Nol Government did not ask for the assistance that was given by South Vietnam and the United States of America but yesterday the Premier himself,  Mr Lon  Nol, issued a statement in which he said that the liberation government of Cambodia recognised that the action by the United States and South Vietnam was taken in order to achieve the freedom, the independence and the realisation of the highest ideals of the people and the Government of Cambodia. The Government is now known as the Salvation Government.  Mr Lon  Nol went on to say that he wished that they had been able to achieve the same goals and the same objectives themselves. We find that he did not ask for the assistance. That is understandable, because he was under such strong pressure from Communist sources. But he does welcome the operations that are now taking place in three separate parts of Cambodia. 
As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, which related to the Indonesian initiative, particularly from  Mr Malik,  the simple goals of the conference are as follows: Firstly, it is to be related to Cambodia if it can be kept that way; secondly, to try to ensure that there is no interference in the affairs of other countries, particularly Cambodia; thirdly, Cambodia to have the right of self determination and the people, by a free vote, to be able to express their opinions and have their opinions brought into legislative and constitutional effect; finally, that the International Control Commission for Cambodia be reinstated. All of these goals are firmly held by the Australian Government. I hope to be able to represent the Government at the meeting on the 16th and 17th of this month. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) The Government has no record of approaches in recent years in these terms. 
 Sir, I  insist on the right of call. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 did not hear the report that allegedly came over the air last night at 11 o'clock in a British Broadcasting Commission news session. But I say positively to the honourable gentleman that if he has accurately repeated it, he is wrong and so, too. is the BBC. 
There were 5 questions asked by the honourable gentleman. If I can remember them I will give a detailed answer to each. Firstly, the conference has been agreed to. Secondly, I cannot remember all the nations that are going to the conference but I can assure him that the Indonesians will be there, and also the Thais, the Malayasians, the Singaporeans, the Filipinos and the New Zealanders and, of course, we will be there. So it can be seen that those governments which want peace in South East Asia will be represented. 
If you want to make  a  speech, my boy, you do so later on. 
You have never grown up. 
Some weeks ago we made arrangements for all dependants of Australians to leave Cambodia and to go either to Singapore or to Bangkok. Similarly we arranged that the personnel of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority should be watched carefully and if it was felt that their construction operations might be interfered with or their lives might be endangered they, too, were to be brought either to Phnom Penh or, if it was thought desirable, to either Singapore or Bangkok. ] am not sure just how far this movement has gone but J will find out for the honourable gentleman and let him know. I can assure him that we have been particularly cautious in ensuring that aircraft are standing by. At the time when we thought the greatest danger existed we had a ship within 24 hours sailing time of Cambodian ports. I believe we have taken all the precautions that are necessary and desirable to protect Australian lives. 
First, if I may give the honourable gentleman the background of the United States and Vietnamese operations in Svay Rieng province - that is, the Parrot's Beak and Fish Hook areas - and later in the San River area immediately opposite Pleiku the facts are that for some time now, according to intelligence reports, it has been thought that there would be renewed hostility in terms of high point operations in the northern provinces of South Vietnam. Only yesterday we received a report that a largescale high point operation had, in fact, taken place. Similarly, too, mere have been largescale deployment operations in the Mu Gia area and in other parts of Vietnam. The whole trend of events has been one of a redeployment of North Vietnamese regiments. This supports the theory that high point operations will take place. In Laos the North Vietnamese have moved further south than ever before and have in fact occupied the town of Attopeu which is very close to the Cambodian border and, according to the latest reports, they have moved even further south. In Cambodia, North Vietnam and Indo China the forces have surrounded villages and administrative centres. There is no doubt that these operations are combined with those in Laos and South Vietnam. In fact, from captured documents we know that these operations are co-ordinated and are intended to help the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong in their operations in South Vietnam. 
Now, as to the United States and South Vietnamese purpose in entering the 3 areas 1 have just mentioned, primarily and fundamentally it is with the objective of saving the lives of American, South Vietnamese and free world forces there. But it also has a secondary objective, and that is to ensure that during the forthcoming months the supply depots existing there are destroyed and cannot be used for attacks into the Hi and IV Corps areas of South Vietnam. As to our own purpose, we have made it clear on a number of occasions that what we want is freedom and independence and the right of these countries to determine their own future. On the contrary, it is the policy of the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong that there should be a coalition government in Vietnam not elected but forced upon the people by the North Vietnamese. The secondary policy of the North Vietnamese is that American and all other allied troops should be withdrawn, although it is not their intention to withdraw the North Vietnamese troops or lo pacify the Vietcong. In other words, their intentions are destructive; our intentions are to ensure the freedom of the 3 free countries of the Indo-China peninsula. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
lt is difficult to give exact figures, but since 1963 more than 700,000 Laotians have been officially recorded by the Royal Laotian Government as refugees in Government-held areas. Currently some 230,000 are receiving refugee assistance. The remainder have been declared by the Laotian authorities to be 'self sufficient'. 160,000 of those currently receiving assistance became refugees before the recent communist offensives in the Plain of Jars and at Sam Thong. The balance of the current total have been declared refugees since the impact of the offensives began to be felt in early February. 
In addition to assistance by private charitable organisations in Australia, the Government is providing $13,200 worth of hand-tools for the refugees in the current year. 
The main conclusion that one can reach about the combined military operations in Cambodia in recent days is that tension has been considerably reduced. From the reports that have been made available by the United States and the South Vietnamese military representatives and  Government, it seems that the operations have been completely successful. Certain other things can be said, too. The closing of the Mekong, which held up the movement of supplies and troops into Phnom Penh, has been relieved. South Vietnamese ships have passed up the river as far as Phnom Penh and will probably go as far as Kampong Cham. Vast quantities of arms, ammunition and supplies of all kinds have been captured, and in some quarters it is felt that it will take at least 8 months before these can be restored. The COSVN, or Central Office for South Vietnam, has been attacked and for some time it was out of communication. Above all one other lesson can be learnt. If the United States makes up its mind and gives up the doctrine of privileged sanctuary, there is no doubt whatever that it can make a decisive impact. I hope that this message will be learnt not only in South Vietnam but throughout the world. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am aware of the many and conflicting press reports on the matter referred to. 
The Government has stated repeatedly that the fundamental objective of Australia and other Allied countries assisting the Republic of Vietnam is the preservation of the South Vietnamese people's right to determine their own future free from external aggression and subversion. The Government has also made clear that it would not be appropriate for it to comment on the internal affairs and processes of a friendly government. 
Prince Sihanouk, as Head of State, had on many, many occasions protested against the violation of Cambodian territory by the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong. 
Never by the Americans. They were never there. Despite these protests, upwards of 60,000 North Vietnamese and Vietcong in up to 12 separate enclaves were gathered on the South Vietnamese borders and could, use the Cambodian sanctuaries in order to make attacks and then, under the doctrine of privileged sanctuary, could return to Cambodian territory. Prince Sihanouk was removed as a result of the decision of the National Assembly of Cambodia and of the King's Council because they felt that not enough was being done to restrain the North Vietnamese and Vietcong from continued violations of their territory. 
Since his deposition Prince Sihanouk has been, for most of his time, in Peking ot in other parts of continental China. Recently he did have a meeting of various elements - so far as North Vietnam was concerned, of the North Vietnamese; of South Vietnam, the Vietcong; the Pathet Lao from Laos; and dissident elements from Cambodia. He, as  chairman,  represented what is called the National United Front of Kampuchea. I understand that at this meeting  Mr Chou  En-lai, the Premier of Communist China, was also present. What is obvious is that Prince Sihanouk has joined forces with Communist regimes and hopes to form a dissident government in exile in Chinese territory. Where he will go from there is unknown for the moment. From all the information given to us - and this relates to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question - the people in Cambodia, so far as their views can be ascertained, are loyal to the Lon Nol Government. It was the Government at the time of Prince Sihanouk's head of stateship and all the classes that are representative of popular opinion are expressing complete confidence in that Government. 
I remember the honourable member asking me a question immediately before I left for Djakarta. Several proposals were made by the Australian Government to the delegation in order to ensure that the established institutions should do their best to mobilise world opinion in the interests of the free countries of South East Asia and in particular that we should do all in our power to ensure not only that Cambodia be free and independent but also that it remain a neutral power in that part of the world. What transpired was that a resolution was moved and passed that 3 countries - Japan, Indonesia and Malaysia - should form a committee and they should approach the members of the International Control Commission and consult with them in order to ensure that the Commission be reactivated. 1 have read all the cables as to what is likely to happen. I know that in the case of Poland there has been a flat refusal. In the case of India there appears to be not a great deal of enthusiasm and so far the response has been negative. In the case of the Canadian Government we understand that the conditions under which it would agree to participation again or reactivation again are that the Commission should be effective and efficient; that there should not be a unanimity rule so that everyone has to agree; thirdly, that action should not be delayed by the requirement to submit their reports for editing by the Geneva Conference Co-Chairmen; finally, that they have the right of mobility to make an independent investigation and to report independently. But the 3 countries involved - Japan, Indonesia and Malaysia - now have the authority to conduct the consultations. I can only hope that these great nations, representing - as they do  -  250 million people of the Asian region will be able to bring their influence to bear on other countries, particularly the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, in an attempt to make some contribution towards the defence of freedom and of independence in South East Asia. 
As to the second part of the honourable member's question which relates to a goodwill mission to proceed to Cambodia, one or two nations thought that this was not desirable because they felt - and I understood their feeling and consequently withdrew the Australian recommendation - that if it was agreed in one case then other countries could ask that conditions be examined within their own borders and this could lead to a great number of problems for them. I repeat that I understood their problems. I was sympathetic to their request and I withdrew the Australian recommendation. 
It was rather difficult to follow the confused statement made by the honourable gentleman. 1 should first of all point out to him as a matter of definition that the word 'genocide' does not apply in this case for 2 different reasons. The first is that he was dealing on the one hand with Vietnamese and on the other with some South Vietnamese residents of Cambodia. The second point is that there is no proof that the Cambodians did embark upon a process of getting rid of the South Vietnamese residents in their country. Accusations were made. They were never proved, and the accusations have since been dropped. I took the initiative myself, when I was in Saigon, to see whether we could get a goodwill mission to go to Cambodia to try to ensure that the Cambodians, and the South Vietnamese did not quarrel the one with the other. 
Subsequent  to that,  and particularly through the influence of the Papal Nuncio, the Cambodian Government agreed to accept not a goodwill mission but an official mission in order to try to ensure the repatriation of South Vietnamese or Vietnamese residents from Cambodia. The mission was well received and, in fact, many, many people - I could put it at as many as 4,000 to my knowledge at the present moment - have been returned or are in the course of repatriation. 
The Lon Nol Government of Cambodia knows that the possibilities of ill will between the 2 ethnic groups do exist. I am confident that this Government will do all in its power to reduce the tensions and to try to ensure that all concerned will fight the common enemy and not one with the other. What I do want to emphasise is this: While I know that deaths have occurred, the matter of who was responsible for the large scale massacres has not been proved. I can assure the honourable gentleman again that the Lon Nol Government in Cambodia is doing all that it can to reduce the possibilities of such bloodshed. 
Up to the present moment the thinking of the Djakarta conference - and since I have returned - has been localised to Cambodia. I can assure the honourable gentleman that so important is the geostrategic position in Cambodia that if we were to achieve peace and neutrality free from interference by other countries there we would make an enormous contribution towards peace in the whole of South East Asia. SoI do hope that this can be recognised by all countries, and particularly by the Communists, and that they will accept this principle in the same way as we in the Government in Australia accept it. 
As to the Djakarta conference itself, again I have to stress that this was localised to Cambodia. All our thoughts were designed to try to ensure that the neutrality of that country was respected and that, consequently, after a ceasefire all foreign troops would be withdrawn. As to the conference itself, as I pointed out to the House yesterday, 3 countries led by Indonesia - the other 2 were Japan and Malaysia - had been appointed as a goodwill mission to interview the 3 countries representing the International Control Commission on Cambodia in order to sec whether they would exert their best influences in order to achieve peace. Before the representatives at that conference - that is, the Foreign Ministers of the 3 countries concerned - left Djakarta, they had had a preliminary meeting. If  Mr Aichi,  the Japanese Foreign Minister, had left before this meeting was called his Ambassador would have taken his place. Representatives of these countries have discussed preliminary ways and means of approaching the members of the International Control Commission. 
It has been pointed out in today's cables that Tun Abdul Razak, the Foreign Minister for Malaysia, himself will approach the Canadian Prime Minister when the Canadian Prime Minister visits Malaysia this week. I am sure that he will put in the strongest terms the necessity for action forgetting all the protocol and difficulties that have to be overcome, in order to play a part to the best of our combined capacities to try in bring peace to this region which is so enormously important to the future of this country. 
I do not pay a great deal of attention to what is said by the honourable member for St George. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This is a matter which will require extensive consultations both in Australia and  abroad. When  these have been completed I will be in a position  to  give a complete reply to the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government would welcome serious and informed public discussion of suggestions for  a  review of the United Nations Charter. United Nations documentspertaining to proposals for Charter review  will  be made available in the Parliamentary Library and the National Library as soon as they are received  from  New York. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Views expressed by delegations to the United Nations General Assembly on a Ghanaian amendment to a resolution on the subject of a review  of  the Charter  of  the United Nations (resolution 2552(XXIV)) are in documents A/C. 6 'SR. 1174 and 1175, which are available in the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Australia has provided the following amounts of aid to Fiji in the period 1966-67-1968-69: 
The answers to the honourable members questions are as follows: 
No. 
Not applicable. 
I gave very careful attention to the question asked by the honourable gentleman immediately before I travelled to Indonesia about 2 weeks ago. I will reply to what I believe to be the 3 points raised in the honourable gentleman's question. First of all as to parliamentary representation, as the House will know on 2 other occasions the Parliament has been represented at conferences and discussions of this kind. So, I take it that, on this occasion too, the Parliament will be represented at the forthcoming meetings in Fiji. 
Secondly, as to ministerial representation, I already have given this matter consideration and shortly I will be writing to the Prime Minister asking whether he will approve of ministerial representation as well at this Conference. As to the third part of the question raised by the honourable gentleman - that is, as to which department in fact should appoint the senior commissioner - I have taken this matter up already with the Department of External Affairs which is discussing it with the other relevant departments concerned. Up to the moment, I have not received a reply from those departments. 
I have read the cables and particularly the newspaper reports this morning relating to the meeting of the United Nations Security Council. I note that some of the countries represented in the United Nations Security Council said that the resolution was not a balanced presentation of the facts nor was it fair. Having said that, I can see no reason why this country should enter into a controversy about this problem. It was neither consulted about the resolution as a government nor was it asked to vote upon it. As the question embraces issues of the most delicate character, I for one would not be prepared to comment on the decision on this problem in relation to either side. 
The Government's attitude to Southern Rhodesian sanctions has been made known to the House on several occasions. We abide by Resolution No. 253 of 1968 of the United Nations Security Council. This resolution has two safeguard clauses. The first one is that the regulation does not apply - in fact, there are exemptions - first of all, to educational material, information and the means of obtaining information. The second is that exports can be permitted on humanitarian grounds. On the second of these grounds our wheat exports can be justified. The resolution itself is interpreted on the basis that the country involved has the right to determine whether the exports come within the meaning of Resolution No. 253. The Government's attitude was clearly expressed only yesterday with respect to $500,000 worth of ammonia that was destined for export allegedly to Lo urenco Marques. As we were unable to identify the final destination of that ammonia, action was taken by means of a regulation agreed to yesterday by the Executive Council to prevent the export of this ammonia until such time as the Minister for Customs and Excise is satisfied as to the exact destination. This, I think, clearly indicates the attitude of this Government. It abides by the United Nations Security Council resolution. When it feels that exports which do not come within the two exemptions are destined for Rhodesia, it will take action to prevent them from moving out of this country. 
It has been reported that 1 country has referred to the United Nations Security Council the question of export of Australian wheat and the honourable member knows that in time reference would be made to the Sanctions Committee. So far as this Government is concerned, the matter has been referred to us and we are now looking at it. 
I have read reports that Australia intended to join the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Late last night or early this morning it was reported to my Department that an article on this matter had been published in one of the London newspapers. The position is that the Government did approve of exploratory negotiations being carried out to determine the terms and conditions on which Australia might enter the OECD, if it decided to do so at a later date. 
I point out to the honourable gentleman that the OECD is purely an advisory body and cannot in fact dictate what should be done by any party that might become a member of it. I also point out that we are already a member of the Development Assistance Committee which does look at the problem of aid to various countries and that organisation has been high in its praise of the Australian effort. After a report has been received it will be considered by the Government and it is only then that a decision will be made as to whether or not we think that entry into the OECD is justified. 
As lo the first part of the honourable gentleman's question. I did inform the House that so far as . overflight facilities were concerned the Australian Government had informed the French Government that it would not permit its territory or space over its territory to be used by aircraft that might be proceeding on these nuclear test activities. As to port facilities, I do not think that - at the moment in any event - any of our ports have been used by ships that are carrying out any activities in connection wilh these tests but I will find out and let the honourable gentleman know. As to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, I have not seen any report of the Committee but again I will find out and let him know the results of my efforts. 
When looking at the Cambodian situation 1 think we have to remember 2 different events or sets of events. The first one is the Djakarta conference and the second is the United SlatesSouth Vietnamese operations in the Fish Hook area, Prey Veng and other provinces in south-east Cambodia. As to the Djakarta conference, when I departed for Djakarta I did not think that we would get all countries to agree to the proposals which were made and finally' agreed upon. In fact. I went with great misgivings because I felt that there would be a division of opinion. But eventually all countries recognised the need to support Cambodia in its desire for independence and neutrality. I wish that various honourable members of this House had been present to hear not only the goodwill expressed by many countries towards Cambodia but also the desire of those countries to do what they could, within their capacities, to ensure the objectives I have just mentioned. As to the outcome of the conference, although we did not achieve all the purposes which we originally set out to achieve, I am sure that we did ever so much better. It has been agreed that a 3-man mission, consisting of one member each from the Malaysians, inc Japanese and the Indonesians, should go to various capitals throughout the world in an attempt to mobilise world opinion in support of the proposal for the neutrality of Cambodia. As yet I have not all the names of the countries to be visited by this mission but when the persons who will represent the conference and the countries' involved are made known 1 think the degree of importance which those countries place on the objectives we have set will be demonstrated. 
I am particularly glad to know that Japan with all its influence in world affairs is playing an important part in mobilising world opinion. As an illustration of what is happening, the Prime Minister of Thailand today announced that his Government will provide troops for the defence of Cambodia and we already have intimations from other governments that they now wish that they had attended the conference instead of declining invitations. As to the other implications in the question asked I am sure that the recent operations in South Cambodia have been extraordinarily successful. Not only have Communist activities been disrupted: the equivalent of I division of North Vietnamese has been put out of action; their signal centres and communications have .been disrupted; their training ' centres have been disorganised; many, caches of large quantities of their equipment and foodstuffs have been captured; and I believe their operations have been set back for a period of at least 8 months. All told 1 believe that this has been a successful operation. As to the third part of the honourable members question, concerning recognition at least 3 countries. Thailand. South Korea and South Vietnam are now in the process of re-establishing relations with the 
Cambodian Government. As to the last part of the question, I shall have a statement that I would like to deliver to the Mouse. I have not yet completed it but if 1 do so during the course of this week I hope to be able to present it to the House. 
The first part of the honourable gentleman's question relating to South African airlines raises a matter that concerns South Africa and the Sanctions 
Committee of the Security Council and does not directly involve the Australian Government. 
I will have a look at that aspect of it for the Leader of the Opposition. So far as its extra-territorial activities are concerned, I have no intention of poking my nose into the business of other countries. So far as advertising by Qantas is concerned, I am not aware of the position: I will make inquiries about it and let the honourable member know the results of the inquiries. 
As to the first part of the question asked by the honourable member, little doubt exists that the armed forces of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics are manning SAM sites in certain parts of the United Arab Republic, mainly concentrated around Cairo and the industrial centres of that country. At the moment, they have not extended to the Canal area. This is a matter between the United Arab Government and the USSR, and for that matter, if people care to draw attention to the situation, for the United Nations. I do not think that it is a matter in which the Australian Government should interfere. Secondly, with regard to both Israel and the Arab countries, we have taken up a position of strict neutrality and we will continue to maintain that position. Thirdly, as to flights in and out of Arab countries and in and out of Israel, we have agreed to Qantas flights to Damascus at the request of the Government concerned. I am not aware of the exact position so far as Israel is concerned. I will obtain information for the honourable gentleman and let him have that information later. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Australia has not expressed opinions on these recommendations. The honourable member is referred to answers to his previous questions on Charier Review and World Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are two fundamental principles of the United Nations Charter: 
That the people of each country shall have the right to determine their own future; and 
That countries will not interfere in the internal affairs of other countries. 
In other words, that countries shall be free. 
I do not include in the word 'free' North VietNam or any other country which is violating Laos, Cambodian or South Vietnamese territories. 
by leave -  Mr Speaker,  the House will know that in the course of the last 2 weeks we have learned of the tragic events in 2 countries on the opposite side of the world to us - Rumania and Peru. In Rumania, flooding has caused loss of life and extensive property damage. On Wednesday I announced that a grant of $5,000 would be made to assist in the relief of the effects of these floods. Shortly afterwards we heard of the earthquake in Peru. Reports from the press and from our Embassy in Lima have informed us that there has been a catastrophe of major proportions. The Embassy has reported this morning thai danger continues from landslides and Hooding of ruptured dams. All of us will have been deeply moved in reading the reports of human suffering and loss of life. The Government has made a grant of $15,000 to the Government of Peru. In Australia we are geographically distant from both of these tragedies. But 1 am sure the Australian people would wish to make a gesture of sympathy to those who, in the last few weeks, have been the victims of these two natura! disasters. 
It is true that the United States of America has been extremely generous in the assistance that it has given to Romania as a consequence of the recent disasters that have occurred there. It is also true that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics has given some support to Romania. I cannot remember the figure but it is a small amount. Comparisons between the gifts of the United States and the USSR are odious and consequently I will not pursue them here this morning. Last night I announced in this House a gift from Australia to the Government of Romania to help the people in their present tribulations. I also expressed the sympathy of the Government to the people of Romania in the problems they  i  r-- suffering. As to that part of the honourable gentleman's question relating to USSR activities, I am unable to say exactly what has happened on this occasions but 
I can inform the House that it is the normal policy of the USSR to try to ensure that countries in its immediate vicinity or close to the Russian borders give the kind of help, and according to the conditions, that might be imposed by the Soviet Union itself. In other words, as I said this morning, it believes in the doctrine of limited sovereignty and it attempts to enforce its will on neighbouring countries. 

 - Mr Speaker, I can assure you it is a delight to hear that question coming from a member of the 
Opposition because this is the first time in 5 years that I have heard any protest coming from the Opposition about the repression of civil liberties and the right of people to live their lives in decency and freedom. I would be very pleased to know whether the Leader of the Opposition, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and more particularly the honourable member for Lalor and the honourable member for Reid would join in sentiments similar to those mentioned by the honourable member for Kingston. 
I think it is well known that since the deposition of  Mr Dubcek  and the Svoboda Government and the restriction of powers by the more liberal elements there, and particularly since the advent of  Mr Gustav  Husak in more or less virtual control in that country there has been a denial of civil liberties and a denial of freedom. We also know of the Brezhnev doctrine Soviet to enforce its views when it feels of limited sovereignty and the right of the that the doctrine of the Soviet might be infringed. 
I can assure the honourable gentleman that this re-emergence of Stalinism or neoStalinism is regretted by us and, I believe, regretted by all of the Australian people. I will have inquiries made by my Department to see whether an effective protest can be made. But particularly I will draw the attention of the relevant authorities to the question asked and the sentiments behind it and subsequently I will let the honourable member know what I have been capable of achieving. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
As 1 indicated lo the House on 7th May 1970 (Hansard page 1777), I have read the item in the document referred to. 
and (3) The item clearly reveals a lack of sympathy with the objectives of the Indonesian Foreign Minister,  Mr Adam  Malik, in taking the initiative to call the regional conference on Cambodia which look place in Djakarta recently, lt also indicates a lack of understanding of the purpose of (he Conference and the intentions of those participating in it. These were to make a constructive effort towards achieving peace in Cambodia and protecting its independence and neutrality. I hope that the attack contained in the article does not represent the development of a united front between the Soviet Union. Communist China and North Viet-Nam against the countries of South-East Asia. 1 suggest that it would be in the interests of the Soviet Union also to make a constructive effort towards a solution to the problems of the area in the same spirit as thai adopted by those vthc met at Djakarta. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Federal Republic of Germany has not applied for membership of the United Nations, lt is, however, a member of all thirteen United Nations Specialised Agencies and of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT, and of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). The East German authorities applied for membership of the United Nations in  i960,  but the application was not formally considered. They hare also applied, unsuccessfully, for membership of several United Nations Specialised Agencies. 
Australia has supported past applications by the Federal Republic of Germany for membership of United Nations Specialised Agencies. Australia docs not recognise the F.as German regime, and thus has not supported applications by it for membership of the United Nations and its Specialised Agencies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Yes. Colombia, Costa Rica, Cyprus,Ecuador, Libya, Syria, Tunisia and Uruguay. 
The Commonwealth Government officially protested to the French Government and asked it not  to  continue the nuclear tests or even, to commence the nuclear tests in the Pacific of recent weeks. As to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, I have. not seen the comment made by the professor about the relationship between nuciear explosions and earthquakes, nor have I seen any report at all about nuclear fallout in New Zealand. I will obtain the information for the honourable gentleman and let him know later this afternoon. 
I will take up with my colleague, the Treasurer, the question of relief from taxation of private contributions made to the relief of problems in Peru. I did make it clear in the House the other day, and f did not hear one honourable member from the Opposition side support the Government, that we were tremendously sorry and unhappy at the unfortunate events that have occurred there. 
That is about all that the honourable member would give them. As to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, I will again have a look at this problem and see whether anything further can be done. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
A large number of questions are voted upon each year in the principal organs and committees of the United Nations and its thirteen Specialised Agencies. It would not be practicable to ascertain how often Australia and New Zealand have voted differently. 
The honourable member is referred to the reports of the Australian delegation to the General Assembly which are tabled in this House each year and printed. These reports give an account of the debate and voting in the General Assembly on the specific questions listed, although they would not always show how New Zealand voted. This would be ascertainable in cases where there was a recorded vote by reference to official documents of the General Assembly. Copies of these are available in the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question falls into four parts, the individual headings to which are self-explanatory. The details supplied to me are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Although the number of foreign troops in Cambodia fluctuates, and it is not possible to give precise figures, I believe the total has reached approximately 12S.000. Of these about 50,000 are North Vietnamese and Viet-Cong forces, an increase of 10,000 above the figure publicly mentioned by the former Head of State of Cambodia, Prince Sihanouk, on 13th October 1969. At the height of the operations against the Vietnamese Communist sanctuary and base areas, there were approximately 43,000 South Vietnamese and 31,000 United States troops in Cambodia. However, some of these have already been withdrawn following the achievement of their objectives. The 
United States Government has stated it will withdraw all its combat force by the end of June. 
The Vietnamese Communists' occupation of Cambodian border areas begun about five years ago. Its extent has been progressively expanded as the Communists have developed complex base and sanctuary areas and other facilities. Operations across the border against these facilities were begun by South Vietnamese forces on 27th April 1970, and by United States forces on 30th April 1970. 
The Cambodian Government both before and after the replacement of Prince Sihanouk as Head of State has strongly disapproved of the presence of Vietnamese Communist troops. On 13th October 1969, Prince Sihanouk himself complained publicly that parts of at least ten Cambodian provinces has been 'occupied by 40,000 Vietnamese who consider it their territory because we cannot retake it'. The Cambodian Prime Minister, in a report prepared on Prince Sihanouk's instruction and published in October 1969, denounced the breach of faith by North Viet-Nam, which had undertaken to respect Cambodia's neutrality, independence and territorial integrity and yet had proceeded with the military occupation of strategically advantageous zones' in Cambodia. 
On 4th May, the Cambodian Government expressed its gratitude for the United States decision to send its forces into Cambodia. The Government noted 'with satisfaction that the  President  of the United States of America in his decision (to send American forces into Cambodia) has taken into account the legitimate aspirations of the Khmer people*. 
The Cambodian High Command on 5th May issued a communique in which it described the operations of the American and South Vietnamese forces as 'indispensable to clear our territory of the Viet Cong and North Vietnamese aggressors and invaders'. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The major trade union organisation in the Republic of Vietnam is the Vietnamese Confederation of Labour (Confederation Vietnamienne de Travail - C.V.T.). which claims a membership of some 500,000. The C.V.T. is comprised of the following trade union federations: 
Tenent farmers, which states it has 180,000 members. 
Fishermen, 71,000 members. 
Transport workers, 16,000 members. 
Textile workers, 1,600 members. 
The C.V.T. also includes a number of national  unions such as the Vietnamese Petroleum and Chemical Workers Union (1,700 members), the USAID Employees Union (2,000 members) and many smaller unions, including the Commercial Clerical Technical Employees Union, and various dockworkers' and airline workers' unions. Published information is not available on the number of members actually paying dues. In addition to the C.V.T. there are other, smaller groups of unions such as the Confederation of Vietnamese Workers' Unions and the Vietnam Confederation of Industrial and Agricultural Workers. 
Detailed records of arrests and imprisonment of trade unionists since 1956 are not available, although a small number of arrests related to trade union activities were noted in 1968. I am not aware of any arrest of trade unionists as such in 1969 or 1970 
1 shall discuss this suggestion with my colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not customary to make public the names of departmental staff who may be working or have worked in particular areas. 
Cultural matters are normally handled by the diplomatic staff of Australian missions overseas as part of their normal duties. The only post to which an officer has been specifically assigned in the past to handle cultural matters on a fulltime basis is the Embassy in Tokyo. Two officers have been assigned there in this capacity and both were members of the Department's diplomatic staff. In addition, an officer in the Embassy in Paris is responsible for matters affecting Australia's relations with UNESCO, and in this capacity he also handles a number of cultural matters. 
When I read in one or more of the Australian newspapers that  Mr Vrettos  had been placed in custody by the Greek police I immediately instructed officers of the Department of External Affairs in Athens to make inquiries with the Athens police and  Mr Vrettos  personally in order to ensure that his maximum rights as an Australian were protected. The Greek police informed my officers that he had been placed under supervision because of his strenuous actions at a basketball match between Greeks and Poles. He was in fact strenuously supporting the Poles against his native country. My officers also interviewed  Mr Vrettos,  who said that there seemed to be far more worry back home about his welfare and whereabouts than he had himself. He said that he was quite all right and satisfied.  His  passport had been returned to him. 
Early this morning I heard from other sources that  Mr Vrettos  had been again detained. My Department immediately telephoned our embassy in Athens and instructed the officers there to interview  Mr Vrettos  at his hotel. Our embassy was also told to do all in its power, to ensure that his civil rights were protected.  Mr Vrettos  could not be contacted then, because it was 2 or 3 o'clock in the morning. Nonetheless, at daybreak or as soon after as possible my officers would see him and ask him whether he wants any protection. The only other information I can give the House is that I have been informed by some members of the. Press that they have been in contact with  Mr Vrettos.  I again assure the House that my officers will contact him as soon as they can. 
During question time today in answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Bennelong I said that I would let the House know as soon as f could what transpired at the interview between embassy officials and  Mr Vrettos  in Athens. Embassy officials spoke to  Mr Vrettos  in his hotel this morning at 5.20 a.m. Athens time. He was not under guard. He accompanied officials to the embassy and informed them that on 3 occasions he bad been interviewed by the Athens police and that he was asked to interview them again at 9.20 this morning. An embassy official will accompany him at the interview. He also informed us that basically he was all right.  His  main problem was associated with his passport which at that moment was not in his possession, lt was in the possession of the Soviet Embassy to which it had been banded in order that a visa could be given so that he would be able to go to Moscow.  His  main worry at the moment was that the visa had not been given because be wanted to leave for Moscow on Friday of this week. The only other information I can give is that  Mr Vrettos  is not under guard and is apparently free to move. 
Every Australian citizen proceeding overseas is entitled to the maximum protection that the Australian embassies are capable of giving to him. This applies as much in the case of  Mr Francis  James as it does to any other person. When last heard of, Mx James was travelling between Canton and the border of the Free Territories and Communist China. We thought then that he was about to move into the Free Territories and then go on to Hong Kong and return home. For some reason unknown to us  Mr James  was intercepted and he has not been heard of since. We have no representatives in Peking but we have asked the British authorities to do the maximum in their capacity to try to find out whether he is under supervision or what the Chinese authorities are doing with him. The British have advised us that the Chinese are particularly careful about giving any kind of information at all. They refuse to divulge the whereabouts of  Mr James  or to indicate what has happened to him. 
On several occasions we have asked the British representatives in Peking to continue their investigations, and they have done so. We have also received information from various international organisations in London about  Mr Francis  James, but no precise information has been forthcoming. Because of the honourable gentleman's request, I will again ensure that further investigations are made now to see whether we can find out what has happened to  Mr James.  But I regret to inform him and the House that it is highly improbable that the Communist Chinese will give us any information whatsoever. 
As the honourable gentlemen knows better than anyone else on the other side of the House, there has been blatant violation of Cambodian territory by the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong, both Communist forces. I think the honourable gentlemen knows too that it is the wish of the Government that the neutrality and independence of Cambodia be maintained. Apart from the honourable gentlemen, who I know shares that view, I do not know of any other honourable member on the Opposition side who is prepared to support him or the Government. As for the Government's actions in Cambodia, we have informed the Cambodian Government that we are prepared to make special assistance of $l.lm available this year in the Budget. This has been done. Of that, $500,000 is in specialist equipment and very nearly the whole of that amount has been committed. We have already provided a large number of field telephone sets which the honourable gentlemen himself would know are one of the most urgent requirements. We have agreed to provide another 90. We have provided 40 4 x 4 trucks. We have been advised by the Cambodian Government that these fill a desperately felt need. 
At present - I am sure that this will be of great interest to the honourable gentleman and particularly to members of my own Party who recently visited Phnom Penh - we are making inquiries to see whether we can improve radio facilities for the whole of Cambodia. A representative of the PostmasterGeneral's Department has now advised us that without a great deal of expense - far less than was thought previously - we can increase substantially the power of the Phnom Penh radio station and that the stations in the north of South Vietnam and 1 other station, the locale of which I cannot name, will give, we hope, ever so much wider coverage than was previously thought to be possible. We are doing what we think is right. We have not given direct military assistance for the time being and no decision has been made about it. As members of the Djakarta Conference, anxious to move to a negotiated settlement and with a wish that we can continue our present activities, we feel that it is better for us to give multi-purpose aid and aid of a kind that I have just mentioned than to give military equipment. 
This is a somewhat inconsistent question. I did make the statement on television that it was the Government's intention to provide civil aid and aid of a multi-purpose character, and that is exactly what we have done. The trucks can be used for several purposes. Radio communication facilities, if they are given, can also be used for several purposes. 
I am trying to point out- 
I do not want to say anything that can be regarded as prejudicial to  Mr Vrettos.  I did assure the House yesterday that we would keep in constant contact with  Mr Vrettos  and if we could be of any help to him we would give him the assistance he asks for. I also said that we would go further than that and give whatever help the Australian consular authorities thought desirable. At 9 o'clock Australian eastern standard time last night we received a further report from the Australian officials in Athens. They had gone with  Mr Vrettos  to the police in Athens - the exact time I cannot recall - and he was there for 12 minutes. The police told our authorities and  Mr Vrettos  that they did not require him any further and he was free to do as he wished. He was told that he would be able to leave Greece if he wanted to do so. We have no evidence whatsoever that  Mr Vrettos  was badly treated. In fact he informed us yesterday that he was pretty well off and that the only difficulty he had was whether the Russians would put a visa on his passport so that he could go to Moscow on Friday. We were also informed by  Mr Vrettos  yesterday that he hopes to be able to leave Athens on Friday, but that of course depends upon whether the Russian authorities place a visa on his passport. 
As to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, I will obtain an answer and let the honourable member know immediately. As to the first part of his question, the Australian Government has responsibility for only one prisoner of war gaoled in the Con Son prison camp. Consequently an Australian representative has visited at frequent intervals in order to see whether he has been properly treated, whether he has any complaints to make and whether we can do anything to ensure that his conditions are better. The last report I received was during the course of the last 10 days. The prisoner had no complaints to make. We have ascertained that his living conditions are considered to be satisfactory. I will certainly give instruction to ensure that Our ambassador keeps watching the welfare of this gentleman and does all he can to ensure that he is properly treated. 
 I rise to speak to 2 parts only of the matter of public importance which has been raised for discussion by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  The first one relates to international action to end hostilities and the second one to undertaking a rehabilitation programme in Indo-China. Indo-China, I take it, embraces the 3  former  Indo-Chinese States - South Vietnam and North Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia. The Australian Labor Party must be 10 years behind the times in asking us to initiate this type of programme which was commenced many years ago and which has been built up by the Australian Government and other governments. 
Let me mention first of all this question of international action to achieve peace. What have we been doing to achieve peace and who have been the opponents of the peace movement? lt must be known that our objectives are clear cut and that we are willing to come to an accommodation provided only 2 objectives are achieved. The first one is that we should have a just and fair peace; in other words, that we should provide that the South Vietnamese, the Laotians and the Cambodians should have the right to determine their own future. As well, in the case of Laos and Cambodia we adhere strictly to the terms of the Geneva Conventions of 1954 and 1962 which provide those 2 countries should be free and that they should be neutral. These are the ideals of the Australian Government. They are ideals for which the Australian Government has fought and is still fighting. These are ideals for the achievement of which the Australian Government has provided civil assistance and for which it will continue to make provision for as long and as effectively as it can. 
Let us look at what we have done. Over and over again, the plea has been made: Make some concession or offer to the North Vietnamese and, in time, they will come to the conference table and will come to a just and sensible settlement'. What happened? The bombing of North Vietnam ceased. Immediately afterwards, a conference was called in Paris. With what result? Despite the fact that concession after concession was made the North Vietnamese refused to abandon any of their own policies or any of their own objectives. What were those policies and objectives? The first was that there should be a coalition government, not elected by the people of South Vietnam but determined by the Communists themselves. Consequently the context of government was pre-ordained by the Communists of the North. Secondly, the North Vietnamese wanted the total evacuation of the American, Australian and Cambodian troops from South Vietnam. They did not think in terms of evacuating Cambodia themselves or of ridding that country of the enclaves of North Vietnamese troops that had been established there. No! The North Vietnamese wanted total domination of South Vietnam. As well, they wanted total domination and Communist oppression throughout the length and breadth of the Indo-Chinese peninsula. 1 turn to Cambodia and, to a lesser extent, to Laos. In Cambodia, our objectives in accordance with the 1954 protocol were these: We wanted their independence and neutrality. The North Vietnamese - the Communists themselves - had given an assurance at Geneva that they would respect the neutrality and the independence of those countries. But they established vast enclaves of between 40,000 and 60,000 troops in Cambodia, immediately adjacent to the South Vietnamese border. They showed that they were not willing to come to the conference table or to participate in the cause of peace. 
Let us take the argument a little further. Some time ago some of the neutral and free countries of the world decided to call a conference in Djakarta to try to achieve the 1954 protocol objectives, that is, the neutrality of Cambodia. Not only the free countries, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, the Philippines, South Korea, Indonesia and Australia but also the Communist countries, Communist China and North Vietnam, were invited. Did the latter come or did they stay at home and continue to wage warfare? They stayed at home and persisted in their ruthless and blatant aggression against Cambodia. They refused to attend and participate in the discussions. 
The matter has been placed before the permanent members of the United Nations - before the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and other countries. But we have never been given one glimmer of hope that the Communists would come to the conference table. So why speak in terms of initiating negotiations now? Of course, we will continue, but no more concessions can be made on the part of the free countries of the world in our endeavours to achieve the right of peoples to live in freedom, free from fear, free from want and free to be able to carry on the government of their own countries free from interference by others. 
As to the second part of the proposal - that is whether or not we can achieve rehabilitation or whether we should initiate proposals for rehabilitation - obviously the Australian Labor Party does not know what is being done now not only by ourselves but also by the South Vietnamese and the Government of the United States of America. Tonight the House will be debating the Budget Papers, but I take this opportunity to point out that this year we are allocating $3. 4m to the civil rehabilitation of South Vietnam. 
You are doing nothing. Honourable members opposite want to embrace Sihanouk; they want him to get all the credit. Honourable members opposite want this man who lives in the bosom of the Communist Chinese to dominate Cambodia. In a moment I will deal with where the sentiments of the Opposition lie and the kind of victory that the Australian Labor Party wants to see achieved. 
In this Budget we are allocating Sim for civil rehabilitation in Laos. But other countries are making a massive effort in this direction. Last year the United States devoted $5l4m to the rehabilitation of South Vietnam. Only yesterday the VicePresident of the United States announced that S40m in aid would be given to Cambodia. If we look therefore at the efforts of Australia and its allies we see that we have not waited; in fact, we are already making a very big effort. Our programme of civil aid to overseas countries this year is far better than in any other year during the time that T have been a member of the government. It will be seen that we are playing our part. 
What is happening on the Communist side? Has any member of the Opposition or any member of this House heard any Communist country say that it was prepared to make any contribution whatsoever to a civil aid programme for any part of Vietnam, North or South, or for any part of Cambodia or, for that matter, any part of Laos? On the contrary, the activities of Communist countries have been solely in terms of military measures designed to ensure a Communist victory in and Communist subversion of these 3 or 4 - however honourable members like to describe them - former countries of the Indo-Chinese peninsula. 
What conclusion can we draw from the picture that I have just painted? I ask Government members as I ask any member of the Opposition, including those who have learnt the lesson because they have recently visited Cambodia, to note that this government is willing to defend these people and their cause of freedom, to give them the opportunity to express themselves, and to give them the opportunity to say what kind of government they want. Within our capacity we are willing to provide civil aid for these people. But what do we find when we look at the Opposition benches? Wittingly or unwittingly, stupidly or not, every time honourable members opposite raise this question in the House, it is in support of the avowed enemies of this country and those who not only are attacking allied troops but also are engaged actively in warfare against the people of this country. 
It is true and the honourable member knows it. So what attitude can we adopt towards members of the Australian Labor Party? 1 ask every person who has and welcomes the right of choice this question: Does he want the GortonM'cEwen Government, a Liberal-Country Party Government, which will play its part in the cause of freedom, or does he want a government formed by the Australian Labor Party which is consciously, determinedly, and persistently assisting our enemies and which is giving aid and comfort to those who are out to destroy freedom and who want a Communist regime to dominate that part of South East Asia that is of importance to us and of vital importance to the security, the future and the continued independence not only of Thailand and Cambodia but also, 1 believe in time, of Malaysia, Laos and Singapore. 
I have been able to read the record of the discussions between General Lon Nol, the Prime Minister of the Cambodian Government, and the Australian delegation. He stated that he had 3 priorities - telecommunications, road and transport communications and housing. I can state that at the time of the aggression by the North Vietnamese against the Cambodians the Cambodians were totally unprepared for war. One of their greatest needs was that of radio communication between the central Government and the province chiefs, for both civil and military uses. We were asked by the Americans if we would co-operate in providing radio communication and broadcasting communication from Phnom Penh, but the cost was amazingly high. It was of the order of between $300,000 and $400,000. However, we had in the area at the time an expert from the Postmaster-General's Department and we asked him if he would carry out investigations to see if there was some way in which we could help. He did so and he found that by upgrading various kinds of equipment we would be able to provide radio communication between the Phnom Penh Government and  several of the provinces, and that with the assistance of the United States putting in facilities in  Kompong  Som very nearly a total coverage of Cambodia would be obtained. So the Government has now agreed that technical experts will install the changes necessary to upgrade the equipment. When that has been completed we will also provide technical experts to train the Cambodians to be able to maintain the Cambodian radio stations on their own behalf. 
I have read part of the various statements and declarations that have been made by Le Duan, who is the First Secretary of the North Vietnamese Communist Party. They are revealing documents. First I should mention to the House some of the principles that Le Duan has put in these documents and statements. He states that there are some inviolable principles which govern the actions of the North Vietnamese Communist Party. The first one is that its objectives must be achieved by revolutionary force . and by violence. Consequently, once this is recognised, and if his views can be given their literal value, there is little prospect of any kind of settlement around a negotiating table. Secondly - this is important and goes to the heart of the question asked by the honourable gentleman - he makes it clear also that it is the Communist Party itself which will determine the future of North and South Vietnam and that it is the Communist Party alone and not the peasantry which will determine the composition of the government. 
As these policies and principles are determined by force and by revolutionary warfare, it is implicit in everything he says that the method of conquest of South Vietnam will be by aggression. He goes further and says that this aggression is instigated, controlled and assisted by the Communist regime in Hanoi. If this is accepted then those who have previously argued that this is civil war in South Vietnam no longer have any grounds on which they can base their argument, particularly if they take great notice of what is said by the Communist Party in Hanoi. 
I am glad that the honourable gentleman has stated again in this House that there has been naked aggression by the North Vietnamese in both Cambodia and South Vietnam. As to why there has not been comparable treatment, particularly in the provision of combat forces, the simple answer is that the Cambodians have not asked for the provision of manpower. They have stated on several occasions that they have sufficient manpower themselves. What they do need is every other kind of aid. whether it happens to be military or civil. As I have already announced in the House, in this year's Budget we have provided for civil aid of the order of SI. 100,000, and our options are still open if we choose to do more. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The United Nations General Assembly, at its 24th Session in 1969, and the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament at Geneva in 1970 have continued their consideration of the question of chemical and bacteriological (biological) warfare since my predecessor's answer on 19th August 1969. The 24th Session of the United Nations General Assembly bad before it under the relevant item 2 draft conventions. One tabled by Britain in the Disarmament Committee (and referred to in my predecessor's reply of 19th August . 1969) concerned the prohibition of biological methods of warfare. A second tabled in the General Assembly by the Soviet Union and other Eastern European countries would have called for the prohibition of the development production and stockpiling of chemical and bacteriological (biological) weapons and the destruction of such weapons. Australia was 1 of a number of cosponsors of a draft resolution asking the Disarmament Committee to study further these various proposals. This resolution, adopted as resolution 2603b (XXIV), also requested the Disarmament Committee to give urgent consideration to reaching agreement on the prohibitions and other measures referred to in the draft conventions and requested the Disarmament Committee to present a report on progress on all aspects of the subject to the 25th General Assembly. The 24th Session of the General Assembly also approved a second resolution which declared as contrary to the generally recognised rules of international law, as embodied in the Geneva Protocol of 1925, the use in international armed conflicts of any chemical agents of warfare and any biological agents of warfare. Details of this resolution are contained in my reply of 17th March 1970 to a question upon notice (Hansard pages 524-525). At its meetings to date in 1970, the Disarmament Committee has discussed this subject, but an early agreement on a new convention to ban chemical and bacteriological warfare is not expected. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australian High Commissioner to Pakistan is also accredited as Ambassador to Afghanistan. 
Australian High Commissioner to India is also accredited as Ambassador to Nepal. 
Australian Ambassador to the Argentine is also accredited to Uruguay and Peru. 
Australian High Commissioner to Kenya is accredited to Uganda, and as Ambassador to Ethiopia. 
Australian Ambassador to Sweden is also accredited to Finland. 
Australian Ambassador to Yugoslavia Is also accredited to Romania. 
Australian Ambassador to France is also accredited to Portugal. 
Australian Ambassador to Austria is also accredited to Switzerland. 
Argentine Ambassador to Australia is also accredited to New Zealand. 
Austrian Ambassador to Australia is also accredited to New Zealand. 
Brazilian Ambassador to Australia is also accredited to New Zealand. 
Burmese Ambassador to Australia is also accredited to New Zealand. 
Ceylon High Commissioner to Australia is also accredited to New Zealand. 
Finnish Ambassador to Australia is also accredited to New Zealand. 
Greek Ambassador to Australia is also accredited to New Zealand. 
Indonesian Ambassador to Australia is also accredited to New Zealand. 
Irish Ambassador to Australia is also accredited to New Zealand. 
Israeli Ambassador to Australia is also accredited to New Zealand. 
Korean Ambassador to Australia is also accredited to New Zealand. 
Laotian Ambassador to Australia is also accredited to South Viet-Nam (where he is resident) and to New Zealand. 
Nepalese Ambassador to Australia is also accredited to Japan (where he is resident) and to New Zealand. 
Norwegian Ambassador to Australia is also accredited to New Zealand. 
Pakistan High Commissioner to Australia is also accredited to New Zealand. 
Philippines Ambassador to Australia is accredited as Minister to New Zealand. 
Romanian Ambassador to Australia is also accredited to Japan (where he is resident) and to New Zealand. 
Spanish Ambassador to Australia is also accredited to New Zealand. 
Thai Ambassador to Australia is also accredited to New Zealand. 
United Arab Republic Ambassador to Australia is also accredited to New Zealand. Vietnamese Ambassador to Australia is also accredited to New Zealand. 
(i) NORWAY- A Norwegian Minister was first accredited to Australia on 24th September 1947, but the Legation was closed in April 1950. An Embassy was established in 1969 and the first Norwegian Ambassador presented his credentials on 5th May 1969. 
DENMARK- A Danish Minister was first accredited to Australia on 18th March 1947. The Legation was raised to Embassy status in 1967 and the first Danish Ambassador presented his credentials on 6th February 1967. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the Honourable Member will know it is not the policy of this Government to disclose the type of information for which the honourable member asks. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
1 am informed that as of the 17th August 1970 the following countries had become parlies to the Convention - 
The 3 governments concerned - that is, the Governments of Israel, the United Arab Republic and Jordan - have all agreed with an initiative taken by the United States Government, supported by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, that a cease fire and peace negotiations should be agreed to in the Middle East. Subsequently  Dr Jarring  was appointed as a mediator on behalf of the United Nations. He has agreed to act to see whether he can achieve the purposes of the United States, and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and other United Nations countries. Regrettably at the moment there has been considerable disquiet because of an alleged breach of the cease fire negotiations by the United Arab Republic and a movement of SAM 3 and 2 sites into the area where the cease fire was proclaimed to exist, but it is hoped, and there are strong grounds for believing, that the 3 governments still wish to carry on the negotiations and that shortly the negotiations under the mediation of  Dr Jarring  will be continued. We strongly hope that these negotiations will be completed and will lead to peace in the Middle East. 
Regarding the Australian Government's position, we have not changed our opinions from those expressed in this House either by the Prime Minister or by my predecessors in office. We want peace in the Middle East and we particularly want peace in the interests of Israel, but one of the conditions of peace is that wc should ensure that Israel should have the right to live free from aggression and with its own territorial integrity remaining intact. 
I have been informed that there is to be a meeting called by members of the Government and members of the Opposition in order to meet delegates from the Council. I understand that the subject to be discussed will be discrimination practised against people of a particular religion in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I think our position has been made abundantly clear by the Government over and over again, that is, that we do not believe in discrimination of any kind practised in any country because of a person's religious beliefs or because of his race. That applies in the case of the USSR in exactly the same way as it applies to any other country. As to the action taken by the Commonwealth Government, we have protested in the United Nations and I can assure the honourable member that we will continue to do so. 
I believe that most members of the House will welcome the fact that Fiji will shortly become indepen dent and that independence celebrations will be held there. We in the Government, of course, take very great pleasure in that fact as we take great pleasure in the fact that many other Pacific islands are also obtaining their independence. We will co-operate closely with them in economic, cultural and political affairs. We wish them well and we hope that they will not only be able to live in peace but that they will also be prosperous. As to the  2  ceremonies that have been mentioned by the honourable member, the Prime Minister has agreed that at both the independence day celebrations and the meeting of the South Pacific Conference  2  Cabinet Ministers will represent the Australian Government - the Minister for Primary Industry at the independence day celebrations and the Minister for Shipping and Transport at the meeting of the South Pacific Conference. So the House will realise that the Government does place the greatest importance on these events and is appointing Cabinet Ministers of the very highest importance and quality to attend them. We have also agreed, in arrangement with the Fijian Government, that High Commissioners should be appointed by the Fijians to Australia and by Australia to Fiji. The present Commissioner there,  Mr Birch,  will be appointed as our High Commissioner in due course. The Minister for Trade and Industry also has agreed that a trade representative will be appointed and I take it that it will not be long before action is taken administratively to ensure that someone is appointed there. The Government has also taken action to ensure that it supports the application by Fiji to join the United Nations. We believe it will be successful in its application. I will finish my answer again on this note: We want the islands of the Pacific to be prosperous and we hope they will be able to live in peace and freedom from interference by others. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The document referred to is the full text of the Declaration by the Representative of the United States of America. It is not, however, and does not purport to be, the full text of the United States Representative's statement, in which the Declaration itself was incorporated. This statement is available in the Parliamentary Library, in the United States Department of State Bulletin, Volume 31, July-December 1954, p. 162. 
Medical Benefits Plan - Increased Payments by Contributors  (Question No. 1431) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The latest information available to my Department is that the following cash contributions have been made to the fund established after the disaster in Peru on 31st May 1970: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the current financial year it is estimated that the following number of overseas students will be sponsored by the Commonwealth in Australia: 
1 have read the statement published in the 'New York Times' and I can inform the honourable gentleman that it is nol only scurrilous but also inaccurate. The House will know, of course, that the 'New York Times' is violently anti the cause of South Vietnam and is not to be considered as a reliable journal of record when it is publishing information which it believes will not support the cause that it is supporting. I repeat that it is not notorious for reliability in these circumstances. The Symington Subcommittee of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee of the United States has been looking at the commitments of the United States in Vietnam and the relationship between those commitments and those of its allies. I have had given to me a copy of the transcript of one of those meetings and of the discussions.  Senator Fulbright,  the  Chairman  of the Foreign Relations Committee, has pointed out precisely that Australian troops are paid for by the Australian Government, that they are not mercenaries and that no financial support is given to them by the United States Government. Subsequently, and this occurred only yesterday, I beard that one of the Bangkok newspapers had been publishing the weekly report of the New York Times' and a similar statement appeared in that paper. I will take action to see whether a correction can be made in the Bangkok paper. I have little prospect of ensuring that the 'New York Times' makes any correction. 
 I read with horror of the detestable actions of the North Vietnamese in attacking the orphanage at An Hoa in northern South Vietnam. The 
Army of South Vietnam considered that it was not necessary to defend the orphanage because it felt that the North Vietnamese would not carry out a senseless attack on innocent children and upon those who were looking after them. But, typical of the Communists, they did make this attack, and 12 children were killed and 24 other people were injured seriously. This is an indication of what they are capable of doing. Honourable members will know that on one occasion 50,000 North Vietnamese were ruthlessly murdered because of their religious convictions or because they did not willingly agree with the Communist activities of the regime. Honourable members will also know that at the time of the Tet offensive over 5,800 South Vietnamese were murdered at Hue for very nearly the same reasons. 
I notice that the leaders of the Moratorium Committee in this House are anxiously hiding their eyes at the moment. What they must remember is that they are favouring a regime which has committed this kind of ruthless murder. They must ask themselves what would happen if the free allied cause was defeated, not only in South Vietnam but also in Laos and Cambodia. Surely we must assume that exactly the same ruthless measures would be followed. Consequently, what the leaders of the Vietnam Moratorium Committee must ask themselves in conscience is: Do they want this kind of action to continue? They must examine their souls and consciences as to whether they want to continue with the campaign and to have these senseless activities continue. 
by leave -  Mr Speaker,  the House will be aware that this year's Budget includes estimates for nearly $1 84m for economic aid to less developed countries and territories for 1970-71. This total includes $126.1m for Papua and New Guinea and some $57.9m for other bilateral and multilateral aid. Our total aid is estimated to increase by 11 per cent this financial year. In fact, it will increase by a little more because of the increased aid that we intend to give to Cambodia. It has been said here before that in relative terms Australia ranks third in the volume of official aid provided to the developing areas. In referring to official aid I have in mind official economic assistance to developing countries provided directly from the 
Budget as external aid, as distinct from private capital movements. Without being critical of othersI think it should besaid that Australian aid appropriations mean actual performance. This is not always the case with some other Western donors,It is certainly not the case with the Soviet Union and the other Communist countries, whose aid announcements are ludicrously short of the actual transfer of resources, short by more than 50 per cent. 
The bald facts of our aid appropriation are set out in the Budget and in material which my Department has published. The present estimates should be seen against the background of past performances. Leaving Papua and New Guinea aside, the assistance provided under our bilateral and multilateral programmes has increased from $29,383,000 in1964-65 to $50,842,000 in 1969-70, an increase of over 70 per cent in actual performance over the past 5 years. The steady rate of growth over this period has, for example, included substantially increased aid to Indonesia - which is now the major recipient in our international bilateral programme - and contributions since 1966 to the Asian Development Bank, an institution which will have important consequences for the economic development of developing countries in the Asian region. Australia's aid is high-quality aid, not only because of its grant terms but also because of the kind of development projects we have been undertaking.  Major projects  to develop basic infrantstructure have been undertaken in such fields as road and bridge construction, port development, dams and provision of water supplies, and telecommunication and aviation facilities. These are the hard jobs of development, not simply commercially angled credits and loans which not only add to debt problems but often add little to long term development in the recipient country. 
Before commenting on the underlying principles of our official bilateral and multilateral aid programmes, I want to tell the House that the Government has taken a decision to offer Cambodia aid to the value of $2m in 1970-71 - that is an addition of $900,000 to the present estimate of $l.lm. The aid will supplement the special aid grant of $500,000 announced on 23rd June and bilateral economic aid of $600,000 provided in this year's budget. The exact composition of the additional aid will be decided upon after the fullest consultation with the Cambodian Government. The aid will be for logistic support items of equipment, dual purpose items and if necessary arms. Inquiries made in connection with Australia's first gift indicate that Australia is in a position to supply, with a minimum of delay, trucks, river craft, communications equipment and construction material. The bilateral economic aid of $600,000 consists of expenditure on the Prek Thnot Dam project, installation of water pumps for Phnom Penh and training awards. The first special aid instalment of $500,000 consisted of 50 landrovers, which were handed over to the Cambodian Government on 4th August, and 120 radio sets. Thirty of the sets were delivered in mid-August and the remainder will be shipped progressively inthe latter part of this month and in October. Procurement is proceeding of equipment to  upgrade  the signal from Radio Phnom Penh; shipment of the equipment is expected to take place in late September. Other items under current consideration are 30 single side-band 100 watt transceivers and radio-telephone links between Phnom Penh and Battambang in the north and Phnom Penh and Kompong Som in the south of Cambodia. 
The Cambodian Government attaches great importance to the provision of additional aid. The decision to increase our contribution has been made in this knowledge and in pursuance of our policy of aiding South East Asian nations to resist Communist aggression. In recent months Communist activity has increased in the countryside but the Cambodian Government has shown resilience and a firm determination to resist it. In deciding to increase its help to Cambodia the Australian Government is acting in concert with other nations which want to preserve the independence and integrity of the Cambodian people. The Australian aid will be designed by its nature, timeliness and compatability to contribute effectively to Cambodia's capacity to survive. Now I want to talk briefly about the meaning of aid, why we give it, what it is supposed to achieve, and to touch on its form and to whom it is given. 
What is Aid? 
In recent years there has been a spate of international discussion about aid. Those discussions have been about aid or assistance including the provision of finance and goods and services provided by governments; as well private flows such as private investments and private export credits are included. Some of these elements, such as private investment, have been traditional features of international transactions. However attention is increasingly focused on the aid or assistance provided by governments themselves. When we talk of aid, either Australian or provided by some other country, we should keep in mind that the concept of aid involves some concession - a gift, of course, or a loan with a very low rate of interest will qualify. But there must be grave doubts about counting as aid such assistance as short term loans with high rates of interest. These distinctions are becoming of increasing importance to an understanding of the actual contribution made to the development of the recipient country and the value of the assistance given by the country providing the assistance. 
Why give Aid? 
There are many reasons why developed countries transfer resources by way of aid to others. I believe it is increasingly accepted by Australians that we have an obligation to assist the less developed nations. Motives are of many kinds. Some are better in value terms than others. In our own case we can single out two motives. Predominantly, Australian aid is given for moral or humanitarian reasons. The second reason is our own national interest. We cannot measure the value of any moral and humanitarian expenditure in money terms nor do we want to measure our aid in this way. The other reason is more tangible. It is this: Aid does promote Australia's national interest. By this I mean it enhances our interest in a peaceful international and geographical environment. Our geographical environment is undoubtedly Pacific and Asian. Two decades ago, my distinguished predecessor,  Sir Percy  Spender, in a statement prophetic of a far reaching development in Australia's foreign policy, said in this House: 
No nation can escape its geography. Even though our cultural ties have been and will remain predominantly with Europe ... we live side by side with the countries of South and South East Asia. 
This statement is even more true today - now that we have greater and increasing opportunities to influence the course of events in our environment. 
What are the Objectives of Aid? 
The answer to this question is I think pretty clear. Aid is intended to foster development. I do not believe that aid can buy' allies. Nor can we expect aid to guarantee stability. In assessing the contribution to development we recognise that aid is at best a supplement. We do not expect miracles. We cannot close the gap in living standards between the advanced and the less developed countries. Clearly therefore the goals we set must be reasonable and must be capable of being attained. The aid we give to assist development can supplement a country's limited capital resources, and the supply of its technical skills. But it is only one of the elements in the process of development. Nor is development necessarily a painless process. But if aid donors do not help, the consequences can well be the failure of the economic policies of governments in the less developed countries and such failure means continuing poverty. It may also lead to political adventurism. Aid can assist by providing materal help. It can help train some of the men. Too often the process of development involves changes of the foundations on which the building stands - quite often it involves changes in the basic values of society. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details of economic and social assistance to Vietnam are shown in the following publications which are available through the Parliamentary Library; 'Economic and Social Aid to Vietnam', a report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Vietnam for the period up to 31st December 1969, about economic, technical and cultural assistance from all foreign sources; the operations Report of the United States' Agency for International Development for financial year 1970 and the Programme and Project Data of the Agency for International Development presented to Congress for financial year 1971. 
A summary of the aid programmes of major donors in 1969 and 1970 follows: 
Australia: Australian economic assistance to Vietnam in 1969-70 was $A2.032m, mostly in the form of contributions to economic development projects. The total also includes the cost of Australian medical teams and the training of Vietnamese in Australia. 
United States: Total economic assistance provided by the United States in fiscal year 1970 (1969-70) has been estimated to total $US5 14.2m, excluding the Military Assistance Programme. The Commercial Import Programme has been estimated to cost $US220m, the Project Programme $US132m and the Food for Peace (PL 480) programme$US106m. 
Canada: In 1969 Canada provided technical assistance and funds for several medical and educational centres and training for Vietnamese students. A housing project for refugee families was completed in 1969 and financial assistance given to refugees. 
France: In 1969 French assistance concentrated on educational projects, including the assignment of 430 personnel to Vietnamese schools and other educational institutions. France also provided technical assistance in the form of advisers, equipment and training. 
Germany: The West German government's aid in 1969 concentrated on construction of a hospital at Danang. The Government subsidises several private organisations which mostly provide expert assistance. In 1969 approximately 148 German experts were in Vietnam. 
Japan: In 1969 Japan pledged $US5m for economic and technical assistance, the major component being repairs costing $US3m to a hydroelectric plant. 
Korea: In 1969 South Korea pledged assistance worth $3.4m, the main project being a medical centre costing $US2.45m. 
Declaration by the Representative of the United States of America'  (Question No.  1490) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The implications of signature and eventual ratification by Australia of the International Covenants on Human Rights, including the International Covenants on Civil and Political Rights, are still the subject of consideration by the relevant Commonwealth Departments. It is not possible at present to give a firm estimate of the likely date of signature or ratification. 
The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights covers a wide range of rights which have been drawn up in very broad terms. The position is the same with regard to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. The rights in these 2 Covenants are being considered together and as a whole. It is not a matter of identifying parts that are acceptable or unacceptable. The position is that close and detailed examination has been necessary to decide especially whether Commonwealth and State laws are in accordance with the Covenants or whether amendment of existing legislation or the enactment of new legislation is required. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) (b) (c) This question involves a number of Ministers and their Departments. I am setting down below the position as I understand it as a result of inter-departmental consultations. 1965 Convention for the Facilitation of Maritime Traffic 
Commonwealth authorities wrote to the Premiers on 19th August 1964, concerning the attitudes of the States to the Convention. 1969 Amendments to the International Convention on Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil 
On 7th August, 1969, Commonwealth authorities wrote to the Premiers about the proposed amendments and obtained their views. On 16th July 1970, the Premiers were sent details of the amendments as adopted by the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organisation. 1966, 1967, 1968 and 1969 Amendments to International Convention for Safety of Life at Sea, and 1969 International Tonnage Measurement Convention There have been no communications with the States. 1969 International Convention Relating to Intervention on High Seas in Cases of Oil Pollution Casualties, and 1969 Internationa] Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage Texts of the draft conventions were sent to the Premiers on 22nd July 1969. 
With respect to the second part of the question, the following is the position as I understand it: 
New South Wales Prevention of Oil Pollution of Navigable Waters (Amendment) Act 1969 was passed 6th November 1969 and came into effect 6th November 1969. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The Government has had this subject under constant study. It has continued to consult closely with other Governments in relation to the matters spelt out in its statement of 27th February 1970. In particular, Australia is taking an active part in the discussion in the Safeguards Committee of the International Atomic Energy Agency set up to devise a system of safeguards to meet the obligation under Article 3 of the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty. This work is still in progress. 
In view of (3), it is not possible to give any indication at present. 
No, and as far as I am aware, they have not announced their intentions in this regard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No formal act of acceptance by other states is required in respect of a decree such as that to which the honourable member's question relates, and I understand that no such act has taken place. It is however customary to place any protest formally on record. In his State of the Union message in September last the  President  of Mexico announced that only the United States had objected to Mexico's decision and reserved legal rights in this regard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1) 
Elements of the President's statement were forwarded to the Prime Minister on Wednesday morning. He immediately contacted me and asked me to come up here. He made a VIP aircraft available for me to get here as soon as J could. I came up and discussed it with him on Wednesday afternoon. In the meantime, with the assistance of my officials, 1 drafted certain comments which I offered to hand to the Prime Minister at 11.30 on Wednesday night. He suggested that it would be better for me to leave it until first thing in the morning. As to the full text of the President's speech I received it at approximately the same time and possibly a little earlier. One or two minor amendments were made to the text at a subsequent time. That was early on the morning of Thursday, probably about 10 minutes to or 10 minutes past 9. Any statement to the contrary appearing in any publication or newspaper is totally wrong and the Leader of the Opposition has a totally false impression. 
This question must be judged against the recent background of the activities of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, particularly its naval operations in the seas and oceans of the world, including the Mediterranean Sea; the difficulty that has been experienced with the negotiations amongst the 4 powers over West Berlin; the problems of the conclusion of the strategic arms limitation talks; and now a development which  I  believe is as bad as any of those, the movement of SAM1, 2 and 3 sites into the Canal zone. There is no doubt at all that despite the agreement that was reached between the USSR and the United States of America a large number of SAM2 and 3 sites have been moved. The SAM3 sites are manned and operated by USSR personnel and there can be no doubt whatsoever that USSR personnel as well as armaments are in this zone. The agreement was that there would be a ceasefire and no movement of any kind of arms or equipment into this zone. 
Consequently, against the background that I have mentioned, recent developments have thrown a great question mark upon the integrity of the USSR. It is highly regrettable that these arms and equipment should have been moved at this time, when it did appear as though it was possible for  Mr Jarring,  the United Nations mediator, to get negotiations under way. These movements have, I think, invited retaliation from other countries. They are particularly regrettable in view of the fact that there had been a ceasefire between the Jordanian and Palestinian and Syrian forces and consequently it appeared that there was some prospect of a settlement. I can make no other comment than this: It is a matter of great regret that these movements have occurred. Verification has been possible by U2 flights and other methods of identification and there is no doubt whatsoever that these SAM 2 and 3 sites have been moved. It is also most regrettable that this has caused some pause not only in the negotiations for a ceasefire but also in negotiations for peace in the Middle East which it was hoped to arrange. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 1 am not prepared to take the action suggested as in present circumstances 1 do nol think that this would be productive. 
Implicit in the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition is the suggestion that we should always follow the lead of every other country, particularly when problems are raised before the United Nations. This country decides its own future and will decide in accordance with its own interests what action it will take on this resolution or on any other. Ever since I have been the Minister I have been interested in this question of Canada recognising Red China and simultaneously Red China recognising Canada. Recently, while in. New York,I had a long discussion with  Mr Mitchell  Sharp, the Canadian Foreign Minister, about this . problem. It is true, as the honourable gentleman says, that the Red Chinese Government and the Canadian Government have decided to recognise one another. ButI would like to point out some parts of the communique which was issued and ask whether the honourable gentleman agrees with it in total. It states: 
The Chinese Government re-affirms that Taiwan is an inalienable part of the Territory of the People's Republic of China. The Canadian Government takes note of this position of the Chinese Government. The Canadian Government recognises the Government of the People's Republic of China as the sole legal government of China. 
There is no definition of what 'China' in fact means. Our position is clear. We do not necessarily follow what other governments do. We have stated - the Prime Minister has recently confirmed this and I now confirm it again-that of course we would like Red China to be in the United Nations provided only that it accepted the Declaration of Human Rights and abided by it and provided it was willing to abide by the principles of the Charter itself. The condition would be that Red China renounced the use of violence and force in an attempt to ensure its political objectives. Secondly, we have stated that if Red China does live up to its obligations we would be prepared to reconsider our position. Finally, we do not accept the Albanian resolution that the Republic of China should be expelled from the United Nations. This is a country that has lived up to its obligations; it is a country which we believe should be a member of the United Nations: 
The last part of the honourable member's question referred to what Malaysia intends to do. Malaysia will vote against the important question but it will abstain from a vote on the actual recognition of Communist China. 
When the announcement of the withdrawal of a further 150,000 troops from Vietnam was made in April of this year there were certain conditions under which the withdrawals would take place. They were, first, that Vietnamisation should be successful; in other words, that the South Vietnamese themselves should be able progressively to take over the combat role from the American and other free allied troops in South Vietnam and be in a position to defend themselves. Secondly, there was the fundamental principle that in withdrawing the troops there should be complete protection and security for the allied forces, including the Americans there. 
The truth is that Vietnam isation has succeeded beyond expectations. In recent discussions with people, such as Robert Thompson, and in my 2 visits there, I confirmed the view that Vietnamisation is being successful and, consequently, that the target set in April by  President  Nixon can be more than achieved or achieved in quicker time. The  President  announced yesterday that there would be an accelerated withdrawal within the 150,000 troops agreed to in April. He pointed out - and I want to emphasise this - that while statements have been made in recent weeks as to a somewhat accelerated withdrawal, it will be within the 150.000 troops that have been mentioned. 
Simultaneously with the statement by the  President,  our own Prime Minister announced that we would be withdrawing one battalion and supporting troops. The date of that withdrawal has already been announced in this House. So I cannot understand why anyone could argue that this is a compulsory or forced withdrawal. We are withdrawing in accordance with a timetable. Now I can add that so far as the recent statement of  President  Nixon is concerned as to a ceasefire standstill, since April investigations have been made in South Vietnam to indicate those areas which are regarded as safe for the South Vietnamese and which they can defend themselves. During the whole of that time investigations have been made to ensure that when the withdrawal takes place it is on the basis of successful Vietnamisation and without danger to the allied forces there. 
On completion of the withdrawal of  130,000  United States troops by the end of May  1971  there will be  284,000  United States troops in South Vietnam.  Mr Rogers,  . the Secretary of State, and  Mr Laird,  the Secretary of Defence, have both indicated that between  40  per cent and  60  per cent of that  284.000  will be combat troops. They wilt be there to cover ' the second phase of the Vietnamisation programme. After the withdrawal of the ground combat troops there will still be a support role for support troops - Air Force, helicopter operators and artillery. The role of the  40  per cent to  60  per cent of the  284,000  will be to ensure the security of the base areas and also they will be used in  a  positive role to prevent a build-up against the security ot the United States and other free forces there. As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, I have not got the answer but I will obtain it for him and let him have it. 
1  notice that one of the latest questions added to the notice paper is along lines similar to the question asked by the honourable member, but in any event I can give this answer. I can add nothing to the answer that has already been given by the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Acting Minister for External Affairs during my absence. We adhere to the COCOM list, that is, the list that was established by the co-ordinating committee of the North Atlantic TreatyOrganisation countries. Nonetheless, although this list is strictly adhered to and there are no deviations made from it, I have instructed my Department to look at the list again and I will shortly be referring the matter to the Prime Minister and, if necessary, to Cabinet. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Australia, together with 36 other countries, abstained because it was considered that the General Assembly should nol lake any action that might impede the progress of the SALT talks which were then in session in Helsinki. Moreover, resolution 2602A singled out one aspect only of the many complex issues being considered by the United States and USSR at SALT. In the First Committee on 28th November 1969, the Australian representative said that the Australian Government welcomed the opening of SALT and expressed the Government's view that a balanced and verifiable agreement on limitation of strategic arms would bring great benefits to all peoples. 
Yes. Australia, together with 36 other countries, abstained because it was considered that this request was premature at a lime when the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament already had several incomplete items on its agenda which demanded priority and were likely to require more than the time available before the 25th session of the General Assembly. 
Yes. The reasons for Australia's vote on resolution 2603A are contained in a reply to a question on notice (No. 318) given by the Minister for External Affairs on 17lh March 1970 (Hansard, pages 524-525), 
The replies which countries have given to the Secretary General of the United Nations in response to his inquiry under resolution 2574 (A) are an item for consideration during the current session of the General Assembly in New York. The Australian reply has stated that Australia is agreeable to the holding of one or more than one international conference to consider desirable developments in the law of the sea. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that at least 12 countries are contributing aid to Indonesia within the context of the Inter-Governmental Group for Indonesia. 
Details are listed below of estimated aid commitments by these donor countries. Comparable figures are not available for commitments by other countries including the Soviet Union. It should be noted that commitments for a particular year are frequentlynot the same as aid actually spent in that year. 
The Malaysian Prime Minister, Tun Razak, has stated that he wants Malaysia to be free and neutral and that consequently he feels that China, the United States of America and Russia should join together in an attempt to achieve neutrality and freedom in that area. The first point relating to the freedom and neutrality of Malaysia is consistent with Australian Government policy. Secondly, the Malaysian Prime Minister wants the whole of South East Asia to be free and neutral; this also is consistent with Australian Government policy. However, some doubt has arisen because it is thought that this might in some way affect the relationships that exist between Australia and Malaysia and particularly any relationship that might grow in the future as a result of any post AngloMalaysia Defence Agreement arrangements. I can assure the honourable gentleman and the House that the attitude of the Malaysian Government to Australia has not changed in any respect. Malaysia welcomes the type of arrangements that are being discussed between the  5  countries, that is, the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, Malaysia and Singapore, and this recent statement will make no difference to the attitude he has taken to those arrangements. 
I do not so recall the 2 statements made by the honourable gentleman. Consequently, I cannot make a definitive statement about them. Nonetheless if the man is in prison and it appears to be for an unjust reason I would make inquiries to see whether there was any action that the Government can take. But that is on the basis that we did think that the imprisonment was unjust and contrary to what we could regard as natural justice. 
First, our policy is based upon and has always been based upon the rights of the countries of the whole of South East Asia to determine their own future and to ensure that they have the right of electing their own governments. In other words these governments should not be imposed upon the various countries by outside force and violence. That is our policy and that is one of the reasons why our troops are  now  stationed in South Vietnam. We have troops stationed in Malaysia and Singapore because we believe that this will give to these countries the confidence to continue with the policies not only of development but of steady improvement in their own defence capabilities. 
Yes, with 1,200 troops. You might not like this but the simple fact is that the countries concerned have to take the responsibility and not you people - particularly the fellow who interjected - who want to scuttle- 
1 find it difficult to use that phrase but in deference to your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  I will do so. If the honourable gentleman had listened to what I said in answer to the second question asked this morning he would have realised that there has been no change whatsoever in the relationship between Malaysia and Australia since the announcement by the Prime Minister of Malaysia that he wants a neutral, free and independent Malaysia. Equally too does the Malaysian Prime Minister want an independent, free and neutral Cambodia and Vietnam. What the honourable gentleman has to recognise is that it is one thing to want something to happen; it is another to prevail upon Communists, particularly the North Vietnamese and their associates, to agree to exactly the same principles. If we find that the North Vietnamese Army and its associates respond in a sensible way to the initiatives of the  President  of the United States of America - that is, that there should be a stand still cease fire - there should be a political- adjustment based upon the aspirations of the whole of the peoples of South Vietnam. If that happens it will be the reason for us to have another look and see whether we can change in any way our policy with regard to helping the defence of these countries and stationing troops there. 
At the time when I gave the information, I was advising the House in explicit and accurate terms of the information that had been conveyed to me from Kuala Lampur. The advice then given was that the Malaysians would vote against the important question. In other words, they do not think that the important question should be invoked in this case. Secondly, from Government sources, we have been advised in fact that they would remain neutral' on the Albanian resolution, which was the very word that I used in the House. So far as I am concerned, that remains the position although I have been informed in recent days that there is a possibility that their attitude may be changed. 
I am sure that not only myself but my Department gave all the assistance that was practicable to the group of young people who came out of Cambodia to try to explain the plight of the Cambodians and the fact that this was a blatant and naked assault by the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong against the Khmer people. The honourable gentleman who asked me a question earlier today was one of the first to admit that he did have the wool pulled from off his eyes, but apparently he did not have it pulled far enough so far as the implications were concerned when he referred to Communist China. As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question relating to the parliamentary group now visiting Australia, I hope that the media will recognise that this is a group of people who reflect the true views of the Cambodian people. As far as we can ascertain, the people in the towns - the intellectuals, university students and everyone whose opinion can be ascertained - all support the present Government of Cambodia. That being so we would like the voice of the people reflected in the Australian Press. I am sure that if these people are listened to and if proper publicity is given to their views other members of the community will come to realise that this is aggression in Cambodia and that we, in Australia, must do all we can not only to see that Cambodia remains free but that it is able to assert its right to neutrality. 
The facts contained in the question asked by the honourable gentleman are correct. There had been naked and blatant violation of Cambodian territory by the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong. I do not think that this is disputed even by the most left wing of the members of the Opposition. As to the United States activities in the Fish Hook area of Cambodia, these activities were at the invitation of the Cambodian or Khmer Government. The third point made by the honourable gentleman was whether I would try to make arrangements for any members of the Opposition who have any doubts to discuss the matter with the leader of the Cambodian delegation. J will be only too happy to do this. But I can assure these honourable members generally who want verification that their views will be exactly the same as those of the Commonwealth Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-There are two entirely, separate issues involved, as is implied in the question asked by the honourable gentleman. The official position of the Malaysian Government as to the admission of Communist China to the United Nations is exactly as I stated it in answer to a question asked by the Leader of the Opposition. On the important question' the Malaysian Government will vote against it and on the question of the admission of Communist China to the United Nations: it will abstain from voting. Some difficulty has been created because of a statement made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister, Tun Ismail, in or about the second week of this month. He said - and this is an entirely different question - that Malaysia would be willing to co-sponsor a resolution admitting continental or Communist China to the United Nations. But he went on to say - and this is the very important part of what he said - that Malaysia believed that Taiwan China, that is, the Republic of  China,  should remain a member of the United Nations, and as well that the people of the Republic of China should have the right of self-determination. So the honourable member for Wills has become completely confused between these two separate questions. 
I remember the honourable gentleman asking me a question concerning the whereabouts of  Mr Francis  James. I then pointed out that  Mr Francis  James was entitled to exactly the same kind of protection as any other Australian citizen overseas. I also said that we had carried out investigations both through the British Charge d'Affaires in Peking and other avenues in order to ascertain his whereabouts but that the Communist Chinese resolutely refused to give any information. We have continued with our investigations but with exactly the same results. On the last occasion in October when we approached the British Charge in Peking we asked him if he could try to obtain verification of statements made of the possible presence of  Mr James  in Canton. Again he met with exactly the same attitude from the Chinese Communist Government and no information whatsoever could be obtained. We were also informed by the British that this practice is adopted when Britain's own citizens arc concerned and that they cannot get any satisfactory replies. In fact, they cannot get any replies whatsoever. We will continue to do all we can to help this man and if I can get any worthwhile information 1 will immediately convey it to the House. 
I hoped that the honourable gentleman would ask this question, because the reply can be given decisively and clearly. I omit any kind of personal reference, but I will illustrate just how those asking the questions have not understood what has happened. Let me quote from the actual official document. I will not go through the preliminary part of it but I will give the summing up. It says: 
Thus while Malaysia believes Communist China should be admitted by a simple majority it does not believe that Taiwan should be expelled. At his Press conference in early October, Tun Ismail said that Malaysia would vote against the Important Question resolution and abstain on the Albanian resolution. 
The Albanian resolution means recognition of Communist China and the expulsion of Taiwan or the Republic of China. The document continues: 
He also said that if there was a simple resolution for the admission of Communist China which made no reference to Taiwan then Malaysia would associate itself with that resolution and vote for it. 
I mention that there is no other resolution of that nature now before the United Nations. 
-So, I proceed a stage further, if I can, because it is obvious that there is difficulty in understanding it. Tun Ismail said that Malaysia wanted Taiwan to have the right of self-determination in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations. These were almost identically the words that I used in answer to the question asked today by the honourable member for Diamond Valley. Because of the confusion that has been caused, I would have the greatest pleasure in permitting my officials to try to explain the answers to the 2 honourable gentlemen. 
Already 1 have answered this question on 2 occasions.  I  refer the honourable gentleman to the answer I gave yesterday, which 1 have taken particular note is reported in Hansard this morning. What I want to put to the House is that all the questions that are being asked here by members of the Opposition seem to indicate that they have no regard for the rights of the people of the countries to determine their own future. 
Implicit in everything they say is that they do not mind the use of force, violence and intimidation. 
Is K the view of the Malaysian Government that the question of the admission of Communist China to the United Nations should be determined by a simple majority vote at the United Nations? 
We have for a long time expressed our views, both in the Third Committee and before the General Assembly of the United Nations, stressing that we believe in the principles of nondiscrimination and that every person should have the right to life and self expression no matter what his race, creed or colour might be. I can assure the House that we will continue this practice. We also take the view that we do not wish to interfere in the internal affairs of other countries. But there is one reservation to this rule and that is where oppression or the suppression of human rights is continuous. On those occasions we will intervene and let our views be known even though that might be regarded as interference. This will particularly apply to the views we express about suppression of the rights of the Jewish people in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 
To indicate our point of view, at the anniversary meeting of the General Assembly on the 24th of next month - it is a special meeting - a declaration will be made relating to the rights of individuals, particularly the rights of minorities in certain countries. I think it wise that this part of the declaration be read to the House because it should be on permanent record. This is what we will support as the Australian Government: 
Although some progress has been achieved, there are still serious violations of human rights against individuals and groups in several regions of the world. We pledge ourselves to a continued and determined struggle against all violations of the rights and fundamental freedoms of human beings, by eliminating the basic causes of such violations, by promoting universal respect for the dignity of all peoples without regard to race, colour, sex, language or religion- 
This question must be becoming a little boring to the House because I have already answered it. I do not think the question and the answer in themselves are important; what is important is the intention of the Malaysians and what they do. If the honourable gentleman can contain himself for a few days at the most he will see, on the voting papers ofthe General Assembly, exactly how the Malaysians vote. 
There have been 5 previous incidents involving premises of the Yugoslav Government in Australia. We are very sorry that this latest incident has happened. We have expressed our regrets to the Yugoslav Ambassador in Canberra. We have already made approaches to the Yugoslav Ambassador and said that if damage has been caused to Embassy property we will consider any request that it may make for reimbursement of the cost involved in reconstruction. We have been informed also that up to the moment investigations by the police have not been completed. Consequently, we are not in a position, and will not be in a position until the police report is completed, to make any other further approaches. 
I did make inquiries, as I informed the Deputy Leader of the Opposition I would, and I came to the conclusion, after receiving the advice of my Department, that this was a matter for the internal jurisdiction of the South Vietnamese Government and that consequently we should not intervene. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The annual report previously produced consolidated in printed form much of the material submitted to  me  by my Department during the year. However, its production required much detailed supplementary work and, in view of other and more urgent demands on my Department, I decided to discontinue it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please refer to the answer to question No. 2033. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have already answered a similar question in the House on 14 October when I told the honourable member for Bowman that I had nothing to add to the replies given by the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Acting Minister for External Affairs during my absence. I said on that occasion that I had instructed my Department to have a further look at the question which would, if necessary, be referred to the Cabinet. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I remember the question asked by the honourable gentleman, and I think it can be answered in this way: First of all, approximately 90 per cent of forces fighting in the north of South Vietnam are NVA, and overall between 70 per cent and 80 per cent of forces fighting in South Vietnam are North Vietnamese. I think that disposes of the idea that civil war is involved. As to the second and third questions, I think the appropriate answer is this- 
Yes, and there have been free elections in South Vietnam but none in North Vietnam. 
No, you have normally captured most of that yourself - and deserved it. As to the second point involved here - and perhaps I could now answer the interjection - there is nothing in the 1954 Agreements or in the 1962 Accords requiring an election in South Vietnam. The confusion arises in the mind of the honourable member- 
Please let me answer the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am aware of the document referred to. 
The text published at page 162 of the Department of State Bulletin Vol. 31 JulyDecember 1954, was the full text of the United States representative's speech at the 21st July 1954 meeting of the Geneva Conference on IndoChina. The text of the formal declaration itself, as published on page 17 of Select Documents on International Affairs No. 1 of 1964, was considered to be the part of the speech most relevant for inclusion in such a publication as Select Documents. 
In the remainder of his speech, the United States representative referred, inter alia, to the United States attitude to nations divided against their will, noting that his Government would continue to seek to achieve unity through free elections, and to its traditional position that peoples were entitled to determine their own future. The United States would not join any arrangement which would hinder this. 
In view of the interest shown in the speech, I include here the full text of what the United States representative, Under Secretary of State, General Walter Bedell Smith, said at the concluding Indo-China plenary session at Geneva on 21st July 1954: 
As I stated on 18th July, my Government is not prepared to join in a declaration by the Conference such as is submitted. However, the United States makes this unilateral declaration of its position in these matters: 
Declaration 
The Government of the United States being resolved to devote its efforts to the strengthening of peace in accordance with the principles and purposes of the United Nations takes note of the agreements concluded at Geneva on 20th July and 2 1st July 1954 between (a) the Franco-Laotian Command and the Command of the Peoples Army of VietNam; (b) the Royal Khmer Army Command and the Command of the Peoples Army of Viet-Nam; (c) Franco-Vietnamese Command and the Command of the Peoples Army of Viet-Nam and of paragraphs 1 to 12 inclusive of the declaration presented to the Geneva Conference on 21st July 1954 declares with regard to the aforesaid agreements and paragraphs that (i) it will refrain from the threat or the use of force to disturb them, in accordance with Article 2(4) of the Charter of the United Nations dealing with the obligation of members to refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force; and (ii) it would view any renewal of the aggression in violation of the aforesaid agreements with grave concern and as seriously threatening international peace and security. 
In connection with the statement in the Declaration concerning free elections in VietNam my Government wishes to make clear its position which it has expressed in a declaration made in Washington on 29th June 1954, as follows: 
In the case of nations now divided against their will, we shall continue to seek to achieve unity through free elections supervised by the United Nations to ensure that they are conducted fairly. 
With respect to the statement made by the representative of the State of Viet-Nam, the United States reiterates its traditional position that peoples are entitled to determine their own future and that it will not join in an arrangement which would hinder this. Nothing in its declaration just made is intended to or does indicate any departure from this traditional position. 
We share the hope that the agreements will permit Cambodia, Laos and Viet-Namto play their part, in full, independence and sovereignty, in the peaceful community of nations, and will enable the peoples of that area to determine their own future. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Embassy in Paris has been given the task of keeping in touch with the American delegation and other negotiators at the Paris meetings on Vietnam. From May 1968 until August 1970 these duties were undertaken by  Mr H.  D. Anderson. 
As  Mr Anderson  was not posted as Ambassador to France, the routine public announcement that is made about the movements of heads of our diplomatic missions was not made, either when he went there or when he returned. 
Information about  Mr Anderson's  movements was, however, given to the Parliament in answer to questions. I refer the honourable member to the answers to questions asked by  Senator Ormonde  on 28th May 1968 (page 1146 of the Senate Hansard, Volume 37) and by the honourable member himself in this House on 17th September 1970 (Hansard, pages 1265-6). 
Normally  I  would completely disregard anything that was said by the honourable member for Lalor. The degree of accuracy and credibility of the honourable member can be tested by my answer to the question. I have no knowledge whatever of any person known to me being a member of the Brotherhood, the Ustashi or any other similar Yugoslav organisation. Secondly, apart from what I have read in the newspapers, from what I have heard in debates in this House, mainly from the honourable member for Lalor, or from what I have read in departmental files, I have no knowledge whatsoever of the operations of the Ustashi or the Brotherhood. I believe that this indicates the degree of credibility that can be attached to any' statements that are made by the honourable member for Lalor. 
Those who have had the misfortune to read the speech that the Leader of the Opposition made last night will recognise that he is completely enmeshed in the past and is unable to look to the future and the bright hopes it has for the people of Indo-China. 
-MAHON- Yes, in 1967. lt was then right, but what the Leader of the Opposition forgot - 
You looked damn silly on television. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I wish to assure the honourable member that careful consideration is being given to a suitable programme to observe the year 1971 in Australia as International Year for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination. Australia shares the concern of the United Nations at manifestations of racial discrimination and intolerance and has frequently made this clear. It is this concern which led us in the United Nations General Assembly to vote in support of the resolution designating 1971 as International Year for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination. 
I note that the programme referred to by the honourable member in his question is based on ideas which the United Nations' Secretary-General has suggested that Governments be invited to consider. Due account is being taken of these suggestions although it would not be practicable to adopt each and every one of them. In some cases, Australia has already takenthe action suggested. For example, Australia is a party to the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, the Convention of 1956 on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery and the UNESCO Convention against Discrimination in Education. Australia has signed the International Convention on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination and the question of its ratification is under consideration. 
The Programme for observance of the Year is being considered also in conjunction with plans for its celebration at the non-Governmental level. In this regard the honourable member may be interested to know that the United Nations Association of Australia, along with other interested non-governmental associations has set up a National Committee to plan the effective observance of the year, named the Australian Committee to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination. While its programme is not yet finalised, I understand that it will include the dissemination of information about the relevant United Nations documents dealing with racial discrimination. 
by leave - An article in a financial newspaper recently criticised the principles on which Australia has acted in relation to granting petroleum exploration permits on the continental shelf between the northern coast of Australia . and Indonesian Timor, and questioned the international validity of Australia's actions. The subject is of national importance both to Australia and to its great neighbour, Indonesia. But the article itself is factually so inaccurate and doctrinally so confused as to be altogether most misleading. I take this opportunity of putting the position in proper perspective. 
I make four points. First, Australia based its 1967 legislation for regulating the exploration and exploitation of the petroleum resources on the continental shelf squarely on the International Geneva Convention of 1958, to which Australia is a party. So are 40-odd other states, including the United States, the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, France, Canada, New Zealand, Malaysia and Thailand. To follow the convention was strictly in accordance with Australian constitutional law. 
There are some distinctive features of detail in the Australian legislation, for instance the so-called picture-frame lines which delimit for domestic purposes the areas within which the respective states and territories should exercise agreed administrative functions. But the principles, based as they are on the Convention itself, are common to many other countries, and in accordance with international practice. 
Second, the 1958 Convention embodies the two conceptions on which the law of the continental shelf is founded. It expressly states what has been called the expanding rim doctrine - that is, that the shelf extends to the 200-metres depth line, and beyond it to the limit of exploitability. From this, it is crystal clear that there is nothing in the law as it stands to restrict exploration permits to the 200-metres depth line. Many other countries besides Australia - including the United States, Canada and New Zealand - have granted such permits. 
The International Court of Justice has emphasised in a recent North Sea case that what is known as the morphological concept is also inherent in the Convention. Indeed it is the foundation of the doctrine which the lawyers later took over and developed. The morphological concept is that the continental shelf is the natural prolongation under the sea of the land mass of the coastal state, out to the lower edge of the margin, where it slopes down to and merges in, the deep ocean-floor or abyssal plain. These two concepts are in no way inconsistent. They both point to the outer edge of the margin as the limit of the coastal state's rights. 
Third, the rights claimed by Australia in the Timor Sea area are based unmistakably on the morphological structure of the sea bed. The essential feature of the sea bed beneath the Timor Sea is a huge steep cleft or declevity called the Timor Trough, extending in an east-west direction, considerably near to the coast of Timor than to the northern coast of Australia. It is more than 550 nautical miles long and on the average 40 miles wide, and the sea bed slopes down on opposite sides to a depth of over 10,000 feet. The Timor Trough thus breaks the continental shelf between Australia and Timor, so that there are two distinct shelves, and not one and the same shelf, separating the two opposite coasts. The fall-back median line between the 2 coasts, provided for in the Convention in the absence of agreement, would not apply for there is no common area to delimit. This Australian view is of course well known to Indonesia. There has in fact been a recent exchange of views, still incomplete, between Indonesian and Australian officials. 
Fourth, the sea bed proposals made last May by the  President  of the United States are based on the two concepts of the continental shelf that I have mentioned. Many developing states, in the sea bed discussions in the United Nations, have expressed the desire to secure a revision of the 1958 convention, so as to restrict to the 200- metres depth line the area of national jurisdiction on the continental shelf.  President  Nixon, however, has put forward the compromise proposal that from the 200- metres depth line out to the continental margin the coastal state would continue to control sea bed operations, through administering an international mining code and holding as trustee for the international community a substantial proportion of the revenues derived. 
Whatever eventual legal arrangements will emerge for the sea bed, the present law will not be changed except by agreement; and without adequate safeguards for existing investment there is little or no likelihood of agreement. I therefore do not accept the view that titles which Australia has granted in the Timor Sea are open to question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am not aware that any claims have been made by the property owners concerned, nor am I in possession of the particulars of possible insurance policies that the owners may have. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
South African Airways offices in Australia have discontinued the sale of tickets to Rhodesia. 
Although Qantas has, in the past, placed advertisements in Rhodesian newspapers and magazines as part of its general overseas advertising programme, this practice has now ceased. 
I have had a number of reports of increased South Vietnamese operations - and very successful operations - in the area of Tchepone in southern Laos. We have not had detailed reports of mobilisation of North Vietnamese battalions or regimental groups in order to counter the operations of the South Vietnamese. From ail that I can gather, the operations of the South Vietnamese, assisted in the north of South Vietnam by the Americans, are going along amazingly successfully, lt is too early to judge but I hope that this continues and that the operations finish up a total success for South Vietnam. As yet, we have not been asked for any assistance by the South Vietnamese. We were not in fact consulted about the operations by the South Vietnamese or the United States forces in northern South Vietnam. No Australian  troops are involved and I doubt whether we will be required or asked to give any assistance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 31st October 1970 all Australia-based officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs serving overseas were Australian citizens by birth, residence, registration or naturalisation, with the exception of eight, two of whom were citizens of New Zealand and six citizens of the United Kingdom. 
Local Government: Commonwealth Grants  (Question No. 2145)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has he received a letter from the Premier of New South Wales asking the Commonwealth to provide matching grants for State government contributions to the Local Government Assistance Fund of New South Wales. 
If so, on what date was the Premier's letter received. 
Has be answered the Premier's letter. 
If so, did he agree to the Premier's request. 
If not, when does he expect to answer the letter. 
The answers to the honourable member's question are as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The Australian Government regards the proposed sale of arms as a mailer to be decided by the British Government. If the British Government should conclude that the protection of her sea routes requires the provision of maritime arms to South Africa then the Australian Government has no intention of expressing opposition. 
When advising the 
House of the countries to which Jetair aircraft were to be sent I said that two were to go to Bhutan. That is not correct. Two of them are to go to Nepal, not to Bhutan. 
 The  answer  to  the  honourable member's question is as  follows: 
Since 28th October 1970, the Governments of Italy, Ethiopia and Chile have extended diplomatic recognition. In addition, Nigeria has now announced that it recognises 'the Government of the People's Republic of China as the sole legal Government representing the entire Chinese people'. 
In answer to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, I will keep in mind the qualities and characteristics of the Transavia aircraft and will make certain that the request is conveyed to the relevant departments as soon as question time is over. As to the purchase of the aircraft, a little over a year ago negotiations were commenced for the purchase and delivery to Cambodia. Laos and Nepal of 11 aircraft  -  6 to Cambodia, 3 to Laos and 2 to Nepal. We were able to purchase immediately from the Royal Australian Air Force 5 aircraft of a military transport configuration. We made inquiries to find out whether they could be converted for civil/ military use but it was ascertained that the cost of doing so would be between $20,000 and $30,000 each. The purchase price for each of the Royal Australian Air Force aircraft ranged between $10,000 and $15,000. This was exclusively an intraCommonwealth transaction between the 3 departments involved, the Department of Supply the RAAF and myown Department. 
The second part of the question relates to the purchase of aircraft from Jetair. There is some confusion in the minds of people that Jetair was controlled by  Mr G.  P. Barton ofIPEC. I am informed that while the Managing Director of Jetair, which is a subsidiary of Brins, is a  Mr Barton,  he is not the same  Mr Barton  as  Mr G.  P. Barton ofIPEC. The initiative for the purchase of these aircraft was solely that of the departments. No-one else other than departmental officials has had anything whatsoever to do with the actual negotiations for the purchase and sale. In other words, no Minister has been involved other than to read the departmental files and to agree to the recommendations made if they decided to do so. I agreed to the recommendation in documents that were submitted to me. Therefore, any idea of a Minister being connected with this- 
Because some of your companions - if you would like me to name themI will give you their names; they would probably be your friends - have created suspicions that Ministers were associated with it. No-one outside the officials were associated in any way. 1 would have made a statement about this before but as yet we have not received from the Department of Supply the official order to purchase. As we have not received the authority, although we expect to receive it today, 1 was not anxious to make the purchase price known because I believe it to be a transaction which when the figures are disclosed will show that it is a really worthwhile purchase and the price, far from being excessive is, I believe, well below the market price. To give a figure, if we purchased similar RAAF aircraft and wanted to give, as we have in the case of the supply of aircraft to Nepal and Laos, certificates of airworthiness we would have had to spend on the purchase price and conversion something of the order of $80,000. 
Do keep quiet and be a good boy. You talk enough in Moratorium campaigns and you are always wrong anyhow. 
I will answer briefly. The assumptions underlying the honourable member's question are totally wrong. J have discussed this problem with the Prime Minister and I can assure you,  Mr Speaker,  that in looking at the problems, first of admission to the United Nations and, secondly, of recognition by other countries, we have looked at the facts. We have examined problems of diplomatic relationships and I doubt whether we have once mentioned as a decisive influence the question of sales of wheat or any other commodity to the People's Republic of China. 
Already there is an embargo against the export to Communist China, or to the Peoples Republic of China, of any goods which can be used for military purposes against any forces whatsoeverand that, of course, includes Australian forces. So, the honourable gentleman's question is somewhat misguided and misplaced. There is no intention whatsoever to change this list and we will keep an embargo upon any goods which can be used directly for military purposes. 
As to the substance of the honourable gentlemans question, 1 think that the Leader of the Opposition has a question on the notice paper relating to it. 1 understand, therefore,  Mr Speaker,  that consequently that part of the question asked by the honourable gentleman is out of order. Nonetheless, I can assure the honourable member now that 1 have carried out the review that so far as any goods that have no strategic implication are concerned I hope that in the not too distant future we will bc able to make an announcement about them. 
As to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, I have discussed the question of the study group with the Secretary-General during the time he has been in Australia. There has been a little delay about the appointments because of a difference of opinion as to what should be the level of representation of the various countries involved. There has been a little delay due to the fact that the Secretary-General has been out of the United Kingdom. As soon as he gets back he will take the matter up, and it is hoped that a decision as to representation will be made shortly after wards. As to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, the subject that he raised about nuclear explosions was not a matter of great concern to any of the countries at the Singapore Conference. In fact, it was mostly concerned with criticism of the British Government because of its attitude to the Simonstown Agreement. I now think a lot of that criticism would have abated because it is clear that there is a legal obligation on the British Government to supply certain types of equipment to the South African Government. So far as nuclear explosions by France are concerned we retain our position. When we heard that France was about to detonate a nuclear device we protested and we will continue to protest whenever we hear that this or any other kind of nuclear explosion is likely to be made in the Pacific theatre. 

 - Mr Speaker, you will have heard from the interjection made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  that both he and I expected the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  to speak about our current economic policies and our current economic problems rather than to give us a dissertation on the long term objectives of the Labor Party to socialise this country and to make certain that every member of the country was brought under Labor control. 
Before I go into the body of the statement that 1 want to make to the House, this afternoon, let me say that I have no intention to descend lo the level of personal abuse that that feline character is so apt to indulge in not only in this House but also on the hustings. I felt that he might have learnt his lesson at the last elections when so many people disapproved of the characteristic of which I have spoken. The honourable gentleman, who is not known for his economic knowledge, read to the House a statement which 1 understand had only recently been delivered to him. Normally it is a custom to provide the opposite side with a copy of a statement beforehand. 1 always give the Leader of the Opposition the privilege of having a document that I am presenting to the House several hours before the actual delivery, lt would have been noted that the Leader of the Opposition was giving me pages of his copy after it was given to him at the table while he was making his speech, lt is not that I want them any longer, lt has been proved from what he said that they are of little value and have little to do with the context in which we have to discuss today's economic problems. But let me mention just one or two matters, particularly one that concerns my own portfolio, to show how little he understands the problem of economics. During the course of my statement to the House I will touch upon most of the problems he has mentioned. 
If the honourable member could sec, he would know thai I am not reading from anything but am making a speech without any notes given to me by any other person. 
This afternoon I will endeavour to explain to the House the historical background against which our problems have to be judged, the way in which the present problems have emerged, the identification of the causes and, consequently, if we wish to look at the matter properly, the kind of solution that can be made or the cure that can be applied and then to mention what the Government's policy is to overcome the problem. But before 1 tlo that I would like lo point out some of the quaint notions that have been put by the Leader of the Opposition. Later on I will deal in detail with some of his propositions. First of all, he mentioned interest rales. I wonder whether anyone believes that we could possibly have solved our problems up to the moment unless interest, rates, at the recommendation of the Treasury and the Reserve Bank, had been increased. What is an interest rate? It is a payment to those who save money and are prepared to invest it in Commonwealth securities. If we do not pay them a market price for their money, we will not get the money and consequently we will intensify our liquidity problems. As I shall show later, it is through satisfactorily handling the liquidity problems that we have been able to put the brake on intensive inflationary pressures in the community. 
Secondly, the honourable gentleman spoke about the reduction in taxation, promised by the Prime Minister in a policy speech despite what the Leader of the Opposition might have said. 1 would like lo explain the motive that drove the Government to agree to or to decide on the reduction. The true purpose of this was not to get a redistribution of income but, because we had inflation and consequently increased, average incomes, to ensure that there was equity between all income sections of the community and that those who were paying increased taxation because of these two causes should have some, but not permanent and for that matter not total, relief. Let me mention one other matter to which the honourable gentleman referred in his statement. He said that wc should be looking at the cost of inflation rather than at rising prices. If there is anything that shows his lack of economic understanding and that he does not understand that costs are the cause of rising prices, it is his use of that phrase. Because we do not get rising prices unless costs rise and consequently push prices up. 
The Leader of the Opposition believes it is Government policy and Government action that is the root cause of our present problems. I hope that I will be able to show conclusively that, while demand has had some impact, not a decisive one, the real problem that faces us today is rises in average incomes and the effects that rises in average incomes of the order of 7 per cent, 8 per cent or 9 per cent can have on an economy like ours. But let me go back to the beginnings and relate the history of our present problems. It will be known that in the 1969-70 Budget, the one before last, we budgeted for a domestic surplus of S500m. We knew that the bite of that Budget would not take place until the June quarter of 1970. in other words, we knew that as corporation taxation and personal taxation, although not pay as you earn taxation, came in money would be drawn out of Australia from the spending section of the community. It would also reduce purchasing power and consequently reduce demand. 
In the early part of 1970 we found that demand was increasing too rapidly and over a wide field, so we decided that monetary policy should be implemented to slow down the increases in the monetary supply and, as has been mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition, for once being accurate, this contributed to an increase in interest rates. Again I emphasise to you,  Mr Speaker,  that if interest rates had not risen we would have faced a much more severe problem than we in fact face today. When June came around we found that the effect of the 1969-70 Budget was as we had predicted. There was a slowing down and in fact it was thought that it was a little more severe than had' been anticipated at Budget time. Between the June quarter and the end of November it was felt that the Budget methods of 1969-70 might have been too severe because it was found that up till then unemployment was not falling at a rate that might have been expected and because of various other indications that there might be too great a slowing down. I have long thought that we can never interpret indices over a period of one or two months. Consequently, we had lo wait a little longer before we could make up our mind about what was happening over the whole year. 
I turn to the last Budget. At that time we decided again to adopt very much the same practices, and it was decided to budget for a domestic surplus of the order of $550m, and consequently it was thought that much the same result would follow. But the remedy would not work earlier in the financial year. It would come in the June quarter and then the impact could be quite severe. 1 think the simple answer to all this can be illustrated in the report that was given to us by the Reserve Bank. The Reserve Bank said to us that it believes that in the June quarter of this year there will be a severe liquidity difficulty. In other words, it does not think for one moment that we should be trying to impose greater liquidity restrictions or drying up the supply of money - certainly not in the June quarter - because it feels that the Budget by that time will be having its impact and i anything that we will have to somewhat liberalise the monetary policy in order to permit the supply of money to keep up with growing demand in the community. 
As I said, at the end of last year in December we found that the inflationary tendencies that were inherent in the economy started to show themselves and these were highlighted by 2 phenomena. The first was undoubtedly the increase in the consumer price index of 1.9 per cent although we have pointed out approximately .7 per cent was due to fiscal policy, about another .2 per cent was due to an increase in local government rates and a little was due to the increases in State rentals. So it cannot be taken that the 1.9 per cent is typical. In fact, the strong opinion from our technical advisers is that it will be substantially less when the next quarter's figures are made public. The next happening was that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission decided in the national wage ease that the national wage should increase by 6 per cent and that, of course, meant that some action had to be taken by the Government. I am prepared to say that in the last Budget the Government took a stronger view of the difficulties of inflationary pressures than our advisers did and I can assure the House, too, that equally with that the Government took a much more sensitive view as to the impact of inflationary pressures than our technical advisers did on this occasion. So it is not to be thought for one moment that the Government and the Prime Minister were not sensitive to it. In fact, I believe that the leadership was taken as it should rightly be taken by the Government and consequently I for one could not be considered as a critic of what has been done. 
Now, let me move on, if I can, to explain something about what has happened in terms of the 6 per cent increase in the national wage. At Budget time we anticipated that average incomes would rise at the rate of about 8 per cent per annum, or perhaps even a little less, but it was never contemplated by the economic and technical advisers that we would get a rise in the national wage of 6 per cent. What that did was to pump into the economy not S720m extra of purchasing power as stated by the Commission but S900m or more. That was something of the order of S450m more than we expected, and probably $350m more of disposable income than we expected was immediately injected into the money stream and will continue throughout the year and increase disposable income and therefore will probably have an impact upon demand itself. So this was the basis upon which we had to think and we therefore had to make our arrangements for additional contributions to the States. The wages bill which had to be paid. We had agreed with the States that they would be refunded $57m or S58m because they had agreed to give up their receipts tax and consequently therefore we were faced with an increase in our expenditure over the year of something like $240m. 
If it had not been for this increase in the national wage the other problems could have been handled and could have been handled quite satisfactorily prior to the introduction of the next Budget. We could have taken action fairly easily. But they became well nigh insoluble when we had a rise of this unpredictable and. 1 believe, unfortunate character. Now let me come back to an analysis of our present problem because I think that is exactly what the Leader of the Opposition has failed to do. If one looks at the Australian economy one will see that we have to divide it into private and public expenditure, and when we are looking at the private sector we must first of all look at consumption expenditure. 
 Then we must look at investment in plant and equipment and also at investment in civil construction and non-housing building. First of all, let me dispose of the item which is probably up as high as 60 per cent of the total gross national product, and that is consumption expenditure. Consumption expenditure today is not rising at excessive levels. In fact, I think it is fair to say to the House that far from being excessive it has maintained a plateau and consequently we cannot blame consumption demand for the problems. We do - and I want to repeat this - accept the fact that because of the difficulties we face with the addition of $350m to disposable income as a result of the national wage case and the stimulus to demand inflation. This would intensify the difficulties we face in the days to come. Secondly, there is one other kind of inflation and that is cost inflation. I believe that our present problems stem largely from the fact that we have difficulties associated with continually rising wages and rising average incomes. As those incomes rise over and above a certain level it must of necessity mean that there is an inbuilt inflationary factor. 
May 1 mention to the House just one or two economic problems and give the answers to them. First of all, may I mention that if we have average incomes exceeding productivity - in other words, if we find that earnings increase by, say, 8 per cent per annum and exceed the increase in productivity of something like 2.5 per cent per annum - then automatically we find an inbuilt inflationary factor. At the time of the national wage case there was already this inbuilt inflationary factor, lt has now been added to so that we can expect over a period of years an increase in the actual rate of inflation in terms of gross national product at constant prices - it is now about 4.5 per cent - although we do not know over what period it is likely to occur. In other words, while we will get this inbuilt inflationary factor the real difficulty is to tell in what months of the year it will take place or whether it will be this year or next year. The second point that I want to mention - and again it illustrates the lack of understanding of the Leader of the Opposition - is that during the course of the last 3 or 4 months there have been 2 papers issued by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. It has a committee that deals with these economic problems which gives, I believe, the best analyses that can be given as to not only the causes of inflation but also the means by which they can be . controlled. Every Western country that I know of is faced with exactly the same problems as we are and only in the course of the last few days the OECD has issued a paper saying that restraint in demand expenditure cannot be the way in which these problems are solved because it can lead to a fall in production, a fall in productivity and vast unemployment and consequently can distort the economy in a way that certainly we as a Government think is completely impracticable. Secondly, I have before me an article from the 'New Leader' titled Inflation'. This is an American journal and is dated February 1971. This article sets out views on the causes of inflation by hail a dozen different technical economic experts. Everyone has a different solution to the problem of inflation, and, frankly, it has to be accepted today that no-one can tell us how to solve the problems of inflation for reasons that I will deal with a little later on. In other words, they are searching- 
At least it is better to have some than no knowledge at all. What you do find is that inflation appears to other countries to be an intractable problem. We have decided to try to cope with the problem of inflation in our own way. 
May I now come to what are the real causes of the inflationary trends in this community. My purpose in mentioning this again is to emphasise that 1 believe that the forces of demand that could have Icd but need not necessarily have led to increased inflationary pressures have been intensified or driven forward by the action of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I do not think that there is any economic mechanism within our power which can possibly overcome the effects of the Arbitration Commission decision, ft has made a decision. Average weekly earnings will increase and unless the Government embarks on taxation of a punitive and probably destructive kind there is little that we can do about it. 
Lei me turn to Government expenditure. Government expenditure itself was rising, until last year, by about 8 per cent. That is Commonwealth and State expenditures as a whole. In other words, Commonwealth and State expenditures were expected to increase demand for goods and services by 8 per cent in the year before last. This year the increase will amount to 13 per cent. 
When we look at these figures we have to recognise that a tremendously large proportion of the amount is paid by the Commonwealth to the State governments and the residue which is left or the area in which we can act is not tremendously large at all. In other words, as the Prime Minister has pointed out in his statement, of government expenditure of $7,800m the Stales take $2,700m. The Commonwealth has nol cut back the amounts that will be advanced to the States. In fact it has increased them. Defence expenditure was to be Sl.lOOm but this will be reduced by $21m. Social services involves expenditure of SI. 500m which cannot be reduced. Consequently action within our own area of activity is reduced to the order of S2,500m. While there has been an increase in government expenditure in 1970-71 the Government has decided - and I will mention this later - to cut. it back by $75m and is to establish the foundations on which the economy can be closely .regulated by fiscal and monetary measures during the course of the next Budget. 
Let me turn to the 2 areas in which we have great difficulties. The first one without' any doubt is the non-housing construction industry. This includes civil construction by the Commonwealth and State governments as well as the private sector. In the private sector we find that there has been a large increase in the construction of office buildings and factories. Allowing also for the fact that State expenditure is growing and that our own civil works expenditure is growing, we find that the increase in demand for resources for those purposes is of the order of 30 per cent greater than last year. This is one area in which action must and should be taken. I am sure that the Prime Minister and the Cabinet have these factors well in mind and will be watching them very closely. They are one of the reasons why we were not prepared to give any increases in funds allocated to the States to be spent during this current Budget year. 
The second point that has to be mentioned is the other area where there is a large anticipated increase in expenditure. This is in private investment in plant and equipment. The increase in this field is about 15 per cent. We will take action to ensure that the rate of growth of private capital investment is in fact slowed down. 
This brings me to the crux of the problem. I have identified the causes of our present problem, ft is not due to consumption expenditure. It is due to many causes other than the increase in Government expenditure which took place largely because of events outside our control. I refer to the decision on the receipts duty tax, which was a very wise decision taken by the Prime Minister, the Cabinet and the Government because it is an inefficient type of taxation. I believe it caused more difficulty and that it had a more disturbing effect on businesses than was justified. Equally too if I were to deal with other measures taken I think it would be found that each one was a wise measure in the interests of the Australian community and 1 believe in the long run each of them will introduce an increased element of efficiency which will be passed on to succeeding generations. 1 turn to other problems. One is our balance of payments. If I may put it more correctly. 1 would now like to deal with the position in our international balances. I believe this is a true reflection of the way in which this Government, by assisting the mineral industries, has been able to generate the kind of inducement to capital inflows which has removed a very great burden from Australia today. As at 31st January our international balance amounted to SI, 620m which is an increase of SI 08m compared to the same lime last year, when during a comparable period they fell by $74'm. Capital inflow was of the order of Si 75m. This brings me to the statement made by the Leader df the Opposition during a Lahor-in-power conference last weekend that the Government was taking action which deterred private capital inflows into this country. 
I think I have given an analysis of causes. I will now deal with the remedies or what the Government has decided to do about them. 1 will first of all mention the goals of the Government. They are clear and they are beyond doubt. The first goal is that we want lo ensure that as we cut back government expenditure and we take action to control inflationary pressures we will act so that every section of the community bears an equitable part of the burden. Therefore we have decided that the Government must take the lead. Not only must it take the lead but it must be seen to be taking action on a psychological front to induce a more responsible attitude to expenditures in the future than have been adopted in the past. I think the approach to the psychology of this problem has been excellently handled. I think that most sections of the Australian community today are not only aware that we have problems of inflation and know the reasons but also are convinced that the Government, stands ready to act and will take whatever action it regards as necessary to keep inflation under control. 
The second goal is not to interfere with the growth and progress of the Australian economy. In other words, we want to reduce the intensity of the pressures but we have no wish whatsoever to curtail growth, development and progress. We will ensure that the measures we take will have the least possible impediment to progress. The third goal  -  I shall elaborate on this later - is that we must act in areas where we feel the pressures lie. We should not move widely here and there but we should take action in a specific area to overcome a specific problem and to do so in a way that should it turn out that there is a change in the economic outlook we can rapidly reverse our policy and make certain that full employment is maintained and that our resources are effectively and adequately appropriated or allocated. 
What has the Government done in order to achieve these objectives? ft is my view that in 2 speeches made by the Prime Minister there were clear statements for public consumption. Each of them was couched in simple and definite phraseology that could be understood by anyone. Any person listening to those statements on television or on radio would immediately have been impressed by the remedies that the Government intended to follow in order to overcome difficulties in the areas where we found them. The Prime Minister has said that we must take action to ensure that Government expenditure is restrained and that we should take the initiative and give leadership to the rest of the community by restraining our expenditure. Consequently, expenditure has been reduced by S75m over the course of the year. That occurs over a 4 months period. If one converts it into a yearly figure one will see that it is a very substantial amount. 
Secondly, in order to handle the problems in investment in plant and equipment the Government has decided to suspend the investment allowance which, in a full year, amounts to about S25m. Thirdly, the Prime Minister himself gave instructions that there should be a reduction in the rate of increase in the growth of the Public Service. I understand that the estimated increase rate of about 4.8 per cent per annum will decrease to about 3.6 per cent per annum for this year. 
We are looking at the problems of what to do about the expenditure for nonhousing construction. Ail of the measures that the Prime Minister has mentioned add up to the kind of programme that the Government feels will set the basis for the Budget for 1971-72 and, in the meantime, to keep restraint that is so necessary on expenditures so that the opportunity is provided for fiscal and monetary means to be effective. I mentioned a few minutes ago that the fundamental problem we face is one of the increase in the average incomes. Last year the increase in average incomes was about S per cent per annum or perhaps a little more. Now I think it can be predicted that, because of the increase granted as a result of the national wage case, it will be substantially in excess of 8 per cent. I do not want to hazard a figure, because nobody can safely do so. And, as I said before, nobody can tell exactly when the increase will show up in the consumer price index. Nonetheless, 1 would not be surprised if it were at least as high as 2 per cent. Some recognition must be taken for this. What does it mean? Surely it means that one of the avenues where we have to take action is in the Arbitration Commission itself. 1 believe that a change is occurring in' the structure of the Australian industrial world and in the social world as well. The trade unions are becoming increasingly powerful. Under the Arbitration Act we have 'no capacity to do more than influence the Commission. But we must be able to re-establish belief, trust and confidence in the Commission. Hitherto it has acted in a way that has been in the best interests of the Australian economy. I believe that we must first of all drive home the lesson that if average incomes or average earnings exceed productivity then the country itself must pay. Somebody has to pay, and every section of the community does. As these conditions create a built-in inflationary pressure leading to subsequent inflation it must mean that the trade unions will not accept a lower standard of living. Automatically, when they see that prices are rising they will approach the Arbitration Commission quickly for an increase in wages. So the Commission must have its integrity and its authority re-established. This is a problem that must be looked at by the Government. 
I am not. I am doing my best to try to protect it. In fact, I lived with it for 8 years, so 1 think I know a little more about it than the honourable member does. The Government has already taken action in the 4 weeks leave case before the Public Service Arbitrator. In that application the Public Service Board strongly opposed the application and asked that it be referred to the  President  of the Commission to see whether it could be referred to the Full Bench. Then we forecast the attitude that we would take before the Full Bench of the Commission if the  President  agreed. In other words, what we want to find out is the cost to the community, and therefore the increase in the consumer price index, of the inflationary pressures that would be generated by the 4 weeks leave if it were granted. I believe that this illustrates our attitude. 
I confirm that I think we are on the right track. We will not be able to tell - I emphasise this - until February has elapsed, or probably well into March, what the trends for the rest of the year are likely to be. One should not draw any comfort from or any conclusions about the increase in unemployment published in the statement of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  a few days ago. The number of unemployed had increased by about 6,800. 
We as a Government will do what we can to restrain the inflationary pressures. 
We are looking to ensure that whatever action we take identifies the cause and that we provide the appropriate remedy. We will try to ensure that no section of the community is unjustly and inequitably treated. Above all, I assure honourable members that the matter is one of great concern for the Government. The Government will act, and act decisively, when it feels it is necessary to do so. For that reason the Prime Minister was willing and anxious that the matter before the House be treated as a motion of no confidence. I am sure that the motion will be defeated and that all members of our own Party will support the Government's action. 
The Minister for Defence has already mentioned the problems associated with military civic aid in South Vietnam. I will relate my answer only to civil aid which comes under the jurisdiction of the Department of Foreign Affairs. Consequently 1 will not deal with that part of the aid which comes under the jurisdiction of the Minister for External Territories or the Treasurer. The amount of reduced expenditure as  faT  as my Department is concerned is between $2.7m and $2. 8m. That reduction will reduce the total commitments and expenditure of my Department to approximately $47m. We have not been able to work out precisely where the cuts will be made, but we  are  attempting to effect these reductions with sympathy and understanding. We have no wish whatsoever to interfere with those countries whose need is greatest. We will not only look at their problems with anxiety but also do our best to minimise the cuts in the aid given to them. Commitments to international agencies, including the South Pacific Commission, are not included in this figure of $47m. There will be no cuts in those areas. 
I did not use the words quoted. The difference in presentation by various newspapers can be explained in this way: First of all, I repeat that I did not use the phrase. Secondly, in the notes that  were  sent  to  the minister in charge of the Methodist mission in Melbourne the phrase was not included. Thirdly, in the copy of the document that was distributed to newspapers at the mission in Melbourne the phrase was not included but it is regrettable that in the first draft sent to me the phrase was included and was struck out by me. At the airport in Canberra on the way to Melbourne on Sunday I gave instructions that journalists in the Press gallery in Canberra were to be given a copy of the speech I intended to make. Regrettably the first copy was given to them and not the copy as finally edited and distributed by me. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The talks . which commenced in March, 1970, between Indonesia and Australia on the sea-bed and continental shelf resumed in Canberra on Monday. 15th February, 1971, and are still in progress. 
The . answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Western Samoa and, Nauru have been invited to accede to the agreement establishing the SPC. Steps are at present being taken regarding accession by Fiji, (b) Western Samoa acceded on 17th July 1965 Nauru acceded on 22nd July 1969. 
The answer to the honable member's question is as follows: 
There was no specific allocation of funds under the Cultural Agreement with Indonesia in 1968-69 and 1969-70. 
The Cultural Agreement with Indonesia does not lay down machinery for the expenditure of funds, but lines of co-operative activity for pursuit by the two Governments. Expenditure of funds on Australian cultural activities in Indonesia under the Department of Foreign Affairs Cultural Relations Vote was $8,031 in 1968-69 and $25,012 in 1969-70. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Two resolutions were moved in both 1969 and 1970 in the General Assembly of the United Nations concerning the representation of China. The texts, which were the same in both years except for the necessary changes in the 'important question' resolution in its reference to the dates of the earlier resolutions, were as follows: 
Resolution 2642 of 20th November 1970 - the 'important question' resolution. (This resolution was adopted.) 
The General Assembly 
Recalling the recommendation contained in its resolution 396 (V) of 14 December 1950 that, whenever more than one authority claims to be the Government entitled to represent a Member State in the United Nations and this question becomes the subject of controversy in the United Nations, the question should be considered in the light of the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the circumstances of each case. 
Recalling further its decision in resolution 1668 (XVI.) of 15th December 1961, in accordance with Article 18 of the Charter thai any proposal to change the representation of China is an important question, which, in General Assembly resolutions 2025 (XX) of 17th November 1965 and 2159 (XXI) of 29th November 1966, 2271 (XXII) of 28th November 1967. 2389 (XXIII) of 19th November 1968 and 2500 (XXIV) of 11th November 1969, was affirmed as remaining valid. 
Affirms again that this decision remains valid. 
Resolution. United Nations General Assembly document A/L605 - the 'Albanian' resolution. (This resolution was voted upon on 20th November 1970 but defeated since it did not achieve a two-thirds majority.) 
The Genera) Assembly 
Recalling the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, 
Considering that the restoration ofthe lawful rights of the Peoples Republic of China is essential both for the protection ofthe Charter of the United Nations and for the cause that, the United Nations must serve under the Charter, 
Recognising that the representatives of the Government of the People's Republic of China are the only lawful representatives of China to the United Nations, 
Decides to restore all its rights to the People's Republic of China and to recognise the representatives of its Government asthe only lawful representatives of China to the United Nations, andto expel forthwith ihe representatives of Chiang Kai-shek from the place which they unlawfully occupy at the United Nations and in all the organisations relatedto it. 
(a), (b), (c) and (d) - The answers to each of these questions are as shown in the attached schedule - Attachment A. 
 The answer lo the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)(a)On 14th December, 1970, the General Assembly adopted Resolution 2700 (XXV): 
The General Assembly, 
Recalling the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations and General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14th December 1960 containing the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 
Recalling its previous resolutions concerning Papua and the Trust Territory of New Guinea, in particular resolution 2590 (XXIV) of 16th December 1 969, 
Having Considered the report of the Trusteeship Council covering the period from 20th June 1969 to 19th June 1970 and the relevant chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard lo the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 
Having heard the statement of the representative of the administering Power, 
Having heard the statements of the petitioners. 
Taking into account the observations of the Special Committee and the Trusteeship Council regarding developments in Papua and the Trust Territory of New Guinea, 
Mindful of the responsibility of the United Nations to render all helpto the people of Papua and the Trust Territory of New Guinea in their efforts freely to decide their own future, 
Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of Papua and the Trust Territory of New Guinea to self-determination and independence in accordance with General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and the Trusteeship Agreement of 13th December 1946; 
Reaffirms its previous resolutions regarding Papua and the Trust Territoy of New Guinea: 
Takes note of the arrangements made by the Trusteeship Council, in accordance with paragraph 5 of resolution 2590 (XXIV) and in consultation with the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, concerning the composition of its forthcoming periodic visiting mission to the Trust Territory of New Guinea in 1971; 
Invites the administering Power to cooperate fully with the visiting mission and to provide it with all the necessary facilities and assistance in the performance of its tasks; 
Calls upon the administering Power to prescribe, in consultation with freely elected representatives of the people, a specific time-table for the free exercise by the people of Papua and the Trust Territory of New Guinea oftheir right to self-  determination and independence, and to report to the Trusteeship Council and to the Special Committee on the action taken in that regard; 
Requests the administering Power to intensify and accelerate the education and technical and administrative training of the indigenous peoples of the Territories and the localisation of the public service; 
Requests the Trusteeship Council and the Special Committeeto continue to examine this question and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its twenty-sixth session.' 
On 19th June 1970, the Trusteeship Council adopted Resolution 2154 (XXXVII): 
The Trusteeship Council, 
Having decided to dispatch a periodic visiting mission to the Trust Territory of New Guinea in 1971. 
Recalling the request made to the Trusteeship Council by the General Assembly, in paragraph 5 of its resolution 2590 (XXIV) of 16th December 1969, to include non-members of the Trusteeship Council, in its periodic visiting missions to the Trust Territory of New Guinea, in consultation with the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and with the Administering Authority; in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, 
Noting that the consultations requested by the General Assembly have been carried out, 
Having decided that the visiting Mission should be composed of...... (France),...... (Iraq), ...... (Sierra Leone) and...... (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland), 
Having decided that the Visiting Mission should visit the Trust Territory early in 1971, 
Directs the Visiting Mission to investigate and report as fully as possible on the steps taken in the Trust Territory of New Guinea towards the realization of the objectives set forth in Article 76 b of the Charter of the United Nations, and to pay special attention to the question of the future of the Territory, in the light of the relevant Articles of the Charter and the Trusteeship Agreement, bearing in mind the provisions of relevant Trusteeship Council and General Assembly resolutions, including Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14th December 1960 and 1541 (XV) of 15th December 1960; 
Directs the Visiting Mission to give attention, as may be appropriate in the light of discussions in the Trusteeship Council and of resolutions adopted by it,to issues  raised in connection with the annual reports on the administration of the Trust Territory, in the petitions received by the Council concerning reports of the previous periodic visiting missions to the Territory and in the observations of the Administering Authority on those reports; 
Directs the Visiting Missionto receive petitions, without prejudice to its acting in accordance with the rules of procedure of the Council, and to investigate on the spot such of the petitions received as, in its opinion, warrant special investigation; 
Requests the Visiting 'Mission to submit to the Council as soon as practicable a report on its visit to the Trust Territory of New Guinea containing its findings, with such observations, conclusions anil recommendations as it may wish to make. 
On. 16th July 1970, the Economic and Social Council adopted Resolution 1523 (XLIX): 
The Economic and Social Council, 
 Taking note of the recommendation contained in the annual report of the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East with regard to ihe request of the Government of Australia for the inclusion of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea within the geographical scope of the Commission and the admission of the Territory as an associate member, 
Approves the recommendation of the Commission that the Territory of Papua and New Guinea be included in the geographical scope of the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East and admitted as an associate member of the Commission; 
Decides to amend paragraphs 2 and 4 of the terms of reference of the Commission accordingly. 
Voting on these resolutions was: 
General Assembly 2700 (XXV) 
Recorded Vote:In favour: Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Barbados, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussia, Cambodia, Canada, Central African Republic, Ceylon, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo (Democratic Republic of), Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana., Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,. Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, *Malawai, . Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Romania, . Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Southern Yemen, Spain, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, 
Syria, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia. Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, USSR, United Arab Republic, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zambia. 
Against: None. 
Abstaining: Australia, France, Portugal, United Kingdom, United Slates. 
Absent: Afghanistan, Albania, Bolivia, Botswana, Cameroon, Chad, Costa Rica. **Dahomey, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Fiji, Iceland, Ivory Coast, Lesotho, Maldives, Malta, Niger, Pakistan, **People's Republic of the Congo, Rwanda, **Senegal, Somalia, South Africa, Yemen. 
Trusteeship Council 2154 (XXXV II) In favour: Australia. China, UK, USA. 
Against: USSR. 
Abstain: France. 
Absent: Nil. 
Economic and Social Council 1523 (XL1X): 
In favour: Voting was unanimous. 
* Later indicated it had intendedto abstain. 
**Later indicated lt had intended to, vote in favour. 
I said in the House on 18th February that as soon as the contract acceptance order had been sent by the Department of Supply to Jetair Australia Ltd I would announce the actual sale price. As it turned out, the amount paid for the total of 6 aircraft was $275,000. I think that is about $45,833 per aircraft on the average. In addition to that amount we have other facts to remember. Firstly, a small quantity of supplies and equipment will go with the aircraft and, secondly, the two additional payments mentioned by me on 18th February have to be taken into account also. ' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my reply to Question No. 2023. The review by my Department has now been carried out and this matter will be the subject of later consideration by Ministers. 
Armed Forces: Non-effective Status  (Question No. 1309) 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
By 15th February 1971, $3,362,500 of the $5m Devisa Kredit made available so far this financial year had been taken up by Indonesian importers to finance purchases of Australian goods. Actual expenditure (as measured by drawings on Letters of Credit opened by Indonesian importers) amounted to $2,742,420 by 10th February 1971, all of it on Australian goods. 
6.8 per cent. 
Australia started providing thos type of aid in the 1967-68 financial year. 
The Australian Government has made its intention clear, not only with regard to Laos but also to each of the 4 States in the Indo-Chinese pen insula. We want each of these States to have the right of self-determination and their people to have the right to determine their own future. For that reason we strongly supported the 1962 Accords and we took action at Djakarta, in association with Asian countries and New Zealand, to try to obtain a negotiated settlement in Cambodia. We warmly welcomed the recent statement of  President  Nixon in which he expressed the attitude of the United States of America and the anxiety of his Government to come to a negotiated settlement in Cambodia involving the withdrawal of all forces including those of the North Vietnamese Army. Recently, as the honourable gentleman stated, the Japanese have taken the initiative, together with Indonesia and Malaysia, and have appealed to the co-chairmen - that is, Britain and the USSR - and to the 3 member countries of the International Control Commission, namely, India, Poland and Canada, to call a conference in order to achieve the neutrality and independence of Laos. What is of particular importance is that it has been requested that all foreign troops should be withdrawn. The Australian Government warmly applauds this and is glad that Asian nations have taken the initiative. 
It is regrettable that the Foreign Office of the USSR in Moscow peremptorily has refused to participate in any discussion and has used the usual USSR polemic of blaming others for the continuance of operations in this region. What is clear beyond any doubt is that there have been no successes anywhere in an attempt to achieve a negotiated settlement, mainly because the Communist powers wish to achieve their purposes by violence and resort to arms. It is a pity that they will not listen on this occasion, but that does not mean that we and the other free countries will not continue with the maximum efforts to obtain a peaceful solution to this problem. 
I will deal with the hard facts. The operations by the South Vietnamese, supported by the United States Air Force, into the Tchepone area of middle Laos have one purpose. That is to destroy caches of arms and ammunition, to destroy as much as possible of the pipelines that exist and also to disrupt the Ho Chi Minh trails to the maximum extent possible during the residue of the dry season. They are the objectives. As soon as they have been achieved or as soon as the wet season commences the forces will be withdrawn. 
Wait a moment for Cambodia. You will get the lot but you have to be patient. As to the operations themselves, the South Vietnamese forces have proceeded as far as 5 kilometres south west of Tchepone and to that extent their operations have been successful. There has been substantial loss of lives particularly in a Ranger outpost where a group of helicopter pads had been established. The losses of helicopters have been substantial but all of them can be replaced. 
There has been destruction of large quantities of arms and ammunition and the North Vietnamese are estimated to have lost over 600 troops killed in action. The number of South Vietnamese killed in action is not one-third of the losses that have actually been inflicted upon the North Vietnamese Army. As I have said, the losses in other respects by the NVA are substantial. It is correct to say that the best opinion we can get- 
The South Vietnamese. 
The statements contained in the honourable gentleman's question are correct. The Chinese are building, without the approval of the Laotian Government, a highway leading from Yunnan Province down to a place called Pak Beng close to the Mekong River. They are also building another complex running through Phong Saly in the north of Laos, joining that road and again moving towards Pak Beng. It is a roadway of considerable quality, capable of carrying heavy traffic of high density. As the honourable gentleman has said, it is very closely guarded by antiaircraft guns. The road is being built by Chinese and is being manned by Chinese military personnel. The reasons for this are not clear, but it is thought either that it is needed because the Chinese wish to support the Communist insurgents in north-east Thailand, or probably in the long run they wish to establish their political hegemony over those parts of Thailand. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The numbers of non-European students other than private students who were in Australia as at the 31st January, are set out in the tables below. About half these students are attending Australian academic institutions. The rest are either undertaking special training programmes arranged for them or are attending one of the International Training Courses conducted by my Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
16 July 1970. 
On  28  January 1971 the Treasurer, as 
Australia's Governor of the Asian. Development Bank, forwarded a formal application for membership to the  President  of the Bank on behalf of Papua and New Guinea. 
A draft resolution to the effect that Papua and New Guinea be admitted to membership of the Bank on the terms and conditions already agreed was considered by the Board of Directors of the Bank on IS February 1971 and Governors of the Bank have been asked to vote on this resolution by 12 March 1971. 
 Mr Speaker.  I wish to inform the House that on 10th March, consequent on the resignation of the Right Honourable J. G. Gorton as Prime Minister.  His Excellency  the Governor-General commissioned me, as the newly elected Leader of the Parliamentary Liberal Party to form a Ministry. On my recommendation, the Right Honourable J. G. Gorton was sworn as Minister for Defence on 10th March. Pending the formation of a new Ministry, I shall continue to act as Minister for Foreign Affairs. 

 Sir, on 12th March, the Prime Minister's Department and the Department of the Cabinet Office were abolished and 2 new departments were created in their place. They are the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Department of the Vice-President of the Executive Council. 
The new Department of the VicePresident of the Executive Council will undertake a number of functions previously located in the Prime Minister's Department and in the Treasury. It will be responsible for a wide range of matters. Functions for the Department which have already been approved are contained in a list which, with the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard: 
National Library 
Archives 
Australian Government Publishing Service, including the Government Printing Office 
Council of Aboriginal Affairs 
Institute of Aboriginal Studies 
Office of the Environment 
Film and Television Training School 
World Expositions 
Commonwealth Literary Fund 
Art Advisory Board 
National  Gallery 
Historic Memorials Committee 
Council  of  Performing Arts 
Assistance  to  Performers Advisory Board 
Grants to National Organisations 
National Radiation Advisory Committee 
The allocation to the Department of certain other functions is being examined. 
The Vice-President of the Executive Council  (Sir Alan Hulme)  will answer questions in the House on matters for which this Department will be responsible. The Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, will answer such questions in the Senate. 
I wish to inform the House that I accept the notice of motion given on 9th March by the Leader of the Opposition as a want of confidence motion for the purposes of standing order 110. I take it that the notice of motion will now be called on. 
Most people who will have listened to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  must have been appalled by the fact that he has not said one thing, not uttered one word, that means anything to this nation or looks to a bright, prosperous and successful future. He is looking to the past andtrying to rake over the coals. 
He was not looking at me. I would not look at him - for obvious reasons. (Honourable members interjecting) - 
 Mr Speaker,  1 hope that I will not degenerate into making the same kind of criticisms of individuals and the occurrences of the past few weeks as the honourable  gentleman has  done. Rather do I hope to be able to explain the fallacies in the arguments that he has put to the House and then to deal with some of the current issues that are before the Australian people and the approach that will be taken by the Government to those problems. 
The honourable gentleman made 2 comments as to why 1 had delayed appointing a ministry or why I had not agreed to an election. He said that I would say, first of ail, that there were too many elections and, secondly, that so far as a ministry was concerned, I had been the Prime Minister for only 5 days. Well, he will be disappointed as he usually is, because, while I feel that both of these matters are important in their context, nonetheless they are not important in this context. 
As to the reasons there should or should not be an election, I believe that when we are speaking about this problem we should speak against the constitutional background with some knowledge of constitutional law and constitutional procedures and practice. Let me go back if I may. I want to quote from one of the greatest of the constitutional authorities known in our time. 
He is  Sir Ernest  Barker who was the head of the Institute of Science and the Institute of Politics at Cambridge University. Let me point out what  Sir Ernest  Barker has said when dealing with the party system of government. He has made these points: In the system of government of Australia, as in the system of government of any other liberal country, there are 4 elements. There is the constituency; then the party; then the parliament, and finally the executive and the executive council and the cabinet itself. I want to concentrate my efforts on the party because I believe that this is the very essence of the problem that we are now discussing and one that I believe should be explained immediately. 
In the system of government known to us, we believe in party government. Would any member on the other side of the House be here today if he had not been chosen by a party? Would any member of this side of the House be here if he had not been chosen by either the Liberal Party or by the Country Party. There are no independents; in fact members are chosen by a party and they are chosen to represent it. 
The second point that I want to make, is that of course we have a leader. But any team, any battalion, any group of forces, must have either a chairman of directors or a leader who can take a prominent interest in initiating and putting forward party policy. There must be some leader, some control. 
So the point that I want to make - and it is one that follows from what  Sir Ernest  Barker has said - is this: What the honourable gentleman has said is wrong in the sense that we have party government. It is only when the party fails that one can ask for an election. 
The point that I want to make is that under section 28 of the Commonwealth Constitution - and I would have thought that the honourable gentleman bad some knowledge of constitutional practice - members are elected to Parliament for 3 years. It is only when there are very special circumstances that the GovernorGeneral, on the advice of the Prime Minister, can call an election. So that explanation,  Mr Speaker,  answers the second point that arises. The third point is: Let us have a look at constitutional practice. When  Sir Robert  Menzies resigned and  Mr Harold  Holt took his place, did the Leader of the Opposition then suggest that we should have an election? When  Mr Harold  Holt died and his place was taken by  Mr Gorton,  did anyone suggest then that there should be an election? Or if the honour able gentleman wants to go back to 1922 and have a look at the circumstances in which a great Labor leader was then associated - that is the period in 1922 when  Mr Hughes  was elected Leader of the Nationalist Party - he will see that when  Mr Hughes  came to the House he found that he did not have the support of the Nationalist and Country Parties and, consequently, he had to seek an audience with the Governor-General and ask that a new leader be chosen. 
That leader was  Mr Bruce. Mr Scullin  did not move a no confidence motion and he did not suggest that there should be an election. 
So there we have the principle, the policy and the precedent set out. They were plain enough for the honourable gentleman to see. 
The next point I would like to mention is the question of a mandate. Again I have to point out to the Leader of the Opposition that he does not really understand what a mandate is about. In fact, I am sure he has become confused between the meaning of mandate and policy. What a mandate means in political terms - imprecise though they might be - is: A mandate is merely the return of one or two parties to the Government benches. They come back to carry out the policy speech that has been delivered by the leader of the 2 parties which have won the election. So there is the great difference. 
In our system of government we have never known the idea of a mandate. Now I should like to quote from Edmund Burke. He said: 
The virtue, spirit, and essence of  a  House of Commons consist in its being the express image of the feelings of the nation. 
Later on he said: 
To deliver an opinion is the right of all men; that of constituents is a weighty and respectable opinion, which a representative ought always to rejoice to hear, . . . But authoritative instructions, mandates issued, which the member is bound blindly and implicitly to obey, to vote, and to argue for, though contrary to the clearest conviction of his judgment and conscience - these are things utterly unknown to the laws of this land, and which arise from a fundamental mistake of the whole order and tenor of our constitution. 
So here is another mistake made by the Leader of the Opposition. He has forgotten the meaning of the distinction between policy and mandate. 
I would ask leave, if he would agree, to be able to state something about what has been done by this Government. This Government, similar to the Gorton Government, is to be tested by its policy speech. 
In that policy speech many, promises were made. Two-thirds of them have in fact been honoured and the balance of them will, without any reservations, be honoured during the lifetime of this Parliament. Let me, if I can, mention a few of them. 
I mention the fact that when we came into office we said that we would strengthen the defence forces. That has been done. We mentioned, too, that we would reduce rates of income tax, and the whole of the reductions in those rates of income tax were made in the first year of the Government's period of office. We more than redeemed the promise. Our health scheme has been improved. Only recently my colleague was able to announce changes insofar as they affected the less wealthy sections of the community. 
So  1  believe that if we look at what we have done, at the problem of the mandate and of the policy speech, we will find that neither in terms of the mandate nor the policy speech is there any justification for the Leader of the Opposition or the Opposition itself to ask this Government to resign. 
May  1  now go back to the disagreement which did occur within the Liberal Party?  1  have no intention of going over the history of the past because, as I have said, I want to look to the future and to the greatness of my own party and of the Australian Country Party.  I  want to point out to honourable members the way I look at this problem and how it should be treated. Firstly I mention that each Government party is made up of an external organisation and a Parliamentary party. Let me concentrate for a moment on my own party - the Liberal Party. Last week the Federal President of the Liberal Party gave me an unqualified assurance that the organisation is behind me. Also, I have the assurance of the Leader of the Australian Country Party - our coalition partner - that his Party will support the coalition. Without this assurance  1  could not have obtained a mandate. In the party room immediately after I was elected as Leader of the Party there was a unanimous vote from the Party expressing confidence in me and wishing me well as Prime Minister. So we had present all the ingredients necessary to give an assurance to a potential Prime Minister that he had the right to go to the Governor-General and to accept the Governor-General's commission to form a new government. I believe I have answered most of the superficial points that have been raised by the Leader of the Opposition. 
I would like to return to the question of the fragmentation of the Liberal Party and the arguments about it. It was due to the Party itself that a change in leadership took place. What I want to do now is to contrast the positions of my own Party and of the party that is led by the honourable gentleman who has just spoken. 
In my Party, and I believe in the Australian Country Party, there is both an organisation and a parliamentary group. The organisation is the custodian of the principles and the long term objectives of the Party. But it has no right to tell the Parliamentary members what they should do; it has no right to tell them how they should vote. The organisation may make recommendations to us but it has no powers of decision whatsoever. The Parliamentary Party and the Ministry alone have the right to make decisions and, when those decisions are made, to explain them to the Party and to the House. 
May I turn to the Opposition because I believe here we have a system that is the very negation of a system of democratic government. What do  I  mean by that? It is well known that in the organisation of the Australian Labor Party, the Conference and the Federal Executive of the Party decide its policy. In New South Wales there has been an election of a new Executive but under the supervision of one of the members of the Federal Executive. 
At the Conference 60 per cent of the votes to elect the Executive come from members of the trade union movement, whether they be right wing, left wing or anything else. That Executive is controlled not by a democratic system, not by a system of universal franchise, not by a system of representative government; it is there because 60 per cent of the members are put up by the trade unions. No one knows what the political complexion of those trade unions might be. It is exactly the same in the case of Victoria. 
Attempts can be made to paper over the cracks, but do you think,  Mr Speaker  that the people of Australia, when they get to know the facts and get to know them as well as the Government does, will believe that any substantia] change has taken place in the method of government of the Labor Party, in who chooses the representatives and who tells them how to vote? In Western Australia, where a Labor Government was recently elected,  Mr Joe  Chamberlain, the Svengali of the Labor Party, is still at loggerheads with the Premier of that State. If these 2 gentlemen can last together in harness for any length of time it will be a miracle. There, as I said, are the 2 entirely different systems of government. 1 now turn to another matter raised by the Leader of the Opposition, and that is the new Administration order that has recently been issued and why, I have not been able to complete the Cabinet and choose a new Ministry? I had hoped to be able to choose the Cabinet and have it announced by Monday. I make that concession to the statement of the Leader of the Opposition. I found that I was not able to do so, not for any abstruse reason, not because I felt worried about the personnel who were to be included, but simply- 
Well, . honourable members opposite . know my mind, otherwise they would not go on this way. Purely and simply, because I did not have the time to choose the Cabinet. I felt that this matter concerning the Government of a great country like Australia and those who represent it in the electorate deserved the most deep and mature reflection. I am glad now that I did not make the decision hurriedly. In a matter of such enormously great importance time is needed. I feel that it is my responsibility to choose the best Cabinet that is available on the Government: benches, whether Liberal Party or Country Party. 
The second point I would like to mention relates to the Administration order and the change in 2 departments. For some time 1 have felt that the method of having a Cabinet Secretariat and also a Prime Minister's Department was inefficient. 1 believe that, for 3 reasons, it was critically important that they should be combined again. First, I felt that it is critically important in a Cabinet system of government that we recognise ministerial responsibility. I want, to the maximum extent to which it is practicable, to give to the actual political heads of the departments the responsibility for making the decisions, but I also want them not only to be able to get the best advice that it is possible for them to obtain. In other words, I want the Cabinet Secretariat and the Prime Minister's Department to operate as a clearing house and to be able to coordinate the staff work so that when it comes to Cabinet we can be assured we have cleared away all that is unnecessary and get down to work on what is critically important for a Cabinet discussion. This should be done at the earliest stages of policy formation. 
That is why 1 decided that 1 had to wait, lt was also the reason why I felt that 1 wanted a new department combining the functions of the Cabinet Secretariat and the Prime Minister's Department. I also felt that there were many reasons why some of the functions which were not political and lion policy making should be handed over to another department. I have already made arrangements for these functions that will be performed by a new department associated with the VicePresident of the Executive Council to be handed over. I have cleared with the Governor-General the 2 proposals and the 2 departments are now in existence. I say to you,  Mr Speaker,  that there was one difficulty and that was whether the Secretariat of the Executive Council should also be included under the Department of the Vice-President of the Executive Council. There will be no interference whatsoever with the actions of members of the Executive Council but there must be a Secretariat and it has to be housed somewhere. In deference to the wishes of the GovernorGeneral I excluded it from the Department of the Vice-President of the Executive Council. 1 have sought advice from my officers and I find that it will have to be placed somewhere. We will now have to make up our minds about the department in which it will be placed. 
May I now turn to another question away from the politics of this issue I would like to say something to the House about the economic state of the nation because 1 believe that unless we are successful economically we cannot hope to be successful at the elections and we cannot hope to be able to do our best in the interests of the people. 
I think it is true and consistent with fact to say that our rate of growth - our rate of production - at the moment is good. Last year we had an increase in our gross national product of something of the order of  5i  per cent in real and constant terms. This year we will have something of the order of 5 per cent in real terms as well. 
If we look at the various other areas that have to be looked at we see that our balance of payments is good, our overseas balances are strong at Si .600m, our trade balance is moving along well, housing is improving and the labour position is sound. We have a little more, but only a little more, than 1 per cent of the population unemployed. So we see in the ingredients I have just mentioned the substance of an economy that is basically sound. 
Equally do we find that while it is basically sound there are several problems that cause great difficulties for us. The first is the problem of the rural industries. I will say more about them in a moment. 1 am not mentioning these problems in terms of priority but merely mentioning those that I want to speak about. Without any doubt the second problem is the unexpected increase of 6 per cent granted in the national wage case which added something like $950m to the wages bill of this country. I believe this has given the economy an inbuilt inflationary pressure well in excess of 5 per cent and probably in excess of 6 per cent. We cannot tell the figures just yet, nor can we tell when it is likely to happen. But the fact of the matter is that this second influence is of very grave concern to the Government. 
The third point that has to be made clear to the House and, 1 hope, to all honourable members, revolves around the fact that in the construction industries or, if I can put it a little more accurately, in the non-housing building industries, the rate of construction has been increased by about 35 per cent as compared with last year. This prompted the Government to take action. We were compelled to take action along two lines. 
First, we asked - here again I want- to show how the Leader of the Opposition has misunderstood the facts - private interests concerned with office building, non-housing construction and . factories whether they would agree voluntarily to cut back their activities. They came to Canberra and discussed the matter with us. We found that a cut-back would bc occurring automatically and it was not necessary for us to take action. But this sector must be watched with extreme care and caution, and we will continue to do so. 
A real problem arises more in the area of Commonwealth and State public works. I want to point out for purposes of comparison that our gross national product in money terms is rising at the rate of about 9 per cent per annum. If we let one sector of the economy get out of step or substantially out of step with that 9 per cent, we will strike inflationary pressures and we can expect that prices in that sector of the economy will rise substantially, We will undoubtedly create imbalance in the economy. To amplify the point I am putting, in 1970-71 there was a total  increase of Commonwealth and State expenditures of 12.8 per cent and the increase in capital expenditures included in that was about 15.5 per cent. In the recent economic and financial change we were laying the foundations so that at the time of the next Budget we would have prepared the way to take both monetary and fiscal action which would permit us to reduce the inflationary pressures and, over a period of months, to bring inflation under control. 
I mentioned the dangers of inflationary pressures when I spoke in the House not so long ago. I now emphasise that inflation is a very great difficulty which we must come to grips with and solve if we are to achieve the kind of growth and the kind of community that we so much need. 
I come back to one question that was raised by the Leader of the Opposition, and that is my attitude to CommonwealthState relations. I mention it quickly but, I hope, clearly, so that there can be no doubt about where T stand. 
I believe in a satisfactory system of Commonwealth-State relations but I believe that overall economic financial control must be left to the Commonwealth. Notwithstanding that, I have already had conversations with the Treasurer  (Mr 
Bury) and Treasury officials to ensure that the degrading procedure of making the Treasurers and the Premiers of the various States come to Canberra cap in hand begging for money is reduced to the maximum of our capacity. I feel fairly certain that we can arrive at solutions which will stop this procedure from going on. To contradict the idea that 1 am not willing and anxious to look ;it this problem, J indicate to the House that I will be looking at it and that it will be one of the first priorities of this Government. (Extension of time granted). We will be looking at this problem with great concern, particularly to see whether there is a growth tax that could be handed over to the States and whether, as I have said, we can get out of this degrading procedure of making the States come to Canberra lime after time to ask for assistance. 
There ave three other points 1 would like to mention. The first relates to defence. My colleague, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton),  shortly will be visiting South Vietnam for these reasons: We know that in April the  President  will be making another announcement relating to American forces in that country. We do not know what the nature of that announcement will be hut we know that by now the Americans have reduced their forces to 284.000 troops. We know too that militarily Vietnamisation is being successful and that gradually the operational role of the Australian troops is being taken over by the regional forces of South Vietnam, lt was recently stated that the most potentially significant occurrence in the Australian Task Force has been the transfer from the Task Force to the regional forces of responsibility for certain areas of operation in Phuoc Tuy province. In other words, this proves what we have been saying. We have been saying that, given time, the problem of South Vietnam can be cured. 
We believe that we have been right from the beginning in supporting South Vietnam and giving them the opportunity for freedom and liberty. 
Not only the operations in Phuoc Tuy but also the operations that have been taking place succesefully iin Laos make us realise :*ut the South Vietnamese are becoming increasingly capable of looking after their own defence and ensuring that once the other forces have been reduced they will bc able to handle the North Vietnamese themselves. I want to make it clear also that as and when Australian forces ure reduced we hope we will be able to increase our civil aid programme and do what we can to assist the South Vietnamese though not to the same extent as defence expenditure. 1 want to mention only one other point. 1 come back to the Leader of the Opposition himself. 
Everyone has to be easy on him, including you. I will not deal in personalities, but 1 feel that I have a duty to mention in this House some of the policy issues and programmes he has advocated here in recent weeks. First of all, the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Griffiths)  raised the question whether, in dealing with one of the pension issues, the Leader of the Opposition had referred to the feather bedding of pensioners. In recent weeks several members of the Opposition have come to mc mid have said that the Leader of the Opposition made such ii statement, and I believe that the honourable member tor Shortland is telling the truth and not the Leader of the Opposition. Secondly, I mention the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition to national service training. As we know,, the Leader of the Opposition, a man who is supposed to uphold the law of this country and to support the decisions made in this House, advocated to young national servicemen that they should commit an act of military treachery.  Sir, do  you believe that a man who can make advocacy of this kind is suitable to become the leader of a government? That puts the matter in its proper perspective. The Opposition does not mind treachery provided it comes from the Opposition. 
Another matter I want to deal with, because it raises the question of whether we believe in justice, is the desire of the Leader of the Opposition to have  Mr Alan  Ramsey called before the Bar of this House. Already he had been punished by you,  Sir, as Mr Speaker.  He had already apologised and his parliamentary pass had been taken away from him. Again I leave you,  Sir, with  this question: Does any person in this House believe that this man is one in whom the people of this country could repose their confidence? I leave this matter because time is passing. 
I now come to the policy and philosophy of my Party. I refer to the platform and policy of the Liberal Party of Australia. If I may use the words of our policy, we are dedicated to political liberty and the freedom and dignity of man; safe from external aggression and playing our part in a world security order which maintains the necessary force to defend the peace; looking primarily to the encouragement of individual initiative and enterprise as the dynamic force of progress; to make just provision for the aged, the invalid, the widowed, the sick, the unemployed and the children. I mention this today because I believe that due to recent occurrences we ought to look at the more needy section of the community. The consumer price index rose by 1.9 per cent. There was an increase of 6 per cent in the national wage and average weekly earnings have now reached $84.80 per week. We now have a precedent on which we can act. We have increased the assistance under our national health scheme. 
Normally when looking at pensions I would take the attitude that they have to be dealt with during the course of the Budget but it is apparent that as an interim measure we should now make some increase in pensions for those who are in receipt of the maximum rate of pension. Even now it is apparent that any increases given in the Budget would, in justice to pensioners, need to be quite substantial. We have therefore decided, in anticipation of the increases that will be made in the next Budget, to grant an immediate rise in the pensions of the most needy - that is, those who are at present receiving the maximum rate of pension. We therefore propose to introduce legislation to provide an increase of Si for married couples and 50c for single persons in the pensions paid to those age, invalid, widow and service pensioners who now receive the maximum rate of pension. Tuberculosis sufferers in receipt of allowances, long term sickness beneficiaries and handicapped persons in receipt of sheltered employment allowances will receive increases on the same basis. Pensioners receiving within 50c a week of the maximum rate will also receive an increase in pension to ensure that their total income is not less than that of maximum rate pensioners. In the repatriation area, a special rate TPI pensioner will receive an increase of $1 a week and the pension for war widows will rise by 50c. These increased pensions will be payable with effect from the first pension pay day after the end of March. 
I should point out that with the increases I now propose the maximum rate of social service pension for both single and married pensioners will have increased at a much faster rate than the rate of increase in the consumer price index. This applies whether the basis of comparison is related to June 1969 or June 1970. 
We will follow this immediate increase in pension rates with a fundamental review of social services and related pensions and also of methods of adjusting such benefits. This review, which has already been commenced, will be under consideration in the near future with the object of bringing emerging decisions into effect for the year 1971-72. 

 Sir, I leave the decision on this want of confidence motion to the House. 
The honourable member's question should be welcomed by every thoughtful member of the House. We should recognise such questioning as a method of obstruction which appears to have been adopted by the Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Hindmarsh. I think the suggestion of the honourable member for Corangamite is a sensible one and I will take steps to have it referred to the Standing Orders Committee. 
I will look into the question asked by the honourable gentleman and if the answer is in the affirmative I will make certain he is invited. 
This matter is deserving of consideration. I will discuss it with the  Deputy  Prime Minister and if we think it is desirable we will take a submission on it to Cabinet. 
The Government and members of the Government have stated on many occasions that the reasons why we and the forces of the free world are operating in South Vietnam is to give the people of that country the opportunity to determine their own future or to put this in reverse, to prevent the Communists from taking over through .bloodshed and through force. As to the second part of the question, I have not heard of the death or torture in Vietnam of 2 priests. I hope that such things have not occurred. If they have they are matters to be deeply regretted by every Government supporter and, I hope, by every member of the House. The Government's attitude is clear: We will stand with South Vietnam to the maximum of our capacity. The South Vietnamese are doing remarkably well in Laos and Cambodia and we think that the views of the people of South Vietnamese will prevail. 
 I can see no relationship between the building industry - that is the non-housing construction area - and the investment allowance so far as it relates to plant and equipment. We have no intention of again considering this question of reinstating the investment allowance for plant and equipment. Nonetheless it is one of those matters that can well be considered during the preparation of the next Budget. 
I have tried to make 2 points clear: Firstly that I am a party man and secondly that I believe in Cabinet making decisions. I will most certainly consult my Party about the problem mentioned, and I will also consult the full Cabinet before anything further is done. 
The former Prime Minister announced to the House that the percentage increase in the Commonwealth Public Service would be reduced this year compared with last year. I think the figure he gave was  4i  per cent. We will not know how long this will be continued until we see the results of the efforts being made by the Government to restrain inflationary forces. In answer to the third question asked by the honourable gentleman, I will discuss this matter with the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board as soon as I can. 
All legal requirements were fulfilled when this matter was considered and I have been advised within the course of the last 24 hours that the existing order has legal effect and has been properly executed. Nonetheless, the question of revocation will be under constant consideration. I repeat what the former Prime Minister has said: No action whatsoever can be taken under this order without reference to Cabinet and until Cabinet approval is communicated to the Administrator. 

 Mr Speaker, I suggest that all further questions be placed on the notice paper. 
 Mr Speaker,  I desire to inform the House that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  is leaving today for South Vietnam in order to assess the military situation and the progress made towards Vietnamisation. He is expected to return to Australia on 21st March and during his absence the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  will bc Acting Minister for Defence. 
The honourable gentleman is correct when he says that I spoke to some delegates who came here today from the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation. I suggested that they might put their proposals to the Minister for Supply who is primarily responsible for the continuation of the helicopter programme. I subsequently spoke to the Minister for Supply and he agreed to meet the delegates. I understand he has done that. Already Cabinet has looked at the problem of the stability of the aircraft industry in Australia. As the Minister for Defence said yesterday, arrangements have been made for part of the helicopter programme to be developed at the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation. I will also speak immediately to the Minister for Supply, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Labour and National Service to see that once again a submission is put to Cabinet so that we can give the matter further consideration. 
No, I am not aware of that part of the report of the Commissioner of Taxation. We live in an economy where it is frequently necessary to base prices not on historical costs but on replacement costs and it is frequently necessary to build into the pricing mechanism the amount of money that will be necessary to cover the increased cost of purchase of equipment. If this were not done we could nol take advantage of technological developments and we would not be able to prevent costs rising at a much more substantial rate than they are at the moment. Nonetheless 1 will have a look at the question asked by the honourable gentleman and if I think it is desirable I will give him a more detailed reply. 
I am not aware of the leak that the honourable gentleman says has occurred. What I can say is that every single statement made by him is false. No such recommendations have been made by the Minister for Labour and National Service. 
As to" the last part of the question, I think the honourable gentleman has misunderstood what was said by the managing director of General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd. What he said was that he felt that the old fines should not be collected. That is his view, but it is one that I do not support and one that is not supported by the Government. As to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, I did read in today's newspapers that  Mr Hawke  would like to have a discussion with me prior to the date on which the fines that were imposed yesterday were collected or an attempt was made to collect them. 
The first part of the answer depends upon the procedures that have to be followed before the fines can, in fact, be collected. I leave it to my colleague the Minister for Labour and National Service to explain at a later date how an order must first be made; action must be taken before the Industrial Registrar; letters must be written to the unions in order to put them in default of payment; and certain other procedures have to be followed before the Government may decide what it will finally do with regard to the collection of the fines themselves. 
Secondly, I had discussions early this morning with the Minister for Labour and National Service and other Ministers so that arrangements could be made to meet  Mr Hawke  as soon as possible in order to discuss this question of fines. I believe that my colleague is writing to  Mr Hawke.  It is highly probable that the letter has already been dispatched. It should be in the hands of  Mr Hawke,  without any doubt, by the latter part of this afternoon. 
I do not have the full details of the actual cost to the various departments of providing answers to the questions asked by the Leader of the Opposition or, for that matter, the honourable member for Hindmarsh. What I do know is that it seems obvious that it is intended to obstruct the sensible conduct of government business- 
I am not in a position to give an explicit answer to this question, but as soon as I leave the chamber I will make inquiries in my Department and let the honourable gentleman know what the facts are. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I do not believe that the provision of these details would serve any useful purpose and to supply such information would place an unreasonable workload on the Public Service. Moreover, it is not my practice to make public, submissions and representations made to me by private individuals and organisations. 
 Mr Dunshea  has been in touch with me and has informed me of the problem. I have asked the Minister for Labour and National Service to ensure that discussions take place between his officials and  Mr Dunshea. 
I want to point out to the honourable gentleman that Dunlops Ltd is operating within the law and consequently is entitled to the protection of the law if that can be achieved. I also want to point out and emphasise that, as my colleague the Minister for Labour and National Service mentioned yesterday, what is happening in this case is that the trade union movement is being exploited for commercial purposes by  Mr Hawke. 
It happens to be an extraordinary and deplorable fact that the great trade union movement of this country, which should have the ideal of protecting the wages structure, particularly that of the lower income earner, should be blatantly used by  Mr Hawke  for his own purpose, that is, to aggrandise the company he has taken over to compete with others in retail trade. 
As to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question it should be obvious to him that as T have been Prime Minister for only a few days of course I could- not have consulted the Premiers. 1 know that he has never been in office or in the position of a Minister of State. 
Negotiations have taken place between the United States and Australian governments on an Omega installation to guide international shipping and other kinds of transport. We have agreed with the United States that a station should be established somewhere in the vicinity of Bass Strait but as yet the precise location has not been decided. I believe it will make a very valuable contribution to navigation and represent a very valuable example of co-operation between the United States and Australia. As soon as I have precise information which I can give the House I will do so. 
I do not think that my hopes will be as short-lived as the hopes of the honourable member were when he came back from Cambodia and said that the operations there were equivalent to the operations of the Germans in Belgium. I welcome the honourable member's question. I wish to put  4  propositions to him in reply to his question about  Mr Hawke.  First, it should be remembered that if strikes, which are largely due to the operations of the left wing trade union movement supported by  Mr Hawke,  cause a loss of well over  2  million man days a year, this must affect productivity and it must therefore affect the capacity to pay wages and the standard of living of all but the very strong sections of the Australian community. In other words, it must affect the pensioners, it must affect the export industries and it must affect all those people who do not have a very strong base from which to operate. The second proposition is that the Australian Labor Party has to ask itself and answer this question: Does it believe in the system of arbitration? My colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service, pointed out yesterday what was at stake in this issue. 
Whichever way one looks at  Mr Hawke  one sees that power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely. 
Wills. I suggest,  Mr Speaker,  that if Ministers were required to make their answers relevant to the questions asked there would be much more order in this House. 
My next point is that the Opposition should be asking itself a third question - whether it is right that, when men are called out on strike, no regard should be paid to the welfare of their families, who have to do without the take-home pay and consequently must live in a state of distress while the strike continues. These are all questions that the Australian Labor Party has not faced up to and has not answered, but this Government is looking carefully at each one of them. I have asked  Mr Hawke  to come to see me, and by this morning he should have at least received the invitation. I hope that when the discussions with him have been completed a more sensible attitude will be taken by the trade union movement. 
I am not aware of the various statements and the petition mentioned by the honourable gentleman but I know that this matter was considered either by the former Prime Minister or by Cabinet and that a reply was given to the gold mining industry in Western Australia. Nonetheless, in deference to his wishes, I will have the papers re-examined and I will let him know the result. 
It is deplorable that these daubings should be placed on any home, and that includes the homes of diplomatic personnel. The jurisdiction with regard to offences of this type in the Australian Capital Territory remains with the police of the Australian Capital Territory. We hope that the police will be able to find those who are responsible and that they will be prosecuted in the courts in the normal course of legal procedure and practice. The legislation now before the House does not cover the case of the daubing of slogans or signs of that nature upon homes or upon the walls of homes of diplomatic personnel. Such an act is covered by normal common law procedure and consequently will be covered by normal police court proceedings if the people who committed the offences can be found and can be prosecuted. 
I will obtain the answer from the Minister for Health, who is in the other chamber, and let the honourable member know. 
 The answer to the hon ourable member's question  is as  follows: 
and (2) The comparative approach based on information obtained from the States and overseas, which was adopted by the interdepartmental committee, proved inconclusive and further investigation is being undertaken by my Department, in consultation with other interested departments and authorities, seeking a satisfactory appreciation of the Australian situation and, in particular, to what extent cultural property is being exported. I do not expect an easy or an early solution. 
I have been advised by the Public Service Board that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See (1) above. 
I refer the honourable member to page 107 of the Public Service Board's Annual Report for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
The answer provided by  Mr Gorton  to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following grants have been made out of the Commonwealth Literary Fund since its inception in 1908: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is 'No'. 
I desire to inform the House that the new Ministry is constituted as follows: 
Prime Minister, the Right Honourable William McMahon; 

 Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry, the Honourable J. D. Anthony; 
Minister for Defence, the Right Honourable J. G. Gorton; 
Minister for Primary Industry, the Honourable Ian Sinclair; 
Minister for Supply and Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator the  Honourable  Sir Kenneth  Anderson; 
Minister for National Development and Leader of the House, the Honourable R. W. C. Swartz, M.B.E., E.D.; 
Treasurer, the Honourable B. M. Snedden, QC.; 
Attorney-General, the Honourable N. H. Bowen, Q.C. 
Minister for Education and Science, the Honourable David Fairbairn, D.F.C. 
Postmaster-General and Vice-President of the Executive Council, the Honourable  Sir Alan  Hulme, K.B.E. 
Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Honourable L. H. E. Bury; 
Minister for Shipping and Transport, the Honourable P. J. Nixon; 
Minister for Labour and National Service, the Honourable Phillip Lynch; 
Minister for External Territories, the Honourable C. E. Barnes; 
Minister for Immigration, the Honourable A. J. Forbes, M.C.; 
Minister for Social Services and Minister in Charge of Aboriginal Affairs, the Honourable W. C. Wentworth; 
Minister for Works and, under the Minister for Trade and Industry, Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities,  Senator the  Honourable R. C. Wright; 
Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator the  Honourable Robert Cotton; 
Minister for Customs and Excise, the Honourable D. L. Chipp; 
Minister for Air,  Senator the  Honourable Tora 
Drake-Brockman, D.F.C.;  Minister for the Army and Minister assisting the Prime Minister, the Honourable Andrew 
Peacock; 
Minister for Repatriation, .the Honourable R. 
McN. Holten; Minister for Health,  Senator the  Honourable 
J. Greenwood, Q.C; Minister for the Navy, the Honourable M. G. 
Mackay; 
Minister for the Interior, the Honourable Ralph J. Hunt; 
Minister for Housing, the Honourable K. M. K. Cairns. 
The first 13 Ministers named will comprise the Cabinet.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson remains the Leader of the Government in the Senate. The  Hon.  R. W. C. Swartz has been appointed Leader of the House. The outgoing Minister for Labour and National Service,  Mr Snedden,  will for the time being retain control of industrial relations policy. I foreshadow that a proposal will be put before Parliament to increase the number of Ministers, from 26 to 27. Provided that Parliament has passed, and assent has been given to, the necesary amendments to the Ministers of State Act, I shall recommend to  His Excellency  the appointment of an additional Minister who will administer the Department of the VicePresident of the Executive Council. In the meantime the Postmaster-General will administer the Department1. 
In the Senate,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson will be my representative and will also represent the portfolios of Defence and Treasury. He will also answer questions on matters for which the Department of the Vice-President of the Executive Council is responsible The other representational arrangements in that chamber will be:  Senator Wright,  the portfolios of Foreign Affairs, Education and Science, Labour and National Service, Housing and External Territories;  Senator Cotton,  the portfolios of Trade and Industry, National Development, Shipping and Transport, Customs and Excise, and Interior;  'Senator DrakeBrockman,  the portfolios of Primary Industry, Army, Repatriation and Navy;  Senator Greenwood,  the portfolios of Attorney-General, Postmaster-General, Immigration, and Social Services, including Aboriginal Affairs. Ministers in the Senate will be represented in this House as follows: The Minister for Supply ' by  Mr Gorton;  the Minister for Works by  Mr Chipp;  the 
Minister for Civil Aviation by  Mr Swartz;  the Minister for Air by  Mr Holten  and the Minister for Health by  Dr Forbes. 
It has been made known to the House on many occasions that the British Government has the primary responsibility for relationships between itself and the illegal regime in Southern Rhodesia. There has been no change in this Government's policy. We adhere to the United Nations resolution. There are some exports within the resolution, such as wheat for humanitarian reasons or medicines, books and similar things. We do not export to Southern Rhodesia those items covered by the resolution. I can confirm what the honourable gentleman said I stated in answer to a question asked of me, that that still remains the Government's policy. 
I lay on the table the report of the Committee appointed by the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments on the problem of the Crown of Thorns Starfish. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  - by leave - agreed to: 
That this House, in accordance with the provisions of the Parliamentary Papers Act 1908-63, authorises the publication of the report of the Committee on the problem of the Crown of Thorns Starfish, and secondly that the paper be printed. 
by leave- On 7th April 1970 the Government announced to the House the membership of a joint committee established by the Commonwealth and Queensland to investigate the problem of the Crown of Thorns Starfish on the Great Barrier Reef. The committee comprised: 
by leave -  Mr Speaker,  the Government has been reviewing the position of Australia's military forces in Vietnam in order to determine what further withdrawal options are open to it, having regard to the security situation and the intentions of the Government of the Republic of Vietnam and of our other major allies. This review follows from the policy stated by the then Prime Minister, now the Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton),  in April 1970 when, in announcing the withdrawal of one Army battalion, he said that 'Should the progress of pacification and Vietnamisation succeed as the  President  (of the United States) hopes and believes that it will, then at some stage during the 12 months period we will consider phasing additional troops into the planned withdrawal'. 
During his recent visit to Vietnam, the Minister for Defence had valuable discussions with Vietnamese leaders and with the 
Commander of United States forces in Vietnam. These consultations have confirmed our assessment that steady improvement is being achieved in the security situation. Many factors have contributed to this improvement. The policy of Vietnamisation, that is, the development of the capability and effectiveness of South Vietnam's armed forces, has produced a much stronger and more cohesive fighting force. The pacification programme has also achieved notable successes, and its contribution towards improved security in the rural areas has necessitated the enemy concentrating his effort against that programme. These developments, in combination with North Vietnam's manpower problems, have seen a significant decline in enemy-initiated activity over the last 2 years. 
An important consequence of these achievements has been that the South Vietnamese have been able to continue their operations in Cambodia against North Vietnamese regular forces. Additionally they were able to initiate and conduct the recent operations against the North Vietnamese supply lines in southern Laos. The effect of these operations so far has been to prevent the enemy mounting large-scale actions inside South Vietnam and thus they have given the South Vietnamese time for the further development of their forces and for strengthening the pacification programme. In a number of key areas within South Vietnam the North Vietnamese have for the present lost the military initiative. The enemy forces are thus being forced to a position of reacting to the South Vietnamese rather than being able to fight at a time and place of their own choosing. 
Turning to the overall security of South Vietnam, it is undeniable that there has been satisfactory progress towards the objective of establishing the circumstances in which South Vietnam can determine its own future. There remain, of course, difficulties which should not be minimised. The North Vietnamese at the Paris talks have remained intransigent. Nothing constructive has been offered by them towards a negotiated settlement. In Vietnam itself there has been some resurgence in Communist terrorism, political agitation, and attacks against lines of communication. These tactics by the Communists, using their remaining infrastructure in the country, will doubtless be employed against the Government and people for some lime to come. 
In its weighing up of the overall situation, the Government has. decided that further reductions of the Australian forces in Vietnam are feasible and desirable. With the agreement of the Government of the Republic df Vietnam, and following consultations with United States military authorities in Saigon, some forces will now be withdrawn. These are: 
Selected combat and supporting forces of the Army task force,- including the tank squadron, totalling about 650 men; . .-  
Royal Australian Navy, personnel, about 45 in number, serving with the United States Assault Helicopter Company; 
The RAN Clearance. Diving Team (clearance of underwater explosives) of 6 personnel; 
No. 2 Canberra : Bomber Squadron involving 280 men; . ; 
Some aircraft of the; Caribou transport squadron and about 44 men 
The reductions are therefore to be spread over the 3 Services ,'and will have the effect of reducing the tol al Australian personnel by about 1 ,000' 'men: The Australian forces then remaining in South Vietnam will comprise 6,000 men compared with a peak of 8,000 'in 1968-70. All these remaining forces, including the 2-bat- talion Task Force in Phuoc Tuy, will retain an effective operational capability. The tasks of our forces' will continue to change as the Vietnamese territorial forces accept increased operational, responsibility. The units and personnel, involved in these reductions will be withdrawn gradually over a period of 4 months to 6 months, commencing in May. This timetable will permit detailed adjustments to be made between the Australian, South Vietnamese, and United States military, authorities in relation to the security requirements of the areas involved. 
Events in South Vietnam,., to which our own fighting men made such a notable contribution, have made these withdrawals possible and they are entirely in accordance with the policy of the Government as announced in Parliament. It must be acknowledged that enemy forces in IndoChina still retain a considerable offensive capability, and there remains in South Vietnam a structure of Vietcong cadres and guerillas which has been long established and whose strength is very difficult to assess. No doubt the Government and forces of the Republic may from time to time suffer military setbacks, and the continuance of the war against aggression will be a heavy burden upon them. But perhaps more than ever before, the Government of the Republic acknowledges that getting on top of the internal threat to security and the development of progressive government in the provinces are tasks best performed by themselves once a sufficient degree of security from massive external attack has been established. Greater confidence now exists. The Vietnamese authorities have developed a variety of programmes which are becoming increasingly effective in bringing better administration in the countryside. The Australian Government will continue to assist the Republic of Vietnam, though the character of our assistance will progressively change. For example, the new Jungle Warfare Training Centre at Nui Dat has just completed its first course. Australian economic and military aid in a variety of forms will continue. We will continue to build houses for members of the Territorial Forces and their families. Other forms of civil aid and civic action will be examined by the Government. As to the future of our forces in Vietnam, the Government will keep the matter under constant review, bearing in mind the security of our own forces and our obligations to the Government of the Republic of Vietnam. 
-I have been advised by the Public Service Board that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth sponsors public servants for courses, of study overseas in the following circumstances: 
upon the award of a Commonwealth Public Service Postgraduate Scholarship, or 
when the study is required by a' department (e.g. to complete the Diploma of Clinical Pathology at the University of London or a course at the Royal College of Defence Studies). 
In these cases the fares of the officer's wife may be met by the Commonwealth when the officer selected proceeds overseas for a period of 12 months or longer. 
The Commonwealth, by way of the grant of financial assistance, may support officers who undertake studies not covered by the above; but fares of wives are not payable by the Commonwealth in these cases. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No, but 1 am informed that the Public Service Board has this matter under consideration. 
The Public Service Board has advised me that the matter has been examined by a subcommittee of the Joint Council, a body representative of both management and Pubiic Service Staff Associations. At its last meeting, the Joint Council referred the matter to the Public Service Board for consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has informed me that in the decision which awarded increased salaries to senior principal research scientists, chief research scientists and chiefs of division in the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation the Commission, inter alia, stated: 'We have also endeavoured to give effect to the concept of a continuum in the salaries of these senior officers and although no mathematical relationship has been created either within our increases or the salaries we award, we consider we have achieved a smoother salary pattern for the duties and responsibilities of these positions. 
(a) The Public Service Board granted in relation to research scientist staff employed under the Public Service Act 1922-1968 and the Executive of the CSIRO determined (wilh Public Service Board approval) in relation to research scientist staff employed under the Science and Industry Research Act 1949-1968, salary increases of 15 per cent for research scientist, senior research scientist, principal research scientist and at the minimum only of the. salary of senior principal research scientist. 
In the respective applications filed wilh the Public Service Arbitrator to give effect to the decisions referred to in (a) above, both the Public Service Board" and the Executive of the CSIRO, inter alia, stated: 
The new rates for senior principal research scientist take into account the increases granted by the Full Bench of the Commission on appeal and the reasons therefor.' 
As the Public Service Board acts independently in the exercise of its statutory powers and responsibilities and is not subject to political direction, I do not propose to take the action requested. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised by the Principal Parliamentary Reporter that: 
A Minister may receive, gratis, from the Government Printer, up to 60 copies of any speech he makes and a question addressed to him and his answer thereto. 
The cost is charged to the vote of the Department of the Parliamentary Reporting Staff under the heading "Hansard - Printing, distribution and binding". 
For a order in excess of 60 copies the Government Printer renders an account on the Minister. The reprints are delivered to his office in Parliament House, his Department or any other address nominated by him.' 
In addition, it is common practice for Ministers to make available copies of statements and second reading speeches for immediate distribution. The copies, usually in duplicated form, are prepared in the Minister's office or in the Department and their cost is borne by the Departments concerned. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Directory 1970 lists Commonwealth departments and authorities and gives the addresses of their headquarters. Since it was printed, phase II of the transfer programme has been completed by the transfer of the Head Office of the CSIRO to Canberra. 
Phase 111 of the transfer programme is outlined in the - Public Service Board Annual Report 1970 (page 101). This phase has been deferred in the light of the prevailing economic and budgetary conditions. 
Order of the British Empire (Question No. 2315) 
Our High Commissioner did make representations to the British Government relating to the then provisions of the Immigration Bill as they related to patrials. He pointed out to the British Government that we felt that in our case where a great number of our people had their ancestors based on the United Kingdom the United Kingdom Government should look particularly at the effects of the then Bill upon Australians who might go to the United Kingdom. I am glad to say that the United Kingdom Government responded and changed the Bill in a way which we could regard only as satisfactory to our interests. 
I thought until yesterday that it wa*s well known to every member of this House and to most thinking members of the population that the Government had decided to introduce a Bill quite soon in order to control retail price maintenance. It seemed therefore extraordinary - even childish - that yesterday a notice should have been given to the House of an intention on the part of the Opposition to present a Bill which would duplicate the work that has been done - more effectively and adequately  done  - by the Government. There are many arguments for and against retail price maintenance. A lot of people say they believe in orderly marketing and that orderly marketing is the best way there is of selling goods cheaply in shops. We have taken the view that we believe in competitive influences. We believe that in the period of very rapid inflation that we are going through at present it is better for us to introduce legislation now. or if we can, during this session of Parliament and have it passed as soon as we can. T hope that the Opposition, even the Leader of the Opposition, will welcome this Bill and will give it a quick and sure passage through the House. 1 cannot say exactly when the Bill is likely to be introduced. I had discussions as late as yesterday on this matter. J had a note this morning from my colleague the Attorney-General and T can assure you that he knows that we desire a Bill to be put through urgently. The subject of restrictive practices is a complex and difficult one. We have referred it to an interdepartmental committee for study. We have asked the committee to report back to the Government as soon as it can so that we can prepare a Bill, if we think it is necessary, to widen the scope of the existing Act. 1 can assure the House that both of these measures, together with our approach to arbitration, are consistent with our policy to restrain inflationary forces. I only wish that instead of jumping on the bandwaggon the Opposition would give us some help in controlling these forces. 
1 think most people would know that the former Prime Minister did make a statement on inflation and in that statement he highlighted the fact that of the several measures that could be taken one was the control of restrictive practice. Since I have been Prime Minister I have stated that instructions have been given. I will obtain extracts from comments in the Press and present them to the honourable gentleman showing the date on which the relevant submission on retail price maintenance was given to Cabinet and the date on which the decision was made to send the matter to the draftsman. 
 Mr Speaker,  1 regard the words 'disgusting gerrymander' as offensive and I ask that they be withdrawn. 
It seems strange that a member of the Labour Party, whose organisation controls the choice- 
The honourable member had a great degree of liberty in asking his question. 
I bow to your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  and the answer is that this is clearly political propaganda based upon the organisation of 2 parties in Queensland over which I have no control whatsoever. 
I repeat, because I think it is worth repeating, without the preliminaries I mentioned before about the nature of the question that was asked by the honourable member, that this is political propaganda based upon the organisation of 2 parties in Queensland over which T have no control whatsoever and in which I have no intention of interfering. I know that the Labor Party likes to interfere in everyone's affairs. That is not my policy, nor is it the policy of the Government that I have the good fortune to lead. 
I have nothing to add to what I have already said, but what I can point out now is that on 18th March of this year, as reported at page 1073 of Hansard, in answer to a question I did correct the Leader of the Opposition as to certain statements that had been made in the House. I then pointed out - and I wish this to be accurate: 
The Attorney-General did not say that we would be introducing any such legislation. 
I continued: 
He did say that a submission was before the Government. That submission will be considered within the  course  of the next few weeks.  lt was considered, and instructions have been given to the parliamentary draftsman to have a Bill produced on resale price maintenance. As regards my statement concerning the then Prime Minister, 1 have before me now his statement of 29th January 1971 relating to inflation in which he said: 
Increased internal competition would help. And internal competition can be increased if the High Court upholds the validity of the present Trade Practice* Act, both interstate and intrastate. 
He went on to say: 
If it does uphold the validity, the Act can be strengthened and lead to more internal competition, if the Court holds the Act in part invalid, then we will have to consider approaching the Australian people and asking them to give us more power to make the Act wholly valid. 
Therefore we have public statements, and statements by myself, that we are now going to legislate for the control of resale price maintenance and that the restrictive practices legislation will be dealt with in detail by an interdepartmental committee. 
The honourable gentleman wishes to live in the past. We are living in the present. All that matters in the political life of this country and in this Parliament is what we intend to do. 1 repeat, because the honourable gentleman has not quite understood it, that we will be introducing legislation to control retail sales practices, and f hope that we will be able to do it during the current session of the Parliament. J ask that further questions be placed on the notice paper. 
I have not seen the statement. As to the last part of the honourable gentlemen's question, the matter is entirely within the jurisdiction of the States. If they wish to do it, they can. 
To the best of my recollection - and I do not administer the 
Department of Foreign Affairs and the aid programme now - we have not made recommendations or suggestions to beneficiary countries along the lines mentioned by the honourable gentleman. Nonetheless I will refer the matter to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and tell him that I think there is a lot of substance in what has been said. 1 will convey to the honourable gentleman the answer that I receive from the Foreign Minister. 
I think the honourable gentleman knows that what be has said is very interesting and provocative. But I should draw his attention to the fact that yesterday I said that this is an organisational problem for the parties in Queensland and that we have no intention of intervening. If the honourable gentleman wishes to go to Queensland and to make political speeches there 1 will be only too happy to facilitate his passage. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has advised me that it has not. I am not aware of any Permanent Head taking such action, but undoubtedly interested staff associations and unions would be fully aware of the statement my predecessor made in the House on 16th February 1971 concerning reductions in Commonwealth expenditure. (Hansard pages 34-36.) For example, it is clear from its press release of 21st February 1971 that the Administrative and Clerical Officers' Association, Commonwealth Public Service, was aware of the statement made by my predecessor and referred to above. 
In the light of (1) above, I do not think that it is necessary to take the action requested. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Minister for External Territories has informed me that Maunsell and Partners were commissed to advise the Administration of Papua and New Guinea on shipping services, port facilities, cargo handling and stevedoring in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. The fee paid was approximately 164,000. 
The Administration of Papua and New Guinea is neither a Commonwealth department nor a State government, and therefore the engagement of Maunsell and Partners for this project did not come within the scope of the honourable member's Question No. 70 of 4th March 1970. 
It seems appropriate that I should answer this question rather than the Minister for Defence, who obviously is involved. I believe - and I am informed - that the information in the Gazette' given by the honourable gentleman is false or, to put it more appropriately, is untrue. I will make inquiries to see how the entry got into the Government Gazette', if it is there, and I will let the honourable member know the answer. 
I did not say that the honourable gentleman himself was making a false statement. I said that the information that was relayed to the House happened to be false, no matter where it may appear. 
 I. want to explain the traditional position of question time in this House because both honourable gentlemen who have spoken, have not stated it accurately. The truth of the matter" is that although some discretion has been given over the years we can take it that the general rule has been that question time, including the presentation of petitions, has been limited to 45. minutes. Question time has been extended in cases where there have been exceptional circumstances or in which there has been several contributions on a particular question and answer. But it has been the custom, as I have said, to limit question time to 45 minutes. I will give figures to prove that this is. the custom except where the Prime , Minister himself wishes to change that practice. I believe that honourable members have other opportunity to present their views , and to ask questions not only at question time but in discussions of matters of public importance and for that matter on the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House. There is no wish whatsoever to restrict debate. Rather I believe that debate should be more relevant and that it should be more directed to the fundamental interests of this country. 
I would like to go back as far as 19S4 and relate to the House some of the dates and times that have been given to me. These figures relate to time occupied not only by questions without notice but also by presentation of petitions. On 5th August 1954 question time amounted to 35 minutes. On 10th August the time was 45 minutes: 12th August it was 36 minutes; 18th August it was 44 minutes; 19th August it was 34 minutes; and on 25th August it was 44 minutes of which 1 1 minutes were taken up by petitions. The lists indicate that on 3rd May question time amounted to 59 minutes; 5th May 25 minutes; 11th May 45 minutes; and 12th May 27 minutes. I want to make it clear in answer to what has been said by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  that there is no fixed rule whatsoever. It is a matter that concerns individual Prime Ministers and, with one exception, I believe that it has been the tradition of this House to restrict question time to 45 minutes unless there are very exceptional circumstances. I have not the figures in front of me but I have been informed that this applied just as much during the period when the Labor Party was in office as it has applied since the Liberal-Country Party Government has been in office. I do know from my own knowledge, which is ever so much greater than that of the first member who spoke, that when  Mr Menzies,  later  Sir Robert  Menzies, was Prime Minister he was meticulous in ensuring that question time did not exceed 45 minutes unless there were exceptional circumstances. 
On at least 2 occasions I have informed the House that we intend to legislate, preferably during the current session of the Parliament, to control resale price maintenance. I have also pointed out to the House that we have referred to an interdepartmental committee the whole problem of restrictive trade practices. I point out to the honourable gentleman that unfortunately our powers seem to be limited for the moment, but we hope that as a result of the concrete pipes case now before the High Court of Australia the ambit of the Commonwealth's power may be extended. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to inform the House that the Minister for Trade and Industry,  Mr Anthony,  left Australia this morning to visit New Zealand for the regular ministerial review of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement.  Mr Anthony  is expected to return to Australia on8th April. During his absence the Minister for Shipping and Transport,  Mr Nixon,  will act as Minister tor Trade and Industry. 
The answer to each of the 3 questions is yes. 
I will be only too happy to have a look at the matter raised by the honourable member. I am pleased that he referred to the possibility of all forces involved in Vietnam coming under examination. However, I wonder how it would be possible to have war crimes trials associated with the atrocities committed by the North Vietnamese. I happened to be in Hue not so very long ago where I saw the graveyard of 6,000 civilians who had been ruthlessly murdered by the North Vietnamese for no cause whatsoever other than that these civilians would not willingly fall in with the North Vietnamese and assist them with the provision of food and fighting forces. Nonetheless, the honourable member's question is worthy of consideration and I will give it the consideration it needs. 
The honourable gentleman must remember that this question has to be answered against the background that inflationary forces in this country are too strong, that we have very strong demand in the field of labour and overfull employment. Consequently we cannot isolate one particular area of the economy and ask that it be given a privileged position. The problem must be looked at as a whole. Consequently, we must look at employment in the Public Service just as much as we have to look at employment in civil sections of the economy. I am glad to say that pressures in the labour market are not increasing as rapidly as we anticipated last October that they would. So at the moment I cannot give the honourable gentleman any assurance at all about the staffing of the Bureau. Naturally we will keep this under the most careful consideration and when we feel that there can be relaxation of policy we will look at that policy as a whole and we will not isolate any particular areas of it. I mention to the honourable gentleman that if he had looked at the statistics he would have seen that the rate of growth in the Commonwealth Public Service has been much higher than the increase in the work force. Something had to be done. Effective action was taken and I do not want to reverse that action too quickly. 
Before I ask that further questions be placed on the notice paper, I should like to give additional details relating to the question asked of me by the Leader of the Opposition. The assumption on which he based his question is false. Staffing of the Bureau of Transport Economics is not affected by the cuts but is now proceeding. I ask mat further questions be placed on the notice paper. 
 On several occasions both I and other members of the Government have expressed our abhorrence of separatism or apartheid, and I am sure that most members of the House will have heard with bitter disappointment and regret that the South African Government had refused a request of the South African Cricket Association to permit 2 native South Africans to come to Australia with their cricket team. But I also want to make clear to the honourable gentleman that there are some principles which we have consistently observed and will continue to observe. The first one is that we do not believe in interference in the internal affairs of other countries. 
You do, we do not. So if you want to keep on interfering, you keep on and get your just deserts. At the recent Prime Ministers Conference the question of British supply of arms to South Africa was raised, and we there took the point of view that this was a matter for the British Government itself to decide. In other words, all of the countries which were there finally accepted the principle that they should not interfere in the internal affairs of the United Kingdom Government, and this principle we will religiously observe. It is consistent with our policy relating to New Guinea. If we hear of other countries telling us, outside the Trusteeship Council, how we should spend our money in the development of New Guinea and the decisions we should make in our right to assist the people of that country to self-determination, we usually tell them to mind their own business. This is a matter for the people themselves and the Australian Government. 
We are not playing it now. There is a third point that I wish to make relating to the necessity to divorce our politics from our other international relationships. We divorce our politics from our trade relations. If we did not do so we would not trade with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Neither would we trade with the People's Republic of China. Equally, we believe that sport should be left to the sporting associations themselves. It seems a strange thing to me that members of a sporting association that has exactly the same views as we have on apartheid, which believes that separatism should not be associated with sporting activities and whose members have shown their dislike of apartheid on the sporting field, should be prevented from coming to this country and participating in sporting activities with our people. 
There is one other point which 1 wish to make to the House. When the South African surf life saving team came to Aus-' tralia recently many Australians not only resented the activities of the anti-apartheid demonstrators but also showed their approval of the visit by the South Africans. 
I have taken action on 2 fronts since I have been Prime Minister. I have already communicated to the South African Government the disappointment and regret felt by a great number of Australians that native Africans should be prevented from coming here to participate in a sporting event. I also have advised the secretary of the Australian Cricket Board of Control that we do not think that any objection should be taken by the Government to the visit by the South African cricket team. I make only one other comment. I hope that every sporting association will remember the statement alleged to have been made by the Leader of the Opposition yesterday - and not denied - that he is in the forefront of anti-apartheid activities and that he will resist the visit to Australia of sportsmen from South Africa. 
The Government has decided on the basic concepts that will be included in the Bill on resale price maintenance shortly to be presented to the House. The first provision is that resale price maintenance will be declared to be unlawful and therefore vertical arrangements of this kind in the future will be contrary to the law. This provision will be similar to the provision in the British Act and will not be along the lines of the somewhat old-fashioned and cumbrous methods which have been proposed by the Leader of the Opposition and, until recently, by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. 
The Act will provide also that where people think that resale price maintenance is in the public interest they may apply to the appropriate tribunal for an exemption. We will include in the Bill guidelines to assist the tribunal so that it may make up its mind whether an exemption should be granted. I mention in this respect that the Government of the United Kingdom has incorporated a similar provision in the British Act and of a large number of applications for exemption only 2 have been granted by the relevant United Kingdom tribunal. 
There is a third point which I think is important: it relates to suppliers. Suppliers will not be able to deny the supply of goods to purchasers purely and simply because the suppliers wish to sustain a resale price maintenance scheme. But in other cases, particularly when genuine commercial considerations are involved - and that relates particularly to cases in which a purchaser is not considered to be credit-worthy - these provisions will not apply. 
Later the Attorney-General will bc explaining the full details of the Act, but I felt it was desirable to give members of the public the details of the basic concepts so that they may make their plans based upon those concepts. 
I was aware that Jetair was a subsidiary of Brins Investments and 1 understand that one of the directors has been involved in court proceedings of one kind or another. 1 do not know enough about him to be able to reply to any of the allegations made by the honourable member. I have never met him, spoken to him or written to him. Concerning the actual transaction, my colleague the Minister for Supply made a statement in another place. That statement sets out the full course of events in this matter. My personal belief is that the purchase of the aircraft from both the Royal Australian' Air Force and from Jetair Australia Limited was al a remarkably cheap price. J believe that instead of being critical of the Commonwealth and the Department of Foreign Affairs for carrying out a satisfactory deal honourable members should be complimenting the Government for the amount of money it saved and for the fact that Government policy has been applied in a most sensible and practicable way. 
I went to enormous trouble, as did the Treasurer, to try to explain the economic impact of the decision to permit the States to reduce their cash deficits by the order of $43 m. It was given on the strict understanding, and unanimously agreed to by every Premier, that the money would not be spent. What will happen is that our internal surplus, whatever the amount happened to be, will be reduced by $43m and that the States' very big deficits will be reduced by $43 m as well. 
It is a book entry. The honourable member is right. I am glad he has understood because in all the time that I have been here this is the first time I have seen a glimmer of understanding on his face. 
Having said that, may I repeat what 1 have said before - and this is a view which is held by all our economic advisers as well as the Treasurer, myself and the Government - that the economic significance of this is minimal. We have put the States into a position where they can commence their examinations of their budget proposals for 1971-72 in a more healthy state than would otherwise have been the case. I think it is a sensible measure which has been agreed to by the former Prime Minister, and for that matter by the Government as a whole. 
As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, the point here is clear. In my view the most deserving section of the community, and the ones which I ranked in the highest priority, were those on the maximum rate pension. We decided that in order to meet this priority the Government would increase the maximum rate pension by  $1  for a man and wife and by 50c in the case of a single individual. 
We did receive a communication from the British Government from a source within China. It could not be regarded as speaking on behalf of the People's Republic of China. In that communication the statement was made that for political reasons the People's Republic of China would not be purchasing Australian wheat. There were many people who urged us not to get too heavily involved with the People's Republic of China because it might try to intimidate us for political reasons. If this was its objective it has failed, and failed dismally. World demand for wheat has risen substantially from, I think, about 54 million tons to 57 million tons during the current year. Our own reserves of wheat will be reduced to less than 200 million bushels at the end of the year. Consequently we are not so heavily reliant upon the People's Republic of China - that is, Communist China - for the sale of our wheat this year. 
I am not aware of the alleged statement made by the Minister. 
In answer to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, I always regret having to point out how wrong he is. I have given no security classification whatsoever to this communication. The first part of the honourable members question happens to be equally wrongly based. The source of information did not come from within China, but it came to an official of the British Consulate-General in Hong Kong* from allegedly Chinese sources. The third point I want to make is that in this matter we are relying not on direct evidence from the Chinese Government itself but on third hand and fourth hand evidence. The information contained in the communication is so complex and conflicting that it is extremely difficult to make up our minds as to what the facts are. I can say no more other than that the 2 parts of the honourable gentleman's question are both based upon wrong assumptions. 
 See page 1537. 
by leave - I wish to make explicit the sequence of events relating to a question asked by the Leader of the Opposition. The first cable I received relating to the political intentions of the People's Republic of China was from Hong Kong and it was that which I was referring to in answer to the question yesterday and in answer to the question today. Since then I have received the Record of a Conversation between British officials and Australian officials which took place in Australia, which states that the actual conversation in which the Chinese views were stated took place in Peking. 

 - Mr Speaker- 

 Mr Speaker,  I wish to inform the House that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  left on 12th April to represent Australia at the 5-power ministerial conference in London on 15th and 16th April and to hold talks with Ministers and defence officials in the United Kingdom. He will then go to Washington for talks with defence officials, returning to Australia on 30th April. During his absence the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  will be acting Minister for Defence. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Bury)  left Australia for London on 11th April to attend the 5-power ministerial conference on 15th and 16th April and a South East Asia Treaty Organisation Council meeting on 27th and 28th April. While overseas  Mr Bury  will attend- in Washington a meeting of countries contributing troops to Vietnam on 23rd April and will go to Geneva to chair a meeting of heads of Australian diplomatic missions.  Mr Bury  is expected back in Australia on 8th May. During his absence the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  is the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  left Australia yesterday for Manila to lead the Australian delegation to the 27th annual session of the Economic Commismission  for Asia and the Far East beginning today.  Mr Sinclair  is expected to be back in Australia by 27th April. During his absence the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  is Acting Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  will represent the Acting Minister in this chamber. 
I do not have in my possession the detailed working chart of the figures asked for by the honourable gentleman. But I want to put this matter into perspective. Some time ago the Australian Medical Association announced that it wanted a 15 per cent over the board increase in medical fees. Strong exception was taken by the Government, first, as to the size of the increase and, second, because the Government felt it was unjustified and had to be justified. 
Subsequently I was given some figures by the medical authorities - that is, the Department of Health. They advised me that the fees for general practitioners had increased by only 7 per cent and the fees for specialists had increased by about 25 per cent. When these and other figures - I am not sure of the details of the second part of my remarks - were given to tha AMA its President and Secretary-General asked me whether I would mind if they reconsidered their position. I agreed and at the same time I suggested to them that the wise course to follow was to give up for the time being any increase in specialists' fees and to concentrate on the general practitioners. This they agreed to. 
Subsequently I was informed that after a meeting on Sunday they had agreed to the Government's request, the effect of this being that the cost, instead of being $32m, as an across the board increase would have involved, would now be about $10m on their percentage increase. This figure of $10m as being the maximum, as advised to me by the Department of Health, has not been agreed to by the Government nor have the various percentage increases that have been proposed for the various States and in special circumstances by the AMA been agreed to. What has been agreed to is that the Minister for Health will have consultations with the AMA on Friday of this week in order to get a clear statement of what is meant by the words 'for the time being* and to try to finalise the figures for general practitioners' fees. 
I want to make it abundantly clear, first of all, that the Government's primary goal is to provide an effective health scheme for the benefit of the Australian community without unnecessary cost to those who have to contribute to the health or medical benefits funds. Secondly, whilst I have said that we have not agreed with the proposals made by the practitioners, we will look in detail at the proposals that they have made in order to make certain that they can be justified. I will try to get the figures for the honourable gentleman, and if I can get them I will let him have them. 
Our attitude to the movement of Australian citizens and, for that matter, Chinese citizens to and from Australia has, I think, already been made clear by me in a statement made to the National Press Club one day last week. We do not place any embargo on the movement of Australian citizens to the People's Republic of China unless there are security considerations involved. We do not place any obstacles in the way of the movement of people from the People's Republic of China to Australia unless similar kinds of security considerations are involved. 
Against this background I believe that the Australian Labor Party during the course of the last few days has made an abominable mess of its attitude to the movement of Australian citizens. Already the Leader of the Opposition has decided that this Party would make application to the Chinese Premier,  Mr Chou  En-lai, for a visa to allow one of the members of his Party to go to Peking in order to find out why continental China - the People's Republic of China - is not purchasing Australian wheat. I am advised that so far he has not received any reply. 
Secondly, a prominent journalist in the Press gallery did make an application to the Peking Foreign Office for permission to go at the same time as the member of the Opposition was going in order to investigate the position of wheat. He has been given approval to go with the ping-pong team. He has not been given any approval to go with the member of the Opposition, nor has he been given any approval to take part in any discussions relating to the purchase of wheat. Thirdly - and 1 think the House will be interested in this later development - there was a request by the Australian Broadcasting Commission to permit  Mr John  Penlington to go to continental China, the People's Republic of China, in order to permit 'Four Corners' to produce a film relating to that country. The ABC was contacted by a  Mr Edward  Hill, the Secretary of the Communist Party of Australia (Marxist-Leninist) who said- 
I cannot see an exact parallel between the activities of the former Leader of the Opposition to whom the honourable member for Kennedy has referred, and the present Leader of the Opposition. It is true that the former Leader of the Opposition was a lawyer and that the present Leader of the Opposition is a lawyer. It is true that the late  Dr Herbert  Vere Evatt was an eminent constitutional lawyer. It is true too that under strong emotional influences he was induced, or he was persuaded, to write to the Foreign Minister of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 
This is a heaven-sent opportunity to enable me to give the kind of answer I have been wanting to give during the whole of question time as to our general relationship with the People's Republic of China. I. did say in answer to a question that, so far as the movement of Australian people to the People's Republic was concerned, we would not interfere and do not place any obstruction unless there is a security requirement. If an application is made by a citizen of the People's Republic the same principles are involved. Our trade with the People's Republic of China, unless it comes within the strategic list or special military requirements, is free. The Government has made a decision, the details of which will be announced shortly by my colleague the Minister for Trade and Industry, that we intend to liberalise our trade with that country. I repeat that the details will be decided by him in cooperation with the various interested departments. 
Similarly, in sporting activities and cultural activities our action is the same. To my personal knowledge, the Peking Opera was invited to come to Australia as a cultural operation. But unfortunately the theatre to which they were to go was closed and they were not able to come. We are agreeable that sporting teams should go to China, subject to security requirements. If the Chinese like to send a sporting team here, subject to security requirements, of course we would welcome it. In other words, we want the People's Republic to show that it is willing to become a member of the international community and act responsibly. This does not mean to say that we have moved quickly; nor, for that matter, has the United States moved quickly on interstate relationships.  Mr Nixon  - this has not been made public in the Australian Press, but it should be - has decided that his recent liberalisation programme for the People's Republic, which by the way is nowhere near as liberal as ours, has nothing whatsoever to do with inter-State relationships. 
In other words, it is premature in the United States' view to consider the problem of recognition of the People's Republic of China or, for that matter, to make decisions about the admission of the People's Republic of China into the United Nations. In that respect the policies of the United States are identical with ours - not that we have moved together, but we have consulted fairly freely. Our attitude to admission is that, first and foremost, we want to protect the interests of Taiwan China and, secondly, we want to ensure that we take it step by step and methodically. We believe that the immediate problem is admission rather than recognition. 
1 dispute the use of the word 'bogey' and the answer in substance to the question is no. 
The political context in which the five-power arrangements have been couched is for consultation in the event of armed attack externally fomented or in the case of subversion and insurgency externally fomented. In other words, we will not be involved in internal civil problems but only in externally fomented operations. That is the position on the political basis. As to the basis on which we will be there and the administrative arrangements to be made, I think it would not be wise for me to enter into a debate on this or to go any further pending the return of the Minister for Defence. He has conducted the discussions and I think any question along these lines should be addressed to him when he returns. What I want to avoid is the making of statements prepared from bits and pieces. I think it is better for him to give a comprehensive picture. 
If the honourable gentleman had been listening at all to the statements that I have made during the course of the last few weeks he would  know that I have been extremely careful to state that what we are doing is protecting the interests of 144 million Taiwan Chinese people in the United Nations. If he cannot draw sensible conclusions from that there is nothing I can do to help him. 
I have some knowledge of the United States activity around Woomera, most of which are classified. To the extent to which they are not classified I will advise the honourable member. I will also find out from the Acting Minister for Defence the extent to which Australian people can visit them. I will let the honourable gentleman know. 
Only in general terms was 1 aware of the activities of Travelodge. However, what I am sure about is that the more the Australian people understand the action taken by members of the Australian Labor Party associated with the more extravagant sections of the Australian Council of Trade Unions who will do all in their power to obstruct the visit of sporting teams to Australia, the more the public will resent and be horrified at their actions and they will express their displeasure in the proper place, and that is in the polls. They will get their opportunity to express their opinions at the polls. I hope that they do not delay that opportunity for too long. 
 I will discuss this matter with my colleagues as soon as I can. I am sure that whichever Minister is responsible for this matter will have a talk to the honourable gentleman. 
To deal with the first part of the honourable member's question which goes back to 1967, he will know that at that time I was neither the Minister for Trade and Industry nor the Prime Minister. I have no knowledge of what is alleged in his statement but I will make an investigation and if the allegations turn out to be true I will let him know. Above all I will give him the facts and certainly not make a partial presentation of them. As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, no written document was presented to us by the United Kingdom authorities. Tt was an oral discussion. Secondly, that discussion with officials was put on a confidential basis and we have been asked not to proceed any further than we have so far gone. As it was confidential I would not be prepared to make details of the oral discussion available to the honourable gentleman. Nonetheless, as I have tried to make clear before insofar as wheat transactions are concerned, we in the Government believe that the Australian Wheat Board is a highly efficient authority in the sale of Australian wheat. 
If the honourable gentleman wants implicitly to be critical of the Wheat Board I believe it would be better if he came out positively and openly and said that he is dissatisfied rather than hide behind parliamentary privilege or make inexplicit statements. I have confidence in the Wheat Board. It is selling wheat well. We have already sold 3 million tons this year which is 1.1 million more than was sold last year Our carry over will not be a large one. Members of the Board are to leave today or tomorrow for the United Arab Republic. 
I also want to point out that all this discussion on a political level is doing harm to the market for Australian wheat because if any buyer thinks that there is a weakness in the market he will of course exploit that weakness, just as the People's Republic of China will, if it gets the opportunity, play politics with us. But when the chips are down and the decisive moment is at hand, price and quality are the most important criteria to be looked at in deciding whether to purchase our wheat. 
I will have to divide this very long speech into 2 different sections in order to deal with it. The first part of it relates to the difference between the Government's approach to the Republic of China - that is, Taiwan China - and to the People's Republic, which I choose to call 
Continental China mainly because most people do not understand unless I do. Until fairly recently Continental China has not shown itself particularly anxious to be recognised nor to be seated in the United Nations. In recent months it has shown increasing desire to become seated. For years the Republic of China, or Taiwan China has been, as I have impressed on the House, a valuable member of the United Nations, has lived up to its international commitments and has been recognised by Australia. 
The Australian Labor Party must ask itself whether it wants to jettison or desert a country that has the welfare of 14 million people under its control. Does it want to insist that the Continental Chinese should have the right of domination of these people and of preventing the people from expressing their will at the polls as to the kind of government they want? The Opposition has to let me know whether its attitude has changed over the last few years or whether it once thought that it was wise to retain recognition of the fact that Taiwan China should remain a member of the United Nations. The Government has expressed its position on several occasions. I will repeat it again for the benefit of honourable members. 
The Government is now looking, and has been looking cautiously for some time, at the position of representation in the United Nations. Its attitude has been made clear. It feels that votes at the United Nations are changing substantially. We want Continental China to be a responsible member of the international community. As yet we do not have strong and positive evidence that this is that country's wish also. But Australia's overall wish is that Taiwan China, which is responsible for 14 million people, should remain a member, and the Government will be working to ensure that procedures are adopted at the next United Nations meeting, or at a subsequent meeting, that will protect that country. In the meantime we think that this is a major objective and that recognition is not of paramount concern in comparison with the other. As I said yesterday, and I want to repeat this: The view of the United States is exactly the same as ours. The United Stales thinks that it is premature to be going along with the recognition of China, and it will be doing all in its power to secure the position of Taiwan China in the United Nations. 
Of course, I regretted that Lindemans should be the subject of a takeover offer by an American cigarette company. But I have to remind the honourable gentleman that the Commonwealth does not own the shares in Lindemans and that there would be an agreement voluntarily negotiated between Lindemans and the cigarette company. The second point to be noted is that the Philip Morris interests did offer the Lindeman shareholders a price which was very substantially in excess of the market price, and I do not think that I or any other member of my Government would have wanted us to interfere to stop the shareholders in that company getting more than the market price itself. The third point to be made is that the Australian interest in the total ownership of Philip Morris can, if the Australian shareholders like, be increased to 28 per cent, with an assurance given to the Government that the Philip Morris company will consider in the future increases iri the shareholding by Australian interests. So there are obvious advantages for both interests. There is no doubt that there are obvious advantages for the Australian shareholders in Lindemans. 
As to whether or not, because Philip Morris has borrowed on the Euro-dollar market, there should be a change in internal interest rates, I am afraid that this question bewilders me because if ever there was an occasion when interest rates, particularly the savings bank deposit rate, must be sustained in the interest of controlling inflationary pressures, this is the time for it to be done. So I do not think that the two matters are related. In fact, I would be fairly certain that if one were to ask the Reserve Bank of Australia it would shudder at the thought of a reduction of interest rates. 
The next question is whether the guidelines ought to be changed. No, I do not think that they should. I do not like the transaction, being an Australian the same as everyone else in this House. I like to see an Australian concern maintained under Australian ownership. But when one looks at this from the point of view of the shareholders and of the long term interests of the Australian shareholders as well, one can but make this single concession: That at least it would be a good commercial transaction so far as Lindemans was concerned. 
I have no doubt, as one who has travelled an enormous amount in the course of the last 18 months, that the Governments of the smaller countries of South East Asia - and for that matter of Asia as a whole - which want to be independent would shudder at the thought that there was the prospect of the Labor Party being elected as the government of this great country of ours. I can but confirm the view that is expressed by my colleague. I have little more to add than that. The question which the Labor Party has to answer is: Does it believe that the smaller countries, such as Czechoslovakia, should be dominated by the great and powerful countries? Does it believe that the smaller nations of South East Asia - whether it be the South Vietnamese, the Cambodians or the Laotians - should be dominated by the North? If this is its policy it is a totally different policy from ours and the time has come for it to stand up and state where it stands, and if it believes in the domination of the small by the large it should make this information available to the Australian community. 
The honourable gentleman has his timing completely mixed up as usual. The simple fact is that what we were referring to initially was an alleged statement between the British Charge d'Affaires in Peking and somebody who was not what could be regarded as a member of the Government of the People's Republic of China but who was an official of one of the Chinese departments. This was not conveyed to us in a written form at all. But, as I have stated - and 1 stated it again yesterday - it was oral communication in Canberra as between the British official himself and representatives of the Department of Foreign Affairs. There is nothing in writing from them and this matter has come to our attention in a roundabout way and not as a direct communication from the Government of the People's Republic of China. So that part of the story is perfectly clear. The honourable gentleman referred to other discussions. Again, these were not communications made to the Australian Government itself. We adhere to that position, which is accurate, and consequently we cannot say that there has been any communication between the People's Republic and ourselves. 
I think it is always wise to test the accuracy and credibility of the statements made by the Leader of the Opposition. He did use the words that were just mentioned. 
I am not. 
Minister in relation to questions that might be asked. The Chair has no discretion in this regard. 
The Leader of the Opposition did refer to the credentials of the Australian Ambassador to Taipeh and he did use the phrase that the Government of Taiwan China - to adopt his term - is the legitimate and actual government of all and every China. He went further, but I think it is enough for me to identify those words. I have looked at both the forms of the letters of credence and also the diplomatic commission. The letters of credence themselves are from Elizabeth II to the  President  of the Republic of China and the words actually used are: 'Being desirous of maintaining representation in the Republic of China of the interests of the Commonwealth of Australia we have made choice - * There is no reference whatsoever to the words used by the Leader of the Opposition. 
Again the honourable gentleman is confusing  the  issue. These are in fact the letters of credence accepted by the Government of Taiwan with no definition whatsoever as to territorial limits, and the Ambassador is still there under these letters of credence. Similarly, in the case of a diplomatic commission the words are the same. They are accepted and there is no definition of territorial limits in them whatsoever. 
My attention has been drawn to the fact that the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics has agreed to the stationing of air force elements in Ceylon. I draw the attention of the House to the kind of danger that can emerge through this kind of penetration. There is an excellent cartoon in today's Australian' which illustrates the kind of problem that is likely to emerge or can possibly emerge. What I can say to the honourable gentleman is that this insurrection was called by the Guevarists, the real left wing of the Communist groups in Ceylon. As a result of their activities the diplomatic representatives of the Northern Korean Government have been expelled and the Government of Ceylon has been compelled to ask various Commonwealth and other countries if they will supply arms and equipment to help it suppress the activities of the Guevarists 
We have given that Government a list of arms and equipment that we are prepared to supply on, as it requested, commercial terms. We are awaiting replies from it to see which kind of equipment it would like and the terms on which it would be prepared to purchase this equipment. This is a very, very difficult position because the Prime Minister of Ceylon has accepted into her Government several left wing elements. At least one group of left wing elements, not necessarily in the Government, is showing that it is dissatisfied with the Government. But we hope that soon the Government will be able to bring them under control. 
I am fairly certain that the honourable gentleman knows that an assurance was given to the Government parties, to which he belongs, that before this matter is raised again in the House the parties will have a full opportunity to debate the principles and that before the Government then reconsiders the problem it will take into consideration the views that are put by the parties themselves. 
I do not think there are substantial differences within the Government parties. There are some, it is true; but they are not substantial differences. As to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, the answer is yes. As to the second part of the question, when we have made up our minds we will tell him. 
Some of us have fairly good memories and can remember the occasion when the honourable member visted the Khmer Republic. Immediately before and after his return he was bitterly critical .... 
I think 1 will be able to prove that there is a relevance in point of principle even though in geographical distance there may be a distinction that can be drawn. But I am not interested in distances, 1 am interested in people and I am interested in the principles that can be adopted. I repeat that the honourable gentleman was very unhappy - or so it appeared for the time being - that there had been a rape of the Khmer Republic by the North Vietnamese. He suggested that that was just as bad, in effect and in action, as the activities of the Germans in Belgium during the Second World War. But he changed his position quickly. This was understandable and I do not blame him for doing it. He likes to be here and he knew he could very easily have had a visitation of the wrath of the then Victorian Executive. 
In regard to the question of relevance, there has been both by Ministers and by members asking questions an attempt to bring in irrelevant matter. I have also pointed out to the House that if the Standing Orders are to be interpreted as some members believe they should be interpreted, this House would be unworkable at question time and I think that the freedom of members in debates would also become rather like a relic of the olden days when parliamentarians were suppressed. Therefore, in the past I have given perhaps an over liberal interpretation of some of the Standing Orders and I intend to pursue that policy. But I would ask honourable members on both the Government and the Opposition sides, to cooperate in relation to the 2 matters that have been raised this morning. 
Getting back to the point of order, I reiterate that it is very difficult to adjudicate on whether something is relevant and sometimes the Chair cannot see the relevance of something that is being introduced, whether it be in a question or in debate. But I suggest to all Ministers that when they answer questions they should concentrate on answering them and should not bring in irrelevant matters. 
Relating the question of principle to East Pakistan, the Government has taken the view, as have several other governments, that this is a matter for the interna! government of Pakistan by the Pakistan Government itself. 
This is an interjection which I would like to be given 5 minutes to answer, but I will not ask for the indulgence of the House to give me the opportunity to do so. We regard this as a matter for the Pakistan Government itself, as the legitimate Government of both East and West Pakistan. Of course, we regret the loss of life, and I can make it known here in the House just how much we regret that there should be bloodshed, particularly because, I point out, recently there had been an election in both East and West Pakistan and the Awami League had received strong approval from the people of East Pakistan. We also welcome the statement by the  President  of Pakistan that he will try to ensure that civil power is resumed as soon as possible. We hope that he can very quickly put his statement in to practice and, above all, we express the view that there should be no more loss of life and that the leaders of the Awami League should be given full authority, civilly, to represent their people in the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan. 
I do not know, whether the honourable gentleman was grateful for the fact that  Sir Thomas  is a constituent of his or whether he was expressing surprise at the statement that  Sir Thomas  had made. Nonetheless, looking at the 2 parts of the .question, theoretically I think it is a very good principle that those who spend the money should be responsible directly for the collection of the taxation. But the position is that uniform taxation has existed for a long time and the Commonwealth has on occasions offered to permit the States to resume the imposition of direct income taxation provided they took full responsibility and issued their own returns. The States have not appeared to be very anxious to accept full responsibility. They would like us to do the collecting and to issue the assessments, but they themselves do not want to come into the administrative business. Nonetheless, it is a very difficult problem and one to which I cannot give an answer at question time. At to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, at the last Premiers Conference the Commonwealth informed the Premiers that it was looking for a growth tax for them. The relevant departments concerned, led by the Treasury, are working on the problems and we hope to be able to put some proposals to the Premiers at the time of the next Conference either in June or, at the latest, in July. 
First of all, I have not used the word 'integrity' in relation to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. What I have said, and I emphasise it now, is that my wish is to try to strengthen the position of the Commission if the Government can do so. In particular, what I have been thinking is this: Once the Commission itself has made a decision in principle, can it ensure that not only all presidential members, but the commissioners themselves, are kept within the boundaries of the principles that have been announced by the Commission? 
As to the honourable gentleman's statement, the simple fact is that the 6 per cent increase in the national wage case will in time, because it will become pervasive, mean an increase in the wages bill of something like $900m. This is an increase of hundreds of millions of dollars more than was expected at the time the budgets of the Commonwealth and the States were announced. It also means that, whilst we could not at that time have thought there was the prospect of strong demand inflation which would be superimposed upon cost inflation, the effect of the decision is not only to influence cost inflation strongly, but also to increase demand and to superimpose demand inflation on top of cost increase. This is the big problem that we face at the moment. 
As to the second part of the question relating to over award payments or the wage drift, these factors mainly are induced as the result of strike action by the employees. That strike action means that superimposed uponwhat the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission itself feels is the maximum that the economy can afford to pay is an additional wage drift of approximately 40 per cent of the total wage increases. That, in itself, must in time have a very bud impact upon the country. Naturally, we look to the employers themselves to try to resist the wage drift. But when men go out on strike and it is not so much a question of the profitability of the company that is involved but, in fact, its viability or its very existence we can understand why employers have frequently to capitulate to unjustified wage claims? 
If the honourable gentleman is anxious to get an accurate report he should direct the first part of his question to  President  Nixon and not to me. There is a big difference between my position as Prime Minister of Australia and  President  Nixon's position as  President  of the United States of America. As to the second part of his question, I have frequently said in this House that we do not interfere in the internal business of other countries and we bitterly resent other countries too frequently interfering in our own affairs. We have not raised this question in the United Nations and I doubt that there is a forum there, unless it is the General Assembly, in which it could effectively and properly be raised. 
The honourable member has raised a provocative question that is difficult to answer during question time. I cannot now disagree with the contents of the first part of his question. Nonetheless I will have it more carefully examined and if there is any reason for disagreement I will let him know. The facts seem to be correct. As to the second part of the honourable member's question, relating to South Africa, again I believe that the contents of his question may be correct. Nonetheless, again I will have a check made and if there is any basis for disagreement I will let him know. But I would be fairly certain that he is posing this question against the background that the Labor Party and the Australian Council of Trade Unions are attempting to stop the visit of South African sporting teams to this country. 1 want the Leader of the Opposition to pay particular attention to this because the attitude he displays to this question will show whether he has genuine sporting instincts or whether he is prepared to jump on bandwagons instead of adopting an objective and rational approach to the problem. We want to identify those who are against dividing sporting and political activities and I am sure that for this reason, if for no other, the question by the honourable member is justified. 
So far as this Government is concerned we have welcomed cultural relations with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, particularly the Bolshoi Ballet coming to Australia. For that matter other cultural organisations are also sending their representatives to Australia. I believe it is astonishing that we, being willing to accept cultural organisations and for that matter sporting organisations of this kind, should now be subject to the unbelievably contrary action by the Australian Labor Party and the Australian Council of Trade Unions. 
Well, if you like, portions of the world Christian churches. If you want to be completely frank and state those parts of the Christian churches which have said they would welcome- 
There is one and it is a very important one too, in case the honourable member does not recognise it as being part of the Christian Church. At least one very important leader of the Christian church  has  said that sporting teams should come here. 
I am glad that this has been raised to the point of a national issue because I think this clearly indicates the difference in approach to great national problems, between the Liberal Party and the Country Party on the one hand and members of the Labor Party on the one hand, dominated as they are at the present moment by the leadership of  Mr Hawke  in the ACTU. We will do all we can to permit the teams to come. We have already stated that we raise no objection to the teams coming. I believe that there will be a growing number of Australians- this is particularly so in view of an 85 per cent gallup poll in favour of the visit - who will, when they have an opportunity to do so, express the opinions at the games themselves. 
I have not read in full the statement made by  Mr Borthwick,  but I can answer the question put to me by the honourable gentleman in this way: First, Victoria has not yet approved of the proposals put to it by the Commonwealth. I hope that it will do so today. Unless that State gives an approval quickly we may not be able to introduce the necessary Bill into this House, and to the extent to which it will improve the position of many primary producers, we may be unable to have a legislative basis on which we can act. I hope that the State of Victoria will not be obstructive. 
Secondly, no, Victoria has not put any alternative proposals nor have I received any subsequent recommendation from that State. I received none yesterday or today. Thirdly, the Commonwealth at least is making an attempt to come to grips with this problem. 
The Minister for Primary Industry ought to be given an opportunity to ensure that those primary producers who are known to be viable can be helped. Of course we have been extremely worried about those who may not be viable. My colleague the Minister for Primary Industry not only in discussions with me but in papers he has presented has indicated the position of those non-viable farmers. We will be giving urgent attention to this, I hope, in the very near future. Certainly I will let the House know as soon as we have been able to make a decision about it. 
I thank the honourable member for what he has said to me, particularly the compliment that he passed. But I think I should say that I cannot apply this in a personal sense because I eat neither butter nor margarine. Nonetheless 
These days, yes, particularly when I leave the House after being subjected to questions by members of the Opposition. As to the second and third parts of the question asked by the honourable gentleman, I have read the statement that he has mentioned. I will refer the question immediately to my colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry, and as soon as he gives me a written reply I will let the honourable member have it. 
The answer to. the first part of the question asked by the honourable gentleman is that the decision to supply on commercial terms was related to a request made by the Ceylonese Government that it should be on commercial terms, although without specifying the details of those terms themselves. The answer to the second part of the question is that they are true commercial terms recommended to me by the appropriate departments of state and were not in major respects altered in any way by me. The third part of the question is sheer conjecture. I never had it in my mind, and I do not think that any of the appropriate Ministers who advised me had it in their minds, either. 
As to the last question asked by the honourable gentleman, the Government is aware that elements of the United States fleet will be visiting the Indian Ocean in the next few weeks. That, of course, is natural. The United States, being a great naval power, has the right to exercise its fleet wherever it thinks showing the flag is desirable. 
As to the first question asked by the honourable member relating to an approach by the United States and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republic for the neutralisation of the Indian Ocean, I have been informed by telephone from Washington this morning that there is no truth in the statement that such an initiative has been taken by the United States Government. But I remind the honourable gentleman that immediately prior to the last Commonwealth Prime Ministers Conference in Singapore feelers were launched by the Indian and Ceylonese Governments proposing neutralisation of the Indian Ocean and some restriction of forces by the littoral states. I do not think that those countries have proceeded any further. Nonetheless, I will have a very detailed look into the matter for the honouarble gentleman. 
To the second question asked by the honourable gentleman, relating to a joint naval force in the Indian Ocean, the answer is no, the United States has not made any proposals to us. If it did we would look at them with great interest. I think that the 
House knows already that we have proposed to the United States that we would be only too happy to consider such an arrangement and would be prepared to make Cockburn Naval Base available to it should Ameriica think it desiirable 
I have no recollection of letters addressed to me by either the Premier of New South Wales or the Premier of Victoria telling me that he intended to increase hospital charges in his State. There may be something on the files prior to the date on which I became Prime Minister, but I am talking about since that date. As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, I have received no letter from either of the Premiers or from any other Premier relating to the percentage of the hospital charges due to pensioners. 
It is true, as the honourable member has said, that on Sunday I had discussions with the Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Cotton,  and also the Director-General of Civil Aviation. We had to consider 6 different problems including problems associated with superannuation, the introduction of the jumbo jets and general problems relating to Qantas. I say immediately that on the reviewed estimates that were made within Qantas there was the prospect of a substantial surplus in its next year's accounts being converted into a very substantial deficit, so it became obvious that action had to be taken to bring expenditures into line with receipts. Matters that were discussed with me on Sunday were the subject of discussions with representatives of the pilots. 
First, it was agreed that Qantas itself had to be treated as a commercial and viable operation. In other words it was not to be considered as though it were a welfare service. It had to be able to compete in international company. Second, the problem of superannuation arose because with the introduction of jumbo jets and with very substantial increases in salaries the amount involved in maintaining the present formulas would have been excessive. It has been decided that Qantas will appoint actuaries and other people who will be able to draw up a viable scheme and one that will subsequently be presented to the pilots. Incidentally, the pilots will be making their own examination and we hope, therefore, to be able to get some reconciliation. The third point is in regard to the surplus of pilots and other members of air crews. The Department is looking into the problem of surplus pilots and is1 trying to find out whether it will be able to place surplus pilots in the civil aviation industry. As far as other elements of flight crews are concerned, the Minister for Civil Aviation and the Director-General of Civil Aviation hope to be able to have discussions upon these in the not too distant future. 
The fourth point 1 wish to raise is in regard to industrial disputes. It has been agreed already by the pilots that they will adhere to the formula that has been adopted and that  Mr Coldham,  a Queen's Counsel, will participate in the discussions. They hope that by these means they will be able to reduce the area .of 'dispute on the industrial front and be able to reach solutions by way. of negotiation. There is also the problem of strikes. I must say that I have taken a strong view on this because it is strikes and the resultant standdowns that are destroying the reputation of this very great corporation. Negotiations will proceed in an endeavour to find out whether we can obtain a mechanism or a system by which we. will be able to prevent strikes stopping Qantas . aircraft from flying and to overcome the difficulty of aircraft not being able to keep up with Qantas schedules. Lastly, the representative of the pilots gave, an assurance to us that, so far as the flying of 747s was concerned, they would agree to 'bid' for training on 747 aircraft and that training of pilots for those aircraft would proceed so that Qantas 747s would be flying according to Qantas schedules. I say no more on this because I think that the negotiations have reached a delicate stage, and while I believe that what I have said already to the House ought to have been said I feel it would be imprudent to proceed any further at the moment. 
The Government's policy, that is, the policy of the Liberal and Country Parties, on immigration has not been changed in substance since March 1966 when the then Minister for Immigration announced what our policy was - not static, because we are constantly looking at the problem of migration to see whether there should be any liberalisation. But there has been no liberalisation since March 1966. Now, the 3 bases on which we adjudge whether migrants of non-European descent should be permitted to come in are, first of all, that they should be assimilable because we want one Australian community and we do not want little enclaves that can cause us the kind of trouble that has been caused in other parts of the world; secondly, we want them to have the kind of qualification that is necessary to permit them to fit readily into the work structure of this country; and finally, we want to be sure that they will make a contribution to our development as well. 
As to the first part of the honourable member's question relating to Japanese, 1 can assure him that, there has. been no change in our policy relating to the migration of Japanese workers. If there is an occasion when special skills are required or if there are occasions when we feel that due to the demand that is made upon the work force when we have over full employment then special consideration will be given to nonEuropeans being introduced into Australia. But when this happens we usually consult the Australian Council of Trade Unions or, as I recollect was the case in Western Australia, the local Trades and Labour Council. These are our policies and we have no intention at the moment of changing them. 
As to the introduction by the honourable gentleman, far from his being regarded as an undistinguished back bencher we on this side of the House regard him as a distinguished member of the Opposition. We listen to his point of view more, I can assure him, than perhaps we listen to others, including those on the front bench. 
I ask that further questitons be placed on notice. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Should the honourable member wish to ascertain the Government's policy on a range of issues such as those in the statement made in 1969 to which he refers, then he should look also at similar statements made recently. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There was an exchange of letters in 1945 between the then Prime Minister and the then managing director of General Moiors-Holden's Ltd. The most important of these were tabled in the House of Representatives on 22nd March 1945. The letters concerned the Government's invitation to manufacturers to submit proposals for the manufacture of motor cars in Australia and the subsequent proposal put forward by G.M.H. They did not involve undertakings by the company in respect of the matters referred to in this question. 
See answer to (1). It was reported in the Press that Australians held preference shares in General Motors-Holden's Ltd until 1959 when these shares were purchased on behalf of General Motors Corporation, U.S.A. Having then become a proprietary company, G.M.H. was not required to publish validated balance sheets until the Uniform Companies legislation came into force in 1962. 
This question concerns details of the internal financial affairs of an individual company and I understand that the annual reports which General Motors Holden's Ltd has published contain information of the nature requested by the honourable member. 
I think it is appropriate to divorce the statements that were made by the 3 left wing unions from the problem of the land rights of Australian Aboriginals. The House will remember that only yesterday the Attorney-General explained the legal position as a result df the decision in the Yirrkala case. I feel it is appropriate to point out that in that instance the Government was anxious to ensure that the Aboriginals had every conceivable opportunity to present their case in order to protect whatever legal rights they had. The Attorney-General pointed out that we paid all their costs, including those of witnesses. 
The next point I want to make is that if the Aboriginals want to pursue their rights in the High Court they have every right to do so. and I do not under any circumstances want to anticipate any decision they might make. 
But the Government has been particularly anxious to divorce the legal aspect from the moral problem and the problems associated with justice and reasonable treatment of Australian Aboriginals. So, as the honourable gentleman has noted, at the meeting in Cairns recently, which the Minister for Social Services attended on my behalf, the case was put to the State Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs that the Commonwealth would take the initiative, no matter what the decision might be in this case, to protect the recreational and ceremonial land rights of the Australian Aboriginals and that this Government would do all it could to ensure that the Aboriginals had adequate opportunities for business enterprises. 
I have already discussed this with  Dr Coombs, Chairman  of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs, the Postmaster-General and at least 2 other Ministers, and they know the urgency and sensitivity of this problem. I hope that within the course of a few days my colleagues will be able to prepare some policy recommendations and that within a very short time the Australian Government will be able to consider the recommendations and come to some sensible resolution of this problem. I emphasise to everyone, including the 3 left wing unions, that we should not confuse the legal approach, the moral approach and an approach based on justice for Australian Aboriginals. 
During most of the time that I was Minister for External Affairs and Foreign Minister I religiously pursued the objective of trying to find out the whereabouts of Francis James, what his state of health was and when we could expect that he would be released. We were given information that if we pursued these activities through a particular channel we might be able to get some positive information. We had already been proceeding through the British Government and the British charge d'affaires in Peking but were unable to get any information whatsoever about him. For that matter, the British Government had not been able to get very much information about its own missing citizens either. 
After considerable discussion with people, very close to the Chinese Government we were then somewhat peremptorily warned that it would be advisable for us. not to pursue this avenue of activity. We came to the conclusion that it could do harm to Francis James if we pursued it any further. Francis James is. an Australian citizen and is entitled to. the full protection that we are able to give .him.' We are proceeding cautiously in other areas, but above all we will not do anything. which, in my opinion and that of Commonwealth advisers; might do any harm to him. But we have taken great care to point out the troubles he is having with his eyes and his back, and we hope that at -least this kind of representation will have some effect. 
It must be obvious that the problem of the elections in South Vietnam is one that is entirely within the jurisdiction of the South Vietnamese Government. I wonder what the honourable gentleman would think if the South Vietnamese Government recommended that it should have supervision of elections carried out in Australia? 

 Mr Cope - Send over Bjelke-Petersen. 
I would certainly far rather have Bjelke-Petersen doing it than any of your tribe. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary authority to increase the number of Ministers by 1. Section 65 of the Constitution, coupled with section 51, placitum 36, gives to the Parliament, and to it alone, authority to vary the number of Ministers of State. The additional Minister, which it is the purpose of the Ministers of State Bill to provide, will bring the number of Ministers of State approved by Parliament to 27. Clause 4 of the Bill provides for payment at the rate applicable to Ministers not in the Cabinet. 
Three major considerations have led me to propose an increase in the number. Firstly, I want to allocate to a separate portfolio some important matters which could only otherwise be handled by a senior Minister by adding unduly to the responsibilities now imposed upon him. I am thinking particularly of the discharge of Commonwealth responsibilities in the fields of Aboriginal Affairs, the Arts and the Environment. Secondly, there are administrative advantages in placing with a single new Minister and Department a group of specialised general service functions which have hitherto been attached to a number of departments. Thirdly, and in association with the creation of the new Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, the additional Minister and Department will permit the Prime Minister to discharge more effectively his main functions, which are leadership of the Government and administration of the Cabinet system. 
Before discussing these matters further, I think it will assist honourable members if I list the functions which at this stage will be under the administration of the new Minister. These are: 
Aboriginal affairs, including responsibility for the Council for Aboriginal Affairs and the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies. 
Activities relating to the environment, including responsibility for the Office of the Environment. 
Activities relating to the arts and letters, including responsibility for - 
Australian Council for the Arts 
Australian National Gallery 
Commonwealth Art Advisory Board 
Historic Memorials Committee 
Commonwealth Literary Fund 
Commonwealth Assistance to Aus  tralian Composers Advisory Board 
National Library of Australia. 
Commonwealth Archives Office. 
Australian War Memorial. 
Anzac Agency, Commonwealth War Graves Commission. 
Activities relating to the production of Australian films, including responsibility for the Australian Film Development Corporation and the National Film and Television Training School. 
Grants to national organisations 
World expositions. 
National Radiation Advisory Committee. 
Certain general service functions, including responsibility for - 
Australian Government Publishing Service 
Government Printing Office 
Commonwealth Advertising Division 
Commonwealth Stores Supply and Tender Board 
I have decided that, in addition to these functions, administration of Commonwealth activities in the rapidly developing and increasingly important field of tourism, including the activities of the Tourist Commission, should be placed with the new Minister. Overall policy on matters relating to tourism will remain, as at present, with the Minister for Trade and Industry. 
For the past 3 years, as honourable members know,  Senator Wright  has been the Minister responsible for tourism under the Minister for Trade and Industry. He held this portfolio in addition to his other principal duties as Minister for Works. I take this opportunity to acknowledge the fine service he has given to the development of tourism during his term of office. He has been energetic, enthusiastic and effective in helping to create a new awareness in Australia of the value of tourism and the great opportunities for its development on a national scale. 
Following a review by the departments concerned, we have also decided to establish an Overseas Property Bureau. The Bureau will be a specialist agency charged with a functional responsibility for the provision, management and maintenance of overseas land and property for Commonwealth purposes. It will not detract from the responsibilities of other departments or Heads of Mission for the effective operation of overseas posts and will be assisted by an Advisory Overseas Property Committee composed of senior representatives of those departments. The operations of the Bureau will help departments and Heads of Mission to concentrate on their principal task of representation. Administration of the Bureau will be placed within the new Department, as an additional general service function for which the Minister will assume responsibility. 
The administration of Aboriginal affairs and of Commonwealth functions in the fields of the arts and the environment are among those to be transferred to the new Minister. It is the Government's view that it is now appropriate to separate these 3 functions from the Prime Minister's own administration. As Prime Minister, I will continue to have a deep interest in them. But it is not necessary, for that purpose, that I remain the responsible Minister. I now mention briefly each of these 3 functions because of their importance in the new Ministry. 
The effect of the successful referendum in 1967 was to give the Commonwealth Parliament power to make laws in relation to the Aboriginals, as it already could for the people of any other race. Following the overwhelming vote of the people the then Prime Minister,  Mr Holt,  judged that initially the administration by the Commonwealth of Aboriginal Affairs should be within the Prime Minister's responsibility. A Council for Aboriginal Affairs was established and a Minister, though necessarily occupying another portfolio, was appointed Minister in Charge of Aboriginal Affairs under the Prime Minister. It now seems opportune to entrust this important responsibility to the new Minister, as one of his major functions. 
As the welfare and development of Aboriginals affect more than one department, a ministerial committee will be appointed to study the special needs and problems of Aboriginals and to advise ways of improving them. In this connection, I invite the attention of the House to the statement on Aboriginal Affairs which the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  read on my behalf at a recent meeting in Cairns of the Australian Aboriginal Affairs Council, which is composed of Commonwealth and State Ministers responsible for Aboriginal affairs. Furthermore, I want to acknowledge the energy and application of my colleague, the Minister for Social Services and the high worth of his contributions in his role as Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs over the last 3 years. He has established the portfolio for the Commonwealth and has contributed in large measure to the advancement of Australian Aboriginals. The Government  win,  of course, continue to get his counsel in Aboriginal matters and he will be a member of the ministerial committee which was referred to in the statement made by him on my behalf last week at the Cairns conference of Ministers responsible for Aboriginal affairs. 
In the field of the arts, the Commonwealth is becoming increasingly involved and is giving assistance in a wide variety of forms. I have no doubt that this is widely welcomed. We ought to continue to develop in this field and we will. But the increasing variety of Commonwealth involvement again suggests that the time has arrived where the functions can be transferred to a new Minister. In addition to responsibility for the Council for the Arts, the new Minister will be responsible for the National Library, for the Australian National Gallery, and for assistance to Australian authors and composers. All these are related functions and can usefully be put in the charge of the one Minister. 
Then there is what has come to be called 'the environment'. An office to bring together and generally to superintend the Commonwealth's work and responsibilities in the environmental field is a new initiative, and an important one. Commonwealth activities in this field are beginning to gather momentum, and will need the attention of a Minister. Responsibility for them, too, may now with advantage be moved to the new Minister. Putting these proposals in another way, the Commonwealth initiatives in Aboriginal affairs and the arts have now achieved a status and a level of activity that require separate administration. It has seemed desirable at the same time to add what will be a rapidly developing role in relation to the environment. 
The second main reason for creating the new portfolio is that there is a range of what might be termed 'general service' activities which are at present allocated among various departments. In each case the activities are not directly related to the primary purpose of those departments, but they have an important contribution to make to the effective functioning of the administration as a whole. Examples are the activities comprehended within the Australian Government Publishing Service, the Commonwealth Archives Office, preparation for world expositions and the new 
Overseas Property Bureau. Each of these functions involves the provision of services in important areas for all or a number of departments. The Government believes that locating them in the one department, under the control of one Minister, will yield significant advantage to the administration as a whole. 
The third main reason for creating the new portfolio is to permit the Prime Minister and his Department to devote themselves to the matters which are central to Government. An examination of the history of the functions attached to the Prime Minister and his Department reveals a recurring theme of the detachment from the Prime Minister of new functions as they develop sufficient momentum to sustain a portfolio or department of their own, or as other opportunity for appropriate attachment arises. Thus in earlier days the Department of External Affairs and, in more recent times, the Department of Education and Science have been separated from the Prime Minister's Department. It is natural that, as initiatives are made and before they are fully proven, new ministerial and departmental arrangements should not be sought. But equally, once the significance of the new activities has been proved and accepted, it is appropriate that they be given separate ministerial and departmental status. Further than that, it is important that the Prime Minister, as leader of the Government, should be able to give a great deal of attention to the administration of the Cabinet system. Whatever other functions may come or go, the Prime Minister is  Chairman  of the Cabinet. It is his function to ensure that leadership is given; that there is effective co-ordination, through the Cabinet machinery and by individual consultation, of the activities of Ministers, each of whom has full responsibility and accountability to Parliament; and that, through the Cabinet machinery and in other ways, the ever-changing problems of Government are given full attention and co-ordinated and speedy resolution. 
These are the central functions of the Prime Minister as leader of the Government, and he must look to his Department to give him support in them. It is these considerations that lie behind the creation of the new Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. This Department will have administrative responsibility for the co-ordinating role of the Prime Minister and it will also be geared to give me advice on the demanding and ever-present preoccupations of the Government as a whole. These vary from day to day but range across such matters as the state of the economy, the Commonwealth's role in welfare, relations with the States - so important in a Federation - and external relations and defence. These are the administrative responsibilities of the Prime Minister as leader of the Government. When to these are added the role of leadership in the Parliament, the duties as leader of a party, the requirements imposed as chief spokesman for the Government both in the Parliament and in public, and the many representational obligations that must be accepted, it can readily be seen that functions which arc in the main administrative, or can be handled by another Minister and department, should where practicable be transferred to them. 
In short, I believe that the addition of a new ministerial portfolio to discharge the functions I have outlined represents a significant advance in the organisation of the functions of government. There will be renewed emphasis upon the importance the Government attaches to three different groups of responsibilities - in Aboriginal Affairs; in the arts; and in the environment. In each of these the Commonwealth is increasingly assuming a role in community affairs at the national level. There will also be a useful concentration under single control of a number of 'general service' activities having a functional or administrative affinity. By making these changes, the Prime Minister and his Department will be released to discharge more effectively their primary functions. And the lines of responsibility to the Parliament for the various functions will be clarified. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Whitlam)  adjourned. 
by leave - In association with the Ministers of State Bill, I wish also to inform the House of my intention to appoint Assistant Ministers to support certain Senior Ministers in the discharge of their responsibilities. Honourable members will recall that, since the earliest days of Federation, Assistant Ministers, Honorary Ministers or Ministers without Portfolio have been a recurring feature of ministerial arrangements. These Assistant Ministers - I use that term to describe all the persons I have hist referred to- are not Ministers of State in the strict Constitutional sense. The Queen's Ministers of State are, under section 64 of the Constitution, only those members of the Executive Council who are appointed to administer Departments of State. The Assistant Ministers will be members of the Parliament who are appointed to assist a particular Minister in the discharge of his duties. 
Because they are not Ministers of State in the constitutional sense, section 44 of the Constitution precludes the payment of any salary to Assistant Ministers in respect of their duties. All it will be possible to do will be to make payments to them to meet out-of-pocket expenses, including travelling expenses, which they necessarily incur in the performance of their duties. I intend that the Assistant Ministers will be sworn as Executive Councillors. They will thus form part of the Federal Executive Council whose function, under section 62 of the Constitution, is to advise the GovernorGeneral in the government of the Commonwealth. The Assistant Ministers will thus participate in a most important aspect of the continuing good government of the Commonwealth. As members of the Federal Executive Council, the Assistant Ministers will in general be able to exercise statutory functions of the Ministers they are assisting - including the making of appointments and the performance of other functions expressly conferred on the Minister - provided he has authorised them to this effect This is made possible by section 19 of the Acts Interpretation Act which, subject to any contrary intention in the particular legislation, permits any Minister or member of the Federal Executive Council to act for and on behalf of a Minister referred to in the legislation. Thus Assistant Ministers will be able to make appointments and perform other functions expressly conferred on the Minister by legislation. 
The Assistant Ministers will be assigned to assist certain Ministers of Cabinet rank, who have the responsibility, not only of administering their own departments, but of taking part in the continuing process of consultation which is an essential feature of effective Cabinet government. By appointing Assistant Ministers in this way I see the system of Cabinet government as being strengthened through allowing senior Ministers to give more time to Cabinet business. Assistant Ministers will, of course, work in accordance with the authority given to them by the Senior Minister. I see them, within this general authority, as conducting correspondence and making inquiries on his behalf. They will also be able to receive deputations on behalf of the Minister. I emphasise that Assistant Ministers will not be able to take political responsibility in the administration of any department. This is as it should be. As Prime Minister Menzies explained in his ministerial statement on Parliamentary Under-Secretaries on 27th August 1952, it is important that Ministers should be directly answerable to the Parliament for the administration of their departments. 
Again taking up what  Sir Robert  Menzies said in that statement, there are occasions when it would be of great assistance to a Minister if his Assistant Minister could, during the Committee stages of a Bill, sit at the table of the House and represent his Minister in the discussion of clauses and amendments as they arise. I shall be consulting with the Presiding Officers on this matter to ascertain whether, to achieve this, an amendment of Standing Orders will be necessary. Numbers of those who in times past held office as Assistant Ministers were in due course elevated to full Ministerial status. I believe that the experience they obtained as Assistant Ministers was of great value in preparing them to assume full Ministerial status. I am confident that those who will be appointed to the new positions will obtain valuable and broadening experience. 
To sum up, the new Assistant Ministers will bring greatly needed assistance to senior Ministers in the discharge of their heavy duties, and will contribute to the better working of the Cabinet system. Secondly, they will help such Ministers to achieve more effective supervision of the activities of the departments to which they are related. Finally they will, as I have mentioned, provide important experience for members from this side of the House in both the legislative and administrative fields. I do not intend at this stage to make specific appointments to the office of Assistant Minister. These will be left until the parliamentary recess, when there will be opportunity to give further consideration to details of the way in which the Assistant Ministers will work and to select members for the positions. I make the statement at this stage partly to acquaint the House of events that will take place before it meets for the Budget session, and also because the decision to appoint Assistant Ministers needs to be seen in the full context of other changes being made in administrative arrangements, including particularly the proposal to appoint an additional Minister of State. I present the following paper: 
I have no knowledge of the facts alleged or the statements made by the honourable member. I will have investigations made for him, and if there is any form of intimidation or other kind of action that we think is improper I will discuss it with the relevant departments and see whether we can have it prevented. 
The Premier of Victoria has not raised this matter with me since I became the Prime Minister but I know that it is a chronic complaint of his. I will look up the records and find out exactly what he said in other days. 
Representatives of the Armco Corporation saw me  a  few weeks ago and they drew my attention to 2 difficulties which they faced prior to commencing the establishment of an iron and steel industry in Australia involving the expenditure of more than one billion dollars. The 2 points that they raised with me related fundamentally to a guaranteed or assured supply of iron ore. They were then intending to visit Western Australia, particularly to see the Premier, to ascertain whether they could have guaranteed access to the Pilbara iron ore deposits. I have since received a letter from them saying that they have had sensible discussions with the Western Australian Government but that there had been no finality. They did not express any opinions about the prospects of a final lease from the Western Australian Government. 
As this is an important matter, particularly as the Armco Corporation will be export orientated, I will have a discussion with my colleague the Minister for National Development and either I or he will speak to the Premier of Western Australia to see whether we can get a quick decision. I should let the honourable member know that I think - in fact I am fairly sure - that we have been in constant contact with the Western Australian Government. Nonetheless, I will take action immediately to see whether we can get  a  quicker decision than would otherwise be the case. 
I think the honourable gentleman must recognise that I have not a detailed knowledge of this matter. It would have been ever so much better if he had directed his question to the relevant Minister. I will discuss it with the relevant Minister and see that he gives the honourable gentleman a reply. 
I have not seen the schedule to which the honourable gentleman referred. The guillotine has already been approved and I have no intention of requesting the Leader of the House to attempt to alter it. 
My answer, too, will be in substantially similar terms. The 3 Bills to which the honourable gentleman refers are money Bills, including provision for an appropriation to the States. 1 understand that each of the. second reading speeches will be delivered tonight. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the honourable member will know, it is not the policy of this Government to disclose the type of information for which the honourable member asks. 
I have no knowledge of the document to which the honourable gentleman refers. But the Leader of the 
House has informed me that it was  a  forecast and was not intended to be definitive of the actual sittings of the House. I also remind the honourable gentleman that, first and foremost, we intended that there should be 2 sitting weeks, a week up and then another 2 weeks or 1 week if  necessay. I discussed this with my 2 Parliamentary parties. It was felt that it would be better to deal with the Bills and other matters on the business paper over a course of 3 weeks. I also discussed with them the timetable for the course of the present week's debates. I emphasise to the honourable gentleman that if he cares to look at the facts he will see that the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill and its associated Bills, which I think are 5 in number, did not need to be dealt with this session but were put on at the explicit request of the honourable gentleman who is now nodding his head. 
He admits it. 
I understand that the honourable gentleman himself .was to pay a visit to China and to come back to give .us detailed information about its operations and its political activities. But I have had no record whatsoever of . his movements either in or out of Australia or what information he may have received from  Mr Hill  in the interim. I informed the honourable gentleman verbally that I would give him an answer to his question in the middle of this week. Perhaps I can do 2 things now and show how irresponsible his question was, because he ought to know that the substance of his question was totally wrong. The contract that he referred to that was being negotiated at. the time the discussions were taking place was in fact consumated. He admits that. If he admits it I cannot for one moment understand why he asked the question, because if he admits this, it means that the assumptions on which he based his question were false. 
I am not interested in what you have got surreptitiously. The next point is that since that date over 4 years ago - and he is still furrowing through the past - the Wheat Board has in fact consummated contracts for the sale of over 200 million bushels of wheat. Finally, if he refers to the Wheat Board itself, I have made it clear in the House that at the last meeting the Wheat Board had with the NgFung Hong company that now does the official transactions on behalf of the Chinese Government, the Wheat Board was in fact welcomed, and the representatives were asked to keep in touch so that when the opportunity arose they could proceed to an attempt to negotiate contracts. Now, the honourable gentleman ought to have made known again and again that already this year in 4 months we have shipped over 3 million tons of wheat. The biggest sales we have ever negotiated before are something of the order of 2.46 million. He should also know, if. he cares for the truth - and truth on which he can back his assertions - that in the case of the People's Republic of China it has had 9 good crop years, and has adequate supplies of wheat at the moment. 
Yes, small quantities, and for one year - very small quantities of high protein wheat, and that gives me the opportunity to answer the interjection. What has to be made clear about the People's Republic is that because it has a carry over of wheat and because rice is in abundant supply in the world it is not necessary for the People's Republic to purchase wheat and to be able to sell rice at a premium. So, when ail these facts are looked at, no notice whatever can be taken of the implications of the honourable gentleman's question. Nevertheless, I will get an answer for him. I think it is deplorable that he should be taking action now to try to discredit the Wheat Board, to prejudice its opportunity to make sales and, in a narrow, mean political interest, to try and affect the interests of thiscountry. 
There are several considerations that have to be drawn to the attention of the House. We deplore increases in military expenditure anywhere. This includes the Soviet and Continental China- the People's Republic of China - just as much as any other country. 
Be patient. The honourable member will get his answer. We deplore this increase because we believe that it reduces funds that can be made available in order to help the more necessitous countries of the world, and funds that can be applied - and very well applied - to See that the less fortunate members of the community can have their prospects of life improved. 
The second point is that we have in Australia no influence whatsoever over the amount of money that is spent by any other country, and that includes Japan. If the honourable member cares to look at the percentage of gross national production that is applied by the Japanese Government to internal defence by the Defence Agency, he will find it is about 1 per cent, which is not a large amount when compared with that country's gross national production. Also, what the honourable member will see is that most of its operations or activities are concerned with defence requirements. The Japanese are not building an offensive fleet, but have ships to use if necessary to protect their homeland. So, the Government keeps looking at the problem. 
I remind the honourable gentleman that Japan is close to the People's 
Republic of China, which has nuclear power, and what has to be remembered is that in no circumstances would Japan bc able to engage in operations that involved nuclear warfare against that country, because Japan is so small in area that a few thermo-nuclear bombs would immediately destroy all of its productive capacity. I repeat: Of course we watch this carefully, as we watch the unnecessary intrusion of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republic's fleet into the Indian Ocean. The Government will keep this matter under close consideration and it hopes that Japan, which is ' becoming increasingly mature and sophisticated, will play not only an economic but also a political role in the interests of the whole of the countries of Asia. Having said that, I ask that further questions be placed on the notice paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A number of advertising agencies in Australia are affiliated with overseas agencies, but there is no official information available on the apportionment of overseas and Australian ownership in the industry as a whole. 
and (3) These questions raise issues of policy. The Government's general policy towards overseas investment in Australia is well known. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Question 539, asked by the honourable member, was similar in nature and the reply to that question occupied 49 pages of Hansard (Hansard, 10.3.71, pp 762-810). I regret that it is considered too much of an administrative burden to continue to supply information of this kind. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no interdepartmental committee on this matter, but there is consultation between Departments. 
The answer to the 'honourable member's question is as follows: 
A distribution of the questions asked is shown on the attached schedule. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) and (3) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details of the Bills introduced are shown on the attached schedule. 
 It is my view and the opinion of the Government that it is a highly desirable procedure and practice to adopt that we should give promising young members on the back benches the opportunity to learn the routines and the method of conducting ministerial business. I have presented a statement in the House announcing my intention to appoint Assistant Ministers and the terms and conditions under which they will be appointed. This is purely and simply a Government responsibility and the paper is there for the information of the Opposition. I have no intention whatsoever of deferring any of the appointments until the House meets for the Budget session. 
I have no recollection of my attention being drawn to the statement made by  Mr Hancock,  but I know him well to be a hard trader and one very anxious to use whatever political advantage he can to get a good deal for himself and his own interests. Nonetheless, I will have a look at the substance of the question by the honourable gentleman and see whether there is anything I can do about it. I remind him that I stated in the House in the last few days that the Armco people did see me in Canberra during the course of the last few weeks. They pointed out, not that there was any difficulty at all about obtaining finance, but that the real problem was associated with the slowness with which the Western Australian Government was approaching the problem of providing leases for mining rights in that State. Also, I assured the House that we would make inquiries and see whether we could do something to expedite a decision by the Western Australian Government. I also stated - and I have to repeat this - that the other problem raised, although it was not regarded as a substantial one, was that some difficulty had been created because the investment allowance had been suspended, and they felt this did in some way affect the short term profitability of their enterprise. 
I have received comment from people saying that there still existed doubts as to whether there had been any change in Government policy relating to funds for the Wool Commission. I can do no more than remind the House that on 30th March of this year my colleague the Minister for Primary Industry made a statement which I thought cleared up all the misunderstandings that might have arisen from some Press reports that could probably have created a wrong impression. He then stated that there had been no change in the Government's policy regarding the purchase of woolby the Australian Wool Commission. That decision still stands, and I believe that if there are any other doubts the Minister's statement of that date should be referred to. 
An inter-departmental committee has been investigating the question of docking facilities throughout Australia, and it is my understanding that its report is nearing completion. I understand also the difficulties that are likely to be created because that report has not been completed and consequently the Newcastle dock is unable to proceed until the report has been made and the Government has given its approval to any change that might be contemplated. I will pursue this matter for the honourable gentleman and let him know when we are likely to get the report from the committee. A series of meetings is being held with the State by my colleague, the Minister for Shipping and Transport, relating to port facilities as a whole. I hope that we will be able to co-ordinate not only the Tariff Board report relating to the shipbuilding industry but also the inter-departmental committee report relating to docking facilities and the report that might be made by the ministerial committee relating to port facilities as a whole. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
It is not for me to say what Minister in the Victorian Government meant by a certain remark or, more particularly, to attempt to interpret, it for the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As stated by my predecessor in reply, to Parliamentary Question No. 1179, on 17th April 1969 (Hansard, page 1274), the CommonwealthState Officials Committee on Decentralisation established a Technical Sub-Committee ' to supervise the detailed work being undertaken by the Committee. As also indicated in that reply the Technical Sub-Committee in turn agreed that its work should be carried on by means of direct contacts between the Commonwealth and State officers concerned; these contacts have included meetings of working groups composed of these officials. No meeting of the parent Committee has been held since 7th February 1969. However, direct contact between Commonwealth and State officials has been continued and there have been two working group meetings, on 18th May 1970 and 6th April 1971. 
The following progress has been made since February 1969: 
A. report has been completed on the New South Wales study of the costs involved for firms and individuals locating in city and country locations. 
The New South Wales study of the relative costs of providing public services in various locations, based on the estimated cost of hypothetical future development, has been completed and a report prepared. 
The Victorian study of the relative costs of providing public services in various locations, based on historical costs, has been completed and a report prepared, 
A report on the estimated cost of water in the Greater Sydney region to the year 2001 has been completed. 
A report on sociological aspects of life in New South Wales country towns has also been completed. 
Work on a traffic congested cost study is now well advanced, and some preliminary results have been produced. 
Work has been put in hand on the preparation of the Committee's general report. 
The Committee set studies in hand at its meetings of 4-5th March 1965 and 30th November 1966, but no new studies were initiated at the meeting on 7th February 1969. 
A report entitled 'A Study of Comparative Costs of Providing Public Utilities and Services in Melbourne and Selected Victorian Centres' has been completed (see (2) (iii) above), but has not been officially released. 
Information on the progress of the Committee's work has been supplied in a statement by my predecessor on 15th August 1968 and answers to Parliamentary Questions Nos 1179 (17th April' 1969) , 1643 (9th September 1969), 468 (14th April 1970) and 2086 (16th February 1971). On the question of tabling reports, see answer to part (6) of Parliamentary Question No. 486, Hansard, 14th April 1970. 
Off-shore Areas: Control (Question No. 3165) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The Public Service Board has advised me that it has taken no action to accord the courtesy title 'Doctor' to Commonwealth public servants holding . the degree of- Bachelor of Veterinary Science. 
Kindergartens-cum-Childminding Centres (Question No.  3297) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) I have been informed that the Superannuation Board issued copies of the Superannuation Manual to certain employees' organisations for reference purposes on 8th March 1971. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Much of the information sought by the honourable member will be contained ' in a statement, which the Government proposes' to table, showing the salaries, fees and annual allowances of all the holders of statutory offices. This' statement is now in course of preparation, and will be made available in due course. Part of the other information sought is to be found in the Commonwealth Directory. 
Preparation of a complete, detailed answer to the honourable member's question at this time would involve considerable time" ' and expense in all Commonwealth Departments, which in the circumstances I am reluctant to authorise. However, if advice oh a particular statutory authority is desired, it can be provided on request. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Yes. 

(3) and (4) I do not know what inquiries the Premier was referring to, but the honourable member will know that legislation has been introduced to provide for the payment of additional grants to the States as compensation for loss of receipts duty revenue. 
I have been informed by the Public Service Board that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The exact numbers of officers at today's date are not readily available. Precise figures  (excluding  Parliamentary Departments) are available for 30th June 1970 and would not have changed very significantly. On this basis the answer is: 
First Division - 27 
Second Division - 720 and 
Third Division- 57,127. 
Current actual salaries for the numbers employed at 30 June 1970 (see (1) above) exceed $9,500 in respect of: 
First Division - 27 
Second Division - 720 and 
Third Division- 5,276 
Note that, for officers on a salary range, the maximum of the range has been used in the figures shown. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The proceedings of the Loan Council are confidential and Iam not in a position to disclose any statements made by the Premier of New South Wales at the June 1970 meeting. 
I replied to the Victorian Premier's letter on 30 April. 
and (4) 1 have conveyed a decision to the Victorian Premier on his request but at this stage the question of any announcement is a matter for the Premier. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the honourable member will know, itis not the policy of this Government to disclose the type of information for which the honourable member asks. 
As stated by my predecessor in reply to Parliamentary Question No. 1179 on 17th April 1969 (Hansard, Page 1274) the CommonwealthState Officials Committee on Decentralisation established a Technical Sub-Committee to supervise the detailed work being undertaken by the Committee. As also indicated in that reply the Technical Sub-Committee in turn agreed that its work should be carried on by means of direct contacts between the Commonwealth and State officers concerned; these contacts have included meetings of working groups composed of these officials. No meeting of the parent Committee has been held since 7 February 1969. However, direct contact between Commonwealth and State officials has continued and there have been two working group meetings, on 18th May 1970 and 6th April 1971. 
I would direct the honourable gentleman's attention to my answer being given today to Question No. 3117 by the Honourable Member for Riverina in which is outlined progress made since February 1969. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the honourable member will know, it is not the policy of this Government to disclose the type of information for which the honourable member asks. 
VIP Aircraft (Question No. 2568) 
I .have no recollection of the honourable gentleman's question in 1968 and I have no wish to remember it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No, but I am aware that the Public Service Board has the matter of the minimum standards of furlough entitlement under review. 
 Mr Speaker,  I desire to inform the House of certain Ministerial changes and arrangements since the House last met.  Senator the  Honourable  Sir Kenneth  Anderson has been appointed Minister for Health. 
The Honourable N. H. Bowen, Q.C., has been appointed Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
This is an extraordinary question to be asked by the Leader of the Opposition. He referred to the Executive Councillor's oath. This has got nothing whatsoever to do with the Cabinet secrecy. That is a convention and is not the result of swearing the oath for the Executive Council. If he looks at it he will see what the consequences are. But if he wants to know the conventions relating to the Cabinet I draw , his attention, first of all,., to Halsbury's 'Laws ofEngland', 3rd Edition, Volume 7, at page 354, and also to  Sir Ivor  Jennings' 'Cabinet Government', 3rd Edition, where it is. made abundantly clear that there is no oath of secrecy relating to the Cabinet itself. There is a convention, and that convention usually is observed. 
As to the first part of the question, it is false to say that I made that statement in the Cabinet. Usually I do not like making any statement about what occurs in Cabinet but in order to show how inaccurate the honourable gentleman is I. can immediately contradict that. The second point that I want to put to him is that I have no evidence whatsoever that these leaks came from any Cabinet source. Of course, statements have been made but because they are made it does not necessarily follow that they have come from Cabinet. They could have come from departmental or other sources. I am not one of those who is prepared to suggest, by innuendo or the creation of a false impression, that some members of the Cabinet or of the Ministry are responsible for these leaks. I have no evidence whatsoever that they came from Cabinet sources and consequently I have made no effort to ask any Minister whether he was responsible for them. 
I am not prepared at this moment to say what is likely to be contained in the Budget but as a matter of sheer common sense I ask the honourable gentleman: Does he think that any members of the Cabinet would want to have this information made available prematurely, knowing that the great advantage to the Government and for the Government parties would be its effective presentation in the House at Budget time together with all the other measures that we are taking? I think there is pretty good reason for thinking that if there were any disclosure I do not admit for one moment that  there  was - it did not come from a Cabinet source. 
1 was informed, 1 believe, at approximately 4.30 p.m. on the Saturday - that the publication would take place. A representative- of the 'Sunday Australian', who I believe was in Adelaide specifically for this purpose, offered to supply to me some of the details of the statement. [ read them. I took no action whatsoever as I knew that by- that time the article would be in print. But in any event I did not regard it as one of those occasions on which there' could have been any intervention by me. It was obviously too late. 
The first question 1 have already answered. The second one is my business, and I am not prepared under any circumstances to convey the information to anyone, including the honourable gentleman who has just asked the question. 
I have read all of the articles and 1 want to make it plain here beyond any doubt at all that I am not prepared to state publicly and I am not prepared to state to the Leader of the Opposition exactly which parts of the article I felt offended the rules that I mentioned. I have made a public statement on this matter and I have set out in that public statement the reasons for the action. I stand on that statement. I will make no further comments whatsoever about it. 
NABARLEK URANIUM deposits 

 - Mr Speaker, I hoped that on the resumption of this Parliament the Opposition, and particularly the Leader and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, would realise that we wanted to avoid scavenging for information and trying to destroy people's reputations. We hoped that in this, a Budget session- 
Let him go on; he cannot help it 
We hoped that the Budget session would be devoted to constructive measures for the development of this country and that a maximum contribution would be made to the quality of life, social services and health services. In my belief the people are sick and tired of personalities, and this shows just how undignified- 
As to the 2 questions asked by the honourable gentleman, the answer to the first is no, I did not make any such statement because I had no evidence on which I could make such a statement. The reply to the second question is that at the dinner which was given to me by my old school no such statement as that mentioned by the honourable gentleman was made. If he had wished, he could have come to the meeting at St Paul's College. He did not come; he preferred to be in China rather than in Australia among his own people. The second question clearly illustrates that he will listen to anyone. Only recently 1 have read an article published by a former secretary nf his,  Mr Wyndham,  and if anyone wants to get a very good estimate of what a former friend and colleague of his thinks of him, I advise that person to read the article. One of the inferences to be drawn from it is that one does not take a great deal of notice of anything the Leader of the Opposition says. 
On another occasion I described the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  as an extraordinarily feline person. I have no wish to change my views after today. 1 have every intention of trying to deal with the facts, and I want to mention the constructive actions that have been taken by this Government, whether it has been Jed by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  or by myself. I want to mention what we are doing to ensure the greatness of this country. I have no intention to degenerate into personalities in the way that the Leader of the Opposition, this feline person, has done. 
Let me mention one or two facts. Not one of the statements that the honourable gentleman made about me is true in substance. Let me deal first of all with the question of my association with  Sir Frank  Packer over 40 years. It is true that on 8th November 1932 or somewhere about that time I did sign the memorandum and articles of association of his company. I was then an articled clerk in Allen, Allen and Hemsley. I had never met Frank Packer; I had never met his associates. I did not know who he was. The men to whom I was clerking.  Sir Norman  Cowper and  Mr Arthur  Hemsley, asked me to sign the document. Of course I signed it. Any person with a knowledge of law and a knowledge of the way companies are formed would have done exactly as I did. 
Secondly, the Leader of the Opposition referred to the statement relating to the so called payment for the articles that had been written by the right honourable member for Higgins. I did not ask the right honourable member whether he was being paid. For a fact, I did not think he was. But I see no reason in the world why I should ask him, particularly after I had read the article. It was no business of mine. If people want to ask him, he can be asked and I am sure he will give the kind of answer that he feels appropriate to be given. 
The honourable gentleman also referred to the fact that in some article in the Daily Telegraph' there was a forecast of some further action to be taken. I will give the author of that article complete liberty to state positively, without any recrimination from me, whether he had discussed this matter with me or had let me know that the article was to be written. No member of the 'Daily Telegraph' contacted me prior to the publication of the article, and in fact I had not talked to  Mr Alan 
Reid for at least 3 weeks prior to that, and I have not spoken to him since his return from Fiji. This is the kind of rumour and nastiness that are inherent in the mind of the honourable gentleman. I intend for the rest to ignore them completely and to get on with the job of governing this country and doing the best we can to contribute to its greatness. 
The Leader of the Opposition referred to the fact that during the last session he also moved a censure motion on me. He has lost no time for a second one although we wanted to give him more time for his censure motion. I repeat that he is not only showing his inherent nastiness but is also attempting to obstruct the business of this House and is trying to prevent us from getting on with the constructive work of government. This is the device of a man and a party with nothing to offer and a great deal to be ashamed of. When the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  brings forward his paper on foreign affairs, I for one will participate in the debate, and I believe that I will be able to show not only that the Leader of the Opposition is dangerous to the security of this country but that wherever he went on his recent overseas trip he created an impression which was bad for Australia and which brought him into ridicule. I believe that in every country he visited be left a most unfavourable, even bad, impression. 
This is the device of a man and a party with nothing to offer and a great deal to be ashamed of. It is the attitude of a party that has been conditioned by 22 years on the Opposition benches to think only destructively. "Obviously it has no mind for constructive contributions to the work of Parliament and it has no stomach, as I said before, for facts, lt prefers to perform by innuendo, suspicion and false statement. Let this be known: We in the Liberal-Country Party Government want to get on with the real business of government. We believe that Australia is a country with a tremendous future. We know that the people are sound at heart and we know that they are sensible, lt is our task to represent them here in this Parliament, and we mast not be diverted from that task by tawdry personal issues raised by the Opposition. We must take initiatives in nation building on their behalf. We are doing that and we will continue to do it. 
The Leader of the Opposition is upset because I have made some ministerial changes. . What has this to do with him? This is the business of the Government, and we do not want him interfering with what are exclusively our affairs. He has plenty to do trying to get his own Party into shape - and, if I can go a stage further, in coming to terms with the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, who keeps rocking the boatwith his excursions into what should be the Labor Parly's exclusive preserves. It has been said - and I repeat this againthai I am influenced by the Press. I have been in Parliament a long time. I have held a great number of portfolios - more. I . think, than any other person in the House. 1 make up my own mind what I personally should do in the interests of the nation, not in the interests of anyone else. Of course. I listen to advice from my colleagues in the Ministry, in the Cabinet and in my Party. I have consultations with industry. 1 meet the Press and I meet th, people. But of this honourable members may be sure: I have never taken and will never take any action designed to please the Press people. I suppose that I have had more quarrels with them than has any other person in this House. Of course, on many occasions they have been in praise of me. If we look over the long term. I think the criticism has been pretty strong too. But who in this .House has not gone through exactly the same experiences? 
The second point that is referred to by the Leader of the Opposition is that nf leadership. I and my former colleague know  - we are probably the only 2 in this House who do know - that it carries very great responsibilities. But 1 want to ask' this question: What leadership does the honourable member for Werriwa give to his Party today? This is the man who incited young men inducted for national service ro refuse to serve in Vietnam when it was their duty to do so. This is the man who approved the attempt by some unions to interfere with the legitimate trade of this country. This is the man who gave tacit support to the left wing unions and the professional dissenters during the recent rugby tour. This is the man who went tq China to play party politics with wheat and finished up by being a total advocate for the policy of a foreign power - the greatest Communist power in Asia. 
The Budget that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  will bring down tonight involves a motion of real substance. The motion before the House this afternoon has none. The Budget presents fiscal policy and an explanation of monetary policy for Australia for the whole of 1971-72. It is therefore a paramount importance and should be treated accordingly, lt is right, 1 know, for the Leader of the Opposition to talk about unity arid good government. We talk about it. But we talk about it because we know what it means and we know the contribution we will be able to make. They are. 1 believe, the qualities that a well ordered country needs and that, I believe, Australia is getting in full measure from the Liberal-Country Part)' Government. 
 Let me remind honourable members of the performance of- my Government in recent months, lt has been here just on 5 months and in that time it has brought down a solid list of domestic legislation. It has broken completely new ground in foreign affairs. It has tackled a range of problems, not of its own making, including inflation and the fall in the price of wool, which are pressing heavily on the country today. 1 believe that they will be dealt with effectively, providing we can have continuity and steadiness in government. I believe, too, that it is of importance to make the federal system of government work effectively. That great spirit of free enterprise which has served Australia so well through all its history should not be stifled by controls and directions from Canberra. 
I have said that we believe in cooperation as the basis for unity. In 5 months we have established, I believe, a new relationship with the States. What we did, in addition, was to give them a general growth tax. We gave them payroll tax which was designed to stop them from coming to Canberra cap in hand and begging us to give them increasing access to funds. I emphasise that what we have done all this while is to continue the development of this country and we have also - this will be reflected in the Budget tonight - developed policies which are directed at reducing inflationary pressures because inflation is one of our greatest problems. Success here is the basis on which we can successfully plan for the future. 
We must contain and, I believe, we must reverse the serious escalation of costs and prices. We have begun investigations as to how arbitration procedures might be improved. We have done this to give greater emphasis in wage decisions to the economic consequences of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission's awards. We have also investigated what broader measures we might take to bring about the needed restraints in wage increases and in wage costs. We have come to grips with the crisis in some of our rural industries, particularly in the case of wool. Already, we have adopted reconstruction and special aid policies in order to assist them. We have reduced the migrant intake to contain costs and to allow a greater concentration on personal quality. We have passed legislation controlling resale price maintenance and we are reviewing the Trade Practices Act so that we can strengthen it and encourage much more vigorous competition. 
On the advice of the Tariff Board the Government also has accepted the need for a systematic review of tariffs and this is proceeding. My Government has also reviewed important aspects of social welfare. We have done so because we consider it a prime duty to do more for the needy and the neglected. We want to clean out the pockets of poverty wherever they appear. The effective development of an adequate social welfare system, to which I have pledged my Government, depends heavily on a good working arrangement between the Commonwealth and the States. That is another reason why our new understanding with the States is so important. 
In March we gave pensioners a supplementary increase. We did so because we thought social justice demanded a rise to offset the sharp increase in living costs which was causing unexpected hardship. We also secured a satisfactory arrangement with the Australian Medical Association about fees to make the revised medical benefits scheme operate effectively, and we overhauled hospital insurance benefits to give a more extensive cover to fund members. So many of these activities bear on the quality of life which must be of increasing concern to everyone in Australia. We are, after all, searching for a quality of life which will be better than the one that we have today. This is the end objective of all our efforts, because the quality of life is just about everything that belongs to and relates to man. It is his place in the environment - the good he does, how he lives with his neighbours and the measures of his contentment - but at the same time we must preserve our freedoms and our civil liberties. (Extension of time granted) We must tackle the congestion and pollution of our cities. Now, having said that, I turn briefly to our record in foreign affairs. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will deal with the subject in detail later - I hope tomorrow but at the latest on Thursday. 
What does the socalled censure motion have to do with the House? As I said, the Foreign Minister will deal with the subject later. In the past 5 months we have made considerable progress with the prospect of getting our troops home from Vietnam as the operation there winds down. You will recall,  Sir, that  1 announced further withdrawals at the end of March. I will state the Government's policy in the House this week. We have completed new appraisals of our relations with Japan, Russia and China. These appraisals took place over a year or more but they have brought us to new decisions in respect of all 3 countries in the last few months. 1 will not repeat them now. They speak well for our future in the international community. 
Our aid programmes particularly in the Asian and the Pacific region continue at a high level. We have also made progress with the 5-power defence arrangements for Malaysia-Singapore and we have become a member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. What contribution has the Opposition made to national progress? Absolutely none. Indeed, by its actions and its abstentions it has aggravated the problems of the day. The Labor Party has encouraged a contempt for law and order and the rights of individual citizens. A clear example can be seen on the industrial scene and the increase in political strikes. We have had a rash of industrial strikes and stoppages which last year cost the work force nearly S31m in wages. The loss to the nation in output and the consequent effect on prices is enormous. We must not forget that the number of man days lost by individual disputes has gone up  2i  times in the last 3 years. Now, I want the House to answer this question: What has the Leader of the Opposition done about this? The answer is positive - nothing at all. In all of this he has been silent, and by his silence he has given consent. He has stood by helplessly while his authority has been eroded and his bailiwick invaded by  Mr Bob  Hawke, the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, another leader who is causing responsible people in the trade union movement a great deal of activity. Another question 1 want to pose is this: Who is really speaking for Labor? It is not a question of who runs the country; it is a question of who runs the Labor Party. 
He would give the same answer on this occasion because he cannot decide, as no-one else can decide, who is running the trade union movement. I want to say more about the Leader of the Opposition, but I think it best to leave to the judgment of the House what it thinks about his censure motion, and him. 1 believe that answer will be given before 6 o'clock tonight. 
Let me return to the overseas visit by the Leader of the Opposition. He went on a disastrous - I use the word deliberately - visit to Peking after he had given his tacit support to protests against the South African football tour. In China he conceded every single point the Chinese made to him, and he did so in public. This was a disservice to Australia without any precedent.  His  performance is written into the record for all to read and for history to see. More will be said about China in the foreign affairs debate this session, but let me say just this: I believe his visit compromised discussions which the Australian Wheat Board was just about to begin with the Chinese when he announced his intention to go to China. I believe he compromised the first moves we were making through diplomatic channels to open up a dialogue with China. As a result of some cocktail gossip with a foreign representative in China, he caused more havoc than any man could have caused either in Australia or in any other part of the world. I believe it is the first time in Australia's history that a Leader of the Opposition has been the total advocate for another country's cause. I believe it is also the first time that any Australian political leader has presumed to tell other countries how they should run their business, and he did so publicly. He discredited the  President  of the United States of America by telling him he would be kicked out. He told Japan that it should cancel its treaties. Later when I have an opportunity to speak in the foreign affairs debate I will disclose more of his tactics and more of the mischief he has caused. 
I have visited every State in Australia - some several times - in the last few months. I have seen great progress in national development wherever I have  been.  As I went around I became aware that many people are deeply troubled by some of . the' trends developing in Australia today. They are concerned with the increase in industrial disputes and lawlessness. They are concerned about the issue  01  law and order. They want to retain their right to dissent, but they do nol want their civil liberties interfered with by mass protests or professionally promoted demonstrations. They do not want their right of choice within the law interfered with. They expect their parliamentarians to take note oi these issues and to give them a lead. This, I believe, my Government is doing and is doing with strength. 
May [ now return to the principles relating  10  constitutional law and practice? So much doubt has been cast these days on the Cabinet system that I felt it would be appropriate for me to make some statement about it. Of course, it is the Opposition's policy to cheapen and denigrate Cabinet. But 1 have another attitude altogether, and a far belter one. I affirm my faith In the principle of Cabinet government. It is central to my own Administration. lt is the ' practice which best suits the executive in our democratic parliamentary system. It must work effectively, whether as a Cabinet, as a ministry or through the system of committees which has recently been reconstructed, it parliamentary democracy is to be sustained. My concern as Prime Minister relates to policy. Cabinet is the proper instrument for the development of that policy. A change in party leadership and Ministers does not invalidate the Government's authority, lt has noi done so in the past and it does not do so now. It is the coalition Government of the Liberal Party and the Country Party which the people put back into office less than 2 years ago. (Extension of time granted) It is the coalition Government thai I lead, and its authority continues in forcelt has operated and will continue to operate with due respect to law and with due respect to process in the area of the Cabinet system, in the relationship with the Slate* and with the electorate. 
I can understand the disappointment of the Opposition that a change in leadership, and the other changes that have been made, have not brought about some reduction in our capacity to govern, our intention to govern or our right to' govern. The motion that is before the House is, I believe, a product of that disappointment. A similar motion was moved in vain in March when I took over- as Prime Minister. I repeat that today's motion will be in vain. I am perfectly confident that the people of Australia understand what I am saying. They understand, firstly, that they gave us authority to govern and that we still have that authority. They understand, secondly, that we are thoroughly capable to exercise that authority to their satisfaction. They understand.' thirdly, that it would he folly to transfer this authority to another party unqualified and totally unable to discharge it effectively. 1 suspect they understand that the whole of today's exercise by the Opposition is nothing else but humbug. 
I must remind the House that we are known abroad in the great majority of countries. Despite what the Leader of the Opposition said, we have given this country great national responsibility and stable and progressive administration over a period now running into 22 years, close to a quarter of a century. This is known and respected overseas, as it is here. This administration is nol upset by changes in leadership, by ministerial re-arrangemcnts or by any statements  the Leader of ihe Opposition might make. 1 want to state to you positively.  Sir, that  you will see evidence of unity in this Government. You will find that the Liberal Party which T lead, with the Country Party standing behind us. will give to this country the kind of government that it needs and which will take it to a very much higher destiny than we know at the moment or thai the Labor Party could ever think was realistically possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department first received the report from the Department of Labour and National Service for tabling purposes on 23rd February 1971. My predecessor indicated in the House on 25th February that while he had- not had time to study remarks made in the report he had had a chance to look cursorily at them. The report he referred to was the one received by the Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The answer given by my predecessor was complete in itself. 
Since there is no relationship between the concepts mentioned by the honourable member, no meaningful answer can be given to the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Richardson Committee of 1959 considered that, "The salaries of a member should be fixed at an amount which is not so low as to deter a man of good attainments and ability who has no private income from entering or remaining in Parliament'. My Government accepts this prop- osition. 
Obviously, this scurrilous personal campaign is to continue today. The first thing that I can say about it is no, I did not read the article to which the honourable gentleman refers. But it is not necessary for me to have read it to be able to say clearly and categorically that I never knew of any part of the contents of that book prior to its publication. I did net know of the substance of the book or any part of the substance of the book whatsoever. 
1 think it would be desirable to ask the Treasurer and the Minister for Trade and Industry, in cooperation with my Department, to prepare a paper that could be presented to the House, not only relating to the conversion of the dollar into gold but also to give the House an opportunity to understand the effect of the import surcharge and the effects of the decreases in various rates of taxation. I will have a talk to my colleagues immediately after question time and try to have a paper presented to the House as soon as I can. 
-It is true that the Government did have an investigation made of the change in prices of certain grapes, largely those grown in the honourable gentleman's electorate. 
Principally in his electorate. The report of the Government was presented- 
Could I put it this way: The honourable member for Angas played a leading part in ensuring that the report was considered- 
by leave -  Sir, I  announce tonight that the combat role which Australia took up over 6 years ago in Vietnam is soon to be completed. In 1965, when Australia first sent troops to that country, the continued survival of the Republic was in dire jeopardy. The scale and weight of enemy attacks were increasing, and North Vietnam's intervention was becoming ever more brazen. It seemed only a matter of time before Hanoi and the Vietcong, which supported Hanoi's cause, would take over the country by main force in defiance of the 1954 Geneva Agreements. 
Beyond the immediate threats within and against Vietnam there was a militant China - a China which was giving direct moral and material aid to North Vietnam and which had in the recent past occupied Tibet and fought with India, a China whose ambitions and policies in the area were causing great concern. Nor was that all. The independence of Laos and Cambodia were in precarious balance. Insurgent activity in border areas of Thailand had already begun. Sukarnoist Indonesia was committing violence against its near neighbours, with the then powerful Indonesian Communist Party exercising major influence over Indonesian policies. 
This, then, was the situation in 1965. This was the background against which the Australian Government decided to  commit  Australian forces to the aid of South Vietnam. That decision was made in the national interest pursuant to our obigations under the Manila Treaty and at the invitation of the Republic of Vietnam. Its purpose was to help, jointly with the United States and others, to sustain and develop the confidence of the Government and the people of the Republic; to help defend it; to develop its capacities to deal with both overt aggression and externally promoted insurgency; and to enable it to make its own decisions about its future in a context of greater security. That purpose has now been substantially achieved. 
Today the picture is different - in East Asia, in South East Asia, and not least in Indo-China itself. The aggression by North Vietnam has been slowed and its plans for over-running the South frustrated. Security throughout the country has improved remarkably. Successive pacification programmes have extended the physical control of the Vietnamese Government over the countryside. Political, economic and social advances have been made notwithstanding that the war has absorbed so much of the people's time and energies. Above all, the armed forces of the Republic, with considerable help from the allies, have grown in size and developed their skills, cohesion and effectiveness. This has enabled them progressively to take over responsibilities from allied forces and at the same time to conduct operations against North Vietnamese forces in Cambodia and to disrupt their supply lines in southern Laos. 
To this changed and improved situation Australia has made a significant contribution. Australian forces of all arms have played an honourable and effective part in their areas of operation. They have been worthy of this country. They have been honoured by our Allies. The main Australian effort has been in the general area surrounding Saigon and in particular in Phuoc Tuy Province. There, the security situation has markedly improved. The enemy has largely lost the initiative. The Vietnamese territorial forces have been steadily developing their capacity. And in the last year have gradually expanded their own areas of operations. The enemy is still there of course, and some setbacks may yet occur. But it is our view, shared by the Government of the Republic, that the existing relative strengths arc such that the territorial forces should be able to handle the likely contingencies. 
In these changing and improving circumstances, the Australian Government has been giving close consideration to the future of the Australian forces in Vietnam. It has for some time been our policy to withdraw our forces progressively as and when in our judgment, and after consultation with the Republic of Vietnam and the 
United States, the situation has allowed it. In coming to this judgment we have on each occasion considered several factors, including whether the forces and administration of the Republic have been ready and able to assume increased responsibility for local security. 
We now judge that the circumstances are such that further effect can be given to our withdrawal policy. I have recently been in correspondence on this subject with the  President  of the Republic of Vietnam, and also with  President  Nixon and  Sir Keith  Holyoake. 1 am now able to announce that the Government has decided to withdraw all remaining Australian combat forces from Vietnam. The forces will begin withdrawing in the next few months, giving the Vietnamese time to adjust their force dispositions. HMAS 'Brisbane', due out of service in Vietnamese waters early in September, will not be replaced. Most of the combat elements will be home in Australia by Christmas 1971. Shipment to Australia of stores and equipment will be completed in the early months of 1972. 
The Government has already pledged that, as the withdrawal of our forces proceeds, we will provide other appropriate forms of military assistance as well as economic aid. We have accordingly approved an aid package for the Republic of Vietnam totalling S25m. to be spent over the next 3 years. The package will include civil projects of an economic development character as well as defence aid in the form of military training and equipment. Seven million dollars have been set aside for this assistance in the current financial year. This figure will be progressively increased during the two succeeding years. 
We are also discussing with the Vietnamese Government plans to retain in the Republic some military training and advisory elements, for example instructors at the jungle warfare training centre in Nui Oat, if they are wanted and if satisfactory arrangements can be made. We hope that these elements will continue to work in close association with the United States effort in this field. 
Finally, 1 express the Government's conviction that the decision I have announced tonight is a mark of the success which has attended our policies and actions in Vietnam over the years. This does not mean that security in the area is yet fully achieved. The Government of South Vietnam will continue to face serious problems, aggravated by the continuing and flagrant North Vietnamese aggression in Cambodia and interference in Laos. South Vietnam is confident that it can overcome these problems if it continues to receive appropriate assistance. The Australian Government shares that confidence. It is the Government's earnest hope that the war can be brought to an early end by serious negotiations, that peace and stability will soon prevail throughout the area, and that the countries of Indo-China - not excluding North Vietnam - will be able to devote their energies with the help of others to worthwhile productive efforts. 
I now turn to national service. The present form of national service was introduced towards the end of 1964. Against the background of the situation at that time, which I have described, the Government decided that the strength of the Army needed to be increased from its then low level of some 23,000. It was apparent, notwithstanding pay rises some months earlier, that this could not be achieved in time by voluntary means alone. Accordingly, in November 1964, the then Prime Minister announced the introduction of the present national service scheme. Further developments in the situation led to the commitment in 196S of major Australian Army units to Vietnam. In 1966 national servicemen were sent there. We now have a different situation. 
There is improved political stability in South East Asia. We have decided to withdraw our forces from Vietnam. These factors have implications for the composition of our defence forces. The major portion of our defence manpower is obtained by volunteer recruitment. The Navy and the Air Force are both entirely volunteer forces. On the other hand for the full time Army, where the numbers are larger, more than one-third of the strength has had to be obtained in recent times by other than voluntary means to ensure an Army of the size we need. The extent of our defence manpower is measured not simply by the size of our Regular forces, but by the totality of the Regular, Citizen and Reserve forces. Fully trained former national servicemen in the Reserve are of particular significance. Reviewing the situation the Government has concluded that there can be some reduction in the number of men serving full time in the Army. The Government accordingly proposes to reduce the full time strength of the Army by some 4,000 in the immediate future. It has decided to do this by reducing the period of full time national service from 2 years to 18 months. 
The present total liability of 5 years' service for national servicemen will remain unchanged. But henceforth more of this service will be rendered in the Reserve - 3i years instead of 3 years as at present. National servicemen will be required to serve only 18 months full time. There will be complementary reductions in the period of part time service in the Citizen Forces which is at present available as an alternative to full time national service. These men will now normally serve a period of 5 years in the Citizen Forces. The number of men to be called up each year under the national service scheme, about 8,000, will be unchanged. At present, with 2 years' full time service, this means a total of some 16,000 full time national servicemen in the Army at any one time. With only 18 months' full time service, the number of full time national servicemen serving in the Army at any one time will fall to about 12,000. Correspondingly the total strength of the full time Army will fall by 4,000- from about 44,000 to 40,000. This reduction in strength will not affect the present organisation of the Army into 9 battalions. Some will be on a reduced basis. 
The Government has given careful consideration to the effect of these changes on personnel already serving. We wish to ensure that the transition will be orderly and that as far as possible inequities are avoided. It has been decided that serving national servicemen who have completed 18 months service will be discharged broadly in accordance with their length of service. This will be done over a period of some 3 months commencing late in October or early in November. Legislation giving effect to the Government's decisions will be introduced as quickly as possible. I am sure the Parliament will wish to give priority to it. In deciding on this reduction in national service, careful account has been taken of the strategic situation confronting us. While as I have said there have been improvements in many aspects of the situation in South East Asia, there are many continuing elements of insecurity and some new ones. At the same time, we see changes in the defence posture of our close allies, particularly the United States. These do not affect the fundamental character of our alliances. We must maintain a defence capability that is evident both to friendly countries and to potential enemies, and which we could develop in adequate time should more immediate threats arise. National servicemen will still constitute a substantial proportion of our Army - some 12,000 in a total full time Army strength of about 40,000. 
The Government will review force levels as necessary as part of the 5-year defence rolling programme. It is important against the strategic outlook for the 1970s and the 1980s to have the right balance of equipment and men in the defence forces as a whole. Close attention will continue to be given to all practicable means of increasing voluntary recruitment. Before the introduction of national service in 1964 there were improvements in pay but their effect on recruitment was only marginal. Since then there have been substantial improvements not only in pay but in other conditions of service, for example, the provision of many more married quarters and much improved barrack accommodation. The Government's establishment of the Kerr Committee, and the decisions it has already taken on the findings of that Committee, are further important steps. The Government will continue to ensure that conditions of service in our armed forces are as attractive as they can reasonably be with the aim of ensuring that the proportion of volunteers will be as large as practicable. I present the following paper: 
Future of Australian Forces in Vietnam, and National Service - Ministerial Statement, 18th August 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
 Mr Speaker,  in accordance with my undertaking to the House last night I now present photo copies of the following correspondence: Marked A is a copy of a letter dated 29th April 1965 sent by the Australian Ambassador to  His Excellency Dr Rhan  Huy Quat, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Vietnam; and marked B is a copy of a letter dated 29th April 1965 sent by  His Excellency Dr Rhan  Huy Quat, Prime Minister of the Republic of Vietnam, to the Australian Ambassador to the Republic of Vietnam. I present the documents against the background of the statement I made on 22nd June relating to the Pentagon Papers. 29th April, 1965 
Your  Excellency,  1 have the honour, with reference to our conversation yesterday, to confirm the Australian Government's offer to send to Viet Nam an infantry battalion of 800 men, with some 100 personnel in logistic support, to serve, with United States forces in assisting in the defence of the Republic of Viet Nam. 
I have informed the Australian Government, following our conversation, that Your Excellency has accepted this offer and has requested the despatch of this force to Viet Nam on the basis which we discussed. 
Please accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration. 
D. Anderson Ambassador 

 His Excellency Dr Rhan Huy Quat, Prime Minister of the Republic of Viet Nam, SAIGON 29th April, 1965 
The use of the words sordid intrigue' reminded me of the thinking of most sensible members of the Australian community about the way in which the Labor Party conducts itself, and particularly the way in which we know the honourable member for Grayndler conducts himself outside this House. I do not know anyone who has a greater capacity for whispering than he has. As to the honourable gentleman from Wannon and the honourable gentleman from Moreton, they are both people of exceptional ability and both of them have shown their talents over the whole of the period they have been in this Parliament. They can never remain out of my consideration when I am thinking about additional appointments either to the Ministry or to the Cabinet. 
In a speech made yesterday the Leader of the Opposition did say that I had made contributions to newspaper articles and received payments for them. I have made contributions on noncontroversial matters associated with the administration of the Department that I was administering for the time being, and payment has been made. But on every occasion I have ensured that the payment was passed to the social fund of the Department that I was administering. In later years I have ensured that every single cent of it was paid to social or organisations of a similar kind in my electorate, particularly to the people who look after sub-normal children in the Eureela homes in Burwood. That has been my universal policy. As to my attitude to the retention of payments by Ministers, I do not like the idea and would not countenance it, myself. As to the general policy, I will take this up with my Cabinet colleagues and soon I will make a statement on the propriety of it relating to all Ministers. 
I hate to speak about myself. But I can say that I am delighted to see the figure of 35.8 per cent for the Leader of the Opposition. 
It is true that statements appeared in the Press shortly after I had discussions in my room with the Minister for Trade and Industry. But I point out to the House that it was to the marked advantage of the Government and particularly of myself that no statement whatever should be made about the amount of the payments that we were to make in respect of deficiency payment for wool. 1 have no information whatsoever as to where the information came from. I am not one who, by innuendo or by an attempt to create false impressions, wants to imply that any particular individual was responsible for giving the information. 
I believe that there were very solid grounds for thinking that many other people could have come to the conclusion that the amount would be somewhere between 35c and 40c per lb. It was known that the organisations were putting their maximum request at 40c per lb. It must have been recognised that it would be highly doubtful whether this amount would be agreed. I can say no more about the statement than that it would not have been in the interests of the Minister for Trade and Industry or of myself for these figures to be prematurely released. As 1 said in regard to another question that 1 was asked in the House, of course the information could have come from other sources; but, as I have no facts on which I can make a statement, I certainly am not prepared to broadcast suspicion throughout this House. 
I think that it was a remarkable achievement by the Treasury and the Government to be able to cut down the original bids to the amount that is in fact provided for in the appropriations. lt was an action that was designed to establish a psychology in which we could hope there could have been a brake on inflationary forces and trends within the economy. I believe that over time it will have an impact and will carry out the Government's intention to put a restraint, particularly a psychological restraint, on both the causes and the effects of inflation itself. It does not mean that because we have reduced substantially the original bids - and I took a prominent part with the Treasurer in ensuring that these cuts took place - we necessarily had to make cuts throughout every single section of the public and the civil service and administration. As to the part of the honourable gentleman's question relating to ASIO, it has been a constant practice, ever since the Australian Labor Party was in government in the long distant past, that we do not answer questions relating to ASIO in this House, and I have no intention whatsoever of giving the honourable gentleman any information at all relating to the operations of this organisation. 
I thank the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  for his comments. I draw attention to the fact that in this House on 29th April 1971 I put down a statement relating to the appointment of Assistant Ministers. I then set out what their functions and role would be. I also stated the constitutional position as it has been developed by the honourable member for Berowra. I assure the House that the basis on which I prepared that paper was the letter which the honourable member wrote to me informing me of the constitutional position and that the way in which these Assistant Ministers would be appointed and would operate would not be a violation of the consitutional position in any way whatsoever. In other words, the advice which the honourable member gave was accepted by me and is the basis on which the statement was made. 
Nonetheless, in deference to the wishes of honourable members, if they wish to debate the matter in full I shall make arrangements for the debate to take place this afternoon, if that is desired. If that is the wish of the House the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  will take the appropriate measures, and then immediately after lunch this matter can be fully debated. I hope that that assurance will satisfy honourable members. I hope that in the meantime they will read the statement I made on the date I have mentioned. I particularly hope that they will remember what 1 said in the party room when no objection whatsoever was taken to the proposition. 
Motion - by leave - withdrawn. 
 There is very little more to be said because already the Opposition has conceded the constitutional right of the Prime Minister to appoint Assistant Ministers to help Ministers of State in the administration of their functions. I do not think there is very much doubt in the minds of a great number of members of this House that, as political and parliamentary life becomes increasingly complicated, there is a need, particularly in the case of many senior members of Cabinet, to have a Minister assisting them to carry out their functions. 1 know from practical experience of many portfolios - probably as many as 14  -  that life today is much more complicated than it was when I entered Parliament, that Ministers are working consistently and that they do need to have some of the burden taken off their shoulders particularly so they may attend to constituency work. 1 also believe that it is highly desirable to give young and talented people the opportunity to learn the responsibilities of government and of administration, to know the tasks to be performed by Ministers, to get a greater acquaintance of the departments of State and the officials involved and, I believe, therefore to prepare themselves for promotion firstly to ministerial and later to Cabinet rank. I do not for one moment want to debate those subjects because I believe that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has accepted the point of view put by my colleague the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  and by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who was previously the Attorney-General. 
I turn to the potential or probable amendments to Standing Orders. When I read to the House the proposed amendments I think everyone will concede that they are so inconsequential that I could not believe that there could be any argument about them. Let me mention firstly the history of the matter. We did seek advice from the officers of the House as to what amendments might be made to Standing Orders if the Assistant Ministers were to carry out their functions mentioned in the statement that I made to the House on 29th April and that I subsequently published in the form of a White Paper. We received certain advice from the  Clerk.  For some considerable time negotiations continued with the  Clerk  until we did refine the Standing Orders that needed amendment. We are also deciding on those which we feel should be submitted to you,  Mr Speaker,  and which finally would be presented to the House for ratification. 
Let me mention them. The first related to standing order 32. That relates to the seating of Assistant Ministers in the House. Here the recommendation is a clear one. It is not desired that Assistant Ministers be allocated seats on the ministerial bench. However, it is felt that they should be permitted to be seated at the table when they are in charge of debates on legislation or other matters. Is that a matter of great substance? Is that a matter which should detain the House for 5 minutes? I doubt it, unless the people who are raising objections are people of a much inferior frame of mind than I think should be in the House. 
The second relates to the seconding of motions under standing orders 133, 160, 172, and 211. Normally a motion proposed by a member has to be seconded, but it has not to be seconded when it is proposed by a Minister. What is proposed on this occasion is that if a motion is proposed by an Assistant Minister it will not need to be seconded. Is there anything of substance here, anything we should argue about, or is it not something that should be agreed to automatically by all sensible and realistic people? 
The third relates to standing orders 235, 236, 238 and 239. The Standing Orders as at present drafted would not prevent Assistant Ministers from taking Bills through the House. It should be pointed out that, as there will be a change in practice, it should be made known to honourable members. But with regard to the foregoing there will be no change whatsoever in the Standing Orders - merely a desire that when changes in practice under the Standing Orders are brought here, we would point out that Assistant Ministers would have the right that I have just mentioned. Again I ask the question: Could any sane man object to this procedure? 
The next one relates to an amendment of standing order 91. This applies to the time limits for debates and speeches. The proposal is that in four separate matters - discussions of definite matters of public importance, second readings of Bills, second readings of Bills under certain different circumstances and the Committee stage of Bills - the Assistant Minister should have exactly the same time limitation as the Minister he is representing. Again, is this anything of great substance that should give us cause for thought? There is another amendment relating to standing order 143, which states that questions may be put to a member, not being a Minister, relating to any Bill, motion or other public matter connected with the business of the House, of which the member has charge. What we are proposing here is that questions may be put to a member, not being a Minister or Assistant Minister, relating to the same subject matters. Again, is there anyone who could honestly object to this change being made? I doubt it. For that reason I am rather sorry that a debate on this matter should have been raised and should have delayed the House for so long. 
Standing order 319 relates to the presentation of papers. We want to confer that right on the Assistant Ministers as well as on the Ministers themselves. The proposal in regard to standing order 321 would give an Assistant Minister the right to quote from documents, whilst the one relating to standing order 322 would allow Assistant Ministers to move that papers be printed or that they be noted. 
Here is one of the reasons why the Opposition has raised objections. I believe that every single argument has been superficial. The arguments have no basis in substance. I believe that when it is known to the general public that we in this House have been held up this afternoon for these reasons resentment will be expressed at what is being done by the Opposition. 
The next point that I want to bring home to the House relates to the procedures that I adopted in publishing the names of those people who would be the Assistant Ministers. Naturally enough, I sought advice from my officials whenever I felt that advice was desirable as to the proper procedure to be followed. Historically, it has always been the practice, when a Minister of State or a Minister of the kind mentioned by my colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  such as a Minister without portfolio, an Assistant Minister or some other person who might be assisting a Minister for the time being, has been appointed, for those announcements to be communicated first of all to the Governor-General because it is his constitutional right to appoint the individuals. It is not for the House to do it and it is not for me to do it. lt can be done only by the GovernorGeneral on my advice. So, constitutionally it is my responsibility to advise him first of all. I did that yesterday afternoon. I asked for his consent to my issuing a public statement on the matter yesterday afternoon. He agreed, and consequently it was done in accordance with constitutional practice and in accordance with the express approval of the Governor-General himself. I emphasise that this has been a practice adhered to since Federation and I see no reason whatsoever why it should be changed. 
There is one other question that arises. I deliberately asked the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  whether he was trying to do a deal; in other words, whether he wanted to put it to me that if we would agree to some increase in the secretarial assistance for members of the Parliamentary Labor Party they would withdraw their opposition to the proposal. The simple fact is that the Opposition has no objection whatsoever in principle, lt is obvious that the Opposition wants to do a deal to see whether it can get something out of it. Just listening to it, I can assure honourable members opposite that I will not agree while standing on the floor of the House as I do at this moment. That is our position. I believe it is in the best interests of the government of this country and of members of this Parliament that they should have the opportunity to train themselves for appointment to the Ministry and, for that matter, for appointment to the Cabinet. I know that it will depend to a considerable degree on the capacity ot the Minister and the Assistant Minister who is assisting him, but at least I have this one great advantage. I have discussed the problem with them and I am absolutely confident that they will be able to work together and that they will be able to make a contribution to the government of this country. Having said that, I hope that the Opposition will let us get on with the work of government and of building up this country rather than debating irrelevant matters and trying to have a sordid deal of the kind I have just mentioned. 
That the question be now put. 
 Mr Speaker,  I inform the House that the Honourable Malcolm Fraser has been appointed Minister for Education and Science.  Mr Fraser  takes over this portfolio from  Mr Fairbairn  who retains his portfolio of Minister for Defence. In furtherance of the intention to appoint Assistant Ministers to support certain senior Ministers in the discharge of their responsibilities  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral, on my recommendation, has sworn in as Executive Councillors  Mr A.  A. Street,  Mr J.  D. M. Dobie,  Mr 1.  L. Robinson and  Mr J.  E. McLeay. I also inform the House that the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Barnes)  will be in Papua New Guinea this week. 
During the course of question time last week I informed the right honourable member for Melbourne that I would have prepared a paper relating to the international monetary difficulties and that subsequently I would present it to the House. I had a paper prepared by the relevant departments but because circumstances were changing so quickly and because so many of the foreign monetary exchanges had also been closed I thought that it would not be wise to make, and that it could, in fact, create harm if I were to make, a premature statement. Since that time there have been meetings of the International Monetary Fund which our representatives have attended. There have been meetings of the Group of Ten and meetings within the European Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. But it will not be until today that the 
Japanese Foreign Monetary Exchange will open and tonight, our time, when the London Foreign Monetary Exchange will open. 
For these reasons I believe that we must bide our time and not be premature in any statement which we make. If we do so prematurely I believe it could be capable of being misunderstood and could create an unfortunate impression and cause false apprehension. 
I assure the right honourable member for Melbourne and my friend from Sydney thai we have kept in very close touch with this matter. Over the weekend the Treasurer and I have been in constant contact with our officials in order to keep track of events and to be in a position to make a statement as soon as practicable. We have also been in contact with the Reserve Bank of Australia. I hope to be able to make a general statement to the House within the course of the next few days. I assure the honourable member that I will make the statement as soon as practicable and as soon as I feel that it will contain a constructive proposal which can be debated in the House. 
I think a careful reading of the right honourable gentleman's speech before the Imperial Service Club will indicate that he was dealing with philosophical problems and not with the specifics of an Australian defence policy. As to the balance of the honourable members question, I have made it abundantly clear that I will not comment about statements made by my former colleague as I will not make any comment whatsoever about the articles he is now having published in the 'Sunday Australian*. 
The word 'dishonourable' was used by the honourable member. If ever there was a misrepresentation of the Government's actions it was by the honourable gentleman who asked the question. Nonetheless, I will use no adjectives to describe what I think is the morality of his question. If he carefully reads the statement that was made by me - and I attached to it copies of both the letter we wrote to the then Prime Minister of South Vietnam and his reply - he will see that on at least 3 occasions prior to that there were requests by the South Vietnamese Government, from the proper authorities, that we and others should provide forces for the defence of that country against blatant and naked aggression from the north, assisted by the Soviet and China. All I can do is ask the honourable gentleman who is, I believe, a stout supporter of the cause of Cambodia to read the statement that I have made. After he has read the statement I believe he will be as convinced as every person on this side of the House that not only was a legitimate request made but also that we were entitled to make our contribution to the cause of Vietnam in exactly the same way as he wanted us to make our contribution to the defence and support of Cambodia. 
 Mr Speaker,  the speech on foreign policy by my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  stands out in complete contrast to the superficial approach of the Leader of the 
Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  To my mind, the Minister has set out, in a responsible way, the Government's record and its attitude on the vital issues before us in the international scene. I commend him for what he has said in his first report to the House in his new portfolio. There are one or two objectives of foreign policy I first want to mention. The first is to emphasise very clearly and very simply that our foreign policy is based on the fact that our national interest must be of paramount importance at all times. We are not going to be run around the place by anyone. We are an independent country. We will never be a satellite of any power, close though our relationships with others might be. 
But we must face realities. We are not a great power and we cannot play a decisive role in resolving the big issues between East and West. Nevertheless, we have a role which we play, both in the region of South East Asia and the Pacific, and in the wider international community as well. It is up to us to play that role responsibly, keeping in mind at all times that we have a long and honourable record for honest dealing in international affairs and that we want to live in peaceful and profitable co-existence with all. We want to achieve this objective no matter how different the political philosophies of other countries might be from ours. I believe that we are achieving that objective. And I believe those who advise us - our Foreign Affairs officers - have a mature and sophisticated approach to their duties which serves Australia well. These observations need to be made because we are all conscious that this is a period of considerable change - sometimes very rapid change - and we must be alert to the consequences and flexible in our responses. But we must not be pushed or panicked into new postures or adventures with unpredictable consequences, smart though they may have appeared to be at the time. To the contrary, we must move forward deliberately after careful consideration of every step we take. And for good reason. 
Foreign policy cannot be made by a series of unthought-out adventures. It must evolve from the passage of events and our own appreciation of the trends of the future and our relationships with others. Our identification with others in the international world is: Our membership of the 
United Nations; our membership of the Commonwealth of Nations; our treaties with friendly powers; and our association in a variety of international and regional arrangements for security, trade and economic aid. In this complex of relationships we have made some important advances in recent months as the Foreign Minister has so well pointed out. They have been dealt with fully by him and I will not go over the the ground again. But there is a second matter I want to raise in the context of a foreign policy debate. This is the way we conduct our foreign policy. 
No medium power like Australia can negotiate effectively in sensitive areas of international relations in the full glare of the spotlights. The pursuit of our foreign relations depends on frank and confidential exchanges with many countries. We have to respect their confidences as we expect them to respect ours. We do not peddle the gossip of the diplomatic cocktail rounds in the capitals of the world. We do not blab out in Peking what we have heard from representatives of foreign countries. The credibility of a government in its international dealings depends heavily on the sanctity of its undertakings and the security of the confidences given to it by others. No considerations of party politics must be allowed to compromise this credibility. The conventions for international conduct must be high and responsible. 1 deplore the failure of the Opposition to respect these conventions. I  deplore  the recent antics of the Leader of the Opposition when he led a delegation to some of the countries of Asia, notably to the People's Republic of China. I remind honourable gentlemen that the Leader of the Opposition went to China to play politics with wheat. He found himself declaring, on behalf of his Party, a foreign policy for Australia that was not within his power to implement. It was not the policy of the elected Government of Australia. It is a policy in conflict with our national interest, and very much - so very much - in line with the policy of the greatest Communist power in Asia. I do not complain about the action of the Chinese leaders. They, too, have a national interest to promote, and they obviously did so. But what I do call into question - I believe a majority of Australians agree with me - is that, at a time when the Government was in contact with the Chinese seeking to open up a dialogue, a full surrender to Peking's point of view was made publicly by the Leader of the Opposition. The Leader of the Opposition did not come back with any assurance of future wheat sales. He did not come back with anything except defensive responses and evasive answers to those who criticised his conduct, the concessions he volunteered in Peking, and the gratuitous advice he offered to other countries. 
He did, of course, come out of China saying that the Chinese Government was quite willing to particpate in a renewed Geneva Conference. Chou En-lai made a categorical denial, saying there was no question of such a conference. The official Chinese Press has also described talk about a new Geneva conference as 'a sheer fraud which is ridiculous and absurd'. This surely tests the credibility of the Leader of the Opposition, and this is test No. 1.  Mr Speaker,  we are seeking as a Government to establish better relations with the People's Republic of China. In concert with our friends we hope she will join in the efforts of the countries of our region and the broader international community to promote peace and prosperity for all peoples in accordance with the Bandung principle to which Chou En-lai himself has publicly subscribed. We want to see this happen, and we will make our contribution wherever and whenever we can. We will do so without sacrificing one single part of our national interest. And we will try to achieve this objective while retaining an honourable position with our friends and allies. 
I remind the House again that there is no sudden short cut to normal relations with China, as history so clearly shows, particularly Soviet and Chinese history. Patience and hard headed negotiations are needed. The process is not one that will require on our part, spectacular public gestures or instant decisions. And this problem must be considered in the total context. It is important, I think, to see our own position clearly against the background of the forthcoming meeting of the United Nations and the planned visit to Peking by President Nixon before May of next year. 
The Government's policy on representation in the United Nations of the People's Republic of China and of Taiwan has already been stated in this House during the course of this debate. I have said it was inevitable and right that China should should hold the permanent seat in the Security Council. I have also said that we believed the Republic of China- Taiwan - should be given the chance of maintaining its membership if so desired. In the final result these are matters for collective decision by the United Nations. 
There has been a lot of talk about there being only one China and that Taiwan is a province of China. But when the Leader of the Opposition states this proposition he evades the fact that there are two governments each controlling a certain area with a certain population and each claiming to be the legitimate Government of the whole of China. And he would put a seal of legality on the forceful takeover of 14 million people by a government they do not want. He obviously does not understand that acceptance of the idea that Taiwan is a province of China implies that force can be used to restore control by China without invoking United Nations assistance. 
The de facto situation is that neither the PRC nor the ROC exercises administrative control over all the territories they claim. While this situation exists - where 2 Governments are in political and jurisdictional conflict - third countries are free to recognise whichever Government they choose. Australia has for many years recognised the Taiwan Government - the Republic of China - and in 1966 completed the formalities by establishing an embassy there.  Mr Speaker,  the Leader of the Opposition has alleged publicly that the decision to send an Australian Ambassador to Taipeh was arranged by the late  Mr Holt  as Prime Minister without the knowledge of his Foreign Minister of the day - then  Mr, now Sir Paul  Hasluck. This is utterly untrue, true. This is the second test of the credibility of the Leader of the Opposition. The decision was made by the Cabinet of the day. It is on record and beyond dispute and  Mr Hasluck,  now  Sir Paul  Hasluck, was there at the time. 
This then is our position. I believe it is in our national interest first to have a collective decision by the United Ntaions on the admission of the People's Republic of 
China and the status of the Republic of China - of Taiwan. When representation in the United Nations is clarified we shall be better placed to examine the problems of recognition and diplomatic relations with Peking. In his various public statements the Leader of the Opposition has endeavoured to suggest that the whole of SouthEast Asia is about to go - or should go - cap in hand to Peking. The truth is that South-East Asian countries are moving with caution, and so are we. They realise the desirability of adjusting to changing circumstances in Asia and the likely entry this year or next of Peking into the United Nations. 
The Leader of the Opposition has said the Canadian formula is the one his Party would adopt for immediate recognition of China. This does not make sense because the espousal of any formula now would prejudge events yet to take place in the United Nations. And in any case only a naive person would set out what he would finally accept as his first position in any negotiation. The Canadian formula notes China's claim to Taiwan. In his statement on the subject the Canadian Minister of State for External Affairs,  Mr Mitchell  Sharp, said Canada had made it clear to the Chinese from the start of their negotiations 'that the Canadian Government does not consider it appropriate either to endorse or to challenge the Chinese Government's position on the status of Taiwan'. But  Mr Whitlam,  while adopting the Canadian formula as his own, also concedes Taiwan to China. And, as I have said, by so doing does not exclude the use of force in the resolution of this issue by the Chinese. 
For reasons I have mentioned there is no need to rush into recognition; there is no need to rush into making concessions.  Mr Whitlam  has said: 'we must accept the view of  President  Nixon that diplomatic relations must be normalised as speedily as possible'. I have no knowledge and can find no information that the  President  or his Administration have said that at all. This is the third test of credibility. They, the United States, like us, have declared their attitude on China's admission to the United Nations. And they, like us, are seeking a dialogue in their bilateral relationship. 
The Leader of the Opposition, on his recent ill-starred journey, not only dismissed the future fate of the people of Taiwan in a most casual manner. He also took upon himself the role of publicly declaring the policy Japan should adopt about her treaty with Taiwan. 1 quote his own words at the National Press Club here in Canberra. 
We should be the first to point out to Japan that she is not in honour or reason irrevocably tied to a treaty forced on her when she was weak and dependent . . . we should say to her that she is now entitled to pursue her own interests which require a restoration of relations with China. 
That is the Leader of the Opposition brashly telling one of the great powers of Asia and one that is likely to be, in the foreseeable future, a dominant power what it should do. Japan, 1 emphasise, is a very great trading partner of ours and one with whom we are associated in many regional activities. This kind of advice disregards Australia's interest by assuming at once that it is to our advantage for China and Japan to move into a close relationship. It also smacks of interference in the internal affairs of Japan. Who are we to say: Japan is now entitled to pursue her own interests'? (Extension of time granted.) In fact it looks precisely the kind of negotiating position China herself could take up towards Japan. In short, the Leader of the Opposition urges Japan to tear up her treaty with Taiwan and do business with China. That any member of this Parliament should seriously advocate such action is utterly deplorable in the context of our national interest. It displays either ignorance of international relations or a cynical opportunism towards international agreements. It implies that international agreements such as ANZUS, which is the corner-stone of our security, are expendable scraps of paper. 
This is the first time in Australia's history  -  I emphasise this - that a Leader of the Opposition has been the total advocate of another country's cause. It is a dangerous policy to this country, and I will keep on repeating this until the next elections are well over. Let me quote some editorial comment from a leading newspaper in Asia. The Singapore edition of the 'Straits Times' on 14th July said this and I quote - 
1 strongly support the view stated by my colleague the  Deputy  Prime Minister that wherever there is a prospect of efficient and effective decentralisation we should take action to try to assist decentralisation. So far the second part of the honourable gentleman's question is concerned, it previously has been our view that there were growing opportunities for the employment of people displaced from the gold mining industry, and there was also a feeling that because of the rise in the price of gold additional opportunities may be provided in this industry. I was pleased to see the increase in the price of gold on the free market which has occurred in recent months. Nonetheless, this is not a matter that has previously been dealt with in detail by me, so I will discuss it with my colleagues and see what conclusion we can reach. 
-I discussed this problem last Thursday with my colleague, the Minister for Civil Aviation. He has submitted certain proposals to me. Those proposals will be submitted to Cabinet, and shortly afterwards the Minister for Civil Aviation will make an announcement in the Senate. 
As a major question of policy is involved here, I will refer it to the Department, and if I can let the honourable gentleman have an answer to the question I will do so tomorrow. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I received advice of (a) on 12th March and of (b) on 7th April. 
The communications made available to me had already been given security classifications by the originators and I do not believe that tabling would be either appropriate or useful. 
The Minister for the 
Interior has advised me that: 
and (2) There are no readily available records  to  provide complete information dating back to 1945. However, in the last 10 years the following members have been granted extra secretarial assistance for periods showns: 
H. Irwin- Mitchell,  N.S.W.-  10.6.69  to  5.12.69. 
W. Lee- Lalor, Vic- 22.9.69  to  5.11.69. 
H. Nicholls- Bonython, S.A.- 19.6.69  to  2.9.69 and 15.9.69 to 5.11.69. 
R. Fraser- A.C.T.- 17.3.70 to 24.4.70. 
In the case of the late  Mr Fraser  extra secretarial assistance was provided during and immediately following his illness. 
In relation to the three other cases an offer of an additional secretary/typist was made in June 1969 to each member whose electorate then exceeded 90,000 electors. The offer applied only until the elections later that year when the redistribution of electoral boundaries reduced those electorates to between 39,000 and about 60.000 electors. Only the three members named above took advantage of the offer. 
The answer to the  honourable  members  question  is as follows: 
The number of Servicemen killed on duty as a result of motor vehicle accidents from 1961 to 1970 inclusive was RAN 8, Army 75 (approximate), and RAAF 8. 
Precise figures for the Army and comparable information in respect of the Commonwealth Public Service are not available without excessive research. 
Ministerial Staffs  (QuestionNo.3411) 
DrGunaskedthePrimeMinister,upon notice: 
How many persons are employed on the personal staff of each Minister? 
What are the salaries of these personnel? 
The answer to the honourable's member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 
The then Prime Minister left Canberra at 12.15 p.m. on 12th January and arrived at Singapore at 9: 35 p.m. 12th January. As Minister for Foreign Affairs,  I  departed from Sydney at 1.00 p.m. on 12 January and arrived at Singapore at 7.00 p.m. 12th January. All times are expressed in local times of the places concerned. 
The cost of the commercial air fares  to  Singapore was $1,370.40. 
i  am advised by the Department of Air that in relation to the particular journey, takeoff weight from Canberra for the BAC1-11 was limited. This means that if the larger party had travelled on the route selected for the Prime Minister's aircraft via Alice Springs it would have been necessary to transport maintenance crew and aircraft spares to Alice Springs by separate aircraft. The additional cost involved in this way would have been between $999 and $2,893, depending  on  which RAAF aircraft was used to transport the maintenance crew and spares. It would have been possible for the whole party (including maintenance crew and spares) to have travelled in the BAC1-11 via Adelaide and Alice Springs at an additional cost of $323, but this would have involved more travelling time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
The explicit answer is 'none'. 
See answer to Question (1). 
Note - As part of regular and approved official practice, public servants are on varying numbers of occasions, which are determined by reference to the need, driven to or from work in chauffeur driven cars. These may be officers of senior status or may, for example, be officers required to work after the normal hours of duty, where public transport is not reasonably available. Other recognised uses of official transport for travelling to or from work include female staff ceasing duty in hours of darkness and use in emergencies. In all of this, it is the responsibility of departments, under their Ministers, to ensure that official transport is only used for official purposes. No estimate is available of the cost of using official transport to take public servants to or from work in these circumstances, but determination of the cost would require a major accounting task and the amount involved would represent only a small proportion of the transport costs of departments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have already said that no classification was ever given by me. 
No authority was given by me. 
The answer to the honourable member's  question  is as follows: 
As at 16 August 1971, the numbers of persons employed on the personal staffs of each Minister were: 
Naturally we are all concerned with the prospects of takeovers of Australian companies by overseas sources. We have now adopted guidelines for the introduction of foreign capital into Australia, and we have expressed our views as to the borrowing powers of international corporations in Australia. Those guidelines are rigidly observed and they impose restrictions on the capacity to borrow in Australia for the purpose mentioned by the honourable member. I cannot refer to other than 3 different corporations which were or are in the hands of an official liquidator,  Mr Jamieson.  He is an officer of the court and is not under the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth Government. He submitted these corporations to tender and tenders were made, in some cases by Australian corporations, but they were always substantially less than the amounts that overseas interests were prepared to pay. Under these circumstances we had no right to interfere whatsoever. As I said,  Mr Jamieson  was an official of the Court. We could not deprive the shareholders of their right to receive a fair return on their money. The case of the Robe River company is an entirely different proposition, and one about which I would not be prepared to express an opinion. Suffice to say that it is a matter for the liquidator,  Mr Jamieson,  to decide what should be done if Australian interests feel that it is a worthwhile proposition to bid and one that will give some kind of adequate return to the present shareholders. 
The second part of the honourable gentleman's question is far too hypothetical to answer at question time or, for that matter, at any time whatsoever. The answer to the first part of the question is that undoubtedly it is in Australia's interest that the Indo-Chinese peninsula should be free, that each of the 4 countries there should be able to make up its mind as to what kind of government it wants and that the people of those countries also should have the democratic right to determine whom they want as a government in that context. We on this side of the House have always stood for freedom of expression and for the right of individuals to elect the government of their choice. This is one of the reasons why we were there, as well as indirectly assisting the long term Interests of Australian security and the security of the people of Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia as well. 
I wish to inform the House that the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  will be absent for the rest of the week in order to represent Australia at the New Zealand international trade fair. 
The committee has been established. Papers have been prepared and submitted to it. lt has met and it will meet again. As soon as the committee submits a report to me I will consider it and then decide what I will do with it. 
The Public Service Board has advised that the daily rates of travelling allowance within Australia for public servants in Departments of State are as follows - 
First Division  -  $28.00 per day; 
Second Division - allowances for first 21 days' residence: $21.00 per day in capital cities; $13.00 per day other than capital cities; 
Third Division - 
Non-Clerical/ Administrative Staff: 
To the best of my knowledge no such request has been made to me. But it should be made clear to the House that if ever there was a party dedicated to the aspirations of the people of Papua New Guinea it is the LiberalCountry Party. Its efforts are very much in contrast with the troublemaking that occurred when some people on one of their unpremeditated and unthinking trips went there and caused the kind of trouble that induced us at that stage to have a special promulgation made in order to protect the Territory. 
I have not paid a visit to Papua New Guinea for some time. I look forward with a great deal of interest to going there: When I go I hope I will be able to make constructive proposals and that I will be able to consult with the leaders of the people of Papua New Guinea. I hope that when I go I will be able to give them a message that will clearly indicate that we are anxious that they should have internal independence as soon as it is practicable. It is the wish of this Government not only that they should have internal independence but also that we shall play our part in trying to ensure that their standards of living are continually improved. 
As the question now stands I am reluctant to authorise the time and expense which would be involved in obtaining and collating the information the honourable member has requested. However if he has a specific public enterprise in mind I will examine the matter to see what information can be provided. 
 I preface my answer by saying that Ministers, particularly those who must be in Canberra for long periods such as the Minister for the Interior, must have accommodation suitable to their needs in order to permit them to carry out their duties efficiently. 
That is where some of them do stay - and at other hotels as well. However, I do not regard this as a satisfactory way of providing accommodation for Ministers who have to work under such difficult conditions as they do. I have not read the articles quoted by the honourable gentleman. I will discuss them with my colleague, the Minister for the Interior, and let the honourable member have an answer as soon as I can. 
Yesterday I had not only a pleasant, but I 'believe a very successful meeting with  Mr Bobby  Limb,  Mr Jeff  Ashby and  Mr Nick  Tate relating to the Australian content of television programmes. We had a long, and I 'believe, profitable discussion. I was able to point out that arrangements have already been made by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to ensure that in each period of 28 statistical periods there must be not less than 50 per cent of programmes of Australian origin transmission between 6 a.m. and 12 midnight; secondly, between the key hours of 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. not less than 45 per cent of programme transmission time shall consist of programmes of Australian origin, this requirement to be increased to 50 per cent from 26th June; that between the hours of 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. not less than 6 hours shall consist of first release Australian drama; and finally that not less than 4 hours shall consist of programmes for children of school age designed and produced in Australia under the supervision of persons qualified for this work and based on the recommendations contained in the 'Television Programme Standards'. 
I was also able to obtain for them by direct communication- 
The right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  has asked that I make a statement on the measures for the protection of the United States dollar announced by  President  Nixon on 15th August. As honourable members will be aware, the situation in the international currency markets is changing from day to day and any assessment of the situation has to be treated cautiously at this point of time. However, in the view of the importance of the developments I feel it desirable to give the House a preliminary assessment. As honourable members will know, the present disturbed situation in the international currency markets was sparked off by the announcement of the  President  of the United States last week that convertibility of United States dollars into gold and other reserve assets was to be suspended, and a 10 per cent surcharge on all dutiable imports into the United States, other than those subject to quotas, was to be imposed. Both these decisions were announced by the  President  to be temporary. But it was made clear that the removal of the 10 per cent surcharge, and the resumption of convertibility of United States dollar balances, would be dependent on certain objectives being achieved by the United States as a result of negotiation in the fields of international trade and finance and the sharing of defence burdens. 
As to trade, the  President  claimed that American products were at a disadvantage because of unfair exchange rates. He said that the import tax would be ended when the unfair treatment ended. In the field of finance, the  President  asserted the need for a widespread major realignment of exchange parities, and also for an improved system of international monetary arrangements generally. The  President  also said that the time had come for other economically strong nations to bear their fair share of defending freedom around the world. This latest disturbance on the international currency markets is only the most recent of a long succession of similar disturbances, centring on one major currency after another, and sometimes on groups of currencies. In 1967 we had the disturbances leading up to the devaluation of sterling. In 1969, the pressure was trans ferred from London to Paris and we had the devaluation of the French franc and the revaluation of the Deutschemark. More recently, the trouble has centred on the United States and has been attributable in large part to the growing balance of payments deficit of that country. This has led to a fall in United States official reserves and a sharp increase in its official shortterm liabilities. At the same time, there has been a substantial transfer of United States dollars on private account into the international monetary markets of the world. All this has served to weaken confidence in the United States dollar on the foreign exchanges. 
A number of factors has contributed to the United States' external deficit. Prominent among these is the rapid price and cost inflation in the United States over the last 5 years. The United States' position has been exacerbated by the growing competitiveness of some of its trading partners and by restraints on the access of United' States' exports to markets abroad. Superimposed on this has been the heavy defence burdens of the United States. Defence expenditure abroad by the United' States has recently been running at the level of about $US5 billion annually. One way and another, the balance of payments deficit has built up until, in the first half of this year, the deficit has been running at an annual rate of $US23 billion. 
It is not surprising, in these circumstances that the United States dollar is now commonly regarded as being 'over valued'. In other words, the existing exchange parity for the United States dollar overrates its international purchasing power. This, of course, is a matter of critical worldwide importance because of the pivotal position in the international monetary system of the United States dollar. 
The United States dollar is the largest of the reserve currencies in the world today and many countries have fixed rates of exchange on the dollar. A great proportion of international trade and financial transactions has been settled through the dollar in the past. And the dollar has been adopted along with gold as one of the two basic units of value in the Bretton Woods monetary system. Other currencies have had their par values expressed in terms of the United States dollar and gold. 
There is no doubt that the Bretton Woods system has made a major contribution to full employment, economic growth, and the orderly development of world trade and financial arrangements in the post-war period. It has achieved this as a result of the adoption of a number of working principles, not least of which has been the system of agreed parities of rates of exchange between participating countries, adjustable only with the consent of the International Monetary Fund in the case of fundamental balance of payments disequilibrium. This system of pegged parities has been of particular value to smaller countries as a protection against the prewar practice of currency manipulation and competitive depreciations. 'It has also been of value to rapidly developing countries like Australia who do not have access to the economic dialogues centred on the United States and Europe. 
Nevertheless, no system is proof against the ravages of time and the Bretton Woods system is no exception. The need for further development of the Bretton Woods arrangements has long been recognised, and the most recent innovation has been the establishment of special drawing rights which, in themselves, offer some alternative to the United States dollar and gold as an international reserve asset. 
Another innovation, and this is very germane to the present situation, is that the Executive Board of the Fund has been discussing the case for a greater flexibility in the mechanism of exchange rate adjustments. There is a strong body of opinion which suggests that the present arrangements whereby exchange rates should not vary more than 1 per cent from parity should be changed by extending somewhat the operating limits within which currencies could be exchanged without being held to infringe their par values at the International Monetary Fund. 
The action taken by the United States last week has short-circuited this debate and taken the question of exchange rate adjustments into the field of immediate practical necessity in the foreign exchange markets. The 10 per cent surcharge on dutiable imports would, were it to be continued, strike heavily at the exports of countries like Japan which have had a large and growing market in the United 
States for goods of the kinds subject to the surcharge. Through the effect of this on industries in such centres it would in turn tend to reduce their demand for materials supplied by other countries in the normal course of events. The surcharge is currently under consideration in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. 
The United States has, however, said that it sees this trade action as a means of securing revaluation of the currencies of countries which it considers to have an unwarranted advantage over it in point of trade competition because of their existing parities. If and to the extent that other countries were to revalue their currencies, the United States dollar would be devalued in relation to them. The United States Government has chosen this approach to its problem in preference to seeking a formal devaluation of its currency against all other currencies. 
Amongst other things that course would involve the United States in altering the value of the dollar in terms of gold. The  President  has said that his Government does not intend to alter the present dollar price of gold. We have, as yet, no real idea as to what the final response of other major countries to the United States initiative is going to be. 
Under the rules of the International Monetary Fund, the exchange parity of any country which is a member of the fund can be altered only if the country itself seeks a change. It seems reasonable to suppose that few, if any, major countries are likely to seek such a change unless and until other countries taken steps to do so. As yet there is no firm indication of concerted action amongst major countries to that end. 
On Thursday of last week the Finance Ministers of the European Economic Community, meeting in Brussels, failed to reach agreement on any form of common action in the matter. The foreign exchange markets in Europe were closed last week but have re-opened this week. There have been no formal revaluations on the dollar but the majority of European countries have allowed their buying rates for dollars to exceed the Monetary Fund limits of 1 per cent beyond parity with the dollar. In point of fact, however, the markets so far this week have been fairly steady on the dollar and the dollar has fallen in value in most markets by something in the region of only 2 per cent to 3 per cent below the rates ruling before the markets closed. 1 want to stress that this is likely to be an interim situation since it has done nothing to achieve the more significant realignment of exchange rates which the United States, and the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund, consider to be necessary. This fact must be borne in mind in all our thinking and calculations. If, of course, a number of major currencies were to seek and obtain adjustments of their exchange parities under the International Monetary Agreement a question could arise as to whether Australia should seek some such adjustment. If such a. situation were to arise, we would need to make the most careful assessment of it from the standpoint of our own interests both international and domestic. But no such situation has arisen yet. 
We are keeping closely in touch with developments and studying all possibilities. At the same time we are preserving for ourselves the greatest possible scope for independence of action. If it should come to a decision whether or not to seek some alteration of our exchange parity there will be only one proper basis for decision the interests of the Australian economy and the Australian nation as a whole. Meanwhile, in the state of uncertainty which must prevail until the large issues I have mentioned are crystallised and intentions on the part of major countries become clearer, foreign exchange markets are likely to be very unsettled and changeable. We may also see large movements of funds between financial centres. It will be a matter of adjusting our own exchange dealing arrangements to meet changing situations as they arise. 
In this state of uncertainty in the foreign exchange markets it is not possible to settle on a firm exchange rate for the Australian dollar. However, in order to enable overseas transactions to be resumed, it has been decided to continue to fix an exchange rate with the pound sterling on a daily basis. For purposes of the last 3 days trading the existing parity with sterling that is, $A2.1429 for 1 sterling has been maintained. It is true that, as sterling has been traded at a rate about 2 per cent above parity with the United States dollar, this means that at the moment there is, in effect, a similar small appreciation of the Australian dollar in relation to the United States dollar. However, the situation is being reviewed on a day-to-day basis and any short term change in the rate should not, of course, necessarily be taken as an indication as to the long term rate that will eventually be settled for the Australian dollar. 
For the time being, and until further notice, banks have been advised that they may undertake foreign exchange transactions in respect of normal trade transactions, other current account payments contractually due, and the reasonable requirements of travellers. Rates of exchange for these transactions are quoted by the banks under arrangements with the Reserve Bank and are based on developments in the London and other main foreign exchange markets overseas. 
The Reserve Bank is not yet offering facilities to the banks to cover them for forward transactions and, of course, this limits the scope of banks to offer such cover to their customers. I think this is reasonable in view of the present unsettled circumstances on the foreign exchanges. We will be ready to adjust our position as required in accordance with the emerging situation. 
I present the following paper: 
International Currency - Ministerial Statement,  26  August  1971. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As many as possible. However the honourable member will appreciate that the resources  of  Ministers and departments are not unlimited and, notwithstanding the importance of providing the Parliament with the information it seeks, there are competing demands. Other essential work  of  Ministers and departments must continue. 
In the case of many of the questions the honourable member has put to me the information requested has to be sought from other departments and authorities. Where information can be made available before the estimates debate commences then this will be done. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information is available in the record] of the House. 
Departments and authorities have already been requested to have any annual reports  or  other information papers which are to be tabled, presented where possible before the relevant debate on the estimates commences. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member should consult published sources in respect of the information he has requested; or in the case of the Commonwealth Parliament, the records of the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given by my predecessor to a similar question (Hansard, 10 March 1971, page 810-811). 
If the honourable gentleman had been cautious enough to obtain information from the Department of Air as well as from the Department of the Navy he would have found that I visited Papua New Guinea on several occasions and not one. But I will try to obtain the details for him if I can. He might like to know though that on every occasion that I went, I went there for a constructive purpose and not to do harm. For example, I went there on one occasion  to re-establish HMAS Tarangau' and to try to rescue it from the swamps and the growth of the jungle. 
It was about 1952, but nonetheless it was done. I went to Papua New Guinea on several occasions as Minister for Air, flying in a VIP aircraft, which in those days was most unusual. I do not know whether I can get the actual dates, but I will try. I will even try to get evidence from the former Secretaries of the Department and those people who flew me. 
As Minister for Air.  Mr Charles  Jones - What year? 
About 1951-52. All I am doing is correcting the misunderstanding in the mind of the Leader of the Opposition because obviously he is trying to create some political mischief. 
The second part of the honourable gentleman's question relates to the 2 questions that have been on the notice paper for some time. Within the course of the last 24 hours I have asked my Department to clear up any questions on the notice paper related to me or my Department. One I specifically referred to was the question that the honourable gentleman has mentioned I think he must know that he has so many questions on the notice paper that most departments will now require additional employees to cater to his specific needs, I think he has well over 450 questions on the notice paper. I have not added them up myself, but if he is very good at figures he can perhaps do so and let me know the answer. 
The decision in the concrete pipes case was a momentous decision in that it extended what was previously thought to be  a  limitation on the Commonwealth's power under the Commonwealth Constitution Act. 1 have said, and so has my colleague, the Attorney-General, that we welcome the decision and that we are putting it under immediate study. Yesterday I had a long discussion with the AttorneyGeneral after he had discussed the problem with the Crown Law officer's. Today the Cabinet met on a submission presented by him and discussed not only the immediate problem but the long term problem as well. 
As to the immediate problem, that is the one of the viability of the law, as it then existed, relating to restrictive trade practices, we will shortly be presenting to the House a Bill relating to trade practices to ensure that the provisions as they existed remain viable. I am informed by the Crown Law authorities that over 99 per cent of the cases referred to the Commissioner of Trade Practices relate to corporations, and consequently the new Bill will be able to cover those cases completely. But we have a much more basic and, I think, important objective. That is to strengthen quickly the provisions of the restrictive trade practices legislation in order to strengthen competitive influences within Australia. I was informed today that the essential documentation is very nearly completed and, as soon as it is, it will be submitted to the relevant official for discussion. In time it will be embodied in  a  Cabinet submission and finally presented to the House. 
I want to warn the House of this: I am informed that it is a most complex and lengthy problem that has to be handled. I cannot promise the House that it will be a matter of days or even weeks before the substantive reformed legislation is introduced. However, I have given instructions not only to the Crown Law Office and to the Attorney but also to the Parliamentary Legislation and Programming Committee that this matter is to be given priority and that I want the Bill presented to the House just as soon as it can be done. My colleague, the AttorneyGeneral, will shortly be making a statement about this matter in the Senate. When he does so I am hopeful that his representative in this chamber will make  a  statement simultaneously. 
This is the twenty-second Budget since the Liberal-Country Party Government took office in 1949. Since then we in Australia have enjoyed a period of sustained economic growth combined with full employment which has not been rivalled in any previous period of our history. 
Let me illustrate by reference to the progress we have made in the last decade. Ten years ago our gross national product, at constant prices was around $ 17,000m. Last year it was $28,000m - an increase of about 60 per cent or an annual rate of increase of over 5 per cent. Ten years ago our workforce was less than 4) million. It is now over  5i  million - a growth of about 30 per cent. Our international reserves have more than doubled and now stand at over $2.3 billion. These facts, I suggest, speak for themselves. 
We are, I agree, now facing problems because cost and price inflation has recently gathered pace. In the interests of the whole community, we have to tackle these problems and tackle them now. But they need to be handled in a way which will assist, rather than impede, our long-term growth goals. And a co-operative effort is needed by every group of Australians. We have one very important economic problem that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  highlighted in his Budget Speech. Our over-riding economic purpose in this year's Budget was to combat inflationary pressures. We are well aware that the inflationary process is most complex and that there are important elements which the Government's fiscal and monetary measures do not influence directly. 
Wage rates, for example, are largely a matter for the Arbitration Commission and for employer and employee relationships, although the Government can play a role by trying to ensure that the general economic climate is not conducive to the making of wage awards that exceed increases in productivity. The problem we faced in framing the Budget was therefore to try to reduce inflationary pressures in those areas where the Government can have a direct influence. As I said in the House on 18th February, we have to distinguish between cost inflation and demand inflation. I wish that this distinction could be made abundantly clear, because of all the speeches I have heard in this House and of many of the comments I have heard too, few have been able to draw this distinction effectively. 
But I listen in on tha radio. In any event, I disappear the moment I see you. 
I pointed out then that we were not faced with overall demand inflation of the classical type, except in three areas, namely, private building and construction, private investment in plant and equipment, and Government expenditure. Here there was excessive pressure on resources. In addition, more recently the strong rise in the potential for demand inflation through increased personal consumption expenditure gave us cause for concern. In circumstances where prices had already been increasing much too rapidly, we felt that it would have been irresponsible to risk the possibility of superimposing excess demand on wage inflation. To guard against the development of undue demand pressures, we therefore judged that it was necessary to restrain the growth in Commonwealth expenditures by severely pruning departmental proposals and we decided also that we had to raise additional revenues. These are in the nature of fine tuning adjustments which must be seen in proper perspective. 
After allowing for the transfer of payroll tax to the States the Commonwealth's domestic outlays are estimated to increase by $900m in 1971-72- only $90m less than in 1970-71. Similarly, receipts are estimated to increase by only about $100m more than last year. In technical terms - I have to emphasise the word 'technical' because it has a technical meaning - these measures imply an increase in the overall domestic surplus of $170m. Combined with a restrictive monetary policy I have little doubt that they have helped considerably in reducing the risk that excess demand inflation would develop. But these measures will not in themselves prevent the continuance of the strong overall economic growth that we have been experiencing in recent years. It is nonsense to suggest that they will result in mass unemployment. In the normal course of events registrants for employment will rise to a seasonal peak in January of next year. With the addition of school leavers, it would not be at all surprising if unemployment exceeded 100,000 at that time. That would only be slightly in excess of the numbers that were registered in January this year. I want to assure the House that we remain firmly committed to the maintenance of full employment and that the Government will be keeping a very close watch on trends in the private sector to see whether they develop along the lines forecast. 
Our concern must be to try to provide an economic climate in which economic growth can proceed without excessive cost and price increases. Left unchecked, the rate of price increases would soon erode the gains we propose for pensioner and other social welfare recipients. It could also jeopardise the strong economic growth we have enjoyed in recent years. It could threaten our export industries. It could limit our ability to improve the quality of life in Australia. In the final analysis, of course, the prospects for controlling inflation will be affected, as I have already said, by community attitudes - not by any single group in the community, but by the community as a whole. Recent experience overseas suggests that once a cost-price spiral is permitted to get a foothold in an economy, the measures then required to combat it successfully are very difficult to devise and decidedly less palatable than those contained in this Budget. Our aim is to prevent such a development in this country. 
Till now I have referred mainly to measures aimed at demand control. But it is wrong to suggest that the Government has ignored the problems of cost pressures. The Treasurer referred to a variety of measures which are being taken outside the immediate Budget context and which arc aimed at reducing these pressures. It should however be recognised that the full year effects of wage and other cost increases which took place during 1970-71 will continue to be reflected in the economy for some time. The levels of average weekly earnings and the consumer price index, for example, are already considerably above their average levels in 1970-71. This undoubtedly will be reflected in statistics during the remainder of 1971-72, no matter how effective the Budget and the Government's other measures may be in containing future cost increases. 
Now let us speculate about what the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues might do to solve the problem. The Leader of the Opposition says he notes many things which are not causes of inflation. He says that wage increases are not the cause of inflation. I will refer to these in a moment. He also says: 
Great sectors of our secondary industry have not contributed to inflation. 
The rural sector is not contributing to inflation; and clearly he believes that Government spending is not the cause, since he wants the Government to spend much more on a whole range of projects. Moreover, as company incomes increased very little in the last financial year, presumably he does not find the cause of inflation in that area. What then is the cause in his view? It is important that not only we but all members of the Australian public should know. Having excluded so much, he leaves us in the dark as to what his analysis is and what the real causes might be. The Leader of the Opposition does, it is true, give us a most significant hint as to his views when he accuses the Government of refusing to acknowledge - and here I quote his own words - 'the inevitable connection between rising prices and demands for increased wages.' 
I repeat his words "The inevitable connection between rising prices and demands for increased wages'. Does this mean that after all, he accepts wage increases as a cause of inflation? The words may be ambiguous. He is strangely silent. I accept his silence as meaning that he does accept wage increases as the cause. The fact is, of course, that wage and salary earners have increased their share of gross national product. In 1970-71, wages, salaries and supplements accounted for nearly 55 per cent of gross national product, much above the proportion in 1969-70, when it was 52.4 per cent, and in other recent years. 
The Leader of the Opposition refers also to 'half an income-price policy' under which he suggests the Arbitration Commission has the job of keeping wages and prices down. He should know, as a once potential lawyer, that the Arbitration Commission has power to set only minimum wage rates which in neither theory nor practice amounts to setting actual wage rates. This is reflected in the fact that average weekly earnings have consistently increased much faster than award rates; for example, in the year to the June quarter 1971 by over 13 per cent as against 9 per cent in the corresponding period last year. The truth is that the Leader of the Opposition is unable to provide any analysis of the causes of inflation. Not unexpectedly he is therefore completely silent on the crucial question of what should be done to control it. We do know that he criticises the Government for not spending enough. In almost the same breath he complains that the burden of taxation is too high. He cannot have it both ways. So we are left to the conclusion that  Mr Whitlam's  cure for inflation is to increase Government spending and to reduce taxation. This is just the kind of cure we must avoid if we are to make any kind of attempt to cure inflation. As I have said, it is the Government's firm belief that the only responsible course of action was to bring down a Budget designed to prevent the development of excessive demand inflation, superimposing itself on the existing cost inflation. I make it clear that our policy continues to be a flexible one, responsive to change and able to make adjustments needed to sustain full employment and economic growth. It is, of course, entirely possible to adopt a less restrictive monetary and fiscal policy if circumstances make that necessary. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I want now to emphasise another important aspect of our policy. We have been able to take positive action to meet the various high priority needs of the community, despite the need to restrain Government expenditure to combat inflationary pressures. The Budget in fact provides for substantial increases in social welfare, defence, education and the arts, assistance to rural industries, and other areas of essential activity. The responsible Ministers will explain in detail those parts of the Budget which involve their own portfolios. But let me just mention social welfare as one example. Reference has been made to a fundamental reappraisal of social services which I said the Government would undertake. The Government looked at various possible measures in the social welfare field. We decided, as I shall outline in a moment, to take action in the areas of greatest need. If the Opposition wants to say that this policy was wrong and that it does not believe that those in the greatest need should receive the greatest assistance, it is up to the Opposition to tell the Government and up to it to make it positive to the Australian people. It is all very well for the Leader of the Opposition to say glibly that the cost of paying pensions to all Australians would be no more than $300m. The fact is that, on the basis of present eligibility for age pensions, the cost would be about $440m. Now where would that money come from? Where did he get his figures from? What taxes would the 
Leader of the Opposition increase? Until these questions are answered one must regard any propositions put by the Leader of the Opposition with extreme doubt. 
Unlike the Leader of the Opposition, my Government has acted responsibly by matching its welfare programme to what we have judged can reasonably be raised from taxation and other revenue sources. Frankly,  Sir, I  did not think that we could increase revenue at all other than in the way in which we have done so. I did not want to touch to any extent, and neither did my colleague the Treasurer, indirect taxes which could clearly write themselves into the consumer price index. I repeat: We have helped where we thought the need or poverty was greatest. 
The increase of $1.25 in the standard rate of pension and of $1 for each married pensioner provides a substantial improvement in the purchasing power of recipients. Taken with increases which were made last year and in April this year, there has been an increase of about 11 per cent in both pension rates since September 1970. The consumer price index rose by about 5 per cent in the year to June 1971. Therefore, there is a pretty healthy margin of approximately 6 per cent that can improve the real standards of the pensioners themselves. So clearly, I think, we can take it that those most in need have received the benefits and they have received considerable gains. 
A further most significant measure was the increases granted in the additional pensions payable where a pensioner has dependent children. In addition, we have increased child endowment by 50c a week for each child under the age of 16 in excess of 2 in a family. These increases in pensions, child endowment and other social welfare and repatriation benefits should ensure a welcome improvement in the standard of living of those dependent on them, even after allowing for the faster rate of price rises.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I have pledged my Government to do all within its power to eliminate pockets of poverty. This is and will remain our humanitarian aim. Our concern for the needy is unqualified. We will continue to keep measures to increase our help constantly under review. 
The Leader of the Opposition has moved to condemn the Budget on the ground that it contains no proposals to balance the finances and functions of the Commonwealth, States and local government. Obviously, the Leader of the Opposition could not have written the speech. Obviously he could not have been guided by any person with a knowledge of the contents of the Budegt itself. The fact is that this Budget recognises the undertaking I gave when I came to office that 1 would give priority to making sure that the Federal system worked effectively. My two conferences with the Premiers in Canberra have resulted in a significant improvement in the States' financial capacity. First, my colleagues and I reached agreement with the States on a growth tax which is theirs to levy and which will give them an important addition to their revenue raising resources. Second, on top of the normal grants that they will receive under the improved financial arrangements settled last year, we have provided special assistance of $60m to help the States cope with their 1971-72 Budgets. Third, while recognising the need to restrain the growth in capital spending by governments, we agree to support a substantial increase in the funds available to the States for expenditure on capital works. Fourth, in transferring payroll tax to the States, we agreed to meet the cost of exempting local authorities from the tax where it applies to their non-business activities - a move which has been widely welcomed by local government authorities throughout Australia. I now ask the question: How many members of the Opposition know of the amount of funds that have been made available to local government authorities? If they do know, why have they not referred to it in any one of their speeches? Certainly, the Leader of the Opposition did not appear to have any knowledge of this innovation or the extent of it. The Government has taken these steps to improve the financial capacity of the States and their authorities. We did so because we recognise the important responsibilities which they have in providing basic services to the citizens of this country. The Labor Party, as we all know - this side and the other side - gives lip service to the role of the States. But we all know that what it would like to do is to take over the services provided by the States and run them from Canberra and to abolish the States if it had the constitutional capacity to do so. We believe, however, in a cooperative federalism, in which full recognition is given to the role of the States in providing the educational, housing, health and other facilities that are so important in improving the quality of life. (Extension of time granted.) 
The plain fact is that nearly $3, 000m, or over one-third of this year's Budget, has been set aside to assist the States in providing these facilities. Portion of this assistance takes the form of grants for specific purposes, but some $2,300m is available to the States for expenditure as they see fit. To suggest that this Budget excludes all mention of cities completely overlooks the fact that the major portion of this assistance would be expended by State governments in their cities. The Commonwealth recognises that State governments are being faced with demands for improvements in every field of their activity. With our help, an increasing proportion of national resources is being devoted to the provision of Government services in the State and local sectors. It is important, too, to bear in mind, however, that the resources of the community drawn upon by all the government instrumentalities that service the community are necessarily limited. Just as we have had to limit spending in fields of Commonwealth responsibility, so too are there limits to the assistance we can provide to the States to improve their services. But there is no doubt,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the increased financial capacity of the States will do much to help improve the quality of Australian life. So, too, will the action which the Commonwealth is taking directly in many fields. I have already mentioned our social welfare programme. We are also making substantial contributions to Aboriginal welfare, to education and the arts, and we have established a department whose functions include examination of environmental problems. All this is part of our effort to give national leadership and secure national unity. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, this Budget is a positive one. It is a Budget which will help us achieve our great national aims of economic strength and prosperity, social welfare, and security. It will contribute to a general improvement in the quality of life. 
There are some people who seem blind to our economic progress, and the real nature of our problems. They relish playing the role of prophets of gloom. Some talk of a stagnant economy. Some see unemployment rising in an uncontrolled way. The Leader of the Opposition professes to see the Budget as a divisive political exercise. People who talk in this way seem to be mesmerised by the immediate problems of the day. It is true that some of these problems - such as the current problem of inflation - have to be taken very seriously and solutions have to be found for them. But such problems should be kept in proper perspective. It is nonsense to suggest that mass unemployment is just around the corner. Our record in maintaining full employment is second to no other country in the world. We have a strong economy; an economy with enormous and exciting potentialities for future growth; providing only we act responsibly. People who suppress or distort these facts do no service to Australia. The sooner we learn to ignore them the better it will be for the development and prosperity of this country and the better we will be able to do for every single class of Australian citizen. 
-During question time on Tuesday 24th August the honourable member for - . Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel 
Bowen) asked me a series of questions without notice on possible self-government for certain areas of Papua New Guinea, and I promised to obtain an early answer for him. 
I am informed by the Department of External Territories that the Report of the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly Select Committee on Constitutional Development did indicate that there was support for self-government in the Bougainville and East New Britain Districts. 
The Report also recommended that 'the system of government for Papua New Guinea be a single central government as at present' and that 'internal selfgovernment should come about no sooner than during the life of the 1976-1980 House of Assembly'. 
There has been no suggestion as to the precise form that the 'self-government' in the 2 areas referred to should take apart from the mention in the report that.  Mr Tammur.  the Patron of the Mataungan Association, was understood by the Select Committee to be requesting an independent government for the Gazelle Peninsula. 
It has been announced that Area Authorities would be established in Papua New Guinea and the necessary legislation has been passed by the House of Assembly. The House of Assembly has not been requested to establish self-governing areas with delegated powers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: . 
The statement to which the honourable member refers will include details for holders of Commonwealth statutory offices. It will not however include details . for statutory office holders whose remuneration' is determined jointly by the Commonwealth and other Governments. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are: 
and (2) No extensions are being carried out or about to be carried out. However, renovations are about to commence to  a  downstairs cloak room and toilet provided for visitors to the Lodge, and certain locks and other fittings are to be replaced or modernised to provide adequate security. The total estimated cost is $1,220. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) A number of the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on. Medical and Hospital Costs are similar in substance to recommendations of the Commonwealth Committee of Enquiry into Health Insurance (Nimmo Committee) which have progressively been implemented by the Government. In regard to the recommendation concerning an inquiry into the problems associated with the special care and treatment of the physically and mentally handicapped of all ages, this recommendation is closely related to the series of recommendations made by the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare in its Report on Mentally and Physically Handicapped Persons in Australia which was tabled on 5th May 1971. These recommendations are currently the subject of consideration by the Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Apart from the fact that many communications remain confidential unless otherwise agreed, I do not intend to adopt the practice and considerable administrative burden of continuing to list as a matter of course the details of the many matters on which there is communication between the Commonwealth and the States.  
The answer, to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the honourable member is aware from information provided in an answer to a previous similar question (Hansard 12.6.70 pages 3619-3627) 
Ministers attend conferences as part of the continuing process of cooperation between the Commonwealth and the States. I refer him also to the answer to an earlier question of this nature (Hansard 10.3.71, page 820). 
If the honourable member wishes to know what action may have been taken by way of conferences in a particular field, I will examine the matter to see what information can be provided. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to my reply to Question No. 3599. 
Apart from the fact that many communications remain confidential unless otherwise agreed, 1 do not intend to adopt the practice and considerable administrative burden of listing, as a matter of course, the details of the many matters on which there is communication between the Commonwealth and the States. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) and (3) lt is not the policy of this Government to give information on these matters which concern advice to Ministers and arrangements between Ministers and their advisers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) and (3) It is not the policy of this Government to give information on these matters which concern advice to Ministers and arrangements between Ministers and their advisers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) and (3) It is not the policy of this Government to give information on these matters which concern advice to Ministers and arrangements between Ministers and their advisers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am reluctant to authorise the time and expense which would be involved in obtaining and collating the information (be honourable member has requested. However if he wishes to know what action may have been taken in this way in a particular field I will examine the matter to see what information can be provided. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information provided by departments, authorities and universities on digital computers used for data processing purposes installed since 29th May 1969 is set out below: 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Vladimir Petrov received 5,000 when be defected in 1954. As to further payments made to him up to 19th April 1963, reference may be made to the answer provided on that date by the then Prime Minister to a similar question, reported in Hansard on page 806. Since that date  Mr &amp; Mrs Petrov  have continued to be available for consultation and payments in respect of calls made on them for that purpose have amounted to $715.  Mr and Mrs Petrov  are not in receipt of any, other payments from the Commonwealth. 
I am not sure of the figures but I would be reasonably certain that those quoted by my friend would be accurate. In other words, my Press Secretary does receive about $3,000 a year more than back benchers of this Parliament. I cannot make a comparison between members of the Press and members of the Parliament because no exact comparison is possible. But I can say that the members of this Parliament represent the Australian people in the highest national assembly we have. Consequently, if we were in an arbitral or in some other way to carry out a work value study to determine what members of the Parliament are entitled to receive I believe it would be found by arbitral authorities to be considerably in excess of the salary received by a Press officer, no matter how able, distinguished or capable he may be. I can merely state that as a matter of work value appreciation, though I do not want the honourable member or for that matter any section of the media to think that I am advocating a reduction in salaries paid to members of the media - I am not. Nor am I doing any more than sympathise with my colleague who has just asked me the question because I believe that in terms of work value he is distinctly underpaid. 
As to the first question asked by the honourable gentleman, I can say that it is a totally false assumption and could have been only the product of an imagination that has run completely riot. There was never any discussion with myself or, for that matter, 1 would be fairly certain, with the Treasurer or any other member of the Australian Cabinet. Consequently that was a hypothetical case which any sensible member would have rejected immediately. But the honourable gentleman opposite loves to pick up the riddle taddle and pibble pabble of Pompey's camp. He asked me yesterday about something that was alleged to have occurred at the meeting of my own Federal Council which was in fact false. He could have got his information only from somebody who wanted to whisper and not from any person who in fact was present at the meeting. 
I denied it immediately. 
He took a more proper course and said that he was not going to inform the Leader of the Opposition, in any circumstances, of what had happened at the meeting of our Council. For that matter, I would not let the honourable member listen even at the keyhole of my own Party meetings. The second question that was put to me related to the chief economist of W. D. Scott and Co. I contacted him yesterday and asked him whether what he was reported as saying in one of yesterday's papers was true. He said he was rather sorry about the heading that was put in the newspapers concerned. Because it did not reflect in any sense the impression he wished to convey. But he had carried out a survey and it was contained in W. D. Scott's latest memorandum. I have not had the opportunity to read it but nonetheless I will do so." 
The point I have to make, which I made last night in my statement to the House, and the point that the Treasurer himself made in the course of his Budget Speech is that if ever there was a government dedicated to full employment and to trying to remove pockets of poverty, it is this Government - the Liberal-Country Party Government that has governed this country successfully for the past 22 years. 

 - Mr Speaker, I was asked a question of great importance. If honourable members opposite do not like to hear answers they should not ask questions. The Government has done certain things in this Budget. The Government said that it would not be prepared to have demand inflation superimpose itself on cost or wage inflation, because the Government believes that the predominant cause of inflation today is wage inflation or the increase in average wage earnings. That is the cause, and we want to prevent it from growing worse. We have pointed out that the Government has now budgeted for an internal surplus of $650m and has kept a relatively tight monetary policy in order to prevent these circumstances occurring. We therefore have adundant opportunities lor movement in one avenue or another if there appears to be sufficient cause to adapt different policies. We have adopted this course of action ever since we have been in Government and we would not hesitate to adopt it in the future. In other words, we remain dedicated to these ideals. 1 want to emphasise a little more emphatically than did my colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service, that we are dedicated to the ideal of the full and effective employment of our people. We want large scale national development. But at the same time as we have this national development we shall seek, as we are doing in this Budget, to remove any pockets of poverty that exist and to give the greatest assistance to those people whom we regard as having the very greatest need. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Report of the Victorian Decentralisation Advisory Committee on Selection of Places Outside the Metropolis of Melbourne for Accelerated Development, and the Report of the Development Corporation of New South Wales on Selective Decentralisation, were presented to the Governments of Victoria and New South Wales respectively. These reports are not, therefore, amongst those which have been commissioned by the CommonwealthState Officials' Committee on Decentralisation. Copies of the reports have, however, been made available to the Committee, which is thus in a position to refer to them in the course of its work as it considers appropriate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) As the Honourable member will know, the Local Government Association of New South Wales and Shires Association of New South Wales sent a circular memorandum to Federal Members and Senators in New South Wales on 7th May 1971 concerning the resolution. In addition, the resolution was drawn to my attention, initially by the Premier of New South Wales at the Premiers' Conference of 16th June 1971. at which the resolution was discussed. 
The honourable member will also know that following the Premiers' Conference I announced that the Commonwealth would meet the cost of exempting the nonbusiness activities of local government authorities from payment of payroll tax as from the date of transfer of the tax to the States. It is estimated that local government authorities will, as a result benefit by an estimated $6m this year and $8m in a full year. This decision has been warmly welcomed by local authorities. 
On 26th August the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  asked me a question without notice about the allocation of houses in Canberra to Ministers. I have discussed this matter with the Minister for the Interior, as I undertook to do, and I have looked at the relevant papers. 
I can assure the honourable member that the action taken to provide the Minister for the Interior with a house in Canberra is consistent with previous practice. 
For many years now there has been provision for the allocation of houses on a priority basis to people who have to be brought to Canberra by the Commonwealth Government for special purposes and whose period of residence here is indeterminate. As is common knowledge, Ministers have been regarded as coming within this category. This is a sensible approach. 
Apart from their duties as Members of Parliament, Ministers have many pressing commitments which require their presence in Canberra when Parliament is not sitting. Particularly is this true of the Minister for the Interior. I think this is well understood, and further I think the practice of Ministers bringing their families to Canberra and establishing homes here is welcomed. 
I have, for some weeks past, been contemplating writing a second letter to the Prime Minister of South Africa indicating what I thought were the feelings of the Australian people and, for that matter, my own feelings about the problems of apartheid and its association with sport. I have had discussions with the Foreign Minister about it but up to now we have felt that it would not be prudent to take further action - that one letter might be as much as diplomatic niceties might permit. Nonetheless, I will be only too happy to give further consideration to this letter. In the last letter that I wrote I pointed out the feelings of the Australian people - their regret and disappointment - and I also made known my own feelings which were exactly the same. 
It is a pity that the honourable gentleman who has asked this question has not listened to what has been said by my colleague, the. Minister for Housing. It is a pity too that he has not listened to what was said by  Mr Dunstan,  the Labor Premier of South Australia, who stated that the proposed scheme is a much better one than the agreement which it is to replace and that as such he will accept it. It has been accepted also by New South Wales, but I believe that one State in particular is prepared to play politics. We cannot make the Commonwealth-State financial and economic relationships successful on our own. We will try. The way in which we are trying in relation to this matter - and my colleague has demonstrated this in the House beyond question - is illustrated by the fact that the amount of funds made available to the States under the new scheme will be substantially greater than the amount which would have been made available under the old scheme and will give a discretion to the States as to the way in which the money may be spent. If the honourable gentleman who asked the question wants us to return to the old scheme and give the States substantially less- 
The honourable member has asked his question; let me answer it. If the honourable member wants to go back to the old scheme, he can let the Minister for Housing know. I am sure that he will be amazed at the temerity of the honourable member's suggestion, but I know he will listen to him wilh courtesy and great attention. 
At the time that people start to speculate about rises in parliamentary salaries, particularly the salaries for private members, we always hear the claim thai the time is not opportune and that sacrifices should be made by members of the Parliament. That is a common statement. I understand it and I understand the motives behind it. I also think that in contemplating this question we have to consider not only the justice of the claim but also the current economic climate and the Government's austerity programme as well. 
The Government has taken the lead and has produced a Budget that, I think, is more than adequate for the times. Tt is, in fact, a perfectly appropriate Budget. If other people, particularly the Opposition, sections of the trade union movement and the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, were content to follow our lead I would be a very happy man because I know that the Budget's objectives would be achieved. But I also believe that fairness must be taken into consideration and that the private member:, are entitled to a degree of fairness and should not be discriminated against. Bui in saying all that, because of the strength of the expressions in some sections of the media I can give this one assurance: I have had very little pressure brought upon me by private members to sec that salaries are increased. Naturally, I have been thinking about the level of parliamentary salaries because I think it is right that I do so. But I have not made up my mind. I would be prepared to listen to representations, but I would not in any circumstances commit myself. 
I have noi closely studied Professor Ehrlich's statements but 1 have read comments about them in the Press and seen resumes of what he has said. I must say that I was not attracted by what he has said publicly. I well remember in my very early days at the university when 1 was studying economics that there were many other people who made similar forecasts and who turned out to be just as wrong. Where would we have been if we had taken notice of a most distinguished professor at the University of Sydney who said that we could not have a population much in excess of 15 million? We now know that we can take a vastly larger population than that and provide better living standards for people provided only that the LiberalCountry Party coalition remains in government. I think the honourable member being a thoughtful person and ready to accept what J have said will know the extent to which 1 disagree with Professor Ehrlich. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question  is as  follows: 
25th June 1971. 
9th August 1971. 
26th August 1971. 
There is a manual called 'Protective Security Handbook'- 
This question opens up some very interesting vistas. I thank the honourable member for giving me the opportunity to think about it. If I do decide to go I will consult him about it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government's policy on overseas investment in Australia was set out in a statement made to the House by the former Prime Minister on 16th September 1969. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The letter from the Premier of New South Wales to which the honourable member is referring was dated 30th September 1970 and was received on 2nd October 1970. My predecessor replied on 23rd December 1970. As to the nature  et  the reply the general position so far as the Commonwealth is concerned is that correspor ui.e between the Commonwealth and a State is regarded as confidential unless otherwise agreed. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned showeth: 
That the Australian people both in Metropolitan and Rural areas should have the best of television programmes available to them and that television as a powerful means of communication should not be in the control of too few hands. 
The increased quota for Australian dramatic productions should not be imposed by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board at the expense of Australian professional variety or Australian documentary or educational programmes, but directed more towards cutting down expenditure on the purchase of imported productions, thus effecting a considerable saving in Australia's overseas balance of payments. 
The Australian Parliament has a responsibility to encourage the development of our National identity, character and heritage and the promulgation, for the sake of our children, of an adequate picture of Australia, her standards, morals and way of life, particularly through the media of radio and television, which is in the immediate control of the Australian Government. 
Until constructive and positive action is taken by the Australian Government to promote Australian culture and protect the employment and professional standards of Australian writers, artists and producers in Australia itself there is little likelihood of stopping the flow of Australian talent from Australia to other countries. 
The Australian Broadcasting Control Board must insist that its new quota standards of Australian dramatic content on television are rigidly imposed and enforced on all commercial television stations. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, should - 
Cause the Australian Government to recognise the right of Australian professional people engaged in the creative and performing arts to further develop their skills and talents in Australia, and to be protected from overseas programmes in a way that will encourage an Australian Television and Radio industry that can reflect and contribute to our identity and growth as a nation. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I want to inform the House of the following ministerial arrangements:  Mr Holten,  in addition to his duties as Minister for Repatriation, will assist the Minister for Trade and Industry. I have also made the following appointments of Assistant Ministers: The Prime Minister will be assisted by  Mr Dobie.  The Minister for Primary Industry will be assisted by  Mr King.  The Minister for Health and the Leader of the Government in the Senate will be assisted by  Senator Marriott.  The Postmaster-General will be assisted by  Mr Robinson.  The Minister for Labour and National Service will be assisted by  Mr Street.  The Minister for Civil Aviation will be assisted by  Mr McLeay. 

 Senator Marriott will take up his duties after he has been sworn in as a member of the Executive Council. This will also apply to  Mr King  on his return from overseas. 
I also wish to inform the House that the Minister for Works,  Senator Wright,  left Australia today to lead the Australian Delegation to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference in Kuala Lumpur.  Senator Wright  is expected to return to Australia on 24th September. During his absence, the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  will be Acting Minister for Works. The Acting Minister for Works will be represented in the Senate by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. 
I have not seen the report to which the honourable gentleman referred; but in general I can say this to him: If he wishes to look at the latest report on Australia's export income, he will see the very substantial increase in our balance of trade as compared with last year and the fact that, with the exception of 2 items - tourism and the repatriation of profits and interest - we will be able to cover our total balance on current account. If the honourable member is not delighted with that record of performance of our export industries, then nothing will please him. It is to the permanent credit of this Government that never before has any government in Australia's history been in a position in which it can forget the balance of payments as a problem and look at the domestic problems in order to give better standards of living, to keep a very high rate of employment and to go along with our development projects. 
The honourable member knows that on many occasions he has brought to me delegations consisting of representatives of the Murray Valley Development League as well as several other bodies intimately concerned about the interests of his constituents. I think he knows too that I have always been only too happy to receive any delegation that he cares to bring along. I welcome the opportunity he has given me to speak on behalf of his constituents. I think the appropriate course to follow will be to extract from Hansard tomorrow morning the substance of his question and let  Sir Henry  Bolte, the Premier of Victoria, have it immediately; and I hope he will be able to reply direct to the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth-State Officials Committee on Decentralisation has met on 3 occasions since its establishment. As has been pointed out to the honourable member in paragraph (1) of my reply to Question No. 3117 (Hansard, page 2866 of 6lh May 1971) the Commonwealth-State Officials Committee on Decentralisation established a Technical Sub-Committee to supervise the detailed work being undertaken by the Committee. As also indicated in that reply, the Technical Sub-Committee in turn agreed that its work should be carried on by means of direct contacts between thi Commonwealth and State officers concerned; these contacts have included meetings of working groups composed of these officials. 
(a), (b) and (c). Information in respect of the studies set in hand by the Committee was given in answer to Parliamentary Question Nos 1179 on 1 7th April 1969 (Hansard, page 1274), 1643 on 9th September 1969 (Hansard, page 1014), 468 on 14th April 1970 (Hansard, pages 1109-10) and 2086 on 16th February 1971 (Hansard, pages 99-100). With the exception of the traffic congestion study, for which some preliminary results are available, all studies have been completed. 
The question of tabling the reports in the Commonwealth Parliament will be decided after the Commonwealth and State Governments have considered the report of the Commonwealth-State Officials Committee on Decentralisation. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth-State Officials Committee on Decentralisation did not meet during the past year. One meeting of the Technical Sub-Committee, through which the parent Committee has implemented its research programme, was held. Meetings of working groups of the Technical Sub-Committee were also held. 
No. 
See answer to (2). 
During this period the Committee's research programme was carried on under the supervision of the Technical Sub-Committee (see answer to (1)), and no good purpose would have been served by holding a meeting of the parent Committee. 
For further information, I refer the honourable member to my answer to Question No. 3794. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The nature and outcome of my discussions with the Premier of Queensland on this matter are outlined in my press statement of 8th April 1971. 
The Queensland Government indicated at the time that it would introduce legislation to amend the existing laws in the next session of the State Parliament. 
Ship building: Tariff Board Report (Question No. 3937) 
In my view, and in the view of my advisers, the policy now being followed by the Australian Government on the changes in parities of international currencies is without doubt the most sensible and the wisest policy that could be followed by this Government. Our monetary policy is generally accepted by the International Monetary Fund and by other authorities as being appropriate to the present situation. I think that policy is in the best interests of Australia. As to the second question asked by the honourable gentleman, obviously he has not read the statement made by my colleague, the Treasurer, last night and published in today's newspaper in which the Treasurer pointed out that we have had the movement of capital into Australia under severe restriction over recent weeks. He also pointed out that the time has come when we believe that that policy should be changed and movement of capital permitted. The Reserve Bank will keep the inward movement of funds under continuous supervision. If we believe that there is a movement of funds into Australia to exploit the Australian market and for other such purposes, we will immediately take action to try to stop it. 
I remind the honourable gentleman that one of the problems, in fact the biggest economic problem, that we face is to prevent inflation getting any worse in this country. Far from stopping it getting worse, we should do everything to rein in inflationary pressures. I believe that the policies we are following are correct. One of the reasons why capital inflows of a speculative kind were prevented was to stop the liquidity problem growing too high and to stop unnecessary or undesired changes in the interest rate structure of this country. 
If anyone can answer the last part of the honourable gentlemen's question, believe you me he is in the strata of genius. If anyone can anticipate the results he will be the greatest profiteer in the history of any country. I wish I knew what they would be. I would be exploiting the situation for the benefit of the Australian people and certainly not permitting private people to capitalise on it. 
I preface my remarks by saying that I have carefully gone through the file relating to the purchase of homes in Canberra by Ministers. I have been assured that each of the purchases has been completely consistent with Government policy. It is done with the full knowledge of most people involved. Nothing whatsoever in any way has been held back or disguised. 
Wait a moment. You will get an answer. Be a little more patient, please. I repeat that it is completely consistent with Government policy. I have said that I think that there are several Ministers who should reside in Canberra to the maximum extent practicable. I do not want in any circumstances to place restrictions on their activities. This applies particularly in the case of my colleague, the Minister for the Interior. I deplore any unfortunate comments that have been made by people about what has been the practice and what has been considered, at least until the present time, as an acceptable one. 
My colleague, the Minister for the Interior, has discussed this matter with me on at least 3 occasions over the course of the last 14 days. I have agreed with him that it would be wise for my Department to prepare a submission for me so that that policy may be considered once again. However, I want to remind the House that in my own personal knowledge the present policy has been discussed in Cabinet on other occasions and certainly as far back as the last 10 .to 12 years. I can also state that my colleague, after discussion with me, has informed me that he has made other arrangements. Consequently, I believe, the suggestion that be was purchasing a property in Canberra can be regarded as a dead letter. Still I will have a submission brought on as soon as I can and I will make certain that the policy once again becomes obvious to all those people who want to create mischief where it is unnecessary. 
I have placed no restrictions whatsoever on the officials who will be submitting a report to me. Consequently, I believe that their investigations will be wide ranging and will canvass a number of possibilities. Nonetheless, no matter what they might present to me, I personally will ensure that the matter mentioned by the honourable gentleman is taken into consideration by Cabinet when the Cabinet submission is being considered. 
I think it would be generally recognised that an answer to the honourable member's question would require a second reading speech. It is not a suitable type of question to be asked at question time, particularly as precision is so important. What I can repeat to the honourable gentleman and to the House is that the major economic problem we face in Australia is inflation. As the Minister for Labour and National Service has said, this is due primarily to wage inflation of the award kind and the wages drift. Interest rate policy, together with monetary policy, supplements the fiscal policy of the Government. It is one of the critically important means that we have to try to ensure that inflationary forces are checked and then turned back. Unless this happens we will have problems not only in relation to housing but also of a worse kind throughout the primary and export interests of this country. 
Nonetheless housing itself is a very important sector of the economy. The honourable gentleman must know that until recently special interest rates were provided under the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. This policy will be changed and, as I said, the amount of funds being provided under the new scheme, which was originally devised by my colleague the Minister for Housing, has already been put to the States. They are contemplating whether certain changes can be made. My colleague is considering their proposals and has made certain recommendations to me. I hope to be able to give him an answer in the not too distant future. But if the honourable gentleman wants to know whether- 
If the honourable member looks at the most recent return of the Commonwealth Statistician he will see that it appears as though an upturn in housing in the private sector has now taken place. I hope that this turns out to be true, but if I find that the upturn has not taken place in the way in which the figures seem to indicate, I will again take up the matter with my colleague the Treasurer and the honourable member can rest assured that I will be prepared to do something about it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the speech referred to, my predecessor said that demand pressures of new non-dwelling building construction needed to be reduced and that the Government would prefer overseas investors who were considering financing nondwelling construction not to do so until they had first discussed their plans and the dates on which they proposed to begin construction with the Treasury. 
It is not the policy of this Government to give information on matters which concern advice to Ministers and arrangements between Ministers and their advisers. 
See (1). There was no question of enforcement. Attention is also invited to a statement issued by my predecessor on 5th March 1971. 
I have nothing to add to what has already been said about the level of expenditure in nondwelling construction. In his recent Budget Speech the Treasurer said 'there has also been end still is an over-strong pressure of demand in some sectors, the effects of which spill over into other areas. Over the past couple of years expenditure has been running very high in nonresidential construction'. 
Immigration: Social Workers (Question No. 34S7) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) 1 refer the honourable member to the answer given by me to a similar question on 25th August 1971 (Hansard, page 669). 
If the gentleman who prepared the substance of the question for the honourable gentleman had gone right into the facts I think he probably would have come to a totally different conclusion. What we have to worry about in this country is the rate at which inflationary pressures exist and the action that has been taken by the Government to see that those inflationary pressures are reduced. To give an example - - 
The honourable member will receive the answer in a few moments if he can remain calm for a second and if he is capable of understanding it. Let me mention that today the Commonwealth Statistician issued some, figures relating to the wholesale price index of building materials. In the.' course of the year those' prices have gone up by about 6 per cent. This is the kind of difficulty that this country faces. Unless we can solve the problem it will create difficulties for everyone - for the pensioner and the wage earner, and for the export industries. Indeed, it starts to create real problems for the people whom we want to see gainfully and profitably employed. 
On the question of jobs, if the honourable members reads the document that was issued by the Department of Labour and National Service this morning he will see that the actual reduction in the. number of registered unemployed was 2,455, which constitutes roughly 1.1 per cent, or, in seasonal terms, 1.3 per cent to 1.4 per cent of the work force. This is not an abnormal figure for this time of the year. If the honourable member looks at the number of job vacancies he will see that vacancies increased by 1,461. 
-If the honourable member looks at the document he will see that the number of registered unemployed in the country areas is not significantly different from that in the city areas. I thank the honourable member for the interjection. So we have to look at all these problems in a single context. Let me go a little further and say that the Government, while it knew that it had to restrain those inflationary forces caused by wage increases, at the same time was most anxious to ensure that it did not add demand inflation to wage inflation, and framed its strategy accordingly. The whole of the Budget strategy has been based upon that concept. 1 believe that honourable members should know - it is high time this was said and emphasised - that if ever there was a Budget which gave abundant opportunity for action to be taken quickly - and action which would have more or less immediate effect - it is this one. First of all we have a domestic surplus of $630m. If it was felt that demand had to be strengthened, of course action could be taken immediately. If it was thought that in monetary policy, whether it happened to be in the total supply of money or otherwise, action should be taken, it could be taken immediately. The Treasurer, the Minister for Labour and National Service and I have made it more than clear that if it were felt that action were necessary we would not hesitate to take action. We do not think that that moment has yet arrived. 
Recently a decision was made by the Commonwealth that 550 acres of land on the foreshores of Sydney Harbour would be released to the State Government for recreational purposes. The Premier of New South Wales already has been informed of the proposed leases and the conditions under which the land will be released. The freehold will be retained by the Commonwealth and a leasehold will be given to the State Government. This will be done in order to ensure that the land is kept for recreational purposes and also to ensure that if at any time the Commonwealth does need the land for temporary defence purposes it can be resumed for those purposes. Also I have in preparation a letter to the Premier of New South Wales informing him of the conditions of tenure, the size and shape of the land that is to be released and various other matters of an administrative kind. I will let the honourable gentleman know as soon as that letter has been sent and 1 will also give him any further details that 1 have available. 
As to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, I am glad he has asked it because I omitted to mention certain factors which were raised in the speech by the Leader of the Opposition. The simple fact is that disposable income has increased by 14 per cent this year compared with last year and that savings over the last 2 quarterly periods have increased by something of the order of 56 per cent and 64 per cent respectively over the corresponding quarters of 1970. This illustrates in a very dramatic way the proposition that was put in this House by my colleague, the Treasurer, that the Government was fearful of the fact that demand inflation could emerge and superimpose itself on top of wage inflation. 1 concede immediately that that has . not. happened. Consequently we have not had the very dramatic rise in demand, and the very dramatic rise in inflationary pressures that could have emerged if .demand had taken the course that it might have taken. I want to make it clear to the House that as a former Minister for Labour and National Service for 8 years and consequently extremely sensitive to trends in employment I watch these figures with the greatest diligence. If I feel that they are getting to a point where remedial action of any kind has to be taken I will, in consultation with my colleagues, ensure that remedial action is taken immediately. 
I point out one other factor to the honourable member who mentioned 2 types of unemployment, one associated with the rural industries and the other with the secondary industries in the cities. I believe that if he looks at the figures he will set that not only is there structural unemployment but he will, I am sure, remember that when I was the Minister I took om a document relating to the anatomy ol employment and I think we could gain from those figures associated with the 61,848 registrants today that a large proportion of them - I do not want to mention the proportion because my memory does not permit me to be explicit enough - are people whom it is difficult to employ particularly under conditions such as we find existing at the moment. Nonetheless I impress on the House, as I want to impress it on the Australian people, that these factors, together with the increase in average earnings, are the 2 sets of figures we will look at with great care. If we feel that action has to be taken I assure honourable members we will take it quickly to ensure that our policy of full employment is maintained. 
I did read a statement that  Mr Ali  Bhutto had informed  President  Yahya Khan that his party would not be prepared to accept an enforced solution which deprived the people of their right to- vote in a properly conducted democratic election. I think it is proper that on an occasion like this I should inform the honourable gentleman and the House that I have written to  President  Yahya Khan on at least two occasions. On each occasion I have stressed the strong desirability of ensuring that civil rule was restored not only in West Pakistan but also in East Pakistan as soon as it was practicable. I have also asked that he exercise magnanimity and compassion in the trial of Sheik Mujibur Rahman that is now proceeding before a military court. In other words, we have taken strong steps to ensure that  President  Yahya Khan knows of the feelings of the Australian people and of this House and that we expect him to act in a rational and compassionate way so far as the Sheik is concerned. 
I have also taken action to write to the Prime Minister of India,  Mrs Indira  Gandhi, and T have asked her again to exercise the greatest restraint to ensure that notwithstanding the provocation that she might think exists, no action is taken that could lead to a confrontation or, for that matter, could lead to war between Pakistan and India. Coming back to the question of Sheik Mujibur, from the information I have received I believe that the representations made by the Australian Government and by other governments have had some impact in West Pakistan. 
I do not remember the answers to the questions or the statements made by my colleague to which the honourable gentleman refers. I regret that, but I do not remember them. Previously in this House 1 have made a statement relating to Robe River. Prior to the date on which the liquidator put the shares up for tender I was informed by members of an Australian syndicate that they would be bidding for the shares and that they felt there was more than a reasonable prospect that they would be able to buy them. That was a hope that was entertained not only by them but also by me. Regrettably when the shares were submitted to tender by the official liquidator, who I pointed out in this House was an official not of the Commonwealth Government but of the Supreme Court of New South Wales, the bid by the Australian interest obviously was not high enough - I have not made inquiries into this - and the liquidator himself decided that he would let them go to the highest bidder in the interests of the shareholders and the creditors of the corporation. This may have been regrettable, and I think this feeling is shared by my colleague, the right honourable member for Higgins. I read his comments in one of the Sunday newspapers. If the honourable gentleman had some kind of solution that he could have proposed or that I had known of 1 would have tested it. What I can say is that if the Australian Industry Development Corporation had felt it wanted to make additional funds available to the Australian interests to permit them to buy the shares and provided it and the would-be purchasers felt it was an economic proposition in the long run to purchase the shares at a higher price than that offered by the American interest, that was something that was within their joint power to do. I regret their decision. I did listen attentively to what was said and I felt reasonably certain until the last moment that Australian interests would buy the shares in Robe River. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) Exact details of the relevant discussions are not available. 
22nd April 1971. 
Once again I have to remind the House that it is a matter of grave concern to me that a man without any economic knowledge at all can be asking questions of this kind when they were answered emphatically and clearly yesterday. I have pointed out - and now I want to use an adjective that my colleague the Treasurer has used before - that what we were trying to do, and what we have succeeded in doing, was to ensure that potential demand did not become actual demand. Therefore, far from saying that there was something wrong with the Budget, it is a complete vindication of the Budget strategy and shows it has been correct. I want this to be known to the honourable gentleman because clearly he has not understood the proposition put by the Treasurer and supported by myself. I also wish to point out that I did not see the television interview of the Treasurer. He himself, if he wishes, could supplement what I am now saying. 
I go further and I emphasise - and I will keep on emphasising - that we have 
Our policy which is designed to ensure full and effective employment. That was never the policy of the Australian Labor Party when it was in government, but it will consistently remain the policy of the Liberal and Country Party Government of the day. Might I take it a stage further, because these questions are obviously political? Might I ask 3 questions which are of great importance and which should be answered by the Leader of the Opposition on behalf of the Opposition? Does he now want to insist that the Government gives up its policy of trying to restrain inflationary forces which can have a very unfortunate effect on the pensioner, on the fixed income earner and on those who engage in the export trade, and which in fact can distort the very structure of the Australian economy? If he wants inflation to prevail he ought to have the courage to get up and say it. Secondly, I would like to ask whether the Leader of the Opposition is prepared to play his part- 
Yes, that is quite right, but I want the Leader of the Opposition to answer these questions. 
There are 2 statements made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that are false. First of all, as to the growth of unemployment, he obviously fails to distinguish between the real figures and the seasonal figures. In terms of the real figures there was a fall last month of over 2,400 in the number registered for employment. Therefore, the first part of his statement is not only incorrect but it should be known by him to be incorrect. The second incorrect statement related to a forecast. I made no forecast whatsoever. If the honourable gentleman . will look at my words he will see that I used the word could' and I referred specifically to the statement that had been made by the Leader of the Opposition in reply to the Treasurer's Budget Speech. In other words, I gave no prediction whatsoever. However, I did point out that if one looks at the figures for January and relates them to what has been said by the Leader of the Opposition one will see that over a long period of time there is not much difference between the 2 sets of figures. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Order in Council authorising the callout of certain members of the Defence Force in aid of the civil power in Papua New Guinea was made on 19th July 1970 and revoked on 22nd April 1971. The elements of the force could not be used to assist the civil authorities unless requisitioned by the Administrator and, as indicated in the reply on 16th March 1971 by the then Minister for Defence (Hansard, page 888) a requirement was added from September 1970 that before the Administrator could requisition forces he would have to obtain approval from Australian Ministers. See also my reply to a question without notice on the same date (Hansard, page 896). 
This part of the question has required  a  detailed search of the Commonwealth Archives. From this search it has been ascertained that there has been a number of occasions on which the Commonwealth has received requests from States for assistance in time of civil unrest. In none of these requests was a specific reference made to section 119 of the Constitution. These are the only requests for which records have been located - 
In 1916, the Tasmanian Government requested the assistance of troops from the Commonwealth to put down expected disturbances on the occasion of a referendum. 
In 1919, the Governor of Western Australia forwarded to the Governor-General a request from the Western Australian Premier for Commonwealth assistance to control expected violence during a wharf strike. 
In 1921, the Premier of Western Australia telegraphed the Acting Prime Minister requesting him to 'instruct permanent force to be sent to Perth and be made available to maintain order' in the event that the Western Australian Police were unable to do so during 'labour troubles'. 
In 1923, during a police strike, the Premier of Victoria, in a letter to the Acting Prime 
Minister, requested the Commonwealth Government to 'arrange for troops to parade the City and take positions' at specified locations, as a 'precautionary measure designed to make an impression and to have a strong force of men available at suitable points ready for instant use if the situation should demand their being called upon in the regular manner'. 
In 1928, the Premier of South Australia requested the Commonwealth ' to issue ammunition to the South Australian Police Commissioner for use in case of absolute necessity during a strike. At about the same time, the Premier also made a request for military equipment. 
Pursuant to section 22 of the Public Service Act 1922-1968, I present the annual report of the Public Service Board for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been advised by the Public Service Board that it would not be possible to furnish from its records the information which the honourable member wishes to have. The Board has also advised me that information of this nature would not be readily available in Commonwealth departments or instrumentalities, and that the only way to obtain it would be from the individual officers concerned. This would involve making persona] enquiries outside the scope of the direct responsibilities of departments and instrumentalities and would be an administrative project of considerable magnitude which 1 would be reluctant to authorise. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has advised me that the information which the honourable member requests is not available from the records of the Board. 
A large proportion of Commonwealth Officers and employees work the normal week of 36 hours. Others of course work according to awards which cover their particular activities. 
It would be possible to obtain this information but it would entail considerable analysis and collation within departments in order to achieve this break-down of information. In the circumstances I am reluctant to authorise the undertaking of this large administrative task. 
The facts in the statement of the honourable gentleman are correct. The Government has made a decision. I will ask the Leader of the Opposition for leave to make a statement on parliamentary and ministerial salaries and allowances immediately after question time this morning. 
The first comment I would like to make is that I am sure the  Deputy  Prime Minister is correct in emphasising that it is contrary to Australia's interests that this problem of wheat should be raised by the Opposition and made a political issue. I can assure the honourable member that there have been numerous cables received by us from diplomatic sources indicating clearly not only the attitude of the People's Republic of China to the statements that have been made by members of the Opposition relating to wheat but also informing us in pretty clear terms that if we want to come to some agreement with them it would be better if we stopped making a political issue of the matter. In these cases I can assure the honourable member that the People's Republic operates in not the same open and frank way as we do. It is a mighty and a great country and does not like public references to what it is doing. 
I can once again assure honourable members that far from this matter of representation being allowed to be forgotten and no action taken there has been a considerable amount of activity in recent months. We are considering the matter carefully, but we will do so against a background that we want to get the best out of the situation and not try to take political points. I emphasise again that it is not in the best interests of this country for anyone in the Opposition, including those who will frequently refer to the wheat problems, to raise this matter in the House as a political issue. 
The first comment I will make - and 1 will not make many comments because we have had too many questions about this matter already - is that the leading article in the 'Sydney Morning Herald* to which the honourable gentleman referred is totally false and could not have been made by anyone with a knowledge of the Government's approach to these problems. Consequently, I believe it is an imaginative essay by the person who wrote it. It is unfortunate, it is untrue, and the 'Sydney Morning Herald' deserves to be criticised for it. 
As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, 1 can assure him that this Government is not directed by big business interests. It will make up its mind in the interests of the Australian population. If he and his Leader wish to join with big business, that is their concern, and I make no comment about it whatsoever. The only other facts that I will make known to the House this morning, because I think they are important, are that if the honourable gentleman wants to look at some of the indications of what might happen in the future, I can remind him that trading bank deposits rose by $157m last month. In the corresponding month of last year there was a slight fall. New lending increased, I think, by $44. lm last month as opposed to $35m the month before. These are all pretty important signs of what is happening. 
What 1 want to point out to the honourable gentleman is that one of the two criti cal figures that will concern us will be known when we see the next consumer index. I am not sure of the date on which it will come out, but probably it will be towards the middle of next month. When that happens we will be in a position to judge just what the inflationary pressures are. I do not know what they are likely to be, but this will be a critical set of figures for us. But might I also state that this is an occasion when statesmanship is desperately needed in this country. 
Opposition members - Hear, hear! 
The answer to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question is: No, I will not reclassify the documents. In fact, they were classified confidential from source and were not in any way varied by the Commonwealth Government. Obviously the honourable gentleman missed the substance of what 1 said in answer to the first question that was asked. We have had communications from very many sources in recent weeks, mainly representations from ambassadors overseas representing the People's Republic of China. I believe it would not be in Australia's interests to let the Leader of the Opposition know of either the source or the contents of these documents. I believe it would be completely contrary to Australia's interests to do so. But I remind the Leader of the Opposition of 2 factors. I remind him of his allegation that  Mr Chou  En-lai recommended that there should be a Geneva-type conference. I also mention to him the fact that he divulged a private conversation he had with  Mr Manac'h  in Peking which I believe has been regretted by the person who bad the conversation with him and certainly by the French Government ever since. 
by leave - 1 inform the House that the Government has decided that there should be an inquiry into parliamentary salaries and allowances. Parliamentary salaries and allowances were last adjusted in December 1968. It will be generally accepted that there should be periodic reviews of Parliamentary salaries and allowances just as there are in other sectors of the community. It has been represented to me from both sides of the House, including strong recommendations from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  at the request of their own Party, that there should be a review at this time. 
In the recent history of this matter, there have been 3 inquiries held - in 1952, in 1955 and in 1959. Since then, in 1964 and in 1968, the salary adjustments were made by decision of the Parliament itself. The Government has decided that in this instance it should revert to the inquiry method. We propose that one of the terms of reference will be an examination and report upon methods by which Parliamentary salaries and allowances may be determined in future. The Government has decided to ask  Mr Justice  Kerr to undertake this task. He has accepted.  Mr Justice  Kerr was appointed a judge of the Commonwealth Industrial Court in 1966. As a Senior Counsel at the Bar, he had previously had an extensive practice in industrial matters.  Mr Justice  Kerr is at present  chairman  of a 5-man committee that the Government has appointed to inquire into pay and other conditions of service of members of the armed forces. He has informed me that the committee has a planned programme for carrying out the remainder of its inquiry and for the submission of its further report. I have the Judge's firm assurance that the examination of Parliamentary salaries he has now been asked to undertake will in no way delay the completion of the work of the armed forces pay committee. That work will proceed and will be carried to finality as originally planned. 
The terms of reference of the inquiry will be: 
To examine and report upon the salaries and allowances of senators and members of the House of Representatives, and those paid to Ministers and senators and members who are office-bearers of the Parliament. 
If it be reported that it is necessary or desirable to alter such salaries and allowances or any of them, then to  recommend  the nature and extent of the alterations that should be made; and 
To examine and report upon methods by which such salaries and allowances may be determined in future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government's view, consistently expressed, is that visits of international sporting teams should be left to be arranged between the sporting bodies concerned and that politics should not be introduced into sport. 
See answer to (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Police forces within the States are a responsibility of State governments and I have no knowledge of what expenses may have been incurred by them in connection with the Springbok rugby tour. 
The South African cricket tour has now been cancelled and the question does not arise. 
 I wish to inform the House that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  left Australia on 17th September to attend a meeting of Commonwealth Finance Ministers in Nassau and also to attend the annual meeting of the Governors of the International Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in Washington.  Mr Snedden  is expected to return to Australia on 21st October. During his absence I will act as Treasurer. Also, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  left Australia on 21st September to attend the 26th session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. He is expected to return to Australia on 15th October. During his absence, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs and will represent the Attorney-General in this House. 
Whilst our security people are in close, almost daily, contact with the security service of the United Kingdom we have not yet received a full report of the reasons why the 105 citizens of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics have been expelled from or prevented from coming back to the United Kingdom. What I can say is that as far as Australia is concerned the Government cannot at the moment see any direct relationship between operations of espionage and even sabotage in the United Kingdom by members of the Soviet diplomatic corps and Australia. It should also be pointed out to the House that under what were called the Casey-Firubin arrangements we limit the number of Soviet representatives in Canberra and also ensure that they cannot move more than 45 miles out of Canberra without proper approval. Secondly, in the case of personnel in the trade office in Sydney and the office of the Baltic Steamship Company we provide that they shall not have diplomatic status; consequently, they will be subject to the law in the same way as any other citizen and will not have the protection they would have if they were diplomatic representatives in Canberra. The other lesson which has to be remembered is that when we have relationships with Communist countries we have to be doubly, even trebly, certain that their representatives do npt - carry out espionage operations. This must be a constant preoccupation of the Government and a constant preoccupation of the Australian security service. 
To the best of my recollection, I have not received such a letter from the Premier of Tasmania. Nonetheless, as soon as I go back to my office I will make inquiries and go through the letters on my table and I will then let the honourable gentleman know whether I have received it. 
A letter has been received and it has been referred direct to the Minister for Primary Industry who will be reporting to me about it. 
Some time ago the Premier of Western Australia applied to the Commonwealth Government for a subsidy to permit the Western Australian State Shipping Service to continue its service to Darwin. This is an uneconomic shipping line which loses a considerable amount of money. Nonetheless, we believe that it is well within the capacity of the Western Australian Government, if it wishes to keep the shipping line going, to provide funds from its own resources. Recently, the Premier has again written to me asking whether I will have another look at the problem. I will do so and will advise the Premier when a decision has been reached. 
We were looking at the single problem of the inefficiency and the lack of transport that existed between Western Australia - that is Perth or Fremantle - and the Northern Territory ports, particularly Darwin. We felt that they were uneconomic and could not make a profit. 
On the advice tendered to me, not by my own Department but by the relevant departments in the Commonwealth, we felt that if it was in the interests- of the Western Australian Government that the tran sport arrangements between Western Australia and the Northern Territory should continue, this should be at the expense of the Western Australian Government. So that is the answer. I did not at that time consider the relationship that might exist between the air transport industry and the shipping industry of Western Australia. Nonetheless, when looking at the matter on a second occasion I will take this into consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have had the records checked, but no letter has been found from the Premiers written either to me or my predecessor as a result of discussions by the State Ministers concerned with child welfare at their meetings in March 1970. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Section 10 of the Commonwealth Employees Furlough Act provides that 'The official conduct record of the Commonwealth employee shall be taken into consideration in determining whether the whole or any portion of the leave of absence or pay provided in this Act may be granted.' Reduction of furlough entitlement in relation to misconduct is therefore at the discretion of the approving authority and each case is determined on its merits. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2), (3) and (4) 1 received letters dated 3rd and 19th July, 1971 from  Mr I.  Smillie of Sunnybank, Queensland, concerning visits to Australia by sporting teams. These were acknowledged on 3rd August, 1971 and a reply has now been sent to  Mr Smillie. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Statistics for staff on the establishment of the High Commissioner's Office are maintained on a quarterly basis. The latest available figures, as at 30th June 1971, are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I have nothing to add to the reply given by my colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs in answer to a question without notice from the honourable member on this subject on 20th August 1971 (Hansard, pages 414 and 415). 
High Commission in United Kingdom  (Question No. 4109) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that the cost of an order for additional copies of a speech by a minister is a normal charge against the administration of his department. 
lt is the maximum objective of the task force commander in South Vietnam to ensure that the safety of the Australian troops is protected and, as well, that the safety of the troops who are in close association with ours in South Vietnam is also looked after. I believe that the operations relating to withdrawal are probably as difficult, in military terms, as any other operation can be. The greatest effort must be made to ensure security not only as to the movements but also as to the timing and the size of the movements. 1 believe, and I am so informed by the highest military technical experts advising the ; Government, that any kind of a debate : which could be likely to disclose the method of withdrawal or the timing or other facts associated with the withdrawal could be only of harm to the security of the Australian forces. I can assure honourable members that even though the matter is to be debated no Government member will in any way prejudice the interests of the Australian forces and consequently will not give any information. As to the Opposition, the Leader of the Opposition has heard the question. He is capable of answering on behalf of the Opposition if he wishes to do so. Frankly, I advise him to give an answer if he will. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for giving me the opportunity to answer this question. As Treasurer, I personally took up with the governments of Britain, America and Japan and with other governments the question whether Australia would be admitted to the Group of Ten and also whether we could become a member of the Bank of International Settlement. In fact, I went to the Bank of International Settlement in order to achieve this object. I found, at the beginning, that while the British and the Japanese were quite forthcoming about agreeing to our admission to the Group of Ten, initially we could not get the approval of the United States Administration. I took the matter up again and I was able to obtain the consent of the United States Government. However, we then found that the Group of Ten was not willing that Australia should be admitted unless other countries that the Group regarded as of equivalent status to Australia were admitted at the same time. 
We want to be admitted to the Group just as, over the years, we were willing, when I was Treasurer to become a member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. We have achieved membership of the OECD. We will continue our efforts to become a member of the Group of Ten, but I doubt very much whether, in present circumstances, that will be agreed to. In other words, it is not within Australia's capacity to force entry into the Group of Ten: It is up to those in the Group of Ten nations to accept our admission, if they are willing to do so. 
As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, I accept what he said about the difficult position which now exists as to the currency difficulties and the import surcharge which has been imposed by the United States. It is my belief that we should do all in our power, in cooperation with other nations, to ensure that the import surcharge is taken off as quickly as possible. We will co-operate with all other countries, particularly through the International Monetary Fund, to see what we can do in order to get a re-alignment of parities that is satisfactory to all nations and not to only one. The sooner we can get an answer to these problems, particularly the ones relating to changes in parities, the removal of the import charge and some better arrangement for freedom of trade, the better it will be for Australia and, I believe, for all underdeveloped countries. 
The answer to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question is no, but I believe that we will soon be receiving a report from the authorities concerned in regard to decentralisation and I will then ensure that it is quickly considered by the Government. I have not received it yet. As to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, the answer is no, but I will make inquiries from the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board to find out whether he thinks it is desirable to have the kind of analysis made. 
It is obvious that the honourable gentleman has read with care the recent statement made by the  Deputy  Governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia which was published in one of yesterday's newspapers. As to the 4 questions that he has asked, the answer to the first  one is yes  and the answer to the second one is, I believe, a growing volume, yes. In relation to the third question I believe that as a result of the recent decision in the concrete pipes case the Commonwealth now has authority under the Constitution to legislate with respect to financial organisations and that this power would cover at least three-quarters of the kind of organisation mentioned in the table that was prepared by the Deputy Governor. 
As to whether it is desirable to have changes made, I have sent the article across to the Treasury officials asking that a detailed examination of it be made, but in a matter as important as this there can be no doubt at all that it will take some weeks before an analysis can be completed. I mention also that I have some differences of opinion with the  Deputy  Governor in relation, for example, to the build-up of payments to the Commonwealth in order to achieve the Budget surplus of approximately $650m in the year. I believe that industry itself has now made certain adjustments in order to offset the difficulties that can arise because of this payment of funds in the last quarter. But equally I believe that the Commonwealth should, as it now is doing, carry out inquiries in order to ensure that we have more regular collections of funds throughout the year and not have them concentrated in the last quarter. 
It is true that I did write to  President  Nixon some time ago and that there has been reference to that letter in some of today's metropolitan newspapers. According to some of those newspapers the information came from overseas sources and not from Austraiian sources. Usually I would not make any comment about the contents of any letter I write to a head of state or a head of government, but I will make this one comment: Half of what is reported is accurate; the other half is inaccurate. As to the question asked by the honourable gentleman, I would not be prepared to disclose the contents of any letter I write to  Mr Kosygin,  other than to say that I did not invite him to come to Australia. 
It is regrettable that the assumption on which the Leader of the Opposition asked his question was incorrect. I received today a telegram of protest from MacRobertson Miller Airlines Ltd pointing out that it does not now have any subsidised transport operations between Western Australia and the Northern Territory and, consequently, cannot receive any subsidy in respect of such transport movements. The 4 companies that operate in Western Australia do so on a very small basis. They receive a small subsidy. But they are for internal purposes and not for the purpose of traffic between the Northern Territory and Perth. Therefore the substance of the question that the Leader of the Opposition asked is wrong. That is to be regretted. This matter was objected to by the company I have just mentioned. 
I wonder whether the Leader of the Opposition could possibly expect to have this information readily made available by me or for that matter, if it was available, by anyone other than the Minister who is functionally responsible for the problem or the Minister who acts for him in this House. If the honourable gentleman wants the information I will ask the Minister for Civil Aviation in another place for it and I will convey it to the honourable gentleman as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) 1 am advised that since it was formed in December 1965, the Joint Select Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House has met 17 times. Twelve meetings related to the building itself and 5 related to the site. The last meeting was held on 2nd March 1970. The Committee has presented three reports, namely, Special report on the site (14th August 1968), Report on alternative sites of Capital Hill and the Camp Hill Area (30th April 1969) and on the new building (8th April 1970). 
On 13th May 1969 the Report of the Joint Select Committee relating to the alternative sites of Capital Hill and the Camp Hill area for the new and permanent Parliament House was brought up for consideration. That Report recommended that the new and permanent Parliament House should be situated on Camp Hill. The House of Representatives voted on 14th May 1969 to adopt that Report. 
There is at the moment on the Notice Paper, one Government Business Order of the Day, and one General Business Notice both of which relate to the site of the new Parliament House, 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1.) No. While it is true that production may be in excess of demand in certain sectors of primary industry, it is certainly not true generally. There is little to indicate excessive production in other branches of industry. 
See . 1 above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following table which shows components of expenditure on the gross national product, other than the statistical discrepancy, expressed as percentages of the gross national product. Personal consumption expenditure on goods and services and net current expenditure on goods and services by financial enterprises are shown separately in accordance with the practice followed in 'Australian National Accounts, National Income and Expenditure'. For some purposes it may be desired to include net current expenditure by financial enterprises in estimates of private consumption expenditure. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member's question doubtless refers to the 'Standard Minimum Content of Collection Form' considered by the 20th Conference of Statisticians of Australia in 1958 as being highly desirable for those States commencing (or envisaging commencement of) collection of industrial accident statistics derived from reports of work injuries compensated under State workers compensation acts. 
For each State statistics are now produced which either purport to meet this standard minimum content or are wider in scope. Each separate State system provides a volume of statistical data concerning industrial accidents within the State and from these the Commonwealth Statistician has recently attempted to derive Australian figures on the minimum basis. Following examination of the available data and special tabulations, he has concluded that the figures cannot be accepted as sufficiently comparable to warrant their publication as official statistics for Australia on a uniform basis. Sufficient comparability seems unlikely to be achieved without further development and investigation into the basis of the figures. This work is now proceeding on a limited scale. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Religious institutions, and associations of employers registered under an Act relating to  the settlement of industrial disputes, are exempt  from income tax. This exemption applies to all income derived by such organisations, including income arising from commercial operations. 
If a review were made along the lines the honourable member proposes, there could hardly  be excluded from its scope other organisations to which the exemption applies. Instances of these were given in my reply to an earlier question of his on the same matter (Question No. 3306, Hansard 6 May 1971). I am not, in any case, persuaded that at present there is any occasion or need for following the course proposed by the honourable member. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised population figures for Australia and the States and Territories at 30th June 1971 are not yet available. The following figures show the estimated population of each State and Territory and Australia as at 30th June 1902 and 30th June 1970. Figures for 30th June 1902 exclude fullblood Aborigines. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The Report of the New South Wales Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board for the year ended 30th June 1970 shows that it had outstanding loans and advances totalling $627.5m at 30th June 1970 and that in 1969-70 expenditure by it on debt' charges and associated items totalled $42m, compared with the Board's total operating receipts in the period of $88.3m. 
I am advised that theBoard has publicly announced a capital works programme of some $900m over the 10 years commencing 1970-71. 
In the abovementioned annual report the Board has estimated that, over the 10-year period mentioned in (b), loans totalling approximately $300m will mature. This amount is made up of $250m in respect of loans outstanding at 30th June 1970, and an estimated $50m in respect of loans expected to be raised during the 10-year period but with currencies such that they will also mature during the period. 
The responsibility for providing the facilities referred to rests with the State Governments and their dependent authorities. The Commonwealth provides the States annually with large and increasing amounts of general purpose assistance, both revenue and capital, which the States are free to allocate as they may determine. In addition, State authorities have access to borrowings under borrowing programmes as approved by the Loan Council. It would not therefore be appropriate for me to 'confer with the appropriate State authorities and the Board' as suggested by the honourable member. I should nevertheless add that the New South Wales Government has approached the Commonwealth Government about the particular problems that are said to be confronting the New South Wales Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board in the financing of its future capital works programme. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that the position is still as stated in the answer supplied on 30th October 1970 to Question No. 2088 (Hansard, page 3169). It has not been possible, because of other commitments, to develop more complete and detailed statistics of superannuation funds and contributors. 
I wish to inform the House that the Minister for Immigration,  Dr Forbes,  is leaving Australia tonight for official discussions on immigration in Europe and North America.  Dr Forbes  is expected to return on 12th November. During his absence the 
Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Cotton,  is acting as Minister for Immigration. The Minister for Health will be represented in this House by the Minister for National Development,  Mr Swartz.  The Acting Minister for Immigration will be represented in this House by the Minister for Labour and National Service,  Mr Lynch. 
I am sure that the' honourable gentleman will remember that the Commonwealth Government agreed to make available $4,200,000 to the Victorian Government to be paid to the fruit interests in the Goulburn Valley. We are now in the course of arranging for a final payment of $200,000 to be paid to the Victorian Government so that it can be made to growers. The honourable gentleman will remember that during the course of his election campaign I visited his electorate and I was then well informed of the problem relating to pears and the canning problems associated with them. Consequently I have watched carefully what has been happening to see whether it would be practicable for the Commonwealth Government to take action. So far as the actions of the Reserve Bank are concerned and so far as rural credit is concerned I must point out to the honourable gentleman that this is completely within the jurisdiction of the Reserve Bank. The Government has ho right to dictate to the Reserve Bank how it should act. I think it would be impudent for the Government 'to attempt to do so. Nonetheless, what I will do, because I think this is desirable, is to ask the Treasury officials in co-operation with the Department of Primary Industry to have a look at the question raised by 1 the honourable member and, if necessary, to take it up with the banking authorities. When I can give him a reply I will be only " too happy to do so. 
The economic objectives of the Government remain as they have been for many years. That is, we believe in a high rate of economic growth and progress and full employment. And we want, as far as it is practicable, to maintain stability in our foreign exchanges and prices. Naturally enough in circumstances such as exist at present when wages are rising at a rate of about 10 per cent per annum and productivity at the average rate of  2i  per cent per annum we must expect a very substantial increase in inflationary forces and consequently some inconsistency between the objectives we are trying to achieve. Nonetheless, I believe that the decision in the recent carpenters' case was one that must have caused a great deal of difficulty to the members of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission because they had to consider the precedent of the decision of  Mr Commissioner  Hood in the metal trades case. It would have been very difficult not to concede the same amount of increase to the carpenters as was granted in the metal trades award. So I understand the reason for the decision. 
Nonetheless, I think it wise that I should point out that the members of the Commission specifically drew attention to the fact that it was a difficult decision, but that if and when a national wage case came on they would have to take into consideration the increases that had already been granted. They also mentioned that they hoped there would be no flow on because that could not be justified by the decision dr the rationale for the decision that they had given. But I point out to honourable gentleman - because I had expected questions on this subject in the House this week especially from the Opposition, but have not received them - that all the recent statistics that we have received indicate that the Government's strategy at the time of its Budget is turning out to be successful. 1 can illustrate by figures which indicate that this is the position. The figures for housing have risen by something of the order of 13 per cent as compared with last year. There has been a very substantial increase in production, particularly in household goods or consumer durables and about 47,000 motor vehicles have been registered. All these figures are satisfactory and fit in with what the Government expected and hoped might in fact occur. I also point out that the potential for demand - this is the really, crucial question that faces us in an inflationary situation - still continues to increase, because personal savings were at a very high level and subscriptions to Commonwealth loans were exceptionally good. Consequently, if the psychology can improve - this is all that is necessary - we can get rapid increase in the one area where it is not quite as high as the Government could wish, namely, in consumption expenditure. Nonetheless, having said this, I point out that what we on the Government side have been saying at least since March of this year is turning out to be true and that those who cry wolf and try to create an impression that something unfortunate is occurring have turned out to be wrong. I hope that the figures that emerge in the future will be a further justification of the Government's policy. 
I did read the article and it is another classic illustration of misrepresentation by the Leader of the Opposition. Some time ago my predecessor was asked a question on notice by the Leader of the Opposition. He then stated that arrangements had been made for joint studies between the Commonwealth and State officials in order to have a reappraisal made of the Burdekin River scheme. The honourable gentleman later asked me a very wide ranging question and one that was extremely difficult to answer, seeking the date, nature and outcome of any communications between the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Government concerning the Burdekin scheme. That policy still continues. These communications were very far reaching and it is not the Government's practice to give complete details of what is happening in any communications between the 2 governments. Nonetheless the viability studies and the reappraisal mentioned by my predecessor were continuing at that time and should have been known to the honourable gentleman. I am now able to advise that in the middle of August this year I did come to an arrangement with Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  to establish a working group in order to carry out a wide ranging and detailed investigation of the future of the Burdekin scheme. Those proposals are being put into practice. We will not proceed until we know exactly where we are going. It can be stated emphatically that there has been no reduction in effort and we will do our best to see that a proper appraisal of the viability and prosperity of this area is continued. 
 1  have complete confidence in my colleague, the Minister for the Navy. I cannot answer in detail the question asked by the honourable gentleman because it is a question that should have been put on notice. But from my recollection of the dockyard in Sydney when I was Minister for Labour and National Service I can say that the greatest degree of obstruction came from such unions as the Ship Painters and Dockers Union under the control of  Mr Terry  Gordon and honourable members know where his political affiliations lie. 
That remark puts the honourable member in a class of his own because  Mr Gordon  happens to a member of the Communist Party. I listened with great attention to what was said by my colleague, the Minister for the Navy. I have every confidence that what he said is correct. If the honourable member for Corio believes that there are any details which are inaccurate let him have the courage and the degree of responsibility that are essential: When he gives me the details I will be only too happy to examine them. 
by leave - For some time past now, the Government has been examining the role of nursing homes in caring for the sick aged, their financial position and the extent of Commonwealth financial assistance for all nursing home patients. Over the past five years, the number of nursing home beds has increased from about 33,000 to about 47,000. There is no doubt that this has resulted in a very significant improvement in the care of the sick aged in Australia. The financial assistance provided by the Commonwealth for nursing home patients, which amounted to nearly $50m in 1970-71, has been an important factor contributing to the growth of these homes and to the overall raising of standards of care. The assistance to be provided to those people requiring nursing home care is an extraordinarily complex question . involving consideration of the differing needs and circumstances of patients in various types of homes. These homes are run by State governments as well as by religious and charitable organisations and by private proprietors. 
As I have indicated, the present arrangements relating to the care of, and assistance to, those requiring nursing home treatment have been under review for some time. We are continuing this review with the aim of introducing new long term arrangements as soon as it is practicable to do so. This, of course, will include consultation with State governments as necessary. We recognise that the recent steep increases in running costs, notably in nurses' salaries, has placed many people in an extremely difficult financial position. Those homes relying largely on Commonwealth assistance to patients through benefits or pensions have been hit particularly hard. We have therefore decided, as an interim - measure, to increase nursing home benefits to take effect as soon as the necessary legislation is passed by Parliament and assented to. Benefits for patients receiving ordinary nursing home care will be increased from $2 a day to $3.50 a day or $24.50 a week. Benefits for patients receiving intensive care will be increased from $5 a day to $6.50 a day or $45.50 a week. The cost of these increases will be approximately $24m in a full year. The cost in 1971-72, which will depend on the date of assent to the amending legislation to give effect to the new legislation, will be of the order of $12m to $14m. 
This action is being taken in accordance with the Government's overall policy of assisting the sick and the aged wherever areas of need exist. Nursing home benefits are only one of the many provisions made by the Commonwealth to help aged persons, and the increase in benefits is to be seen in the context of the substantial assistance we are providing in other ways. I refer to such measures as the age pension and related payments, assistance with aged persons housing and assistance provided through our home care programme. Within the limits necessarily imposed by available resources, it is the policy of the Government to improve progressively the welfare of elderly citizens. I present the following paper: 
Commonwealth Assistance for Nursing Home Patients - Ministerial Statement, 5 October 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
 Mr Speaker,  1 wish to inform the House that the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  left Australia on 1st October for the United Kingdom and Europe to attend a meeting of the Intergovernmental Maritime Consultative Organisation. He is expected to return to Australia on 21st October. During his absence the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  is Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport. 
I have received a number of cables from my colleague, the 
Treasurer, as to what he has been doing during his recent visit to the International Monetary Fund meeting and also as to the private conversations he has been having with representatives of the United Stales Government and other governments. I also had a telephone conversation with him last night informing me of what proposals he had made. I feel it is proper in a matter like this that we should wait until the Treasurer himself returns, when he can make a report to the Parliament, and if necessary that report can be debated in this place. I think it would be imprudent, even bordering on being unwise, for me to try to mention some of the matters that have been discussed by the Treasurer. I think it is better that the whole picture be presented by him. 
When I was Minister for Foreign Affairs I considered whether Australia House should be transferred from Prime Ministerial control to the control of the Foreign Office. The honourable gentleman will remember that on one occasion I discussed this with him. On that occasion he did not favour it, or at least he did not appear to favour it very strongly. I have continued to give this matter quite close consideration. I do not think at the moment that any marked advantage would be obtained from such a change. But in any event 1 would not be prepared to agree to change or to direct that a change be made until I had discussed it with the British Prime Minister and had also obtained the views of Buckingham Palace. 
I am not fully conversant with the problem of the proposed rural insurance corporation. I will find out and let the honourable gentleman know. 
I have read with a great deal of interest the recommendations that were made by 12 economists and the various alternatives that they suggested, particularly with relationship of the Australian dollar to the United States dollar, sterling and the yen or somewhere half way between the US dollar and the yen. At the moment it must be obvious to everyone that we could not make up our minds definitively as to what we should d6 because, at present, none of these currencies is fixed in terms of parities in the international monetary markets. Whilst they remain, as it were, floating, we can not tie ourselves to one or the other. 
Our position is clear and was made clear by me in a statement that I made in this House. We will keep all our options open. We will not be affected by pressure groups because we will act in the interests that we deem to be those of the people as a whole. So, consequently, we will be watching the problem carefully. I have had several discussions personally with Reserve Bank and Treasury officials. Some of the various alternatives that were put up by officials and by economists have been considered. But I can assure the honourable member that we will have one concern only, that is, the interest of the total of the Australian people. 
For many years the Government has been spreading our overseas reserves as widely as practicable. Consequently, wc have our reserves not only in gold, in the gold tranche of the International Monerary Fund, but also in sterling, in US dollars and in at least 2 other currencies. We have taken these steps in order to ensure that should there be a devaluation then its effect would be minimised because of the wide spread that we have. But the honourable gentleman also has to recognise that we have other objectives. First of all, we have commitments in other countries. In other words, we have indebtedness in those countries which have to be balanced by deposits. So frequently, if there is a change in the exchange rate, what we gain in one way we lose in another way, and the : loss overall is not particularly great. Secondly, the distribution of reserves that we now have appears to me to be the optimum. We have looked at this matter on frequent occasions, but my officials cannot advise me of a better way in which we can place our overseas reserves. 
I have no wish to make any comment about the election conducted in South Vietnam. This was a problem for the South Vietnamese Government and my Government does not believe in poking its nose into other people's domestic affairs. Equally I have no desire whatever to defend the system of voting that was used there but I can repeat what one of my colleagues said overseas in recent days: We cannot expect the same high sense of feeling towards democracy to exist in some Asian countries as exists here. It is my great hope and great wish that the Opposition will recognise that democracy is. critically important to us and that if it wants democracy to succeed here it should get rid of the incubus that surrounds it compelling it to vote according to a policy determined by the biennial conferences of the Australian Labor Party and by persuasion from the Australian Council of Trade Unions. 
There are no compulsions on us. As to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, we deliberately refrained from sending observers to Vietnam because of the way in which we knew the election would be conducted. 
 I agree with the last part of the honourable gentleman's question that the members of the Australian military forces who have served in South Vietnam have done a remarkably good job. As one who has been there on several occasions it is my belief that they are the finest troops that have ever been there. As a consequence of that we should be certain that there is a nationwide review or a march past, if either can be arranged, in the various capital cities where the troops will be stationed temporarily. I will take this matter up immediately with the Minister for Defence and the Minister for the Army arid, if necessary, with the other Service Ministers to see what can be done. 
My attention has been drawn to a report relating to the East Australian Co. Ltd to which I presume the honourable gentleman refers and, also to the action taken in New South Wales by the Workers Compensation Commission in respect of the Fire and All Risks Insurance Co. Ltd in that State and one other company the name of which I cannot remember. It is true that my colleague, the former Prime Minister, gave an assurance that the Government would introduce legislation relating to general assurance. What I want to point out is that the case of the East Australian Company Ltd arose over 12 months ago. It .. was one of the companies in relation to which we were informed and it was a decisive element in making up our minds that there should be legislation on general assurance. I am informed, too, from my personal inquiries that a general assurance Act is an extremely difficult one for the Commonwealth to frame. 
Negotiations between the States and the insurance companies are proceeding at an intensive pace. The officials and the parliamentary draftsmen are doing all they can to have legislation introduced at the earliest practicable moment. I have pushed as strenuously as I can to see that the matter is hastened. But I cannot give the House any assurance at all that the Bill will be introduced during the course of the next few weeks. I am trying to see that it will be introduced during this session of Parliament and permitted to stand over until the autumn session. 
As to the first part of the question, I will make inquiries immediately with the Treasury and ask that it submit a report to me. As to the second part of the right honourable gentleman's question, I think the private life assurance companies in Australia have done a really worthwhile job and, from the information that was submitted to me in my last year as Treasurer, I think it will be found that in most cases those companies are at least the equal of overseas corporations. 
I can understand the sensitivity of the Australian Labor Party about the remarks that were made by my colleague in New York yesterday because I believe this shows the unbridgeable gap in both ideology and policy between the Labor Party and Liberal members on this side of the House in the coalition government on the question of the nation's security. What my colleague very rightly did was to point out that we on this side of the House believe in a policy of forward defence and for that reason we will keep our troops stationed in Malaysia and Singapore. The Opposition disagrees. It will withdraw the troops. Equally too do we believe in taking part in the security developments of the whole of the South East Asian area. The Labor Party again disagrees. Consequently it has a fundamental disagreement with us on policy itself. 
Secondly, there can be no doubt at all - and this fact should not be swept under the carpet - that if the Australian Labor Party had its way the naval signal centre at North West Cape would be rendered ineffective and the Americans would be compelled to withdraw from the Pine Gap operation. We believe that they are part and parcel of the essential agreements that we are making under the ANZUS Treaty. The Government's agreements with the Americans will be maintained. 
Thirdly, my colleague rightly draws attention to the degrading of the ANZUS Treaty by the Labor Party  eX  its last meeting in Tasmania. As I understand the position, under, I believe, Chapter 21 of the Platform and Constitution of the Labor Party the Labor Party took out that part of the old platform that said that the ANZUS Treaty is of crucial importance to the alliance between Australia and the United States. In other words, it no longer regards this Treaty as crucial to the defence of this country. We on this side of the House believe that it is crucial to the long term security of this country. I point out that the ANZUS Treaty is one between the Australian people and the people of the United States. The Treaty was passed by the Congress of the United States and is, consequently, part of the supreme law of the land of that country. It is a defence treaty and we want to retain it that way. 
But, as I have said, the Labor Party wants to degrade it because it wants it to be a welfare organisation. There is no provision, either in the preamble or in the operative clauses of the Treaty, to permit this to be done. We have no doubt whatsoever that there is any prospect of this being negotiated, so we want to sustain its importance to Australia. 
Now, as to whether my colleague did discuss his speech with me, no, he did not; but neither did the Leader of the Opposition discuss what he intended to do when he went to Peking. Not only did the Leader of the Opposition raise matters that concern the domestic politics of this country and try to gain the support of the Chinese for the Labor Party cause but he also insulted our allies and particularly the Japanese and the  President  of the United States. So,  Sir, I  want to- 
Government members - Oh! 
On Saturday morning, I was telephoned by a member of the Canberra Press gallery and asked whether I knew about the events that had occured on the front steps of the Melbourne General Post Office in the preceding weeks. I had discussions with my colleague the Postmaster-General, who is primarily responsible, and also with the AttorneyGeneral. We decided - I believe very nearly on my direction - that the charges against these young gentlemen should not be proceeded with. But it was also pointed out to me - and this became abundantly clear - that these young gentlemen who are carrying out a very worthwhile service in a very good cause had been joined by members of the left wing- 
Opposition members - Oh! 
The honourable gentleman obviously has not understood what was said by my colleague the Minister for Civil Aviation. There are certain beneficial clauses in the agreement between the United States Government and ourselves that can be of marked advantage to this country. In the first place this problem has been taken out of the hands of the United States Civil Aeronautics Authority and put into the hands of the Department of State which is responsible for the overall relationships between that country and Australia. Also, we have a provision in the agreement to provide that if the estimates in schedules do not turn out to be of the order that is considered to be probable by the United States Civil Aeronautics Authority, we can take action ourselves either to cancel the agreement or to make variations in it at our discretion. In other words, there are marked advantages in the new agreement compared with the old one. 
It is true that we did not get all we asked for. But who does? What I would like to point out is that I believe the officers of both Qantas and the Department of Civil Aviation did the best job that they could have done under the difficult circumstances. They were legislating under very difficult circumstances. I repeat,  Sir, that  you cannot always get what you want. Nonetheless we believe this to be a satisfactory agreement. 
The statement that I made in the House relating to nursing home care and the care of people requiring nursing attention was restricted exclusively to the matters that were set out in my speech and did not relate to public hospital care of pensioners. In other words, we had a very tight Budget. While I believe that the integrity of the Budget should be maintained to the maximum possible extent, I also believe that where we do get areas of real, very serious need as we find in the case of nursing homes, we will give attention to those areas immediately. But we also have had to delay for the time being - at least until more detailed consideration can be given to it - the whole problem of nursing homes and nursing care attention. I can but repeat what I said before, that my statement relates to that matter and to no other matter. 
The proper way In which this matter should be handled is by direct communication between my colleague the Treasurer and  Mr Connally,  Secretary of the United States Treasury. What I can assure the honourable gentleman is that there have been detailed discussions between the 2 gentlemen and that my colleague has strongly put the Australian point of view. I think we know pretty fully and pretty accurately exactly what the intention of America is and what that country is likely to do. 
The honourable gentleman obviously recognises the complex and difficult nature of the kind of legislation that we intend to introduce into the House in order to take action one way or another against horizontal anticompetitive practices. I can assure him that this is a matter that concerns me and my Cabinet deeply. We have asked the Attorney-General to proceed as rapidly as possible to try to prepare a Bill that we will be able to present to the House. 
I am sure that the honourable gentleman would know that our first priority is to produce a viable Bill that relates to existing non-competitive restrictive practices. I will find out from the Attorney-General when it is likely to to be produced and will also ask him whether it is practicable to produce an outline of a Bill that can state the policies on which the Government will proceed in order that this could be submitted to the House and if necessary debated. 
This was a problem that was dealt with, amongst other submissions, in the last Budget context and was one of several proposals that were temporarily deferred because of the necessity to retain strict monetary controls during this year. In other words, it has not been abandoned but merely deferred for the time being. To take the matter a stage further, within recent weeks I have had discussions with my colleague the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts and I have pointed out to him that he is to proceed as quickly as possible to collect all the evidence that becomes available to him so that the proposal can be presented to the Government well before the next Budget and not necessarily therefore in a budget context. I think there has been too much misunderstanding about this problem. It has not been abandoned. It is merely being held in suspense for the time being pending a better opportunity to look at it until we find that there has been some reduction in the inflationary pressures in this country. 
Ever since 1967 the Government has been looking at the problem of the insurance cover of forward exchange by the Reserve Bank. It should be known to the House that there is no international market for the Australian dollar under which forward insurance cover can be carried out. Therefore the policy that was adopted by the Reserve Bank after consultation with the Government was to free up the exchanges and, firstly, to reduce substantially the restrictions on the free flow of capital and, secondly, to permit forward exchange cover to be carried out. The points that must be made known to the honourable gentleman are these: First, this gives a degree of certainty in the exchanges that otherwise would not be present. The real reason why the change has been implemented has been because of representations by organisations like the Australian Wool Board and other exporting authorities that they should have this degree of certainty. Secondly, and perhaps I should preface it in this way, we have completely changed the method of administration. Now the risk is taken by the banks themselves which have to have a day to day accounting with the Reserve Bank. The critically important thing is that it is done on net balances. I know that this might be difficult to understand but what it does is to cover the forward exchange on both exports and imports and whilst there is this 25c per Stg 100 it gives the banks the opportunity to set off the possible losses in one way on exports against the possible gains that can be achieved one way or another on imports. It does not necessarily mean that the full amount of 25c per Stg100 will be necessary. In fact, it seems as though this will not came to pass. I can but say this: I think it is a worthwhile agreement. To my personal knowledge, on the last occasion the Reserve Bank lost about $34m on the foreign exchanges with a counter offset of probably as much as $15m. We do not want this situation to happen again. The system now does provide certainty and it puts responsibility on the trading banks. In my opinion it is a really worthwhile change. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following tables bring up to date the answer supplied to the honourable member by the then Treasurer on 15lh September 1970 in relation to the number of taxpayers, income and income tax payable in Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States of America. No similar statistics for Canada later than the 1968 statistics supplied by the then Treasurer are yet available. 
I did read some newspaper articles relating to an alleged meeting between the Press and the honourable member for Hindmarsh and the Leader of the Opposition. I must confess immediately, as one who has had several years of experience in industrial relations, probably longer than any other person in this House, that the ideas were badly conceived and I believe are completely unworkable. Worse, I believe they will play into the hands of the left wing of the trade union movement and will effectively destroy the system of industrial arbitration in this country, I might be asked why I come to this conclusion. I do so far various reasons. The first one, of course, it that it is alleged that the agreements will come into force only if they are approved by the union executive and by the trade union itself.. If they do not, then we have no agreement whatsoever and no basis on which action could be taken. There is an enormous gap- 

 Mr Whitlam -  I rise on a point of order. (Honourable members interjecting) - 
I am not aware of the actual figures given by the honourable gentleman, but I do know that qua the US dollar the yen has appreciated by a little over 9 per cent. As to the second part of the question asked by the honourable gentleman, I have nothing to add to the 2 statements that I have made in the House. For the moment the Australian dollar is tied to sterling and there has been a movement of a little more than 3 per cent. When there is something definitive which can be said, it will be said in this House. 
I have not read the editorial in today's 'Daily Telegraph' and consequently I cannot comment on it. But I can give the honourable gentleman this assurance: We have for some time been preparing industrial legislation which we will take to the Cabinet and then to my party room. As soon as this is done we will present a Bill to the House when it will be available for comment and the Opposition will be able to take up, I hope, an attitude in complete support of what we are doing. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information requested by the honourable member is set out in the following table: 
On the first point raised by the honourable gentleman, it should be known that we in Australia are extremely generous donors to official aid programmes and to aid programmes for the assistance of people in trouble in other parts of the world. Consequently, we decided some time ago that we would make a very substantial grant in order to assist the East Pakistani refugees. Similarly, too, as my colleague the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs announced yesterday, in accordance with conditions which he mentioned at the time, we have agreed to an increased appropriation of $1,500,000. Now, in anyone's language this can be regarded as fairly generous appropriation of Commonwealth funds for this purpose. Naturally enough, I appreciate what has been said about the views of the young people of this country, but the views of all Australian people have been taken into consideration and we have done what we regard as appropriate under the circumstances. 
I think it is probably true that there is no constitutional head of power that permits us to legislate with regard to pollution. Nonetheless the honourable gentleman will know that, as a matter of practical experience, when the expenditure of funds or effort is required and it is in a good cause it would be highly improbable that anyone would challenge the appropriation of funds by the Commonwealth Government for antipollution purposes. I can mention, as an example, what was done in the case of the crown-of-thorns starfish. There we took action. No-one complained. I believe that we obtained an eminently sensible report and one that I think has been accepted without very much complaint from the House. Similarly, too, we have at the moment an inquiry taking place. A former Justice of the Supreme Court of New South Wales is inquiring into the problems of the Great Barrier Reef. I do not anticipate that we will strike any trouble, but if we do we will make those decisions that we regard as being in the best interests of this country even though we might have no constitutional head of power relating to pollution. 
I do not know of the statement mentioned by the honourable gentleman but 1 will discuss the matters he has raised with my colleague, the Minister for National Development, and I will let the honourable member have some comments about them later. 
Some months ago I received a letter from, I believe, Rev. Downing, the  Chairman  of the Ministers Fraternal at Alice Springs, in which he recommended to me that we should purchase a property in order to look after the young Aborigines in Alice Springs. Shortly afterwards 1 discussed the matter with my colleague the Minister for Health. He made a trip to Alice Springs and it was agreed that we would purchase a motel at a cost, I think, of about $275,000. Subsequently we exchanged letters of offer and acceptance and Crown Law officers are now completing the relevant documents so we can proceed rapidly to the completion of the building itself. We have agreed also to the expenditure of $25,000 on reconstruction work, although not a great deal has to be done as yet, to make the motel suitable for occupation by young people. 
At the same time I have received a notification from the Public Service Board of a special request by the Department of Health for the provision of 45 extra positions for nurses and other supplementary people in order to man the hospital. Secondly, we have one other pretty important problem, that is, the provision of, I think, about 15 rural nurses to fill the complement of the hospital to provide hygiene, nutritional and other kinds of education for the mothers who might accompany the children and also to educate the children themselves. There will be 45- bed wards and 15 to 17 rooms that can be occupied by the mothers themselves. Regrettably I cannot tell the honourable member the actual date of completion but I think 1 can give him the assurance that I am exerting maximum pressure in order to ensure that these young people in Alice Springs get the best medical attention to which they are entitled. 
It is obvious that the honourable gentleman has read with great care the advice tendered to him by  Mr Fred  Brenchley of the 'Financial Review' and has asked him to become a little more up to date with his economic knowledge than he has ever been before. Referring to the articles of W. D. Scott and Co., I have not read the last article. I have not had the time to do so and, in fact, I found the last few articles not very interesting or informative. What I have found is that they do change a little and that at least two that I have read in recent weeks have followed very closely the Government's analysis of the position. What I have said in this House, and I have been stressing this point of view since March of this year, is that 1 have bad some feeling that demand is not increasing as rapidly perhaps as might be expected. But I have also pointed out that the potential for demand is extremely great because we find that personal savings have increased by over 64 per cent as compared with last year. 
I draw attention to the distinction between deposits in the savings banks and personal savings. Deposits in the savings banks have fallen slightly, but the potential demand including disposable incomes is enormously high. This therefore creates great difficulties so far as potential inflationary pressures are concerned. I think it must be taken without any doubt that the greatest problem we face today is inflationary pressure. If the honourable gentleman in his new wish to find approval from the women of this country asks them what they regard as being the very critical issue he will find that they regard inflation as one of the greatest problems we have to face - one which the Government is facing but with very little or no help from the Opposition. 
As to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, I would like to remind him that we will have entering the work force over the Christmas period this year about 180,000 people including school leavers and also those from tertiary education institutions. Therefore it will not be practicable to say what the number of registrants for employment for the JanuaryFebruary period might be. We certainly expect a larger number of school leavers than ever before to be registering with the Department of Labour and National Service. But again I emphasise this point to the House and to the Australian nation: We have a twofold objective of full and effective employment together with national development, but at the same time we want to do the maximum in the interests of the Australian people to try to control inflationary pressures. The first objective has priority with us, and we have taken up a flexible position. The Budget gives us ample opportunity for flexibility if we consider it to be necessary. I personally will be watching the figures, and when I feel that the moment has come for something to be done, as in the case of the nursing homes, I will be only too anxious to take action. 
In a matter that is as serious as this - and it should be treated seriously - I regret that such offensive language should be used by the honourable gentleman. I think that we on this side of the House do understand the difficulties of the rural community, and we do not, like the honourable gentleman has done, go to other parts of the world in an attempt to prejudice our opportunities. My colleague did make an application to me for approval to go to the Food and Agriculture Organisation, of which he will be  Chairman,  and I have approved. I think that not only is it an honour to this country, but it is a very great honour to him. I personally believe that he is an excellent Minister and well worthy of his position in the Commonwealth Cabinet. But what has to be said is that we have his distinguished colleagues here, particularly the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Minister for Shipping and Transport and the Minister for the Interior, representing rural industries. I have no doubt whatsoever that they will be able to handle the difficulties associated with his portfolio, as will the other members of Cabinet. 
As to our recognition of the difficulties of primary industries, I remind the honourable member that so far as the major one is concerned, that is wool, we have agreed to deficiency payments. We also have our arrangements regarding wheat, sugar and other primary commodities. I contrast this with what I believe to be the policy of other parties which agree that primary industries should stand on their own feet. Having said all that, I believe it is right and appropriate that my colleague should go overseas, and I strongly support him in the activities in which he will be engaged. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable member's question: 
The proportion of all deaths registered over the 5 years 1966 to 1970 attributable to motor vehicle accidents has been as follows (per cent): 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Superannuation Board has been informed by the Commonwealth Actuary that his Ninth Quinquennial Investigation of the Superannuation Fund is nearing completion. 
It is expected that he will report the result of his investigation to the Board, in accordance with Section 17 of the Superannuation Act 1922-1971, within the next few weeks. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has supplied information with respect to salaries, wages and other payments paid to staff employed under the Public Service Act since 1950-51. This information is set out in (he table below. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Overseas exchange was allocated as follows during 1970-71: 
In addition, the equivalent of $A4.1m was remitted from Australia to the non-sterling area during 1970-71 in payment for imported films. However, details of the proportions of these remittances which relate to films for use on television and for other purposes are not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows; 
(i) (a) The zone allowance boundaries were last amended in 1956, by Act No. 101 of 1956, when Zone A was extended to include certain parts of Western Australia, the Northern Territory and Queensland. The revised zone boundaries operated as from 1st July '1956; 
The amounts of deduction were increased in 1958, by Act No. 55 of 1958, to their present levels. The increased deductions operated for 1958-59 and subsequent income years; 
The qualifying period of residence within the zone areas, i.e., residence in the area for more than one-half of the year of income, has remained unaltered since the introduction of the zone allowance deductions by Act No. 4 of 1945. 
The question of amending these several aspects of the zone allowance provisions was last considered when the 1971-72 Budget was being prepared. 
and (3) Having regard to the overall budgetary position - including the need to raise substantial additional revenues - the Government decided that proposals for taxation concessions should be limited to those announced in the Budget Speech. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that in 1970 the average age of bachelor bridegrooms was 24.59 years and that for all bridegrooms was 26.55 years. 
Residences in Australia (Question No. 4158) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the tables below, the total number of private residences in Australia is shown in specific classes to illustrate the spread of the number of rooms, as a large proportion of 1 and 2 room dwellings are sheds, huts, tents and other private dwellings. Additionally,  the average, number- of rooms for each class of dwelling is shown in Table 1. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistican has provided the following information in reply to the honourable member's question. 
The numbers of never married employees in the Australian labour force at the time of the 1966 Census were 863,268 males, 573,706 females, a total of 1,436,974 persons. These represented 30.9 per cent, 46.2 per cent and 35.6 per cent of the total number of employees in each category. 
Information to enable a precise answer to the remainder of the question is not available. The table below gives a distribution of head of families in private dwellings at the 1966 Census by numbers of dependent children (defined as children under 21 years of age nol in the labour force) without distinguishing between married and unmarried heads. 
 The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable member's question: 
It is estimated that in June 1971 civilian employees of government bodies represented approximately 23.8 percent of all civilian employees in Australia. Government employees include persons employed, within Australia, by government bodies on services such as railways, road transport, banks, post office, air transport, education (including universities), broadcasting, television, police, public works, factories and munitions establishments, departmental hospitals and institutions, migrant hostels, etc., as well as administrative employees. 
If permanent defence forces in Australia and overseas and members of the Regular Army Supplement are included, the percentage of all employees becomes approximately 25.2. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A taxpayer who makes a gift of  property, such as a work of art, to an Australian university does not qualify for an income tax deduction in all circumstances. The deduction is allowable only if the property was purchased by the donor within 12 months immediately preceding the making of the gift. If this condition is satisfied, the deduction allowable is an amount equal to the value of the property at the time of the making of the gift or the amount paid by the donor for the property, whichever is the less. 
Deductions are not allowable for similar gifts made to independent girls' schools and colleges. 
1 shall arrange to have the matter looked into when the gift provisions of the law are next being examined. 
I did listen in on the intercommunication system last night to the speech made by the right honourable gentleman from Higgins and I heard that part of it relating to the figures that had been presented to the House by my colleague, the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. I have not had time to check them, naturally enough, because the speech was made at a fairly late hour. But 1 will do so. 
What I can say is that if anyone knew the full story relating to the VIP incident, rather than being critical of the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, he would say that he took upon himself an enormous responsibility when there was no need for him to have taken any responsibility whatsoever. We on this side of the House regard him as a man who should have received approval for what he did rather than be severely criticised. But this is not the kind of conduct that can ever be expected from the Leader of the Opposition. 
What I said. 
I am aware that there is over building in certain sections of civil construction, particularly in the nonhousing building construction industry in the capital cities of this country. The honourable gentleman's comment is therefore correct. The problem arises here as to what kind of action can be taken and whether or not there is a real tapering off in the approvals that have been given and, consequently the forward construction orders that might take place. I have been trying to find out the facts but they are very difficult to ascertain. 
If the honourable member waits, I will give him the answer to that in a few seconds. As late as this week I have been trying to find out what the order books are like and whether the present construction programmes can be continued for a very long period. I must admit that when this question was asked some months ago by my predecessor we got an answer that seemed to be reassuring. On this occasion too I get an answer that appears to be reassuring. Nonetheless I will take the matter up with the Treasury and with the Department of Works to see whether I can get something more precise and definitive. Secondly, I will ask the Treasury to have a look at this problem of the investment of the life offices to see whether this is contributing in any substantial way to the over building that is now taking place. 
We were informed through administration sources and the Australian Embassy in Washington that the  President  had made a decision that he would visit the Soviet Union. Naturally enough, he did not nor would I expect him to, obtain my approval, and I do not know what reply I would have given if he had asked me to approve of it. 
I would like to emphasise to the House that I believe there has been a vicious and prolonged campaign against the Tariff. Board by some manufacturing industries and organisations which is bitterly regretted and deserves censure. As to the Government's attitude to the Tariff Board, the first statement I want to make is that the Government is responsible for tariff policy. The Tariff Board is only an advisory body and the Government takes complete responsibility for whatever decisions are made. It was for this reason, for example that on the question of woven materials for shirts, woollen outer garments and other types of garments the Government decided in principle to accept the decision of the Tariff Board but to delay its implementation because 22,000 people were employed in the industry and we did not want the decision to be too harsh in the immediate future. 
Secondly, the Government believes that the Tariff Board should work independently and does not want to interfere with its operations. For that reason we believe that it is entirely proper and right that if the Tariff Board thinks it desirable to have independent inquiries made it should be within the Board's jurisdiction to do so. After all, in the case of inter-firm comparisons of which I am very well aware, this was a process agreed to by the Government and on other occasions the Government has agreed that universities and other authorities can carry out inquiries if requested to do so. The people involved are brought under the provisions of the Secrecy Act, rind consequently, have to give an assurance that they will not divulge to other sources any information they receive. But as my colleague, the Minister for Trade and Industry, pointed out yesterday there is some legal problem associated with this. The Government is looking into it, and I believe the Minister will make a statement about it later. As to the rest of what the Minister for Trade and Industry, the  Deputy  Prime Minister, said, I thoroughly agree with it. 
The answer to the first part of. the question is no, we have not done so - or not to the best of my knowledge, lt might be in the Treasury, but it has not been brought to me. On the second question. I will have inquiries made immediately to see whether this would help Australian corporations maintain a greater degree of equity. If it turned out to be right I could give the honourable member the assurance that it is the fundamental policy of the Government to maintain the maximum Australian equity investment in corporations established in this country. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of . the Commonwealth Administrative Review Committee. The Committee was composed of a group of eminent Australian lawyers. It was charged with recommending to the Government the procedures by which administrative decisions could be reviewed either in law or on their merits. The members of the Committee were:  Mr Justice  Kerr, a member of the Commonwealth Industrial Court, as Chairman;  Mr Justice  Mason, who was first appointed to the Committee in his capacity at the time as the Solicitor-General of the Commonwealth and who continued to be a member of the Committee following his appointment in 1969 as a Judge of Appeal of the Supreme Court of New South Wales;  Mr R.  J. Ellicott, Q.C., who joined the Committee on his appointment as SolicitorGeneral of the Commonwealth on 15th May 1969; and Professor J. Whitmore, presently Dean of the Faculty of Law in the Australian National University and an acknowledged authority on administrative law. 
The report is a valuable contribution to Australian study of the subject of administrative review. It reflects the considerable expertise and industry which the members of the Committee brought to their task. A glance at the chapter headings of the report will serve to indicate the breadth of the Committee's consideration of the matters referred to it. The report canvasses the problems associated with the review of administrative decisions. Against the background of experience in some overseas countries, it discusses the efficacy of traditional means of redress of grievances, including by representations by members of the Parliament. It notes the steps taken by the Parliament itself in particular statutes to provide for review of the decisions of administrative tribunals. It examines the adequacy of the traditional review procedures through the courts by the prerogative writs of mandamus, prohibition and certiorari. The Committee has concluded that a Commonwealth administrative court should be established to provide a means for judicial review of the decisions of Commonwealth Ministers, officials and administrative bodies. The jurisdiction of the court would be limited to judicial review on legal grounds. Alongside the court would be established an administrative review tribunal. The tribunal would, in appropriate cases, review on the merits the exercise of administrative discretions under Commonwealth statutes and regulations. 
In addition, the report outlines a proposal for an administrative review council. The council would be charged with supervising the procedures of administrative tribuals and with making recommendations as to the administrative discretions to be reviewed on their merits by the tribunal. The tribunal would be assisted by a general counsel for grievances and a small research staff. The general counsel for grievances would be a member of the council and have a right of audience before both the Commonwealth administrative court and the administrative review tribunal. It can be seen that the Committee has produced a report which sets out in an informed and elegant fashion a comprehensive structure for administrative review. Even from this summary' honourablemembers will appreciate that the report will require considerable study. We have decided to make it available at this stage in order to promote informed and considered discussion in the Parliament and in public, academic and professional circles. 
The Government has not had an opportunity to consider the report in detail. But we have decided that immediate action on 2 fronts is appropriate. A group of 3 people will be appointed to examine existing administrative discretions under ' Commonwealth statutes and regulations and to advise the Government as to those in' respect of which it considers a review on the merits should be provided. This study of heeds will proceed immediately, and ahead of any decisions about further aspects of the report. We intend that the group to study and make recommendations on the review of administrative discretions under statute and regulations will be constituted at a high level. It will include perhaps one member of the Committee whose report is now being tabled, a very senior and experienced public servant or ex-public servant and perhaps one other with wide experience in the legal, political or administrative fields. In the light of the recommendations from the group and of responses from those interested in the report now tabled, the Government will be able to determine in detail what additional arrangements for administrative review may be necessary. 
In addition, the Government has decided to ask the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  to institute a review of the prerogative writ procedures available in the courts. We accept the comment of the Committee that the legal grounds on which remedies can at present be obtained are limited and often complicated. The Attorney-General's review of remedies available in the courts will take place concurrently with the study 1 have mentioned of the existing range of administrative discretions under statute or regulation. This review should also lead to recommendations which the Government will consider. The Government believes that these two immediate decisions relating to the report of the Commonwealth Administrative review committee will be taken as a tangible demonstration of the significance it attaches to the protection of the rights of individuals at a time when governments exercise extensive powers on their behalf. 
I think it appropriate to add at this stage 2 comments. The first is that this report should be of particular concern to members of the Parliament. They themselves have a significant role in the review and criticism of the administrative processes. It is important that their . own role be regarded as central and that any steps taken in response to the report should have this in mind. My second comment relates to the possibility of these reforms causing delays in the administrative process. The Government, and the Commonwealth Service, are often criticised for delays that occur in administration. In large part, these are due to the need for co-ordination and for clearance to ensure that all' aspects of any particular matter are fully considered. It must be recognised that any substantia] extension of institutions and procedures for the formal review of administrative action will in the nature of things add materially both to the time taken in the administrative process and to the costs it entails. I need not remind honourable members that speed and efficiency in the conduct of Government business are important both for the Government itself and for those who rely on decisions of the Government. I believe honourable members will welcome the report and the action the Government proposes to take. I commend the report to the House for consideration. I present the following paper: 
Report of the Commonwealth Administrative Review Committee - Ministerial Statement, 14th October 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
 The answer to the honourablemember's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
No. 
Yes, to all the Premiers. 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (Question No. 3605) 
If the right honourable gentleman will extend to me the courtesy of letting me have a copy of the speech 1 assure him I will read it on the trip between Australia and San Francisco, or if I am unable to do that, I will read it when I am on shore in Honolulu. If the right honourable gentleman will let me have a copy of his speech fairly quickly I will make up my mind whether the contents deserve further study. 
I have read the first statement. I read part of the second statement and only today I have written to  Sir James  and pointed out to him that some of the figures in his statement- are wrong. I have not read the third statement. 
I think what the honourable gentleman will remember is thatI commended the policy decisions made by the right honourable gentleman from Higgins whilst he was a member of the Cabinet, and that included the time when he was the Prime Minister as well as the time when he was Minister for Defence during the last Budget discussions on the state of the economy and the measures which should be taken in the national interest. I have not read in any detail the comments made by the right honourable member at a Liberal Party branch. But what I will repeat, as has been said over and over again in this House, is that the major cause of our problems of inflation today is due directly or indirectly to wage increases. 
I have also pointed out very, very clearly that the policy of the Budget - and as I have said the right honourable gentleman was present when the decisions were made - was to prevent demand inflation superimposing itself upon wage cost inflation, directly or indirectly caused. There is only one answer to be given here. But first, may I go further and say that I have pointed out again and again that, should we regard it as necessary to take action we will do so. 1 should like to point out to the honourable gentleman 3 ways in which we have taken action in recent weeks which is a clear indication of our sensitivity to the problems and our willingness to act whenever we think it is desirable to do so. As an example, we have made sure that there will be 3,000 fewer immigrant workers coming into Australia over the Christmas period than we budgeted for at Budget time. Secondly, the Reserve Bank of Australia has, with the Government's approval, agreed with the trading banks that their advance limits should be increased by something of the order of $5m a week, permitting cash flows to go on in the companies and a greater degree of flexibility to be achieved. Thirdly, those who care to look can see that at the short end of the bond market the Reserve Bank, again with the approval of the Treasury, has agreed that there should be some moderation of interest policies. I can assure the House that we are watching this problem with very great care and as and when we consider it desirable we will take action._ 
But if the honourable gentleman who asked this question was really sincere and wanted some impact on inflationary forces, he should ask his colleague, and 1 believe master, to ensure that when the next national wage case comes on the Australian Council of Trade Unions will observe moderation. If moderation is observed 1 believe that we will quickly overcome our problems. If moderation is not observed in the wage claims then,  Sir, I  can assure you that we will be looking at the future with considerable difficulty. I go one step further and say that if there is a national wage claim the House can be assured that the Australian Government will intervene and will caution the greatest moderation in wage demands. 
It must be obvious that the question asked by the honourable gentleman was drafted for him before he heard the question asked by the right honourable member for Higgins. Because if he had heard that question and the answer to it he would know that I have not rejected the advice which might have been tendered by the right honourable gentleman. I will look at the statement and 1 will look at the advice with a great deal of attention and refer it to the necessary authorities. As to the second part of the honourable member's question, there are many people saying just as favourable things about the state of the economy. If the honourable gentleman would care to look at some of the speeches made by the General Manager of the Bank of New South Wales,  Sir James  Vernon and other people at a meeting of the Institute of Directors last week he will see that they clearly identify the present problem as one of cost-push inflation. If the Labor Party wants to make a contribution towards solving this problem it can do so in the manner I have just mentioned to the Leader of the Opposition. 
Anticipating this kind of question because of an article that appeared in the 'Sun Herald' last Sunday, I immediately caused to be made inquiries from the Government Statistician as to whether there would be any technical factors associated with the October registrant for employment figures. I am informed by him today that no technical adjustments whatsoever are involved. I have had this also cleared with the Department of Labour and National Service. That Department believes that this suggestion that technical factors are involved is a flight of imagination and has no relationship to reality. So that is the position with regard to the so-called technical adjustments. The normal technical adjustments are made over the Christmas period and are reflected in the March figures. They do not take place in any of the other figures involved. As to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, I was then thinking about the severity of the increase in the registrant for employment figures in actual registrations and I did imply that there might be a change in the severity of the increase in these figures, not than there would be. 1 think it is highly desirable that this matter be put in perspective. Regrettably there has been too great a tendency to use the seasonally adjusted figures when referring to unemployment. I am prepared to say that if 1 were to ask what is meant by seasonally adjusted figures not 2 people on the Opposition benches would know what I was talking about. What the man in the street wants to know is the actual number of registrants. That number is 63,679, which is not an abnormal figure for the month in which we are considering it unless there are strong inflationary pressures and the labour demand is exceedingly high. I hope that when the figures come out either we will look at the actual figures of registrants, which have for so long  "Stood  us in good stead, or, it we are  looking  at the seasonal figures, at least we will look at the explanation for them and the technical factors involved. Everyone using seasonal figures is warned by the people who draw them up that they are for technical purposes and do not illustrate the actual figures of registrants existing on the date the registration was taken. 
by leave -  Mr Acting Speaker,  in recent years my Government and its predecessors have given greatly increased support to the arts in Australia. The response has been most encouraging. As a result, our policy on the arts and the interpretation of action taken or not taken by the Government have attracted a good deal of attention from honourable members as well as from the media and the public. It is timely, therefore to give to the House a fresh appreciation of our attitude to the arts. It is proper for me to clarify some aspects of our involvement which have been under discussion in recent weeks. The Government sees the arts in a multitude of expressions and forms - not as an adornment but as an integral part of life; not something exclusive to the hours of leisure but as a force, penetrating and enriching every aspect of human affairs; not as the preserve of the rich and the sophisticated but as a source of delight for all. 
The arts are among the factors which go to create a quality of life unique in Australia. In the past we may have been inclined to stress the physical and material satisfactions of life at the expense of the pleasures of the creative imagination. And as a result many talented Australians who wished to be painters or writers, actors or dancers, musicians or film directors have had to leave Australia to build a career in a more sympathetic artistic climate elsewhere. We could not afford this leaching of our society any more than we can now afford to allow our incomparable environment to be despoiled and polluted by lack of foresight and conscience. But, with the growing cultural awareness of the Australian society and because of support provided by governments, the opportunities for talented Australians to pursue a professional career in this country have been increased significantly in recent years. While there is still much to be done, novelists and poets, painters and sculptors can now command a better market as professionals here and abroad than they could do not so many years ago. 
The Australian Opera Company, the Australian Ballet Company, the State drama companies, the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Australian Elizabethan Trust orchestras, and many other smaller companies, all now employ artists on a continuing basis, and they attract back to Australia artists who, having gone abroad for further experience, wish to return and work in their own country. This flow will increase as time goes by and bring great stimulus and enrichment to the daily life of all Australians. 
The effectiveness of policy in relation to the arts of course will depend in part on the vitality and wisdom of the institutions set up to administer it. In the Commonwealth, overall responsibility for the arts has been placed by me with the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson).  This Ministry was created to take over from the Prime Minister policy issues of increasing importance on a variety of matters which demanded more sustained attention than it was possible for him to give. Nevertheless, I find a certain logic in the combination. 
The Minister's responsibilities are all in different ways concerned with the quality of life which opens out before the Australian people. It is increasingly clear that the superb natural environment which this continent provides for human life can no longer be taken for granted. It must be protected with understanding and with care. If, as I have said, the arts should be deeply integrated into our lives, they too form part of the intellectual and cultural environment within which our lives are lived - offering diversity of experience and lending form and substance to our personal and natural identity. Aboriginal Australians are an unqualified responsibility of governments - a challenge to our conscience and to our political and social wisdom. 
There is, particularly in relation to the environment and the arts, much that we can learn from them. For tens of thousands of years they have inhabited this continent, living in harmony with it and its creatures. They established a way of life in which the arts, of music, dance, theatre and ritual were woven into the texture of their dailylives. It is indeed a happy combination of responsibilities which I am sure will give the Minister and his advisers great stimulus and satisfaction. In the past, when responsibility for the arts lay with the Prime Minister, several separate bodies were set up and were responsible for advising him on various aspects of the arts. They continue to this day and now advise the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. 
The Commonwealth Literary Fund had its own advisory committee. In the building up of the national collection of works of art and on many related matters the Prime Minister was assisted by the Commonwealth Art Advisory Board. Advice on the needs of composers has been provided by the Board of the Commonwealth Assistance to Australian Composers. In the field of the performing arts help was given by the Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust, a private corporation supported by Government funds. In recent years several major institutional developments have occurred including the establishment of the Australian Council for the Arts, the completion of the National Library, and the decision to begin planning a National Gallery for Canberra. More recently the Government established 2 new organisations in the field of film and television, the Film Development Corporation and the Interim Council of the Australian Film and Television Training School. 
Apart from these bodies, the Australian Broadcasting Commission, through its symphony orchestras, television and radio programmes, has continued to exercise powerful direct effects on the content and style of the performing arts. The Government has now, therefore, a range of organisations, advisory and executive, to assist it to form and give effect to policies for the support of the arts. The time, therefore, may be ripe to review the structure of these bodies and their relationship to one another so that they can best promote the vigour and diversity of Australian artistic life. When the late  Mr Holt  announced the Government's decision to set up an' Australian Council for the Arts he said it would be responsible primarily for the performing arts, but would also have the task of advising the Government on those aspects of the arts not receiving aid through existing channels. He said also that the establishment of the Council did not preclude the possibility of an overall council responsible for all aspects of Government support for the arts along the lines of the Canada Council and the Arts Council of Great Britain. Support has also been expressed for a comprehensive ministry pf culture in the style common among European countries. 
During the last two or three years the Council for the Arts and other advisers have given thought to these possibilities. After consultation with them, I am inclined to distrust the idea of a single monolithic controller of public patronage. With all its faults I believe that our pattern of various channels of support, with scope for varied artistic and social influences, is almost certainly healthier. Nevertheless the arts are in a perpetual process of change and are unlikely long to fit a pattern of institutions evolved slowly over many years. New art forms emerge under the stimulus of technological change which do not fall readily within accepted classifications. 
One of the most exciting aspects of contemporary cultural life is the crossfertilisation which now occurs between different art forms, a process greatly stimulated by developments in film and electronic processes. It is important, therefore, firstly, that the organisational structure should be flexible and capable of adapting itself to change and, secondly, that the state of the arts should continuously be studied so that, where necessary, gaps may be filled, collaboration ensured and new initiatives stimulated. My colleague, the Minister, tells me that he intends shortly, and thereafter at intervals, to bring together the Chairmen of the various Commonwealth agencies in the arts to discuss their present responsibilities and relationships one to the other. This will be a valuable opportunity for them to offer their advice on the effectiveness of the present structure to meet the changing demands of contemporary art forms. 
It will continue to be the function of the Council for the Arts to study and report on those aspects of the arts which are not assisted through existing Commonwealth agencies and to make its contribution to advice available to the Minister on the balance and effectiveness of our programmes as a whole. It was in pursuit of these functions that the Council presented my predecessor with a report which led to major developments in the field of film and television to which I shall return later. 
More recently a study of the state of music in Australia has been completed and the Council will shortly be presenting my colleague with its recommendations arising from that study. Two additional studies will be undertaken this year by committees to be established by the Minister. The first of these will examine the role of crafts as art forms in their own right, as a widely spread experience of creative processes and as the foundation of good industrial design. The committee will include representatives of the Council for the Arts, the Commonwealth Art Advisory Board and the Council for Industrial Design who will jointly advise on the committee's terms of reference. 
The second will concern itself with means whereby children and young people can be helped to enjoy and practise the arts more effectively. The chairmen of the Council" for the Arts, the Commonwealth Assistance to Australian Composers Advisory Board, the Commonwealth Literary Fund and the Commonwealth Art Advisory Board will jointly advise on the terms of reference of this study which will also involve educational authorities. Special attention will be given in these and other future studies to the effect of innovation in art forms and the mutual stimulus they can provide for one another. 
Before leaving areas of the arts for which the Council is responsible, let me comment on the increased support for the performing arts being given this year. The grant has been increased by almost 17 per cent to $4.5m. The greater part of the increase has been given deliberately to the Australian Opera and to the orchestras of the Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust. Their share has been increased by 45 per cent to $1,290,000. Some critics have seen this as an example of discrimination or favouritism. The Government believes that increased support for the arte cannot sensibly be given uniformly across the board. That way, no large development can ever be achieved, given the competitive pressures on Government funds. It is more effective to seize opportunities for major break-throughs as they are offered by the occasion or by some other stimulus to innovation. 
In 1973 the opening of the Sydney Opera House will give Australia the chance to match the splendour of that building with performances which will be worthy of it and of the long association of Australians with this art form. The Government makes no apology for the emphasis it has this year given to strengthening the opera company and its associated orchestra. Their success will set new standards for all the arts and I am sure that the special occasion for others will be not far distant. Those who love the arts will rejoice that Australian opera has been given an effective opportunity to set new standards of excellence. 
Let me turn now to developments in the visual arts. As honourable members know, the first steps have been taken to establish a national gallery. Over many years the Art Advisory Board has built up in the gallery an historical collection of the works of Australian painters of the past and the present. It will also incorporate outstanding examples of the work of indigenous artists of New Guinea and aboriginal Australia, art of the South-East Asian and Pacific region and art on a world-wide basis, beginning with the 20th century. 
The gallery will be more than the home for a unique and splendid collection of works of art. Its functions are broadly conceived so that it will become also a centre of creative activity for the exhibition of collections from abroad and of the work of contemporary; artists, and a focus of education and research exercising, in collaboration with sister galleries in the States, a profound and pervasive influence on the life of Australians. 
When the decision to proceed with gallery planning was taken in 1967 an interim council was appointed to administer certain aspects of the initial programme. Its terms of office expired recently and it is the Government's intention, now to legislate for a permanent council as a statutory body to administer the gallery. Much,, of course, will depend on the gallery's first director. I am pleased to announce tonight that , the 
Government proposes to appoint  Mr James  Mollison to the post. Pending the submission of the legislation and the establishment of the statutory office,  Mr Mollison  has agreed to make his services available under contract to the Government to carry out the duties and responsibilities that will fall to the director of the gallery. The Government has deliberately chosen in  Mr Mollison  one who is young as well as talented and experienced. It will be some years before the building of the gallery is complete and its work in full flower. By then the new director will have grown with it in stature and have benefited from the experience of others in Australia and abroad. 
The Government is fortunate also that  Mr James  Sweeney, the eminent American Gallery Director and international art and gallery consultant, has agreed to work with the new director and the architect during the present design phase of the gallery. He will work as a specialist consultant and adviser to the Government and. the National Capita] Development Commission which has charge of the whole project.  Mr Sweeney  has already given distinguished service to the Government and the National Capital Development Commission and we value highly the contribution he has already made to the preparatory phase of work in the gallery. Honourable members will share, 1 am sure, my appreciation of his work and his readiness to continue to assist us. I should also add that when the permanent council for the gallery is appointed the Art Advisory Board to which I have already referred will become part of the council. The Art Advisory Board will also perform those other functions it now exercises which are not directly concerned with the gallery. 

 Mr Acting Speaker, I come now to the film and television industry. When the Council for the Arts presented its report for the development of the film and television industry it urged the establishment of 3 new institutions - the Australian Film Development Corporation, the Experimental Film Fund and the Australian Film and Television School. The Australian Film Development Corporation is actively at work and a number of investments have been made. The Corporation was designed to serve as a source of part of the capital needed for commercial film and television ventures, and thus act as a catalyst for funds from private and banking sources. 
The Government looks, however, to other sections of the film and television industry to share more actively with the Corporation the development of an effective Australian industry. The Experimental Film Fund has, until recently, been the responsibility of the Australian Council for the Arts. It has already proved effective in identifying original creative talent in this medium. The Council has also developed a more general programme to stimulate the Australian content of film and television programmes and to extend sensitive and critical appreciation of high quality film and television. Responsibility for these programmes will now be taken over by the Interim Council for the Film and Television School as has been announced by the Minister. It was partly with these new responsibilities in mind that the Government has decided to add to the Interim Council 2 men long experienced in radio, television and film making. They are  Mr Hector  Crawford and  Mr Lenard  Mauger. Their knowledge will be, I am sure, of great value in helping us to promote plans for the development of the film industry. 
There has been a good deal of misunderstanding of the Goverment's attitude towards the question of assistance for training of film and television producers. The Government decided at Budget time to defer consideration of a proposal to establish a training school for this purpose. This was one of a number of proposals over the range of Government activity on which consideration was deferred because of the need to restrict Government expenditure. This does not mean that the Government has abandoned the idea of establishing a training school. In this House on 7th October 1 informed honourable members that I had instructed the Minister to proceed as quickly as possible to collect all the evidence that becomes available to him so that the proposal could be presented to the Government well before the next Budget and not necessarily, therefore, in a Budget context. He is doing this. 
The current position is that the enlarged Interim Council to which I have just referred has been asked to review the relationship of the training already undertaken by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the commercial television organisations and the film industry to the programme of the proposed school. It will seek the co-operation of those interests for this review. When it has received this report the Government will then consider the most appropriate way in which it might act to assist the industry in this important area. 
In addition to the institutional developments recommended to and adopted by the Government, the Council for the Arts drew attention to the need of the Australian film industry for some degree of protection to establish itself on the Australian market. The Council suggested that advice on this matter should be sought from the Tariff Board or a specially constituted committee. Many other countries have found it necessary to establish quotas or to provide other forms of protection to prevent their vigorous but infant film industry being overwhelmed by imported features. I have therefore asked my colleague, the Minister for Trade and Industry, to invite the Tariff Board to consider the need and appropriate form of protection for this industry. He has agreed to do this and in due course the Tariff Board will begin its work. I should also remind honourable members that the Government has done much to advance the cause of the Arts by ensuring that the Australian Broadcasting Commission and, through the Broadcasting Control Board, the commercial stations, give a substantial percentage of their viewing time to Australian made programmes. Under recently specified new requirements commercial stations have increased their quotas of Australian programmes. All stations which have been established for 3 years or more must televise at least 50 per cent of Australian programmes, and 45 per cent of peak-time programmes between 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. must be Australian in content. Audience surveys in recent year show that some Australian programmes are getting top ratings. 
There remains much of the more detailed work in support of the arts of which my colleague, the Minister, will tell the House at the appropriate time. This statement has been designed to express my Government's deep concern for the arts as an essential and vigorous component of our national life; to acquaint the House with the principles which underlie our organisation for making that concern effective; and to inform the House of certain initiatives which will, I am sure, be welcomed inside and outside Parliament by those who share our belief that the arts can add both richness and diversity to the quality of life.  Mr Acting Speaker,  I commend this statement to you. I present the following paper: 
The Arts In Australia - Ministerial Statement, 26th October 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr  Swartz) proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
On 14th October, in reply to a question from the Leader of the Opposition, I undertook to look at figures concerning the proposals of the Interim Council for a National Film and Television Training School that my colleague, the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  had presented to the House and at criticisms that had been made about them. 1 have had the matter looked into and I have studied the various statements that have been made in the House. I arn satisfied that the Minister did not give to the House - to quote the Leader of the Opposition - 'figures which were not accurate or estimates which were misleading'. The discussion that has taken place in the House has centred upon the cost of acquiring land and whether an area of 60 acres, or an area of 8 acres, should be acquired. 
In November 1969, the Government set up an Interim Council for a National Film and Television Training School. The Interim Council submitted its first report in November 1970. I table a copy of the report. In paragraph 11.4 the Council expressed the view that: 'It is not a viable proposition to set up a National Film and Television School on its own, with a student body of only limited numbers'. In paragraph 11.8 the Council said that: 'The school should be established as an independent College of Advanced Education immediately adjacent to an existing educational institution'. In paragraph 12.3 the Council suggested that an area of some 60 acres might well be required. The full import will be apparent . to members on reading the text of these paragraphs of the report. 
The Interim Council' submitted a second report in March this year. I table a copy of that report. In it the Council put forward a programme of action on the basis that the National Film and Television School would open up for some pupils early in 1973. In paragraph 4 of the report the Council suggested a timetable and said that - and I quote from sub-paragraph 5 - 'the programme as set out in the timetable is applicable whether the Government accepts the recommendation to purchase the larger area required for a Centre or a lesser area sufficient for the Film and Television School alone'.  Mr Acting Speaker,  it is clear that the ( Council was to be taken in its second report as adhering to its recommendation in the first report that an area of something like 60 acres should be acquired, although it was recognising that the Government, on its initiative, might only authorise the acquisition of a lesser area. 
In June this year the Minister raised with the Council the question whether the School might not progress along rather more cautious lines than the Council had proposed. On 30th June the Minister received estimates which I now table. It will be seen from an examination of these estimates that on the basis of the acquisition of 60 acres, which was the Council's recommendation, the cost would be $7. 6m, and that on the basis of the acquisition of 8 acres the cost would be $5. 6m. I table a copy of a letter dated 28th July 1971, addressed to the Minister by the  Chairman  of the Interim Council, lt reads: 
At the meeting of the interim Council on Tuesday, 27th July, it was decided that I should confirm, in writing, two of the points made in our personal discussions, as being the firm views of the Interim Council. 
Whilst fully recognising the present need for economies, the Council stresses that it would be self-defeating to begin the school inadequately. Although it would be possible to move more slowly than envisaged in the original reports, the Council considers the the school must start off with adequate resources at each stage if it is to be developed in a worthwhile way. 
The Council also is anxious to make perfectly clear that its recommendation on the purchase of the land, now available in a non-intensive subdivision, is based on the belief that the site should not be confined to the area needed solely for a Film and Television School. Other schools in associated studies are under active consideration, and their eventual close association and physical location alongside the Film School is considered of great importance to its long-term success. The opportunity to acquire the full site so advantageously will never reoccur: 
I realise I have already made these points in personal discussions with you, but I agree with the Council that it is desirable that they be confirmed in writing. 
On 8th September the Minister made a statement in the House in the course of which he said: 
Whilst the Council's enthusiasm for this project is fully apparent from its reports, the continuing economic stringencies and the substantial cost which is estimated to be over $7m during the next 5 years have led to consideration of its proposal being deferred for 12 months. The proposals may then be considered in the light of what I hope will be more propitious economic circumstances. 
Having regard to the very recent and, I might add, firm advice that the Minister had received in  Mr Coleman's  letter of 28th July, the Minister was justified in treating the Council's proposals as being proposals involving the expenditure of over $7m during the next 5 years. 
There remains one matter, namely, the matter of the number of graduates, to which the Minister referred in answer to a question by the Leader of the Opposition on 10th September. The Minister gave a figure of 12 graduates. The report to the Interim Council by P. A. Management Consultants Pty Ltd reflected some doubt about the needs of industry for graduates. The report said: 
Under the assumption that present trends will continue, the number of graduates from the School that the industry believes it could absorb has been determined in the range from 30-40 graduates.' 
However, on the same page the survey went on to conclude that the School should cater for an initial output of only 15 graduates a year for the industry. The Minister acknowledges that he was in error in referring to 12 graduates. The figure should have been 15. I table a copy of the consultants' report. 

 Mr Acting Speaker, 1 have stated the position in some detail, and I have tabled reports and other papers, so that the whole matter can be looked at fairly and squarely. I have done so myself and am fully satisfied with the account that the Minister has given to the House. It is true that consideration had been given by the Minister to the possibility of proceeding with the School by itself in an area of 8 acres. But that was not the Council's proposal. The Council had recommended the acquisition of 60 acres and on 28th July it affirmed that recommendation. The making of a decision was a matter for the Government. The advice of the Council was not, however, lightly to be disregarded. In all the circumstances, and in view of the economic factors to which the Minister referred in his statement of 8th September, the Government concluded that it should look at the whole question again within the next year. This the Government has undertaken to do and this it will do. I present the following papers: 
National Film and Television Training School - Interim Council - First Report of November 1970, Second Report of March 1971, Tables of Estimates of Costs of Establishing the School, A Survey of Employment Opportunities for Graduates of the Training School, 
A copy oi a Idler  dated 28th  July 1971 from the  Chairman  to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, 
Answer by the Prime Minister to a question by the Leader of the Opposition on 14th October concerning the proposals of the Interim Council for a National Film and Television Training School, 26th October 1971. 
Yes. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The quotation by the Victorian Minister from the Covenant with reference to Article 21 on the occasion of introducing a Summary Offences (Trespassers) Bill in the Victorian Parliament did not warrant such an inquiry. 
No. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. AsI announced in a statement of 15th July 1971, the provision of Commonwealth accommodation for Queensland police during the visit of the South African rugby union team to Brisbane was made in response to a request by the Queensland Government. The request was agreed to in the interests of public safety and following assurances by the Queensland Government that it could not provide the accommodation from within its own resources. 
The provision of this information is entirely a matter for the Queensland Government. A charge of $12,801.97 in respect of accommodation and food for the period involved has been made by the Army on the Queensland Police Department. 
Not ascertainable. Information in respect of the States would be a matter for State Governments. As I announced in a statement on 22nd March 1971 to mark the International Year for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination, the Commonwealth made a specific grant of$12,000to assist the Australian Committee to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination with its programme in connection with the Year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In 1920 a scheme was introduced for the payment of an allowance to married officers employed under the Public Service Act with dependent children. 
The relevant regulation provided for the payment of an allowance at the following rate: - to each married officer who has children under the age of fourteen years dependent upon him and who is in receipt of salary at a rate not exceeding 500 per annum- the sum of 13 per annum in respect of each such child so dependent: 
Provided that the sum payable under this paragraph in respect of each child shall be reduced by 1 for every 16 by which the rate of salary exceeds 300 per annum.' 
In 1920 the allowance of 13 per annum for each dependent child under fourteen years of age represented 6.3% of the 1920 Federal basic wage. There is now no basic wage applicable to the Commonwealth Service. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
3,167 
1,792 
54 
3,900 
1,320 
It should be noted that these statistics only refer to staff employed under the Public Service Act. Figures are not available for other staff employed by the Commonwealth. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the honourable member is aware, the economic situation has altered since the child care proposal was announced. Because of the Government's appreciation of the importance of restraining inflationary pressures currently evident in the community, it adopted a deliberate policy of curtailing Commonwealth expenditure and in the light of that policy, the decision was taken to defer the proposal. 
In the meantime the issues relating to child care will continue to be examined by the Government in preparation for the time when the matter is further considered. 
I wish to inform the House that the Minister for Trade and Industry,  Mr Anthony,  left Australia on 20th November to attend a meeting of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in Geneva. He is expected to return to Australia on 27th November. During his absence the Minister for Repatriation,  Mr Holten,  is Acting Minister for Trade and Industry. I also inform the House that the Minister for External Territories,  Mr Barnes,  will be in Papua New Guinea this week. 
l seek leave to make a statement on my recent visit to the United States of America and Great Britain. 
I should first of all point out that that part of the honourable gentleman's question that relates to the fiscal policies of the States having an impact on prices is hardly relevant to today's conditions in which cost inflation here is almost entirely due to the impact of increased wages both inside and outside the arbitration system. Let this be absolutely certain. The second great force that is driving up the prices in Australia is the industrial disputes in regard to which neither  Mr Hawke  nor the Leader of the 
Opposition is taking any worthwhile part to see that they are reduced. I have yet to find out from the Leader of the Opposition that he is willing to play any part in trying to reduce industrial unrest in this country. As to the substance of the honourable gentleman's question, I have this morning read the letter from the Premier to myself which was received during my absence. The letter is now in the hands of the Department of the Treasury and other relevant departments and I hope that they will be able to give me advice or recommendations during the course of the next few days. When that has been done and I have made up my mind I will announce to the House what the Government intends to do. 
There have been many meetings of a ministerial kind to discuss and make decisions about the problems of Aborigines as a whole and I think we have now got to the position where with one exception, and that is associated with land rights, all outstanding problems have been decided and I believe they have been decided to the satisfaction of the Council for Aboriginal Affairs. Yesterday I received a report from the Commonwealth Solicitor-General dealing with this problem of land rights. As yet I have not been able to read it but at least I have been able today to give a direction that it be distributed to all the members of the ministerial committee. As soon as I feel that they have had sufficient time to read it and to be able to digest it I will call the committee together and we will then be able, 1 hope, to make a final decision. 
I was asked a question by the Leader of the Opposition relating to the Film and Television Training School and I replied to it. I tabled all the documents that had been received by the Government up to the date on which the Leader of the Opposition asked the question. As to the second part, or the substantial part, of the honourable member's question, I am nol the responsible Minister and naturally I could not be expected to know about the receipt of every single letter that is received, and I did not know of the receipt of this letter. But I understand that the Acting Prime Minister has agreed that there shall be a debate on this matter, and the honourable member will then have every opportunity to raise this subject. But I think he will be in for a considerable number of surprises. 
I have naturally enough in the past had a good look at this problem of unused tariffs, and I have frequently heard it said that the method proposed by the honourable gentleman might be used in order to ensure that employers do not too readily give in to demands for increased wages. The problem is one which 1 think is worthy of attention. I will find out from the relevant department, whether it is the Department of Trade and Industry or the Treasury, whether anything can be done about it and I will let the honourable member know. As to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, I think I should say that I have very grave doubts as to whether this would have a significantly big impact upon costs and therefore upon inflationary tendencies. As I said a few moments ago, there can be no doubt whatsoever that the 2 major influences arise in the wage field, particularly in the area of award rates and the wages drift, and in the area of industrial discipline and the fear that this creates in the mind of employers. 
As to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, what I said related to the figures for October, and I think there was a pleasant surprise. If the honourable gentleman was not pleasantly surprised because there was a neutral position then I am afraid he is past the stage when he can have satisfaction one way or the other. As to the balance of the honourable gentleman's question, I think I should give 2 answers. The first one is that I believe in the principle of ministerial responsibility. We have on the front bench of the Government a man fully capable and able to answer these questions if they are directed to him. That is the Treasurer. 
I can understand the Opposition wishing to create false issues and to divert attention from its own problems and this, of course, is one of the ways in which this is done. However, I believe that the honourable gentleman was guilty of complete misrepresentation in that he did not quote in full the question I was asked, but left out the main portion of it. So, let me tell him what it was. The question asked by  Mr Vincent  Matthews of the Melbourne 'Herald' was: 
Can I bring up an important matter, sir? Our correspondent in Washington reports today that  President  Nixon will ask you to send Australian military advisers to Cambodia to train the Cambodian Army. He also says that the Americans have secretly sounded out the Australian Government on this matter. 
I then gave an answer which I ended by saying: 
It is hypothetical and I cannot give answers to hypothetical questions. 
The fact is that the  President  did not ask me about sending people to train troops in Cambodia and, during the course of our discussion overseas, it was never raised. The simple fact was that this question related to  President  Nixon's meeting with me immediately after I had arrived in Washington. Therefore, no issue arose, and there has been a total misunderstanding of this matter ever since the day I left Austraia. Then when I arrived at the airport in New York I was asked: 'What is your Government's feeling about  President 
Nixon's request that Australia send military advisers to Cambodia?' I said: 'He has not asked for any'. He had not, and he never did. 
What I did do when I met  President  Nixon was to point out what our position was with regard to the training of South Vietnamese in South Vietnam and with regard to the training of Cambodians in Australia. I said that in principle we were willing, providing it was practicable and our allies were agreeable, to train Cambodians in South Vietnam at an American training school. But I went on to point out in my Blair House statement that the  President  had not asked me about training troops in Cambodia. So the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has raised a completely false issue. 
I should like to clear this matter up because the second part of the honourable gentleman's question relates to a totally different question from that asked by  Mr Matthews. Mr Matthews  had been good enough to point out that the question he asked me only related to the purported report that  President  Nixon would ask me in Washington to send Australian military advisers to Cambodia to train the Cambodian Army, and that the Americans had secretly sounded out the Government on the matter to find out what my answer would be. 
In regard to giving a full answer to the balance of the question, I can add nothing to what my colleague the Acting Prime Minister said or what was said by the Minister for Defence. In fact, I think that the answers given by the Acting Prime Minister were perfect. But on this matter I will now make a positive statement: Long ago I was asked whether we would be prepared to send training personnel to Cambodia, and I immediately gave the answer no. Consequently, that became a decision and was confirmed and accepted by the Government. We have never been prepared to send training personnel to Cambodia. We are not prepared to send them, and we are not prepared to permit Australian fighting troops to go to either South Vietnam or Cambodia. 
Earlier in the afternoon I drew attention to the fact that under standing order 142 it was appropriate that questions should be directed to the Minister responsible for that part of the administration of government to which the question related. Therefore, this question should have been directed to my colleague the Treasurer or to the Minister for National Development. If the honourable member cares to put the question on the notice paper I will direct it to the attention of the responsible Minister. 
Minister. If that is so, my question should have been answered by the appropriate Minister, perhaps the Treasurer, if the Prime Minister was unable to answer it. 
As to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, 2 subjects were discussed with me when I was in the United States. They were the question of what could be done to help the Australian wool industry and the willingness of the United States Government to look at the matter. The United States Government did not mention the normal import duty on wool.  Mr Starts,  the Secretary of Commerce, will be out here early in January and the matter can be discussed with him then. What I can say is that there is a real willingness on the part of the United States Government to help us if they can. So the honourable gentleman's question, as usual, is provocative and does not touch the real point at issue at all. 
As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, I did have long discussions with  Mr Rippon  about the conditions of entry of the British into the European Economic Community. He, and  Mr Heath  also, gave - me 3 assurances. These have been written in to help Australia. These gentlemen wish now that they had set them out at the time of entry in a more closely defined way than they did. The first one was that if there was any Australian agricultural industry that was threatened with or was suffering serious injury, the matter could be taken up either by the Australian Government or by the United Kingdom Government, or by both together, or by the industry concerned. When I issued my Press statement on this matter I went on to say that only that day discussions about the sugar industry had commenced in the United Kingdom. So, there was a positive assurance of a desire to help if they can be helpful. 

 Mr Speaker, as to the remainder of the question, I will be dealing with this matter in full in the statement that I will make in the House tonight. I do not want to preempt my answer to the other 2 parts of the question. The honourable gentleman will hear the answer tonight and if he wishes to raise the matter he will be able to do so then. 
1 think the House will remember that some time ago 1 made a general statement relating to our policy in connection with the changes in international parities of exchange. In this statement, which was made before I left for overseas, I said that the main decisions in this problem of the realignment of parities and the withdrawal of the American surcharge on imports and similar matters' would first of all have to be resolved within the group of 10 before we, as a Government, would be able to make a final decision. 
That still is the position today. In fact, it would be foolhardy for us to try to make up our minds not knowing where the exchange rates in other countries might go. I should add in relation to this problem that this is one of the matters that 1 will be speaking about in my statement to the House tonight. I think that the honourable gentleman will have to wait until then to get the balance of the answer. 
As a former policeman the honourable gentleman would know that it is not wise to rely on hearsay evidence. The next point that I make is that when speaking about my colleague, the right honourable member for Higgins, I exert the maximum punctiliousness in any comment I make. What I am not prepared to do in any circumstances is to reply to the worst type of gossip, even though it might come from the honourable gentleman who has just asked the question. 
As to the second part of the honourable member's question, it must seem strange that  Senator Muskie  himself has stated that he is not at all concerned with a question I was asked at the National Press Club in Washington and the answer I gave and that he intended to take no action whatsoever about it. I would like to make this comment: 1 do not for one moment think that what I said was a breach of protocol in any shape or form. I was asked a question at the National Press Club and ft was the  President  himself who asked the question that was submitted to him on a piece of paper. I was entitled to rely upon him as to the accuracy of what he had stated. I gave an answer to the question which was really non-controversial and was so trivial in nature that 1 am unable to understand how any news agency could have gone to the trouble of cabling it. Certainly no-one took any notice of it in the United States. 
As to the first question, the honourable gentleman must understand that this is a matter of policy and I would not be giving an answer to the question, unless 1 came straight into the House and made my decisions or the decisions of the Government known. Exactly the same applies lo the second part of the question. 
Shortly after I arrived back in Australia I had discussions with the Treasurer relating to the state of the economy. Since then, he has provided me with 2 papers and last night I discussed those 2 papers with him. The matters involved are now in the hands of the relevant departments, and if the Treasurer feels that it is desirable to make a statement to the House, I can assure the honourable member that he will do so. But I am certain that before he made any statement he would put a submission to Cabinet, Cabinet would discuss it and subsequent to that he would take the action which he and Cabinet considered to be desirable. 
No. Since I have been Prime Minister Cabinet has not had a paper before it so that it could consider the matter of the committee system. I will try to have this matter considered by Cabinet before the House rises but I think it would be impracticable because I can assure the House that a tremendous amount of work of great importance has to be done. As the honourable gentleman will well know, if he wishes to refer to the Government as being all the people supporting the Liberal-Country Party Government, the matter has not been raised in the joint party room. 
The third part of the question obviously is intended to be provocative and is mischievous. 1 will have discussions with my colleague, the Leader of the House, and it will be in his hands as to when the matter is brought before the House for discussion. As to the first 2 parts of the question asked by the honourable gentleman, they are matters within the jurisdiction of my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and f will ask him to answer them. 
Naturally, I referred this problem to the Department of Foreign Affairs so that it could advise me about it. It recognises the necessity of strengthening our representation in Brussels following British entry and it recognises the need to have technical experts on the staff in order to be able to handle the agricultural problems. As yet, the Department has not been able to come to any decision as to the size and components of an increase, nor has it yet been able to put a proposal to the Public Service Board. 
I am glad that the honourable gentleman has asked this question because, as I explained to the honourable member for Franklin this morning, what I said was capable of misunderstanding. The simple fact is that, because this matter was so sensitive, I thought it was desirable to appoint a group of Ministers to handle it and to receive letters and correspondence direct from the Department of the Environment so that they would be able to prepare a speech for me and advise me as to the action that should be taken.They did this. Consequently, I divorced myself from the details as completely as I could. I wanted to rely upon the ministerial committee which, I think; is under the chairmanship of my colleague, the Treasurer, and also has the AttorneyGeneral on it. 
The second point that I want to make is that when I was giving an answer in the House, by means of a ministerial statement, to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition, I was addressing myself basically to the question of acreage involved - whether it was to be 6 acres,  Ti  acres or 8 acres. I have not at any time, other than in respect of the number of trainees who should be trained at the film and television training school and the fact that the Minister for the Environment had made an incorrect statement, taken any part whatsoever in the discussions relating to the report of the P &amp; A consultants or any comments that might be made by the  Chairman  of the Interim Council about them. But, as I said to the honourable member for Franklin this morning, I wish to correct what I said to indicate that copies of the letters dated 20th October and 25th October were sent to my office but the matter was. left in the control of the ministerial committee. 
As usual,  Mr Speaker,  it will be found that very important parts of the answer I gave were left out of the honourable gentleman's question. But to answer the question itself, I think I did in about November 1968 express the view in this House that we should have a securities and exchange system in Australia and that, because it was thought at that time that we probably did not have the constitutional jurisdiction, the States should establish the system. Recently, as most members of the House will know, as a result of the decision in the. concrete pipes case the area of Commonwealth jurisdiction has been considerably increased. That, consequently, has changed my attitude to this problem. In the statement I made in Honolulu I went on to say that I was expressing a personal view, and that the Senate Select Committee on Securities arid Exchange was now investigating this problem. I would not make any commitment whatsoever until that Committee had put a report to the Government. I understand that it will be certainly looking at the whole of the .problem on the basis of a federal system of government and recommending on that basis. But I cannot commit the Committee and I certainly will not commit the Government. 
I thank . the honourable gentleman for giving me the opportunity to correct the false statement that was made in 'the Press about this matter. 1 travelled under Qantas booking from Sydney to New York and it was arranged that f should go across the Atlantic by TWA aircraft because that was the most appropriate way to go. 1 went in a 707 aircraft and not in a 747 aircraft. The trip across was an uncomfortable one for me and for the Press officers associated with me because, believe me, Trans-World Airlines does pack its passengers in in a way thai Qantas would not. If I had had the opportunity to travel by Qantas of course I would have taken it. I travel by Qantas whenever a service is available and it fits in with my schedule. I finished my job in London on the Friday and left on the Saturday morning for Honolulu. On that day there were no scheduled Qantas flights from London to Honolulu and consequently I was unable to get into a Qantas plane. I have given that explanation on 2 occasions. I am sorry that the honourable gentleman was so late in asking his question. 
First of all, the assumption on which the honourable member's question is based is wrong to the extent that whilst I have not got up to date information 1 did, whilst I was the Acting Treasurer, ask the Reserve Bank whether it would have a discussion with me - or it might even have been at the time when the Treasurer was here - to see whether it could identify first usage of capital inflows into this country. While I was Treasurer the Bank had reintroduced or improved a system known as ticket entries, and the Bank had brought this up to date so that it could be handled more quickly and that greater detail could he set out in it. The Reserve Bunk also provided in its capital exchange approval's that first usage should be set out in the application documents. From this it was able to get a fairly good idea of the situation at the time it reported to me that it could find no substantial evidence of hot money or money coming here for temporary investment. 
Be a good boy; you will  get the answer. What the Bank did find at that time was that most of the money was coming in for direct investment purposes. It found that Australian merchant bankers had discovered part of the answer to borrowing money at better interest rates on the European market and considerable sums were coming in, again for direct investment purposes. There were lags in payments by Australians. So 2 conclusions were reached. First of all, the Bank did not think that the amount of, if you like to call it, short term investment money coming into the country at that time was significant. Nonetheless now that the question has been raised I will ask my colleague, the Treasurer, to have another look at .the matter to see if we can get more up to date information: But of this I can say that while we can regard the information conveyed to me as giving a general indication of the trend of what is happening we cannot say with certainty what the figures are, and consequently it is not useful for statistical purposes. 
I would like to make this one statement clear in regard to a question I was asked about going across the Atlantic: The pressman who reported that I had travelled in a 747 across the Atlantic was in the same plane as I was and suffered the same discomfort. 
The first point I would like to make is that I did discuss this with the Postmaster-General. 1 did not directly communicate with the Australian Broadcasting Commission myself, but to be completely punctilious I think if the honourable gentleman watches the telecast himself he will see that I am being just as punctilious as  Sir Robert  Menzies was at the time he made the statement in the House. 
If the honourable gentleman had been attentive, he would have realised that a somewhat similar question was asked yesterday. 1 rely upon my answer to that question. 
I have not had any discussion with my colleague about this problem, nor have I received any Cabinet submission from him. But I can give the assurance that if the Attorney-General is looking at this matter, he will have to be extraordinarily persuasive and have a very powerful case to persuade me and I believe the Cabinet to change the present policy. 
I read only the first part of what  Mr Morris  said. I realised it was not a fact and abandoned reading the rest of it. 
This is a matter internal to Government policy. I now have before me a submission which will be dealt with by the Cabinet, and I can assure the honourable gentleman that I will be present at that meeting when the decision is made. 
by leave - In my recent statement to the House on my overseas visit, I mentioned the representations which 1 made in London on the problems for Papua New Guinea arising from British entry to the European Economic Community. I am now pleased to be able to inform the House about the successful conclusion of negotiations on behalf of Papua New Guinea. The British Government has accepted an offer from the Six under which exports originating in Papua New Guinea will be able to enter the United Kingdom until 1st January 1978, under the conditions which apply at the time of British accession to the Community. The offer also provides for review of these arrangements. In making these arrangements for the Territory, the Community has stressed the exceptional features of the Papua New Guinea position both from the point of view of its international status and from that of its economic strength. In accepting the offer by the Six, the British Government expressed its confidence that the Community would make reasonable arrangements for Papua New Guinea in the context of any review. 1 am sure the House will join with me in expressing appreciation for the special efforts made by the European Economic Community to recognise and provide for the unique needs of Papua New Guinea. 
I present the following paper: 
Papua New Guinea and the European Economic 
Community - Ministerial Statement, 25th 
November 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
What I said was correct. I had a long discussion with the British Foreign Minister about his proposed trip to Southern Rhodesia, and he was good enough to let me know of the proposals that Britain would be making and that they would be within the 5 points. I would not be prepared to go any further than that, because the details of the discussion were in confidence. I can assure the honourable gentlemen that in matters like this when the details are presented to me in confidence, the confidence will be kept. 
As to the first question asked by the honourable gentleman, I have not received a report from the Public Service Board. As to the third, it is not a function of the Public Service Board to make the decision on its own. As to the intermediate question that was asked I will make inquiries and let the honourable member know. 
I answered it. 
As to the last part of the question asked by the honourable gentleman, I think it is proper and timely that we should introduce our own legislation to establish the privileges of this House. I think it is unbelievable that we should have gone for so long tied to the apron strings of the United Kingdom Parliament practices. As to the second question that was asked, I remember very well the undertaking given by the former Prime Minister and, if I may now associate that with the first part of the question, I have already given an instruction that a paper is to be prepared for discussion in this House. Up to the moment I have not been able to get it. 

 - Mr Speaker,I ask that all questions be placed on notice. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. (2)I am informed thatthe organisation is not ah offshoot of the Burwood Civil Defence Organisation.I am not aware of its functions beyond those referred to in the article quoted by the honourable member. 
I am informed by the Civil Defence Authorities that the organisation docs not use facilities provided from Commonwealth or State revenue. 
In the event of anybreach of Commonwealth law appropriate action would be taken. 
lt must be obvious to those who have listened attentively to this debate that the Government has no case whatsoever to answer. In fact, after I had heard the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  speak, I wondered whether it was worthwhile continuing the debate but I felt that it was wise to pursue it so that the Government could put its case before the Australian people and indicate to them in clear and unmistakable language  what  was happening in this country today. 
Before I get on to the .substance of this debate, may I relate to the House the history over the last 2 years of inflationary pressures and the Budget approaches in this country. In the last Budget - that is the Budget of 1970-71 - we faced the real problem of demand inflation and we then budgeted for a very substantial internal surplus of something of the order of $550m or thereabouts. Towards the end of the year we faced a different problem, because at that time the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission gave a national wage increase of 6 per cent and, by the time the 1971-72 Budget came around, we had the problem not so much of demand inflation but of wage inflation, with every possibility - even a probability - that excess demand inflation would superimpose itself on the existing cost-wage push that was occurring. So, that was the problem we faced. But we also had 2 other objectives in our Budget. The first of them was to ensure that those in the greatest need should be fairly treated and we gave, I believe, one of the biggest increases in pensions ever given in this country, despite what might be said by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr 
Patterson). We also wanted to ensure that economic growth proceeded at a reasonably healthy rate but not in such a way that would add to cost inflation which would consequently double the problems that we had in front of us. 
First, I want to touch on this question of inflation and to explain it, because I feel it is my responsibility today to crystallise what has been said by my colleagues who preceded me is this debate. I want to establish what we mean by and what is the impact of cost-wage inflation. May I explain to the House how our problem emerges. In any country, no matter how strong it might be - and that includes Australia - if the growth in average incomes exceeds the rate of growth in productivity, automatically there is built in an increase in costs which amounts to the difference between the 2 figures. The simple fact is that last year we had an increase in productivity of 1 per cent - a deplorably low figure- due to the factors I have mentioned together with industrial disputes and various other causes that I need not mention at the moment. 
But what is of vital importance and what must be recognised is that average earnings were increasing at the rate of 13 per cent per annum and, as I have said, these increases were mainly, directly or indirectly, due to the fact that wages as determined by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the wages drift had got out of hand. Consequently we found that we had inbuilt into our economy an increase in costs of the order of 10 per cent or 11 per cent which could only be offset if profits fell - and fortunately they did last year - or if we found some other circumstances which would delay the costs being written into prices and consequently into the cost of living. 
I want to complete this story by saying that notwithstanding the fact that I believe we have done reasonably well - I will mention that again in a few moments time - the consumer price index as it directly affects the individual, not costs, is rising at the rate of 6 per cent or 7 per cent per annum. In a country such as ours this is far too high although not as high as is occurring in other countries. What were the consequences of the Budget? 
I believe that, surprising though it might seem to members of the Opposition that our Budget policy was sound; but as with other Budgets, if we find that an occasion occurs when we should at the margin make changes because a particular difficulty has emerged, of course we will act. We acted in the case of nursing home attention and we acted recently when an additional S30m was given to be passed on to the Australian Wool Commission. 
I want to indicate now what has happened to our economic growth and then to take the Government and the Opposition through what reforms we have made and our attitude to the future. The latest figures of growth as they have emerged show that there has been an increase in production in over 23 different sectors of the economy and a fall in about nine. Does this indicate stagflation or stagnation in the growth of the economy? On the contrary, it indicates growth of a size I will mention. Private investment in plant and equipment is up by 14 per cent - a remarkably big rise - and our exports have taken a rise of the order of 15 per cent. We can go through all the figures if we wish, but for housing, building and construction in the non-housing sector and the building of flats we find not, as the honourable member for Dawson said, a decrease but a substantial increase and one of a healthy kind. 
All this can be summed up in the record of our gross national product. Normally we expect a rate of increase in our gross national production of between 5 per cent and  51  per cent. It is true that last year the growth in gross national production fell to 4 per cent, but this year on the probabilities it will be about 5 per cent. We cannot say for the moment whether it will be one side or the other of that figure but with good fortune it will be 5 per cent and probably slightly more. 
We have in the economy, growth of a healthy kind, growth of a kind which people would not have believed to be practicable and a growth which has been achieved despite all the problems we have faced in the rural industries, particularly the problems associated with wool. So noone can honestly be critical of what has been done. 
If. we like to make comparisons, let me repeat what was said by my colleague, the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  earlier this afternoon. When looking at other countries, he said that the United States had a nil rats of growth, the United Kingdom had a growth rate of probably 2 per cent - not 5 per cent as our own is - that West Germany, which is held up as one of the ideals, had a growth rate of not 5 per cent but a little better than 2 per cent, and that Japan's growth rate was roughly the same as ours. 
Therefore, looking at it in international terms  -  I like to take pride in our being out in front, as we have been on so many occasions! - I think we can prove to the Australian people and to the world at large that we need not worry about international comparisons; we can take the lead and are able to compete with the rest of the world. 
Another point 1 want to mention relates to employment. Already my colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  has dealt with this subject in full. We have not a large number of unemployed at this stage. They number about 62.300. The crude figures show that about l.i per cent of our total work force of 5,600.000 is unemployed. Even though seasonal unemployment might be a little above the 15-year average, the problem that we face today is that over the Christmas-New Year period we will have of the order of 190,000 school leavers together with people from tertiary education institutions coming into the work force for the fust time. That is the largest number we have ever had, and it is for that reason that we must carefully watch, and we are carefully watching, the employment position, and wi will do what we think is right in the interests of ensuring that they are rapidly employed. 
May 1 turn to the next part of what 1 want to say. I believe that we are at a critically important phase. One false step here could induce excess demand inflation of a kind which, if it was superimposed upon cost inflation, would be dangerous and would stultify our long term development. Whatever action we have taken as a government, we have proceeded when we knew where we were going and what we thought we should do in the interests of the economic development. That leads me therefore to the question of what we should do and what have we done. First, if I may deal with a problem that was mentioned by the honourable member for Dawson, there is an enormous potential for greater demand. Let us look at the figures for disposable income. On the last occasion when 1 spoke in the House about the problems of potential demand inflation I said that disposable income had increased by 11 per cent as compared with last year. The figure as it exists today has gone to well over 14 per cent, probably 14.4 per cent. So if this amount of money passed rapidly into purchasing power we would have those 2 problems superimposing themselves one on the other, and frankly we would quickly learn what it meant to innate ourselves out of the international market and to do many other things that were against our long term interests. 
The other point I want to mention here is the problem of industrial disputes and what it has done to our economy. The latest figures show that for September over 400,000 working days had been lost through industrial disputes. This of course meant a tremendous loss of purchasing power and was to the disadvantage of the ordinary members of the community. But have we heard one word about industrial disputes from the Opposition or from  Mr Hawke,  who has a halo around his head at the moment as a man who can stop all strikes? Is he settling all strikes when in September this year, as compared with the same period last year, about 3 times as many working days had been lost through disputes. And I have not heard one word from the Opposition or had one bit of help from honourable members opposite that would stop industrial disputes, particularly industrial disputes of a political kind. 
Now 1 come to the last factor that I want to mention before summing up. I want to indicate to the House what we are doing to keep the economy developing at the pace we are developing it and to try to ensure that our goals of development and full employment are attained. We can look at the long term and then at the short term procedures that have been adopted or remedies that have been introduced by the Government. As to the long term, my colleague the Minister for Labour and 
National Service will, 1 believe, next week announce to the House changes in the arbitration system and the strengthening of that system. We have already taken action on resale price maintenance. We will strengthen the Restrictive Trade Practices Act. As my colleague, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has pointed out, we are trying also to get cheaper production and a greater degree of competition together with a better allocation of resources by ensuring that there is a thorough going review of tariffs by the Tariff Board. This, then, is the long term picture. 
As to the short term, what have we done? First, I mentioned in this House not so very long ago that we had already taken action on the fringes of the bond rate. Later, we took fairly decisive action with the Reserve Bank to ensure that the yields on bonds were substantially reduced. We hope that that action will have a pervasive effect on the whole structure of interest rates. Secondly, we took other action in order to ensure that bank lending was increased. To use the words of the Treasurer when he was making his reply to the opening statement of the Opposition in this debate, wc gave the banks approval for some increase in new and increased lending. That is now occurring. So industry will not be able to say that it has not the money to invest and, if necessary, to carry on with increased activities. Thirdly, we took action to ensure that we would reduce the immigration inflow in order to minimise the impact upon employment figures because over the Christmas period approximately 190,000 people will come into the work force from secondary schools and from tertiary education levels. This is what we have done. 
May I then come to this conclusion. Who are those who want us to change our policy at a time when our budget policy is being successful and the first signs that there is a reduction in the rate of growth of wage increases are appearing? That is not to say that they are decisive or that increases will not take place during the course of the next few months; they will. I can give the assurance on behalf of the Government that we will pursue our objectives when we know we are right. We will not be cowed by those who want to get money the easy way, by those who know that under inflationary demand conditions you  can  easily get your order books full and you can pass on the cost to the unfortunate consumer. We are right and we will go on with our budget and general strategy. 
Consequently, 1 wish to put this proposition to my own colleagues on this side of the House: There are solid reasons for confidence in our future. These are the reasons: We have a very favourable balance of trade. It is building up substantially. I can remember that in the days when I was Treasurer people kept on saying: 'You will never be able to get close to a balance of payments on current accounts'. Yet we are working steadily towards it. We have a favourable balance in our balance of payments and we have substantial reserves overseas. We have a growth rate of the order of 5 per cent. Our population is now 13 million. We can be classified as one of the medium nations of the world. We have a people of great vigour, vitality and imagination. Added to this our industrial base, whether it be in secondary industries, primary industries, tertiary industries or extracting industries, is sounder than we have ever known before in our history. 
It is the objective of the Opposition to try to destroy confidence if it can. But we are certain that we can keep the present degree of confidence and even improve on it. If we remove this psychological impediment of some lack of confidence,  Mr Speaker,  believe you me, we look forward to the year that is in front of us as one of continued development and continued prosperity in our nation, a nation in which we as the members of this side of the House - whether Liberal Party or the Country Party - have great pride. 
J have not given consideration to this matter for the last few weeks, but 1 will do so shortly. 
The Auditor-General has advised mc that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
It is true that I said that I would have a discussion with the Leader of the House about this problem. The Leader of the House heard the question and also heard the answer. But I think the honourable gentleman would know that we have been pretty busy over the course of the last few days and I have not had an opportunity to discuss it with the Leader of the House. I will attempt to do so today. 
 I advised all Ministers at roughly the .same time. In other words, the decision to establish the committee was mine and, in accordance with normal Cabinet practice, I then advised the Ministers through the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
I did have a discussion with the honourable gentleman one night last week and assured him that I would ask the Minister for Housing to put a submission to Cabinet as soon as practicable dealing with the problems of professional soldiers and their ability to obtain homes. The Minister for Housing has presented a submission and it will be considered by Cabinet today. 
I hope that the Leader of the Opposition has seen the results of the latest gallup poll relating to popularity which were published in this morning's Melbourne 'Sun'. If he has he may realise why his popularity has declined so much; perhaps it is because of the kind of question that he has asked this morning. 
I have not heard of the statement allegedly made by the Minister for the Navy but I will have a talk to him about it to find out exactly what he did say. I would be surprised if he made a statement that was exactly the same as that mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition. What I can say to the House is that so far Cabinet has not had any proposals put before it relating to a national superannuation scheme but 1 have, on my own initiative, ensured that within the parliamentary Liberal Party and the Liberal Party generally we have the most detailed examination of all proposals for a superannuation scheme that we have read about. I believe we will as a result get an authoritative statement relating not only to systems in existence in other parts of the world but also their potential cost and application to Australia. The first report that I have received showed that the cost of a national superannuation scheme to the community would bc immediately somewhere about $440m a year. 
There is no intention of entering into a defence arrangement with the Government of Indonesia. I think it should be well known that the Indonesian Government has as a policy one of neutrality and that conforms to the principles of the Bandung Conference. In other words, if an approach were made, it would be quite certain that the Indonesian Government would indicate that it was not interested in any kind of defence arrangement. But of course we do have a close and cordial relationship with that Government. The House will remember that we decided some time ago to appropriate I believe $US60m over a period of 3 years to the Indonesian Government. We have a special system of what is called devisa kredit under which the Indonesian Government will have the funds appropriated and made available to it so that it can appropriate the money in its turn to Indonesians who can buy goods in Australia. We have also indicated a willingness in principle to provide I believe 16 Sabre aircraft to the Indonesian Government. Recently  a  team was sent to Indonesia - it has just returned - and it looked at the problem particularly as to whether the machines can be maintained and as to the degree of training that is required not only to fly the aircraft but to keep them in first class order. As is known to the House or should be known to it, we have also provided training to Indonesians at staff colleges in Australia and training of Indonesians in Australian training establishments. 
Finally I should state that of my own knowledge we have now agreed to close relationships on a security and intelligence basis with the Indonesian authorities. In other words, as I said in a speech that I made in the House last week, we regard both Japan and Indonesia as countries that should receive the closest support in the Pacific theatre because they can make a real contribution to the security of the area, and they are both important from the  point  of view of the development of the economies of the Asian countries and the development of close relationships too. The last point I would like to make is that the Group of Five as they call themselves, who want to expand into a Group of Ten, of which Indonesia is one of the leading members, desires to have the Pacific theatre or the zone in which they live declared a zone of peace, neutrality and independence. We would want this objective to be achieved but we must accept the fact that it is a long term objective and we could not expect it to be achieved overnight. 
I agree with the statement that has just been made in the question asked by my friend. I have not had enough time since I have returned to be able to study the statement made by the honourable gentleman but I can assure the House that the problem of urban development is of great interest to the Government. Only last night it was discussed in a full committee comprising not only my parliamentary colleagues but also members of the organisation. The matter is receiving our closest attention. 
by leave - I wish to inform the House that I have written to each of the State Premiers seeking agreement to the introduction as soon as possible of a scheme of Commonwealth grants to the States for employment-creating activities in non-metropolitan areas where such action 
Is desirable for social and economic reasons. The Government has been con cerned, as t know the State governments nave been, at the difficulties confronting Some of our rural industries - wool, in particular - and the communities dependent on (hem. We are, of course, with the cooperation of the State governments, where appropriate, already providing massive assistance to the industries in question. Indeed, as the House will know. I have had correspondence recently with some of the Premiers on these matters and particularly on the problem of unemployment in non-metropolitan areas. 
The Government is determined to meet and overcome the problems facing the rural industries that are in difficulty. But that will take time, and we believe that meanwhile there is a need to take temporary measures for the alleviation of unemployment in non-metropolitan areas, with the social problems associated with that. This is a particular aspect of the difficulties facing our rural populations and one which is of increasing concern to us. 
Much of this non-metropolitan unemployment is of a structural kind and, therefore, requires particular rather than general economic measures to deal with it. As the health of the ,ural industries concerned improves, this will contribute over  period to the alleviation of nonmetropolitan unemployment The current rural reconstruction scheme and the retraining programme and rehabilitation assistance associated with it will make a useful contribution. But all these measures will take time to become fully effective and, in the meantime, the stubborn economic and social problem of rural unemployment seems likely to continue unless specific Short term action is taken to deal with it. 
Following my return from overseas the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  had discussions with me about this matter, and subsequently Cabinet has considered the problem and possible responses to it. A measure which we believe would have a quick and direct impact on the problem - but without significantly impeding the long term adjustments necessary to meet changing economic conditions in rural areas - is the provision of funds for employmentcreating activities in affected non-metropoli tan areas and 1 have written to the Premiers proposing a scheme of grants for this purpose. 
The details of the scheme would, of course, be determined in consultation with the States. In broad terms, however, the Government envisages an arrangement providing for grants for employment-creating activities to be made to the States for the period up to 30th June 1973, subject to review after 30th June 1972 in the light of the then prevailing conditions. 
The objective of the scheme would be to make a significant impact on the level of unemployment in non-metropolitan areas. Thus, grants would be made for the purpose of reimbursing expenditures on additional labour-intensive activities of a productive kind which might be undertaken by State, semi-government and local government authorities to provide employment for those unemployed in non-metropolitan areas. Recent grants made to some States under the drought relief arrangements to enable the employment of persons who were unemployed as a result of drought might be taken as a broad indication of the type of scheme the Government has in mind. 
Obviously, since the details of the scheme remain to be settled with the Premiers, it is not possible at this time to put any precise figure on what the cost of the scheme might be in the balance of this financial year. Details will, of course, be given as soon as they can be worked out, and, on the assumption that the proposal will meet with the approval in principle of the Premiers, the Treasury will be moving speedily to arrange the necessary discussions between Commonwealth and State officials. The chief costs involved are, however likely to be wage costs, plus some lesser amount - perhaps up to 25 per cent of the total - for the purchase of materials and, perhaps, equipment. A figure of $2m a month or thereabouts might approximate the kind of broad order of cost we have in mind but having said that, 1 must add that there are numerous uncertainties about such a figure at this stage. Much will depend not only on our discussion of the details with the States but on the extent to, and the speed with, which they can give effect to the proposals. In this latter regard 1 may mention also that we would envisage the Department of Labour and National Service being closely associated with the scheme at the ground roots level. But, for all the reasons I have indicated, we do not, at  this stage, have a closed mind on the question of the precise amount to be provided during the balance of this financial year even though we have in mind something of the order already mentioned. 
On the assumption that these proposals will be acceptable in principle to the Premiers we s'-.all require to bring forward to the House early in the autumn session legislation to authorize the necessary grants to the States. Meanwhile, however, temporary arrangements will be made for the financing of the scheme in the interim. I believe that that would, in all the circumstances, meet with the approval of the House. This proposal, of course, demonstrates the Government's read ness to respond to changing circumstances. Designed as it is to meet the emerging social and economic problem of unemployment in non-metropolitan areas the scheme will, I believe, be warmly welcomed by the House and by the community at large. I present the following paper: 
Non-metropolitan Unemployment - Ministerial Statement, 2 December 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth, under the Tasmania Agreement (Hydro-Electric Power Development) Act 1968, is providing Tasmania with bridging finance, subject to an overall limit to $47m, for a 5-year programme of accelerated electric power development. The programme largely comprises the completion of works in the lower Derwent and Mersey-Forth areas, the installation of a thermal station at Bell Bay and the commencement of development of the Gordon River area. Commonwealth assistance is available under the Act only to the extent that funds from the State's and the Hydro-Electric Commission's own sources are inadequate to finance the Commission's programme of development during the5-year period commencing 1st July 1967. Payments by the Commonwealth to 30th June 1971, under the Act, amounted to $21,411,000. 
and (3)  As  indicated in (1) above, the Act provides bridging finance designed to allow completion of a 5-year  programme  of development, comprising several specific projects as well as other associated works. The Commonwealth's assistance is not directed towards any particular project, or  component  of a  project,  within this total programme. (4), (5), (6) and (7) These would be matters for the Tasmanian Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is:  (1), (2) and (3) A reply was sent on 24th November to the honourable member's telegram cf 11th November. 
Immigration: Refugees from Hungary  (Question No. 4747) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2)I refer the honourable member to an answer given by the Premier in the South Australian House of Assembly on 31st August 1971. 
It is my understanding that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will make a statement to the House later today. Let me emphasise that the matter is now before the United Nations where the veto has been used. We have come to the conclusion that in this case we should show strict neutrality and should not show any favouritism to one side or the other. We have also decided that our aid programme will continue, providing we can ensure that no part of that aid can be used for war purposes. The Minister will be dealing with this matter in full later and I hope that he will be able to satisfy the requirements of the honourable gentleman. 
I will now indicate to the honourable gentleman the results of this so called phenomenal memory. I was referring to a comparison between myself and the Leader of the Opposition. The position is quite clear. The Attorney-General may have made a statement relating to the subject matter that the honourable gentleman has mentioned. This matter has not yet come before Cabinet for approval. The point that I want to make in answer to the question is that my remarks on the television programme last night were related to the problem of abortion. I said the Government had no intention of introducing legislation in this Parliament - nor have I any intention of introducing legislation in the time that 1 am Prime Minister - relating to abortion. 
For the information of honourable members I present the following paper: 
A report by MrJustice Kerr on his inquiry into the salaries and allowances of members of the Commonwealth Parliament. 
Bills presented by  Mr McMahon,  and together read a first time. 
I move: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
The Houfe will recall that on 16th September I announced that an inquiry would be held into the parliamentary salaries and allowances of members of the Commonwealth Parliament. I announced the terms of reference of the inquiry and announced the appointment of  Mr Justice  Kerr, a Judge of the Commonwealth Industrial Court and of the Supreme Courts of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, to conduct it.  Mr Justice  Kerr has now presented his report and the Government has considered what action should be taken as a consequence of his recommendations. 
Before indicating the nature of the legislation I am now presenting, let me say something about Judge Kerr's report and the recommendations he has made. 1 want first to say that we are greatly in debt to Judge Kerr for a report which covers the area of his terms of reference fully and which presents logically and persuasively his conclusions and his recommendations. In brief his recommendations are: 
An increase in the basic salary for member of Parliament from $9,500 to $13,000 is recommended. 
The recommended salary is linked to the proposal that there should be regular reviews of parliamentary salaries in future - held in the 12 months after each general election. 
Increases in electorate expenses from $2,750 to $3,200 for senators and members representing city electorates and from $3,350 to $4,100 for members representing country electorates. 
No change in the definition of city and country electorates but the opinion expressed that 7 country electorates should probably now go into the urban category. 
Increases in ministerial salaries and allowances, in the salaries and allowances of office holders of the Parliament and in salaries and allowances of Leaders and  Deputy  Leaders of Opposition Parties. The pattern of ministerial, office holders' and Opposition Leaders' salaries to remain the same except for higher relative increases for the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the  President  and  Speaker,  the  Deputy  Leader of the 
Opposition and the Leader and Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party and Whips. 
An increase in the "Canberra allowance' paid to members and some office holders for sittings of the Parliament in Canberra. Members whose homes are in Canberra receive in future only half the 'Canberra allowance'. 
Sitting fees for parliamentary committees to bc discontinued but the chairmen of some committees - if not already in receipt of a salary of office - to receive an annual salary. 
A salary for Assistant Whips. " New rates of travelling allowance. 
Specific stamp allowances discontinued but certain office holders and Opposition Leaders to receive stamps as required. 
Judge Kerr was asked in his terms of reference to examine and report upon methods by which parliamentary salaries and allowances may be determined in future. He has canvassed this subject in detail in his report and he has recommended that an independent tribunal be established to report regularly to the Parliament and make recommendations. He has not proposed that any system of automatic adjustments be instituted but that the Parliament should, after the receipt of each report, determine its own course of action. 
I now come to the Government's consideration of  Mr Justice  Kerr's recommendations. In the Government's view, the recommendations are eminently fair. They are in no way excessive. Let me quote relevant parts of paragraph 103 of Judge Kerr's report. He said:  1  feci, however, that I can and should go no further in this inquiry than  1  have gone . . . I should say quite simply and directly that equity and fairness require that the salary I recommend be paid. It already incorporates within it, as it has always done, an element of monetary concession in the interest-! of preserving the true representational character of Parliament. 
The percentage salary increases recommended by Judge Kerr compares unfavourably with those received by senior officers of the Commonwealth Public Service over the same period. There are also other comparisons made at various places in the report which show that on salary comparisons and tests the recommendations arc moderate. There are other considerations mentioned by Judge Kerr in paragraph 104. He said: 
It has been strongly urged by very many members of the public that I should, in these inflationary times, recommend less than I would otherwise do, so that Parliamentarians may stand as an example to the community, presumably in the hope that others in the community will follow the example and mitigate their own salary claims in the future. I can readily understand the argument thus presented but it is, as I see it, not sound and would not produce a proper outcome. My task is to fix and recommend a fair and reasonable salary on the lines I have indicated. Members have already made a monetary concession in holding back, though they had the power in their own hands to do otherwise, their entitlement to salary increases while salaries in the community have been rapidly rising. They are among the few in the community who have had no salary increases whatsoever over the last three years. What f arn recommending, if . adopted, will come to them as part of, and- at the end of, a round of salary increases which almost everyone else in the community has already received. 
These statements are correct. However, we are undoubtedly in a period in which general wage and salary restraint is of critical importance. In these circumstances, it is incumbent on the Government to act with moderation and restraint and by doing so to give leadership. As I have said,  Mr Justice  Kerr's recommendation is that the basic salary for members of Parliament should move from $9,500 to $13,000  -  an increase of $3,500. The Government has decided that it would be appropriate to reduce by $1,000 the amount of the new salary recommended by Judge Kerr. This will mean that the increase which Judge Kerr proposes will be reduced by 28.6 per cent. The Government will also reduce in the same proportion, that is 28.6 per cent, the increases recommended in ministerial salaries and salaries of other office holders. I ask for the leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard a table showing the changes proposed. 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill arises from the view of the Government that increases are justified in the salaries and annual allowances of permanent heads of departments of State and related statutory office holders. The salaries of these senior officials have not been varied since 1st December 1968. By contrast, there have since then been many changes in salaries for other Commonwealth officials. For example, Second Division officers of the Commonwealth Public Service received substantial increases in September 1969 and November 1971 and, unlike permanent heads, they also receive national wage case adjustments. The two highest salary levels in the Second Division are $21,908 and $20,398. Some officers on these salaries work under permanent heads receiving $19,500. 
Since the current permanent head salaries were approved in1968, there have been substantial increases in the salaries of heads of departments in all of the State Public Services. Available data indicates that there have also been significant increases in the salaries of executives in the private sector. It is proposed that the salaries of$19,500 and $22,750 applicable to the majority of officers in this group be increased to $25,000 and $29,250 respectively, with increases of a similar order for related salaries. It is also proposed that the annual expenses of office allowances introduced in 1968 for these officers be increased from $1,000 to $1,500 to $1,200 and $1,750 respectively. 
The provisions of the Bill refer to those statutory office holders whose salaries are currently laid down in legislation or whose salaries are now to be included in legislation. As to other statutory office holders, the Government indicated in another place on 25th November 1971 that a comprehensive review of legislation provisions for determination of salaries and allowances of statutory office holders is in train, with a view to implementing the general principle that a salary or allowance payable on an annual basis should be specified by Act of Parliament. As this comprehensive review will not be completed until next year, on this occasion it is proposed that adjustments will be made, where appropriate, under existing provisions, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum circulated to honourable members. Honourable members are, I am sure, well aware of the heavy demands placed upon the permanent heads of departments of State and comparable statutory office holders, and of the very significant contribution they make to effective public administration. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Clyde  Cameron) adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from  5.57  to  8  p.m. 
I will have a look at the question raised by the honourable gentleman as soon as I can. 
I have just received a report from the relevant department relating to a . meeting with the Premiers. Yesterday was a very full day, and while J gave the report preliminary consideration I did not entirely agree with the method of presentation. 1 will have a further look at it today. 
I am advised by the  Clerk  of the Senate and the  Clerk  of the House of Representatives that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See (1) above. 
Both' Cabinet and a Cabinet committee have been looking at the problem of land rights for Australian Aborigines. We had a meeting about it on Monday. Two or three matters, mainly of a' technical nature, were left outstanding, but in general we came to conclusions. 1 had hoped to be able lo make a statement about this matter in the House today. I regret that I will bc unable to do so; 1 will have to wait until 1 can get a report from an interdepartmental committee. As soon as that has been done 1 will be able to make a report on it. I am sorry that I am not able to make it in the House. 
It would have been preferable had this question been directed to my colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service. As the honourable gentleman will know, or should know, we have in this country an Arbitration Commission which has the function of determining minimum and award wages. Negotiations also take place outside the Commission which involve what is called the wage group, which also encompass a very large section of wage increases. To determine such matters for the Commonwealth Civil Service, there is the Public Service Arbitrator. These avenues are all open to the unions so that they can represent the best interests of the working man. But I think the honourable gentleman, having the interests of the lower paid workers at heart, would know that these days, with the great power of the big unions, particularly unions like the Amalgamated Engineering Union - 
 I am not certain of the figures that have just been given by the honourable gentleman, but on this question I can say that if he looks at the figures relating to residentials, which include homes and flats, and makes' a comparison with the same periods last year he will see that there has been a substantial increase in the number of commencements. As I have already assured him, I keep a very close personal watch on the total position in the housing industry. I believe that the industry is going along fairly well - 
by leave - I wish to inform the House of decisions the Government has taken to provide additional assistance to both Government and independent schools in areas of special need. Decisions taken in association with Commonwealth and State conferences over the last 18 months or so have resulted in a significant increase in the level and rate of growth of genera! revenue assistance from the Commonwealth to the States. The current expenditure on primary and secondary education in State schools has benefited significantly from these arrangements and the Government is convinced that additional assistance iri that area would not be justified. However, the States have not been able to allocate as much as they would have liked from their available capital funds lor primary and secondary school buildings: They speak of problems including the provision ot additional' classrooms and ' associated facilities and the replacement of outmoded and cramped accommodation. 
We. have decided that it would be desirable to assist the States to increase their capital expenditure in respect of primary and . secondary schools. We have given very careful thought to the form in which we should provide this assistance and we have decided that the best approach would be to provide this assistance . by way of additions to the interest-free capital grants which the Commonwealth is making to the States as part of their annual works and housing programmes, and as a substitute for loan raisings. These capital grants arc being paid for the purpose of assisting the States to finance non-productive capital works, without incurring debt charges on the funds used. However, as these grants arc being made in recognition of the need expressed by the States for additional capital expenditure in primary and secondary schools, we would expect them to be yo used by the States. We would prefer ;ha science laboratories and libraries in secondary schools, for which there are existing special purpose grants, be excluded from these grants. 
The additional grants will also be paid entirely without any matching conditions attached to them. 1 should add that the Commonwealth expects that the States will continue with their own planned levels of expenditure in this area so that these grants will represent a net addition to the facilities in government schools. The amount of the additional grants will be S20m of which part will be paid in the remainder of this financial year and part in 1972-73. They will be distributed between the States in proportion to the capital grants presently being received by them, which in turn are distributed in the same way as the States' Loan Council borrowing programmes for works and housing. The additional grants will be amalgamated into the basic capital grants for the purpose of determining the proportion of the works and housing programme that the grants will represent in future years. The amount that each State will receive on the basis indicated is as follows: New South Wales, $6. 36m; Victoria, $5. 10m; Queens.land, $2.53m: South Australia, $2.74m; Western Australia, $1.87m; and Tasmania, $ 1.40m - a total of $20m. I have written to the Premiers inviting them to agree to accept these grants on the basis I have outlined. 
Since 1969 running costs of government schools have risen by at least 30 per cent to 40 per cent and even more in some cases and it is now costing over $300 a year to educate a child in a government primary school and over $500 a year to educate a child in a government secondary school. The general financial assistance grants from the Commonwealth represent about one half of the State's current Budget expenditure and on this basis it can be said that the Commonwealth is supporting approximately one half of the increased expenditure by the States on primary and secondary schools. The independent schools have received additional assistance from the States, but they are facing increasing difficulties in thenefforts to provide adequate facilities for a reasonable proportion of the school-going population. Many of the independent schools have been paying their teachers salaries at rates significantly lower than those paid in government schools. However, there is now a number of awards which require these salaries to be increased to full parity with the operative rates in government schools over a short period. This development has resulted in relatively greater increases in costs in the independent schools than in the government schools. The independent schools have limited capacity to charge higher fees and collect other income, and for boarding schools there are additional difficulties arising from the downturn in rural activity. The combination of these factors has resulted in a continued drift in enrolments to government schools. 
The need for immediate additional assistance to independent schools is emphasised by the following current developments. The Roman Catholic authorities in Melbourne are considering seriously a proposal not to expand secondary schools but to concentrate resources in primary schools. In Tasmania a number of Roman Catholic and other independent schools are faced with the prospect of having to cease operations. The Government hopes that a contraction would not be necessary in either area. 
As a further measure of assistance to the independent schools, the Government has decided to increase the rates of the annual per capita grants to both primary and secondary independent schools throughout Australia. These grants were first made available from the beginning of 1970 at annual rates of $35 per head in primary schools and $50 per head in secondary schools. These rates will be increased to $50 per head in primary schools and $68 per head in secondary schools from the beginning of 1972. These additional per capita grants to independent schools in the States are expected to cost $9. 7m in 1972 of which half, that is $4,850,000 will be payable during the financial year 1971-72. The amount in each State will be approximately: New South Wales, $3.58m; Victoria, $3. 14m; Queensland, $ 1.46m; South Australia, $600,000; Western Austraiia, $700,000; and Tasmania, $220,000- a total of $9.7m. 
Independent schools in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory share in the per capita grants which the Commonwealth makes available to independent schools in the States. They also receive a local component in their per capita grants broadly equivalent to those paid by the State governments to independent schools in the States. In addition to the increases I have already mentioned, the local component in the annual per capita grants to independent schools in the 2 Territories will be increased from the beginning of 1972. The increases will be from $20 to $35 per head in primary schools and in secondary schools from $30 to $45 in forms 1 and 2; from $40 to $45 in forms 3 and 4, and from $45 to $50 in forms 5 and 6. The increased grants to independent schools in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are expected to cost $347,000 in 1972 of which $173,000 will be payable during the financial year 1971-72. The Government will introduce appropriate legislation covering these measures during the autumn session of the Parliament next year. 
My Government will continue to cooperate with the States in measures both direct and indirect to expand and improve education services in government schools. Our policy for the independent schools is that, relying on their own efforts and with assistance from governments, they should be able to continue to provide places at a reasonable standard for that proportion of the school population which in- the past has Sought education in non-government schools. The action we are now taking is a further . indication of our determination to assist those directly concerned to improve the standards in all types of schools. I present the following paper: 
Additional Assistance for government and independent schools - ministerial statement, 9th December 197 J. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: That  the House take note of the paper. 
The greatest compliment that I could pay to  Mr Turner  is to say that many of us, perhaps all of us, treat him as a personal friend. We have great personal regard for him, for his integrity and for the fact that he is a person that is so easily liked and continuously courteous. He is always willing to give us assistance no matter what time of the day or night we approach him and he always gives us the right sort of information and keeps us on the right track. 

 Mr Speaker, as you have so well said,  Mr Turner  has bad a long and distinguished association with this Parliament. Incredible though it may seem, his parliamentary experience extends over 47 years. During that time he has served the House as you have so well said,  Mr Speaker,  in many capacities and has been involved in many, many areas of its operations. When there.fore he attained his present position some 12 years ago, he brought as we all know a wealth of experience which has proved invaluable in the exercise of his duties and enabled him to exert a considerable degree of influence on the workings of the House. 
The role of the  Clerk  of the House has always been a key one in our parliamentary system of government because upon it devolves responsibilities for the procedures that enable Parliament as an institution to function efficiently and smoothly.  Mr Turner  has upheld the finest traditions of his office.  His  wise and friendly counsel has been availed of by both sides - Government and Opposition alike. He has also made an outstanding contribution in the sphere of interparliamentary relationships. For many years now  Mr Turner  has taken a keen interest in the activities of the Interparliamentary Union and the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and has represented this Parliament at many conferences of these bodies. I therefore want to place on record our appreciation of his services and wish him many years of his well-deserved retirement. 
May [ join with you,  Mr Speaker,  in saying that we are sorry that  Mr Turner  is for the time being leaving the precincts of the House and that his wife also will not be with us on so many occasions in future as she has in the past when we have been delighted to talk to her and to share the companionship of both of them. We wish them both many, many years of happy retirement and we certainly wish that they will come back frequently and see us again. 
We on this side of the House feel that it is regrettable that in another place some of the salaries of statutory offices should be reduced. They were legitimately granted in accordance with proper work value appreciations. However, we feel that the Bill should go through because unless it becomes law the officers will not be entitled to the salaries that are presently payable to them. The Australian Labor Party must, of course, take responsibility for the failure to permit these people to obtain the money to which they are justly entitled. I now refer to what has been said by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  What he has said about speaking to me behind the Speaker's chair is totally untrue, and this can be verified by my colleague, the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz).  It so happened that I spoke to him immediately before question time and not in the evening. I never feel it is appropriate to refer to what has happened behind the Speaker's chair- 
Yes, hear, hear. But the Leader of the Opposition took this liberty himself. 
We did not want to hear the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  too much either. The Leader of the Opposition came to rae and said: 'The Opposition will be objecting to (a) and (b).' 1 said: 'What do you mean by that?' He said: 'Really, 1 do not know'. That was the actual conversation I had with him. 
lt was before question time. I will not go any further. The Leader of the Opposition referred to one or two details. My colleague then said that this could be stood over for the time being and a few other remarks were passed. I do want to point out that the time was wrong and the substance of the statement was wrong. Having said that, it at least indicates where the accuracy of memory resides. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa - Leader of the Opposition) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 
1.35 a.m.) - I move: 
That the House do now adjourn. 

 Mr Speaker, few will deny that this last year has been both turbulent and exciting. Few will deny that we have lived in times which have been changing constantly and which have been a challenge to the intelligence and ability of all members of the House. Few will deny that the members of this House have, in their own ways and according to their own fashions, made their contribution to parliamentary democracy. I think they all have to be credited with doing their best in the interests of this country and of the people of this country. We are indebted not only to the members of the House but also to the people inside and outside it who play an active part in the operations of the House for their patience, hard work and continued courtesy. First of all, I believe that our thanks should go to you,  Mr Speaker,  for the manner in which you have managed the affairs of the House. I believe it is true to say that you are respected, that you arc unfailingly courteous in your attitude to all members and that whenever we feel that it is necessary or desirable to come to you to seek your advice you are only too willing to give it. We always find that the advice you give us turns out to be right. Above all, I believe that every one of us can credit you with living up to the highest traditions of your office with both integrity and with dignity. Before I move oh to mention members of the House, may I mention how fortunate we are that  Mr Norm  Parkes will succeed the present  Clerk  of the House.  Mr Parkes  has had a lifetime of experience in the House and we hope that he will be a very worthy successor to the present  Clerk  and will serve just as long as he has and in just as pleasant &lt;t capacity. 
I now refer to the  Chairman  of Committees, a man well known and favourably regarded by all of us. He is always couteous, affable and, again, a person who is only too willing to give advice of the very best kind. If I can make one personal comment - I do not like making too many on an occasion such as this - on many of the occasions when I have felt that help was desirable, I found that instead of having to go to him, he was only too happy to come to me and I have been able to publish what he felt was not only in my interest but in the best interests of the Parliament as well. I say a word of appreciation loo for the assistance rendered by the Clerks Assistant and the officers of the House. I also want to refer to the large quantity of work that has been done. over the course of the last year. About 134 Bills have been passed by the House. Therefore, I think that a great degree of credit must be given for the very arduous work that has been done by the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp),  and for the work that has been done by their opposite numbers on the other side of the House. I think that we can reflect with some degree of satisfaction on the improved working of the legislative programme. It will be remembered that not so long ago we had a great deal of difficulty because of the pileup of Bills at the end of the session. I then advised the House that the Government had appointed a legislative programming committee of the Cabinet, headed by my colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen).  It had the task not only of sensible programming but also of preventing a banking up of work at the end of the session, with the consequent rush and all of the difficulties that this creates. I think, therefore, that we should congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the work that he has done and for the success that has been achieved, particularly in regard to the objectives of the Government. 
In my first year as the Prime Minister I should like to thank especially my ministerial and parliamentary colleagues for their support and co-operation. Also I should like to record my appreciation for the way in which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and their parliamentary colleagues have frequently discharged their obligations and helped to maintain an efficient and dignified working of the institution of Parliament.' I pay a tribute also to the Whips who are here to keep us in order and who also have made their contribution towards the efficient functioning of Parliament. 
I now turn to those who are behind the scenes and to whom we are indebted. I refer to the Hansard writers, members of research services of the Parliamentary Library, the telephonists and the general office staffs as well as the attendants and amenities staff who put in such long hours when the House is sitting. 1 should also like to make special mention of members of the Press who in their own fashion contribute to the democratic processes of Parliament. We may not always agree with what they say or how they interpret our remarks, but I respect their right to do so. Finally,  Sir, I  wish you and all other members of the House, the staffs and those people who have given assistance in the running of the House, a very very happy Christmas and a succesful year. Above all,  Sir, I  say that honourable members on this side of the House who make up the Government will do all that we can to make certain that the Government is successful whenever an election might be held. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) The difficult accommodation problem of which ali honourable members are aware will nol be solved simply by shifting the problem from one place to another. The Government has attempted to provide a partial answer in the extensions to Parliament House that are now under way. When these works were authorised the additional space that was to be provided enabled the then Presiding Officers to say that the reasonable accommodation requirements of Members and Senators would be met. The demands of the Parliament, however, are growing and some further attention to this pressing problem is  clearly necessary. 1 am sure this is engaging the attention of the Presiding Officers. It is also a mailer which is kept under review by the Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The extensive list which the Honourable Member has requested is not readily available because there appears to be little useful purpose in maintaining the information in this form. I am informed that in order to produce the detail for which he has asked, there would need to be an examination of every Commonwealth Act and Territory Ordinance and of the Regulations .made under those Acts and Ordinances. This would involve considerable time and expense and in the circumstances I am reluctant to authorise the research which would be involved. However, if the Honourable Member has any specific statutory bodies in mind on which he requires information then I will examine the matter and see what can be provided. 
* - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  lt is the practice for a Commonwealth Minister  who is a member of a Commonwealth /State Mtn- ,isterial body of the kind, listed in' the. honourable member's question lo represent, in addition to. his own departmental interests, any other associated Commonwealth interests. In 'appropriate- circumstances -and with the concurrence of the Ministerial members, arrangements could be made. ,for other Commonwealth and State Ministers to attend a ' meeting' and participate in the' discussion ./ items which relate to their portfolios. 
Works- of. Art: Tax Concessions. (Question "No. 4213) 
T am informed that: 
There is no record of a letter- of 3rd April 1970 to the former Prime Minister  from the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons. However, in a letter of 23rd April the College proposed the establishment of a Commonwealth Authority for Road Safety wilh a source of funds and appropriate machinery to support a programme of research into the prevention of road accidents or serious injury. Although thi Commonwealth did , not accept the recommendation for the establishment of a statutory authority, it did take note of the representations of the College of' Surgeons and other interested bodies when it sets up an Expert Group on Road Safety in September last year. This Committee, a group of people expert in the fields of law, safely engineering, medicine, psychology and road and mechanical engineering, advises' the Minister for Shipping and Transport on all aspects of road safety. 
The 'Expert Group is presently engaged in a National Review of the Road Accident Situation. This is a comprehensive examination and evaluation of all available Australian and overseas data relating to each major factor associated with road safety. As part of this Review, the latest information on road safety will be highlighted at a national symposium which will be conducted in Canberra next March by the Expert Group. Australian and overseas experts will present papers at this symposium. 
On completion of the National' Review, ,he Expert Group will be reporting to the Minister for Shipping and Transport on the fundamental causes of road' accidents and how best the road toll iri Australia may' be reduced. 
The Minister for Shipping and Transport, through the Australian Transport Advisory Council, is continuing to take action on a uniform basis throughout Australia to promote road safety,  establish safer road systems and ensure the production df safer motor vehicles.. 
Civil 'Works Programme Expenditure (Question No. 4785) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Assistant Ministers will continue to have available to them the stenographic 'and other services provided to Members of Parliament. Any request for additional secretarial assistance will be considered in the light of experience in the office of the Minister concerned. On this basis, one Clerk/Stenographer has been appointed this week for the Assistant Minister assisting the Prime Minister, with a salary range of. $4281-4403. 
 The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) 1 replied to the Shire's letter on 27th September and advised the Shire Clerk that a decision on the 18 acres of land at Belmont currently held for defence purposes would be made as soon as practicable. 
The Defence authorities are currently considering a number of prospective land holdings in Western Austrafia related to possible future requirements there. It will probably be some time yet before a decision can be taken in regard to the land at Belmont. 
The Public -Service Board has supplied the following information: 
Persons who enter the Third Division of the Commonwealth Service in the library field are employed as Library Officers or Librarians. 
For employment as  a  Library Officer, a person must have successfully, completed the Registration Examination of the Library Association of Australia or possess an equivalent qualification, lt is  a  requirement of the Association that applicants for this examination be qualified for matriculation at an Australian University. 
Advancement as a Library Officer is possible from Library Officer Grade 1 to Library Officer Grade 2. Because they possess  a  standard of general education which satisfies' the minimum requirements lor employment in the Third Division of the Service, Library Officers are also eligible to seek promotion to positions in the clerical administrative work area including position* of Clerk Class 4 and higher. 
For employment as a Librarian,  a  person ia required to possess qualifications which admit to .  a  degree of  a  University or  a  diploma of  a  College of Advanced Education and to have successfully completed the Registration Examination of the Library Association of Australia or equivalent. 
Library Officers who obtain a degree or diploma are therefore eligible to seek advancement in the librarian structure. As Third Division officers, they, are also eligible for advancement in the clerical administrative work area generally, as. mentioned above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) A telegram was received from a gentleman, signing himself as  Chairman,  apparently reporting the views on Australian social services of members al a general meeting of the Federation of Netherlands Societies in New South Wale. 
No reply was sent to the telegram because it contained neither the address of the sender nor of the organisation referred to and these, could not be obtained from sources available in my Department. 
Migrant departures are the subject of a current study by the Immigration Advisory Council. I am advised that previous studies by the Council of the settler departure rate ha Ve shown that it was not unduly high. The evidence examined did not show 'inadequacy of social services' as one of - the main reasons for return, but that departures generally resulted from a complex of causes. These derive from the individual's own personality as much as from material circumstances encountered in Australia. 
The. answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) 1 have had correspondence with the Premier of New South Wales concerning the rural unemployment situation in that State. 
On the subject of rural unemployment in general, 1 refer the honourable member to my recent statement on the proposed scheme of Commonwealth grants for employment - creating activities in non-metropolitan areas (Hansard, 2nd December 1971, pages 4010 to 4012). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
So far as 1 am aware, the information sought by the honourable member has not been conveyed to. the Commonwealth. However Press reports at the time indicated that the conference resolved .to - prepare a submission to the Commonwealth seeking financial assistance for the planning and implementation of urban renewal and for other purposes. 
The answer to  thu  honourable members question is as follows: 
No. 
See (1). 
No. 
1 am informed that the report referred to by the honourable ' member- would relate to the provision in the Parliament of a detailed computerised information service for members. As such it is a matter which might more appropriately bc considered by the Pressing Officers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 30th November the honourable member asked inter alia in a question without notice whether 1 would ask the Public Service Board to advise whether it would be economic and convenient to site the next major Commonwealth building in the metropolitan area of Sydney at, say, Parramatta. In reply to that part of the honourable member's question, I replied that it was not a function of the Public Service Board to make such a decision on its own. I did not say that I did not consider it appropriate to seek the Board's advice.   
I have in fact referred that part of the honourable gentleman's question for advice from my colleague the Minister for' the Interior whore department would certainly examine the proposal in col: laboration wilh the Public Service Board and other authorities. 
Electoral: Queensland Sub-divisions and Enrolments.  (Question No. 4858)  Mr Cross  asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice:  
What sum was spent on checking Commonwealth Electoral enrolments in Queensland in each of the years 1968-69, 1969-70 and 1970-71. and what sum is provided for 1971-72. 
How many Queensland subdivisions are there and how many - of them were completely checked during 1971. . 
Will sufficient funds and. personnel be made available to ensure that 'all subdivisions are checked before the anticipated general election towards the end of 1972; if not, why not. .. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the relevant part of my statement to the House on 23rd 
November 1971 on my visit to the United States of America and Great Britain (Hansard, page 3496). 
The answer to the honourable member's question . is as follows: 
There was no discussion with the Indian Prime Minister on the objective of a zone of peace and neutrality in the Indian Ocean. The proposal that the Indian Ocean should be a zone of peace and neutrality was introduced into the current session of the United Nations General Assembly not by India, but by the Prime Minister of Ceylon. 
See (1). 
(a) Yes. (b) No. 
It would not be proper to disclose the detailed nature of confidential discussions. 
See (1). 
I have no knowledge of the report. I will obtain a copy of it if it exists, and as soon as I have read it I will communicate with the honourable member. 
So far as my colleague the Minister for Social Services is concerned, I have already answered this question publicly and I have nothing further to add to that answer. 
I wish to inform the House that, following the retirement of  Mr Barnes  from the Ministry,  Mr Peacock  has been appointed Minister for External Territories and  Mr Katter  has been appointed Minister for the Army. I take this opportunity to place on record my very real appreciation of the service to the Ministry by  Mr Barnes  during his years in office. 
I also wish to inform the House that the Minister for the' Navy,  Dr Mackay,  left Australia on 12th February as leader of an official parliamentary delegation to Japan and Korea, and to attend the opening of a South East Asia Treaty Organisation exercise in the Philippines. He is expected to return to Australia on 6th March. During his absence the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  is Acting Minister for the Navy. 
Naturally enough, I cannot give the honourable gentleman an answer about the effect of the decision on the cost structure of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, but I can say that there has been a lot of discussion about whether or not, if Broken Hill Pty Co. had known of the fact that we intended to cancel the suspension of the investment allowance, it would have made any difference at all to the company's increase in prices. It depends upon not only the taxation law but also the dates on which Broken Hill Pty Co. submits its returns as to entitlement to a deduction and the decision made by the Commissioner of Taxation. The fact is that no company submits its additional return or returns in respect of any particular year until after the relevant taxation year has ended. In the case of BHP it also means that it has to put in its tax return, which usually takes place in the early part of the year, and it does not receive its deductions until about April or May in the year. That means that in the case of BHP there could be no additional benefit to it as a result of the withdrawal of the suspension of the investment allowance this year, that is, this calendar year. The earliest stage at which it could get any benefit whatsover probably would be in April or May of next year, and the amount would be of the order of $700,000. So I think it is mythical for anyone to think that this could have had any impact upon BHP's decision with regard to prices, and I think that the facts will establish quite clearly (hat this was out of the question. 
We on this side of the House have for long cherished the principle - and in practice we have applied it. too - that any attempt at price fixation creates bottlenecks and leads to the misallocation of resources and rather than cure inflationary pressures will probably increase them. I noticed in a statement made by the Leader of the Opposition yesterday that he said he did not believe we had the powers to do this. He went further and said that he did not like arbitrary powers being handed over to a price fixing authority. So he has jumped on the Liberal-Country Party bandwagon. But we can take this argument a little further, if we wish, because last night the de facto leader of the Labor Party almost simultaneously - I imagine that the Leader of the Opposition would have seen him on television - said that we did have the powers and (hat we should use them. Here we see that the de facto leader of the Labor Party - not the Leader of the Parliamentary Labor Party but the man who can make his opinions known - believes differently from the Leader of the Opposition. 
As to our position, I have stated it but I will also take it a stage further. The honourable gentleman believes that this matter should be referred to a Senate committee. I do not believe that it should be made a political football. This is a matter that concerns the welfare of the Australian people and is fundamental to our growth and employment prospects. 

 Mr Harford ; What is politics about? 
Politics is trying to get into office and you are using- 
I did give the honourable gentleman an assurance that I would have the matter considered by Cabinet. I have had that done. I think the best thing that could be done now, therefore, would be to have the Minister for Housing, who is the relevant Minister, give any supplemental answer he wishes to give. 
Every Premier went away from the Premiers Conference more happy and contented with what had been done by the Commonwealth than I can remember in my 22 years in the Commonwealth Parliament and my 20-odd years in government. Not one of them expressed discontent when he left here. As to the position of Queensland it has to be remembered - if a complex problem like this can be explained at question time; - that we made specific grants to relieve rural unemployment. We did that so that the ratio between rural and metropolitan unemployment could be maintained. Large numbers of unemployed people are being taken back into the work force. As well as this a large grant of $30m was made for works and housing and $1Om for semigovernmental works. I pointed out in explicit and clear terms in the statement I made to the Premiers that the bulk of this money should go to urban areas, and therefore it should be appropriated to the kind of work that the Queensland Treasurer wants to do. In addition, we made $15m available as general revenue grants which may be used for a multiplicity of purposes and for meeting the objectives that my colleague and friend, the Queensland Treasurer, wants to meet. If the honourable gentleman had read, understood and thoroughly appreciated what I said at the Premiers Conference he would not have asked his question. 
Naturally I would like this question to have come from the Opposition, but honourable members opposite have not taken the opportunity. 
On or about 6th December I telephoned  Sir Ian  McLennan, the  Chairman  of the Board of Directors of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, and suggested that he might come to Canberra to talk to me about the problem of retrenchments by BHP. At the time this was a source of very great worry to me. I interviewed him on 7th December in association with my colleagues, the Treasurer and the  Deputy  Prime Minister. A lot of facts were given to us. We had a very thorough-going discussion, and it was conducted with a maximum of good will and I am sure anxiety on the part of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd to assist. We considered all the facts that were submitted, and on 23rd December 1971 I wrote to  Sir Ian  McLennan. Amongst other things, I said: 
It would  certainly be  a  matter  of  grave con cern  to  the Government if in this climate  of  rising costs your board decided to implement a further increase in the price of steel. Such a step would I believe, strike a severe blow at the prospects which may now be emerging of some restraint in the growth of costs and of prices. 
That was approved of by my colleague, the Treasurer. In fact I believe he had a hand in actually drafting the letter I wrote. There is not one bit of difference between us as to the attitude I should have taken. But I do not think that this puts the matter in perspective at all. I think it is fair to Broken Hill Pty Co. that I should do this. Firstly, let me identify the causes of inflationary pressures as they exist today and why we are making efforts before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commision and the Public Service Arbitrator to isolate the recent decisions taken in Victoria. 
The truth of the matter is that the primary cause of inflation without any doubt is that wage increases are exceeding productivity. I do not think there is any sensible or wise member of the House who will doubt this proposition. It applies in exactly the same way to the Broken Hill Pty Co. as it applies to any other corporation. Secondly, 1 think I should state this, because if there is to be some kind of a discussion in the House later these facts should be known, not as justification but at least as facts that can be presented. Since the relevant date, that is the date that can be regarded as relevant, the costs of BHP have risen by about $49m. This is a great company. It is essential to our development and growth programmes, and consequently it is critically important in providing increased opportunities for employment in this country. In the opinion of the officers who spoke to me and to my colleagues, this increase in cost would have justified a price rise of about 8.5 per cent. In fact the rise was 5.3 per cent. I said that I do not say this in justification because my attitude to BHP is that I believe that the timing of its announcement was unfortunate and that its public relations are nowhere near as good as I believe they should be. I have explained also as effectively as I can what the policy of the Government is. We do not believe in creating bottlenecks. We do not believe in the misapropriation of resources. Nonetheless we will do our best to see that on this issue there is a thorough-going debate, and I hope the debate is not delayed for too long. 
In the discussions I had with  Sir Ian  McLennan I requested that in future he should keep both of my colleagues, the Treasurer and the  Deputy  Prime Minister, in touch with what was happening with Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited and keep them fully informed.  Sir Ian  agreed to do so. It was appropriate that I should do this because they were the Ministers - primarily the  Deputy  Prime Minister - who were responsible for the carriage of this matter. I believe that they were fully informed. As to the letter itself, I had no responsibility whatsoever for its distribution. I asked that it be given the widest distribution. I have reason to believe that it was not shown to the  Deputy  Prime Minister until a later date. 
The honourable gentleman clearly misunderstood what I had said. At no time during the discussion that I had with  Sir Ian  did he mention to me that BHP intended to increase prices. 
Please be silent. 

 - Mr Speaker, honourable members opposite will have to make up their minds whether they want to listen. At no time was this question raised, although the question of the increase in costs was raised and naturally, as the company gave a great deal of information, the implication- 
The honourable member does not want an answer. 
In order to do the maximum that we can to have the maximum of Australian ownership of assets I have taken 2 courses of action. First, 1 have instructed the Reserve Bank and the Treasury jointly to submit to me a paper showing the degree of capital inflow and the way in which it can be controlled in Australia's interests and not in the interests of other people or other countries. And I already have had presented to me by the Treasurer a draft outline of the kind of statement that is being prepared. It is a massive job. It requires in-depth studies and I believe it will be some weeks before it is completed. However, I believe that when it is completed it will be a proper vehicle by which we in the House can debate this issue and come to sensible conclusions. May I now finish the answer to the last question that was asked of mc? (Opposition members interjecting) - 
If honourable members opposite do not want to hear the answer they had better tell me. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) it is not Government practice to make public the details of such communications. The communication about which the honourable member asks was in fact made orally, at my request, to the South African Ambassador for forwarding to his Government. It was inadvertently referred to as a letter in answering the question without notice some months later. The message conveyed the strong feelings of concern on the part of a large section of the Australian public that the South African Government had declined to allow non-white players to participate in the visit to Australia. 
The honourable member will appreciate that a Government's views are made known to other Governments by many means over and above the naturally rare exchange of messages between Heads of Government, lt is in the nature of diplomatic activity (hat public statements are reported and contacts on issues are maintained with embassies, ministers and departments. 
By these additional means the South African Government has been made aware of Australia's abhorrence of the policy of apartheid and the situation regarding the proposed cricket tour. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At the invitation of the Governor-General of New Zealand, and with the approval of The 
Queen on the advice of the Prime Minister, the Governor-General visited New Zealand from 11th to 18th February, 1971. 
At the invitation of the Shahanshah of Iran, and with the approval of The Queen on the advice of the Prime Minister, the Governor-General visited Iran to participate in the celebrations which took place from 13th to 17th October 1971 to commemorate the 2500th anniversary of the founding of the Persian Empire. 
The Queen's delegation to the Governor-General to make gallantry awards, dated 2nd April 1968. is still limited to awards for gallantry in Vietnam and Vietnamese waters. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Regarding the extent and location of overseas ownership, 1 am advised by my colleague, the Minister for the Interior, that, in the Australian Capital Territory, on:y one lease of 1,530 acres or 0.6 per cent of the total area for grazing or agricultural purposes, is held by overseas interests. In the Northern Territory, of the total area of 286,648 square miles held under pastoral lease, 16.8 per cent is held solely by overseas interest, of which British interests hold 9.9 per cent and American 5.7 per cent. A further 8.7 per cent of the area under lease is held by joint Australian and overseas interests, leaving 74.5 per cent of the area held solely by Australian residents. 
In the Top End of the Northern Territory (i.e., annual rainfall above 24 in roughly north of 16 latitude) 27.7 per cent of the total area of 45,500 square miles is held solely by overseas interests, of which American interests hold 17.1 per cent, Asian 7.3 per cent and British 3.3 per cent. A further 29.1 is held by joint Australian and overseas interests, leaving 43.2 per cent of the area held solely by Australian residents. 
My colleague also informs me that in the respect of agricultural leases in the Northern Territory only 3 leases comprising about 115 acres, or less than 0.1 per cent of a total area of 203,555 acres under agricultural leasehold, are held by overseas interests. 
The Government's policy on overseas investment in Australia was outlined in a statement made to the House of Representatives by the former Prime Minister on 16th September 1969. Overseas investment in pastoral leaseholds in northern Australia accords with that policy, lt supplements the inadequate supply of Australian risk capital to such enterprises and thus contributes to the balanced development of the region. It is also of some relevance that pastoral properties in the Northern Territory may be held only on a leasehold bases. Leases are granted for SO years, included covenants to develop and stock the land and are liable to forfeiture for breach of covenants. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Service vehicles at Mob Siding, Seymour, and certain other Service establishments are maintained under period contracts let by the Department of Supply. The civilian employees thus are employed by contractors and not directly by the Commonwealth. In accordance with normal Commonwealth practice, the contracts require that the contractors abide by appropriate Commonwealth or State legislation covering conditions of employment. 
When a new contractor is successful in gaining a Commonwealth contract, the Commonwealth would not normally be involved in the question of whether the new contractor takes over staff previously employed on the task. In the case of the vehicle service contracts, however, where the task is to operate at a Service establishment rather than perform work in the contractor's own premises, it is known that employees commonly transfer to the new contractor. I am informed that the relevant departments have given close and sympathetic consideration to the case of these employees. However, I am informed that their case cannot be considered in isolation. I understand that the matter is being considered further but that the outcome cannot be predicted at this stage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  1 have been advised by the Public Service Board thai the courses, offered tat the Canberra College of Advanced Education, to which he refers arc as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of staff employed under the Public Service Act 1922-1968 for whom fees were paid by the Commonwealth in 1970, and who had entered into bonds to remain in the employment of the Commonwealth, is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (4) The Public Service Board has advised me that Public Service Regulation 9 prescribes the hours of business for staff. However, actual hours of duty for the various categories of staff are prescribed by the relevant determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator. Office type staff generally observe a 36i hour week. These hours have applied since Federation and bad their origin in the conditions applying in the State Public Services. Following the 1947 decision of the (then) Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration, the weekly hours for non-office type staff were reduced from 44 to 40 with effect from 1st January 1948. Some other staff observe lesser weekly hours than the foregoing prescriptions because of the nature of the work. 
It would be possible to obtain this information but it would entail considerable analysis and collation within departments in order to achieve this break-down of information. In the circumstances I am reluctant to authorise the undertaking of this large administrative task. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The right honourable member's question is based on hypotheses upon which I do not propose to comment. As for our relations with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, it is the Government's policy to work progressively for the establishment of normal working relations with the Soviet Government, in all fields where it is in Australia's interests to do so. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)I will not comment on newspaper reports about party meetings. 
I refer the honourable member  to  my reply  to  Questions Nos. 4141 and 4251. 
I think the House will recognise that that was a pretty long speech. There were 5 questions in it, each requiring detailed consideration and a detailed answer. If the honourable member will put the question in writing for me I will give him an answer. 

 Mr FRANCIS JAMES 
In my statement to the Premiers, and particularly when we had a closed meeting at the determination of the Premiers themselves but which has since become public as a result of disclosures by the South Australian Premier, I said that I considered it was desirable that the increase of 9 per cent in the State Electricity Commission award, wilh a flow-on in the municipal officers case and then into certain sections of the Victorian civil service, should as far as possible be isolated. I went on to make it clear that the isolation would be sought so far as we were concerned before the arbitration authorities. In other words, I made it clear that it would be sought before the Public Service Arbitrator where our views could be properly and effectively put, or if there were a case for private industry, before the 
Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Equally, too, yesterday did I state my view that so far as Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd was concerned we had to ascertain the cause of the cost increases for BHP. I went on to say - and I would have thought that the honourable gentleman would remember this - that the primary cause of inflationary pressures in Australia today is without any doubt at all the fact that average earnings are rising at such a very fast rate and so substantially exceeding productivity. 
I also went on to say - I can do no more than repeat this - that we do not believe in price fixing because we believe that it distorts production and in itself has inflationary pressures. Nonetheless, if the honourable gentleman wants an opportunity to discuss this matter he will find that a White Paper will be put down by me shortly. I hope he will have abundant opportunity then to express his views as other honourable members will be able to express their views, particularly the Leader of the Opposition who, last night on television, very nearly disclaimed the fact that he belonged to the Labor Party when he failed to recognise that on page 10 in section 5 sub-section 4 of the official platform of the Labor Party provision is included for Australia-wide price fixing, rather than the kind of remedy that the honourable gentleman recommended yesterday. 
I will give the honourable member an answer. I stated yesterday that I had written on the date mentioned. This will appear in Hansard. I set out that part of the letter that concerns the statement that BHP had made to me relating to increases in costs and the warning that 1 had given the company that it would not meet with favour on the part of the Government if, in fact, prices were increased. There were other matters in this letter, which was a private letter, and consequently in accordance with the Standing Orders and with normal practice I have no intention of publishing it. However, if the honourable gentleman likes to find out, the easiest way for him to do so is to ask  Sir Ian  McLennan himself. I would have no hesitation whatsoever,  Mr Speaker,  in letting you see a copy of the letter. I turn now to the actual date - it is desirable that this should be mentioned - when I was informed of an intended increase in prices after a decision had been made by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. I should like to establish my position clearly before any questions are asked. I mentioned in the House that after the letter had been written I insisted that the matter then be handled by those departments that had the carriage of this problem. I did not, after that time, come into the matter. But late on Friday 11th February I was informed by the Permanent Head of my Department that the company did intend to increase prices. I did not see a statement relating to the total amount of the increase or the prices from Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd until late on Tuesday afternoon immediately after I had had a Press conference. So the decision was conveyed to me by my own Department after it had been made by the company and at a time when I believe it would have been absolutely ineffective for either the Ministers having the carriage of the matter or myself to intervene. I now ask that further questions be placed on the notice paper. 
 May I bring the House back to what we were discussing before this motion was moved. The question before us is: Who was right,  Mr Rich  or me, when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  asked a question?  Mr Rich  had made a statement that Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd had received no communication from &lt;me; I, in fact, quoted from part of the letter to the company. I admit that immediately. But the letter covers a wide variety of subjects and was not only a confidential letter but also, as 1 have said, was a private letter. The second point to which I have to draw attention is whether the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  had any part at all in the drafting of the letter. There was a confusion in the mind of the Leader of the Opposition because 1 had made a statement that the letter was to have a wide distribution. It had nothing to do with the drafting and, as I made clear yesterday, the  Deputy  Prime Minister did not get a copy of the letter until later and did not take any part whatever in its drafting. 
I come to the reference to the widest distribution amongst my Cabinet colleagues who are functionally responsible. In any system of government when an investigation has to be carried out and the facts properly analysed, of course one would distribute a letter such as this to the Ministers who were responsible and in some way related to the conduct of public affairs. 
I am sure that if Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd agreed to the tabling of the letter honourable members would find that my position is much stronger than 1 indicated yesterday. However, I repeat what I said a few moments ago. In the conduct of relationships between other interests and the Government, the Government must treat these matters as matters of confidence and letters of this sort as private. It would be deprived of opportunities to find out the mind and thinking of people if, because the Opposition wanted to make political capital out of it, every single letter had to be tabled. This would be contrary to the public interest unless, speaking in very general terms, the people involved, the Government and the other party, were willing for this to be done. Unless that happened it would be contrary to the public interest if a government departed from the strict provisions of the Standing Orders. Nonetheless in order to prove who was right and who was wrong, I will see that the letter is shown to you this afternoon,  Mr Speaker,  and if necessary a question can be asked by the Opposition tomorrow about it. 
The Public Service Board has informed me as follows: 
and (2) Public Service Regulation 101 prescribes the annual rales of district allowance payable to officers 'living in localities where the climatic conditions are severe, or at isolated stations, orin places where, owing to their situation, the cost of living is exceptionally high'. These allowances are prescribed for seven different grades and Public Service Regulation 102 provides that the grade applicable to a particular locality may be classified by the Board from time to time upon approval by the Governor-General. 
Rockhampton and Biloela are presently classified in Grade 1, Mount Isa in Grade 6 and Gladstone does not qualify for grading. 
The Board has recently reviewed the District Allowance structure and allowances and has decided upon a new six grade structure and new annual rates of allowance. As a result a new Public Service Regulation 101 will shortly be submitted for approval. If approved, the Board proposes to classify Mount Isa in new Grade 4 while Rockhampton, Biloela and Gladstone will not be classified because the up-dated data for these localities does not warrant grading of these localities at this time. However, a Sub-Committee of the Joint Council is presently examining District Allowance generally and pending completion of this exercise, the Board proposes that Rockhampton and Biloela will continue to qualify for the existing rates of allowance. This special provision was decided upon bythe Board following a unanimous recommendation by the Joint Council Subcommittee as to the way in which the Board's proposals should be implemented ahead of the Joint Council review and report to the Board. 
 The answer  to  the honourable member's question  is as  follows: 
(a) Yes. 
Itis my understanding that messages were sent to the opening session by the Prime Ministers of Malaysia, New Zealand, Singapore, Thailand and South Vietnam and the Presidents of Indonesia and the Philippines. 
and (3) The priorities have been noted and would appear to be primarily directed towards those countries of the South-East Asia and Oceania region with higher birth and population growth rate problems. 
The  answer  to the hon  ourable member's question is as follows: (l)-(3) On 20th December 1971, my colleague the Attorney-General announced that the Government had appointed a working group consisting of  Sir Henry  Bland, Professor H.Whitmore and  Mr P.  H. Bailey, to examine existing administrative discretions under Commonwealth statutes and regulations. 
The group will advise the Government of the particular circumstances in which a review of administrative decisions on the merits should be provided. 
The Government appointed the working group as a result of the report of the Commonwealth Administrative Review Committee which was tabled on 14 October last year. 
When tabling the report, I pointed out that the Government had not had the opportunity to consider the report in detail but had decided to take immediate action on two fronts. 
The first was to appoint a group of three people to examine the existing administrative discretions and the second was to review the prerogative writ procedures available in the courts. The review of these procedures has already begun and is being carried out by senior officers of the Attorney-General's Department in association with the Solicitor-General,  Mr R.  J. Ellicott, Q.C. 
All three members of the working group are well qualified to examine the existing administrative discretions.  Sir Henry  Bland was the Permanent Head of the Department of Labour and National Service from 1952 to 1967 and the Permanent Head of the Department of Defence from 1967 until his retirement from the Commonwealth Public Service in 1969. 
Professor Whitmore is the Dean of the Faculty of Law at the Australian National University and is recognised as a leading authority on administrative law. He was a member of the Administrative Review Committee and he will provide continuity between the work of that committee and the specific task that the present group has been asked to undertake. 

 Mr Bailey is a senior public servant and presently occupies a position of  Deputy  Secretary in the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
The working group has available executive and research assistance from the Attorney-General's Department. 
The results of the group's investigations and the review of the prerogative writ procedures will supplement the report of the Administrative Review Committee and enable the Government to reach decisions in this important matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The position of the Government on this matter is as indicated in answers to Question Nos. 3599, 4141 and 4251. However, this does not necessarily preclude, in specific cases, an announcement of the setting up of a committee of Commonwealth or Commonwealth and State officials or of the general subject matter of an inquiry by such a committee. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The general basis for the practice adopted by the Government that  it  will not, in the normal course, release information about interdepartmental committees is that advice given collectively to the Government stands in the same position as advice given by an individual Department to its Minister. This is a basic working rule in our parliamentary system of Government. 
However, it does not necessarily preclude an announcement of the setting up of an interdepartmental committee and of its functions where, in the view of the Government, a positive purpose will be achieved by making such an announcement. A similar view is taken where the committee includes Commonwealth and State officials. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member was earlier provided with basic information in detail in reply to his question in similar terms asked on 13 th March 1968 and answered in Hansard 30th May 1968 pages 1881-1884. 
Whilst I would wish to give the honourable member the information which he asks  for, the  up-dated information  is  not readily available  because  there appears  to be  little useful purpose  in  maintaining  it in  this  form.  Considerable additional work  would need  to  be  undertaken to obtain  it  and I  am reluctant to  authorise this. However  if the  honourable  member  wishes  to have  information  in regard to a  specific organisation then I  will  endeavour  to see if it can be  provided. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table shows the persons employed on the staff of each Minister as at 16th August 1971, the date of application of the answer to question No. 3411. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The only Commonwealth-State committee on which it has been publicly stated that officers of my Department are engaged is the CommonwealthState Officials Committee on Decentralisation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member was earlier provided with basic information in detail in reply to his question in similar terms asked on 5th May 1970 and answered in Hansard 15th September 1970, pages1156-1157. 
Whilst 1 would wish to give the honourable member the information which he asks for, the up-dated information is not readily available because there appears to be little useful purpose in maintaining it in this form. Considerable additional work would need to be undertaken to obtain it and I am reluctant to authorise this. 
However if the honourable member wishes to have informationin regard to a specific organisation then I will endeavour to see if it can be provided. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member has available to him the basic information in detail which was provided in reply to a question in similar terms asked by  Senator Mulvihill  on 19th March 1970 and earlier on 9th September 1969 and answered In Senate Hansard 25th August 1970, pages 169- 184. 
Whilst I would wish to give the honourable member the information which he asks for, the up-dated information is not readily 'available because there appears to be little useful purpose in maintaining it in this form. Considerable additional work would need to be undertaken to obtain it and I am reluctant to authorise this. 
However if the honourable member wishes to have information in regard to a specific organisation then I will endeavour to see if it can be provided. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) Advice given collectively to the Government by an interdepartmental committee stands in the same position as advice given by an individual Department to its Minister. This is a basic working rule in our parliamentary system of Government - see the answers given by me to Question No. 3599 and Question No. 3600 (Hansard, 7th September 1972, pages 888 and 889), and to Question No. 4251. 
It has been made clear by my colleague, the Minister for Customs and Excise, that our actions are directed by humanitarian motives. We believe that when there are 9 million people destitute, without homes, not knowing where they will get their next meal and with literally thousands dying and others without much prospect for the future, we should do everything we can to see mat the money we appropriate is spent for their benefit. Consequently I do not agree with the implication in the question, namely that we should be thinking of the Seamen's Union and seeing that its members get a lush passage to Bangla Desh and return. On the contrary, we will continue our policy. As to Bangla Desh itself, I do not think any country, with the exception of India, is as well regarded by the authorities of Bangla Desh as Australia is. I hope that my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will shortly be able to go there and that we will play our part in ensuring that Bangla Desh becomes a member of the Commonwealth. In other words, we believe that the ideals of Sheik Mujibur Rahman are much the same as those held by honourable members on this side of the House. He is a liberal and does not believe in dictatorship, as do so many honourable members on the other side of the House. 
I have no doubt at all that so far as the flying of the flag is concerned, the Bangla Desh authorities will recognise our action for what it is - an attempt to help them - and I do not think they would care if our aid was carried in submarines provided they got the help. We will let them know who are the donors. They know we give aid freely and that we do it in a humanitarian way. As I have said, and as I will continue to repeat, they regard us as one of the nations that has helped more than any other country, with the possible exception of India. 
I did give an assurance to the House that I would show to you,  Mr Speaker,  the fetter that I had written to  Sir Ian  McLennan relating to the matter that was debated in the House yesterday. I have done so. I would also like to draw the attention of the House to the fact that the managing director of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd had made a public statement that appeared in yesterday's Press that he knew of the letter that I had written to  Sir Ian  and in effect he verified that what I stated in the House was correct. I did not see this statement in time to be able to relate it to the House yesterday. 
I regret that my colleague is not here. He is attending the South Pacific forum. But I think the question answers itself. We want to provide the maximum aid we can in terms of direct assistance to the refugees and those people who are unable to look after themselves, either inside or outside Bangla Desh, and that is the reason- 
Do be a good boy and be patient. That is why. as I explained before, all our efforts will be directed towards helping those people in need, and where we can save funds on transport we will exercise our influence there to the maximum of our capacity. 
I am glad that the honourable gentleman has given me an opportunity to answer this question, lt is true that we received from people who did not have what could be regarded as foreign relations status a suggestion that we should get together a large group oi individuals representing Australian industry. I suggested that some academics and people at universities might also be members of the team. 
Yes, he would have been a very good bloke; he would have known what they were doing. At no stage did we receive any official representations from the Government of the People's Republic of China. We were fiddled around for some considerable time until, knowing - I believe - that we had been one of the chief advocates for the People's Republic of China becoming a member of the General Assembly and also- 
Opposition Members - Oh! 
These are the facts. Again, if they do not want to hear the answer to be given to their own Leader and if they want him to be isolated that is their business, and I will sit down if they cannot behave themselves. 
There were very nieo overtures to us. We were treated in various parts of the world as favoured people until the moment when the vote came in the United Nations and from then we were peremptorily dismissed. Since then very little official has occurred from the People's Republic. Nonetheless we still wish to maintain a dialogue or to proceed on the basis of a dialogue with the People's Republic. As to the second part ot the honourable gentleman's question - and I believe he would know more about this than I would because he is in contact with people directly concerned with the People's Republic Government - only one representation was made to me about sending a Minister. It did not come from the Government of the People's Republic, nor did it come from anyone with an official status in the Chinese Government. But I can state that initially they thought it would be wise, providing the Minister gave up his portfolio, that he should be invited with his wife to go on what shall be called not so much a goodwill mission but a mission on which he could enjoy himself and enjoy  the  comforts and delights of Peking. But he had to give up his portfolio. That, I now state, is my colleague, the former Minister for the Army. Immediately we asked the reason why. They said that in the China of that time the army had a pervasive influence throughout the whole of China. That was the reason given, again I say, from a non-official source. But I can disclose the fact to the honourable gentleman. When it was pointed out that it would require a ministerial resignation from the portfolio and that we had troops in Vietnam this non-official source promptly dropped the idea and never raised it again. I believe that the honourable gentleman would know these facts. Although he has a simple look of innocence on his face at this moment nonetheless he would know the facts. I now confirm them for his benefit. 
The answer is no. Whenever the Minister for Social Services speaks on matters relating to his portfolio I believe that he speaks from the heart rather than from the mind. He is a very diligent and hard working Minister. I believe that he has well in his heart the interests of all people who benefit from social services and those who are potential beneficiaries. He presents a case for them as effectively as I have known since I have been in the Cabinet. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l)-(S) When the honourable member earlier asked me for the date, nature and outcome of any communications between the Commonwealth and Queensland concerning the Burdekin River project since October 1970, I told him that I did not intend to adopt the practice and considerable administrative burden of continuing to list, as a matter of course, the details of the many matters on which there is communication between the Commonwealth and the States. This is quite apart from the fact, as I stated, that many communications are confidential unless otherwise agreed. I must point out to the honourable member that my predecessor also reached this conclusion and I refer him to the answer to Question No. 1870 (Hansard, 22nd February 1971,. page 473) and the answer to Question No. 2588 (Hansard, 9lh March 1971, page 757). 
I could not at 'this stage give any indication of the time which will be required for the full reappraisal of the Burdekin River Scheme. 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government's Defence Programme is decided following consideration of recommendations by the Minister for Defence. This practice will continue. 
World War II: Exemptions from Military Service (Question No. 4932) 
by leave - I wish to make one small addition to what I said in my speech today. I wish to make no reflection whatsoever about either of the Kibel brothers. I said: 
 I suppose it is understandable that he wants to do business; but I for long have been very disturbed about the way in which he has been carrying on his business. 
I want to add after the words 'carrying on his business' the words 'with me' in order to make it abundantly clear that it is the business between the two of us and not his general business that I am speaking about. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This part of the question concerns Government policy. Consideration has been given and will continue to be given to the suggestion. 
This part of the question calls for an expression of legal opinion which, under the Standing Orders, it would not be appropriate to provide. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been advised that it is not possible to make a firm assessment at this time of how many young people terminated their secondary schooling and sought employment in the Australian Capital Territory at the commencement of 1972, since not all would have yet made a definite decision as to their future. The latest available estimate is that approximately 2,200 terminated their schooling last year. In the light of previous experience it is estimated that between 1,400 and 1,500 will seek to obtain employment in the Australian Capital Territory and adjoining areas in New South Wales early in 1972. 
The Public Service Board has informed me that it maintains statistics of permanent appointments effected in the Australian Capital Territory but that these do not distinguish between 'school leavers' and 'others'. From its records, however, the Board can identify the number of officers appointed to the Third Division who completed their qualifying examinations in the previous year - that does not mean, necessarily, that they were school leavers as an unknown proportion would have completed their qualifications while in employment. The numbers of such appointees to the Third Division for each of the last 5 years are as follows: 
There is no doubt at all that I have 2 obligations. One is- 
The first is to explain the facts rather than the illusions which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has attempted to create. The second is to deal with the question of my motive. My motive was to explain to the House the exact facts and no other purpose. If the honourable gentleman wishes to put up the example of  Sir Robert  Menzies, I can assure him of this: In future, rather than attempting to enlighten the House, I will adopt exactly the same attitude and no information whatsoever will be given to him. 
Let me first of all analyse the reasons why the honourable gentleman wants to raise a motion of no confidence of this kind. I do not believe that he is doing it out of interest for the country. He is doing it out of personal interest and to disguise the fact that the Australian Labor Party is so divided on matters of policy that it must create irrelevant issues on matters of little substance so as to prevent the public understanding them and their attitude to life and give the Australian people the opportunity to judge. Let me illustrate a few of the differences between himself and his own Party. I can see the honourable gentleman turning around and beseeching his colleagues to be quiet. But we will see how quiet they can be under pressure or how he can live up to the issues that I intend to raise. First of all, let me speak about just some of the issues where there are vast divisions. I would ask honourable members opposite to interject and give correct answers if they feel that I turn out to be wrong. Where does he stand in relation to his Party on industrial law and the payment of fines? He has probably one supporter but does he want this to be known to the Australian people and to be debated effectively in this House or does he want to take up the time on what are completely irrelevant issues or issues that do not touch the substance of the matters that we have before us today? Where does he s.and in terms of migration? The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  might enlighten the House whether he completely agrees with his colleague. Certainly he has not done it publicly nor has he done it in private conversation. And where, too, does he stand not only on migration but also on the Labor policy relating - as we talked about the other day - to whether there should be a general policy relating to wage price fixation? On the contrary, over a wide spectrum I have had his different opinions: We will use tariff protection. He will go to the restrictive practices tribunal. He will require price, justification. But his own Party and particularly  Mr Hawke  disown him and say 'No. there is only one matter that concerns us here. We believe in general price control.' Now this, then, is the position. But,  Mr Speaker,  I want to deal with this today very, very sincerely because it is my truthfulness that is at stake, and to go through the facts for you. I will establish the facts in this way. 
I first got to know of this on 1st September when my colleague the now Minister for External Territories  (Mr Peacock)  came to me and told me that  Mr Kibel  had contacted him about a possible visit to China. I then discussed this matter with the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs and I told him then that I did not like the idea at all and that I wanted him to get in touch with Hong Kong to see what could be done. I had clearly indicated that I did not feel the Chinese would like a visit by the then Minister for the Army and I clearly indicated that I did not like it either. On 7fh September I received information from Hong Kong that the Australian trade representative there had - not the trade representative, it was a member attached to the trade representation - had interviewed  Mr Kibel,  who had informed him of 2 facts. The first one was the possible visit by the Minister for the Army - a private visit - who would no doubt see people like  Mr Chou  En-Iai, and secondly, a private trade mission which we were only too happy to arrange. 
On 14th September I had a meeting with my colleagues, first of all the Foreign Minister and later on the  Deputy  Prime Minister, with 2 officials and with  Mr Kibel. Mr Kibel  told us of the whole story, and above all he pointed out that it was to be a private visit by the Minister. I raised 2 questions. The first one I raised was whether it was possible for a Minister to have a dual personality; and the second one I raised was whether the proper person to go was the Minister for the Army because it seemed to me to be wrong at that stage - and these are my own views that I am expressing now - that a Minister for the Army should go when our own Army troops were fighting in South Vietnam. Later when  Mr Kibel  went, my colleague the  Deputy  Prime Minister in very strong terms took exactly the same view and from that moment forward we did not change our mind about a visit by him. 
Now let me come back to what I did say in the House and whether- 1 can be accused - I believe wrongly accused - of saying that it was the Chinese who imposed any conditions. The Chinese did not specifically impose any conditions but they said it was to be a private visit. I initially took the point of view that this could not happen and that afternoon, on the 14th, I was advised by my colleague the Foreign Minister, supported by the Department of Foreign Affairs, that it was impossible under these circumstances for such a visit to take place. In other words, when it was said to be private it necessarily involved the fact that he could not go as a Minister and therefore, if he went he had to go as a private individual. And that is why I made the statement that the honourable gentleman read out and the 'they' there referred quite clearly to Mi Kibel. I add immediately that when I used the words 'providing the Minister gave up his portfolio', that was implied in it by me and was necessary if he was to go on a private visit. But that was put by me, and they are my conclusions and the opinion that I drew. But let me go further to show why I did not incriminate in any way the Chinese Government. As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question I said: 
. only one representation was made to me about sending a Minister. It did not come from the Government of the People's Republic, nor did it come from anyone with an official status in the Chinese Government. 
So I completely absolve the Chinese Government from any responsibility for the decision itself. I emphasise therefore, firstly, the fact that it was a private visit that would have necessitated a resignation, and secondly, the other fact that was of critical importance, that he was the Minister for the Army. I might state that gentleman also referred to the pervasive influence of the Army as being one of the reasons why he was invited. I can state specifically that  Mr Kibel  on the 14th did state that in his belief one of the reasons why the then Minister for the Army was invited was the pervasive influence of the Army in China at that date. But on 24tb February I went on to state: 
When it was pointed out that it would require a ministerial resignation from the portfolio and that we had troops m Vietnam this non-official source promptly dropped the idea and never raised it again. 
Again I referred to a non-official source, and the matter was not raised again as a private visit, but whenever else it was raised it was a ministerial visit and it would have been in a ministerial capacity. So there, therefore, is the answer given to the honourable gentleman. But I want to make this clear too:  Mr Kibel  has of course now voluntarily interested himself in this problem. He is a businessman, and I suppose it is understandable that he wants to do business; but I for long have been very disturbed about the way in which he has been carrying on his business with me. But let me go back to the answers that were given on television by  Mr Brian  Kibel. This question was asked by the interviewer: 
. just to finish this once and for all, do you now accept that explanation as  Mr Bowen  gave it? 

 Mr Brian Kibel said: 
Oh yes,  1  certainly do. 
Yes, I will. Later on  Mr Kibel  said: 
Oh yes. They were interested in showing him China and having mutually beneficial discussions. 
The interviewer continued: 
So this wasn't strictly then, planned to be a private visit? 

 Mr Kibel replied: 
It was titled a private visit, but of course  Mr Bowen  and  Mr McMahon  are absolutely right, there's no doubt that converstations  that he would have in China would be with all the right people. 
So on the facts of it, therefore, while I am prepared to say that when I used the word they' it might have been more felicitously expressed by saying  'Mr Kibel',  there is no doubt whatsoever that it meant  Mr Kibel  and it meant no-one else. Now I turn to the second matter that concerns me. That is the question relating to the South African problem. Here I believe that if there is ever one person who is guilty of deceit and misrepresentation it is the honourable member who spoke in this debate last Thursday. Let me go through this question absolutely and according to record and fact. On the morning of 6th April 1971 I spoke to the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
On 6th April 1971 I spoke to the Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs, instructing him to convey urgently my personal concern at the exclusion of non-white players from the South African cricket team which was then proposing to visit Australia. I asked that this should be done immediately, and I subsequently informed my Cabinet colleagues that I bad arranged that day for a message to be sent to the Government of South Africa through the South African Ambassador. They confirmed the instructions 1 had given. When I came into the House that afternoon, in answer to a question by the Leader of the Opposition I used the word 'communication' and not 'letter'. It is true, and I accept the fact, that on a television programme and later, on 9th December, J did refer to the question of a letter. I was contemplating at that time signing a letter and, as F pointed out to the House, in discussion with my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, we decided that it would be better not to send a letter in addition to the communication. But when it was pointed out to me - and it was pointed out immediately prior :o an answer that I was to give lo the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  - it was I who informed him that inadvertently I bad referred to the first communication as a letter. Here we are not dealing with matters of substance. I have shown my interest in this problem. It came from me, I initiated it and 1 expressed- 
I have explained my position. It was given honestly and there is not one comma wrong in the substantive answer given on the first occasion. What the Opposition is doing - I now come back to it - is creating a mountain out of a molehill. It is trying arduously to confuse the issue and to deceive the Australian people to prevent them from knowing what is happening in the Australian Labor Party and what its policies are. When it comes to  a  question of credibility and the 
Leader of the Opposition has to stand before the bar of public opinion, I defy the average, wise, sensible and reasonable person to be able to say on the matters that I mentioned at the beginning of my speech that he can understand what are the policies of the Leader of the Opposition. Not only would he not be able to understand his policies, but also I am certain that' when it comes to a question of honesty, probity and integrity I know whom they will trust and it certainly will not be the Leader of the Opposition. 
by leave - Honourable members will recall that on 31st January the Australian Government announced formal recognition of the Government of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman as the Government of the new state of Bangla Desh. In announcing recognition, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  said that, as a nation of 75 million people bordering the Indian Ocean, Bangla Desh was likely to play an increasingly important role in the affairs of South and South East Asia. He also said we looked forward to co-operating with Bangla Desh in various regional organisations, including the Colombo Plan and the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East. In taking this action, Australia was among the first of the Western and Commonwealth nations to accord recognition, and, I think we can claim, gave the lead to many of our neighbours. We have since followed up this initiative with positive steps in the field of aid to Bangla Desh. On 16th February, less than 3 weeks after we had recognised the new nation, my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, announced the imminent departure of the first sea-cargo of emergency relief aid to be shipped direct to Bangla Desh. During the same weekend, the first trainee under the Colombo Plan to be nominated by Bangla Desh arrived in Australia. He will be followed by many others, as our long term plans to assist Bangla Desh with technical training come to fruition. 
At the time the announcement of the direct cargo of relief aid was made, the Minister said that the Government had the long-term needs of Bangla Desh under active consideration. Bangla Desh is one of the most overpopulated and impoverished regions in the world. Its natural resources are few, its secondary industry barely developed and much of what had been established was destroyed during the fighting there. International aid will be required on a large scale, not only to provide immediate relief and repair the damage caused during the war, but also to help in building up this young nation as a viable economic unit. We have also borne in mind the words of the Bangla Desh Minister for Rehabilitation, who said recently in welcoming Australian emergency relief aid: He gives twice . . . who gives quickly.' So the Government has been looking to what aid Australia can best provide, to accord with the future long-term needs of Bangla Desh. We have been looking ahead to the next stage, and to longer-term aid programmes. For the next financial year, beginning in just a few months, Australia will provide aid for Bangla Desh totalling $4m. This will be in addition to the $2m of aid already in the pipeline. This new amount of $4m will be for special rehabilitation assistance, for regular aid, including projects and experts, training, and for food aid. It is a special amount which we shall make available to assist Bangla Desh in coping with the extraordinary problems which will confront it in its early stages of nationhood. 
We have been having continuous discussions through our mission in Dacca with the Government of Bangla Desh. Details of the precise forms in which we intend to provide this longer-term aid are being worked out on the basis of the planning priorities of the Bangla Desh Government. These will be announced at appropriate times by my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I would, however, like to make it clear to the House that the plans for new aid to Bangla Desh which I have just announced are the first stage of Australia's long-term assistance. The ways and means in which this programme is to be and will be developed shall be kept under regular review. Earlier I said that Australia had taken a further initiative. It is, I point out to the House, that, apart from India, which is Bangla Desh's closest neighbour, Australia is one of the first of those nations which have recognised Bangla Desh to come forward with a commitment of longer-term aid, other than emergency relief. I believe that, as we gave the lead to many nations in recognising Bangla Desh, this action, of announcing plans for longer-term aid may also give a lead to other nations to act similarly. For it is only with the concerted help of friendly countries that Bangla Desh will be enabled to emerge from the problems of her birth in war. Our aim is to help Bangla Desh to take her place as a stable and developing economy which will make a constructive contribution to the South Asian region. 
 The answer to the first question is yes. The answer to the second question is yes and there is no inconsistency between the two. The answer to the third question also is yes. The answer to the fourth question is that it is our policy to have a dialogue with China in order to normalise bi-lateral relationships between the 2 countries. It was made clear by my colleague the Foreign Minister yesterday that to put us in a satisfactory position in order to continue the dialogue we will establish an Australian diplomatic commission under the Department of Foreign Affairs in Hong Kong. We hope that by this means and by quiet and patient diplomacy we will be able to achieve our objectives. 
Very nearly every part of the statement made by the honourable gentleman is wrong and I will not take up any time of the House in replying to such an irresponsible, even stupid statement. 
 by leave - Honourable members will recall the Government's decision announced at the recent Premiers Conference meeting to restore the special investment allowance on new investment in manufacturing plant and equipment. 
Answering the last part of the question first, I can assure the honourable gentleman that defence will be one of the most important issues that the Government and the Opposition will face at the next election. We will show a sharp cleavage between ourselves and the Australian Labor Party and its supporters in the left-wing unions. As to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, I understand that the paper has already been completed. It happens to be a very long one and it will need to be edited before we will be able to present it to the House. I hope to receive the paper in the course of the next few days. 
The answer to the first question is that I have heard and have read many of the representations that have been made about Lake Pedder. The answer to the second question is that this matter is totally the responsibility of the Tasmanian Government. We have neither the power effectively to intervene nor could we take any other action which would compel the Tasmanian Government to change its mind. 
For some time we were in negotiation to try to ensure that an Australian trade mission led by a very distinguished Australian should go to the People's Republic of China. We waited for a considerable period of time hoping that we would get final approval from the People's Republic to go. As I have made clear to the House, immediately after the vote was taken in the United Nations we were informed - not directly from the representatives of the People's Republic but indirectly - that the time was inopportune for a visit. 
First of all, I am not prepared at question time, on an occasion like this, to give reasons for Government decisions. It is not appropriate. The honourable gentleman is continually probing in a nit picking fashion to try to find divergences of views between members on this side of the House, but he will not be accommodated. Secondly, I have made it clear to him, and he should know this, that 
I have stated before that I would take no action in this House, that I would discuss it with members of my own Party in the Party room and I would listen to what they said. This has not been done, and I have no notice on. the business paper requiring that the matter be discussed. 
I have been in contact with the Premier of Western Australia about access to Garden Island in Cockburn Sound - though not to the causeway - by motor boats and by yachts. Recently 1 have been informed by the Department of the Navy that limited access can be granted under controlled conditions by the Navy and it is working out a formula for me so that I can contact the West Australian Premier and let him know the details. I have also received information on at least 2 occasions from my colleague the 
Minister for Works, who is very greatly interested not only in the problem of buildings on Garden Island but also in the problem of ecology and of access of the kind thatI have mentioned. He has pointed out to me. as late as yesterday, that the Public Works Committee is examining the problem of the buildings there and that if people wish to have a right of access they can make their views known to that Committee and the Committee will pass them on either to me, the Minister for Defence or the Minister for the Navy. 
The simple answer to the honourable gentleman's question is yes, I know of the figures to which he has referred. The second part of the honourable gentleman's question can be easily answered by stating that this morning we decided that an arbitrator would be appointed to immediately consider the position in New South Wales relating to both surgery and domiciliary visits. We have asked that this inquiry be carried out and a report given to us at the soonest practicable moment. 
I am glad that the honourable gentleman has said 'hear, hear'. I would like it to be noted that he approves strongly of the action taken by the Government. I have ensured also that the  President  of the Australian Medical Association has been informed, and this has been done by my colleague, the Minister for Health. The form and the terms of reference of the arbitrator are now under consideration and the Minister for Health will be making a statement about this matter probably today or, if not today, later on tomorrow. 
Answering the last part of the honourable gentleman's question first, if I did agree 1 know that I would receive the most unpleasant welcome and they would be certain I would get an unpleasant welcome when I got there. As to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, 1 have said before that 1 believe that in our pursuit of a dialogue in order to have better bi-lateral relations with the People's Republic of China we must proceed in a cautious and, indeed, a quietly diplomatic way. For that reason 1 have given directions that in the future our negoiations or whatever activity we take in order to achieve this objective will be carried out by the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Minister himself. As you very rightly say.  Mr Speaker,  this is a hypothetical question. When specific answers are required. I can assure the honourable gentleman that 1 will announce them in the House and he will be aware of them almost as soon as anybody else. 
As to the first question asked by the honourable gentleman towards the tail of the question he was putting to me, the draft terms of reference seem to me to be fairly widely drafted and would, I believe, cover the problem of local government as well as State governments. Nonetheless, I will have a took at the matter and if it is necessary, I will take the matter up with the Australian National University authorities. I will refer the second part of the honourable gentleman's question to the Premiers of the States and it will be up to them to decide what they want to do. 
If you wish,  Mr Speaker,  I can amplify your answer as to Assistant Ministers answering questions. 
Both in the statement made to the House by  Sir Robert  Menzies and then in a statement made by myself it was pointed out that Assistant Ministers should not answer questions that were put in this House because it was a fundamental responsibility of Ministers themselves to stand at question time to answer those questions. A Minister is the only person who should be placed and who is properly placed in a position to do so. To go a stage further, I can say that, whilst at the present moment Assistant Ministers have been reluctant to ask questions in the House, I have this morning talked about this with the permanent head of my own Depart ment and I have made the decision that Assistant Ministers can ask questions on matters outside the portfolio in which they are assisting. Secondly, I can make it clear that if they wish to speak in the House of course they should have the ability to do it and the right to do so. I have been thinking about this problem for some time. I anticipated that this question might be asked today, and that is why I felt it might be desirable to supplement the answer that you,  Mr Speaker,  have given to the question. 
I have already answered this question. If the honourable gentleman looks at Hansard he will get the complete reply. 
Shortly my colleague, the Minister for Health, will be making a statement about this matter, and I am sure that the difficulties will be resolved then. If the honourable gentleman wishes to ask subsequent questions, he will be in a position to do so. 
Naturally enough I have read of the efforts of some pople to try to get another design accepted by the Commonwealth Parliament for the Australian national flag. But those of us who have the good fortune to go to international gather ings overseas will, I am sure, come back with the opinion that the Australian flag is not only the most beautiful of all the flags that are there displayed but also it illustrates Australian history. Honourable members opposite are interjecting but the question concerns an important subject - the Australian flag and all that it stands for - and I believe that the Australian flag reflects Australian history and the spirit of this country. I am proud of it, wherever I happen to be. I believe that goes for all honourable members who sit behind me on this side of the House. 
We have a pretty good idea of the complexities and difficulties associated with arranging the elections for both Houses at the same time. Nonetheless, I will see that an in-depth study is carried out and I will discuss it with my colleagues as soon as I have seen the report. 
I believe that they have been drafted but I will check today in order not only to see what are the terms of reference but also to try to find out when the Board will submit its recommendation or its report to the Government. 
There is one part of this question which is within the jurisdiction of my colleagues, the Treasurer and the Minister for the Interior. To the best of my knowledge, the necessary certificate has not been given to permit the redistribution to take place. Secondly, as to the other point that is raised - that is, about the 18-year-olds - I think I can assure him that the law will not be changed in time to give 18-year-olds a vote at the next election. 
The answer to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question is yes, I have seen a report of the statement made by the  Deputy  Premier of New South Wales. Secondly, we have received no official request from the New South Wales Government nor are we likely to do so. Thirdly, the joint Commonwealth-State report is nearing completion and I hope that it will shortly be presented to both the State and the Commonwealth governments so that we will be able to consider it. Whilst I am on my feet might I refer to the tabling yesterday by the honorable member for Reid of a letter relating to this problem. I have already spoken to the honourable member about this. There is a subsequent letter thatclears up this matter completely. I would like to table that letter but I would also wish to read out the second paragraph, which I think will be enlightening and very interesting to the House. 
Yes, I will include it in Hansard. It is closely connected with the letter that the honourable gentleman read and which was totally out of date. This letter came from the Acting Director of the Department of Decentralisation and Development in New South Wales. It reads: 
In my view the revised Part A-- 
That is what we prepared -  is a professionally written document which disposes of many of our earlier objections both as  to  style and substance. 
I am about to read the latter part but I will also table the letter for the benefit of the honourable member to show how wrong he was in incorporating in Hansard the letter to which he referred yesterday. The Acting Director went on to draw a distinction between 2 parts of the statement. He. went on to say that he would like not so much a dissenting statement but a supplementary statement to be made. Having said that I table the letter for the benefit of the House.. 
Yes, I ask that it be incorporated. 
The first 2 questions asked by the honourable gentleman are obviously inconsistent and there is no relationship between them. As to the reasons why demand did not grow in the way we expected I think that most people would probably come to one or two common views. I think that some of the reasons can be summarised by me in this way. I have no doubt at all that industrial lawlessness has been ons of the reasons why people have decided to save rather than to spend in a normal fashion. I have no doubt, too, that because of the very substantial rises that have occurred in disposable incomes the people who have moved into a new bracket have found that it takes time for them to adjust themselves to their new spending positions and consequently there is a development of new spending patterns. A third reason - and I think that this is an extraordinary fact - is that despite the fact that disposable incomes have risen very substantially and personal savings have risen substantially too, people have decided that under inflationary conditions it would be far better for them to save their money rather than to spend it. But I go back to what I said originally. There can be many reasons given by many different people as to why this should happen but 1 would place industrial lawlessness amongst the primary causes of people saving rather than spending. 
I was telephoned late on Tuesday night by a member of the Press gallery who represents the 'Daily Telegraph'.I want to make my position absolutely clear in relation to the Treasurer and myself. I listened with great attention to the answer given by the Treasurer to a question asked of him and I found it totally satisfactory so far as I was concerned. Secondly I believe that what the Treasurer said was misreported. Consequently I agree with the statement that he made. Thirdly, there was no reason whatsoever why the Treasurer should have consulted me. Finally, I believe that what is happening in this case is totally irrelevant to the business of the House. There is nit picking by the Opposition and an attempt to prevent question time from being satisfactorily used in order to elicit information that will be valuable to the community. I have no difference whatsoever with the Treasurer on this issue. 
This is another illustration of the attitude of the Opposition. (Opposition members interjecting)- 
Thank you,  Sir. That  is exactly the view I wish to express. To answer the question of the honourable member for Diamond Valley: I have given considerable attention to the problem that he has raised. I have spoken to the AttorneyGeneral about it during the course of the last few days. In my view the Constitution is in urgent need of review on a wide range of subjects, both from the point of view of the Commonwealth and of the State governments too. I believe also that as local government is one of the arms of government it is appropriate that at any review its interests should be represented and its views should be well known. I have no objection now in answering the question by saying that I will refer his question to the State governments and I will give support to the views that he has expressed. I also want it to be known to the House that I have taken this matter up with the Attorney-General - this happened some time ago - and I asked him to prepare a paper for me not only as to the method by which we should look at reviews of the Constitution but also to see whether he can give me some idea of the constitutional issues as between the Commonwealth and the States that might be the subject of discussion. In this, I can assure the honourable gentleman, the interests of local government will be well looked after. When I receive a paper I will be only too happy to consider it and we will then make up our minds what should be done about it. 
I have already answered in the House 2 questions relating to this matter. I can now add for the benefit of the honourable gentleman that I have had discussions with the Attorney-General about both the Commonwealth role and the kind of problem that could be discussed at any convention or other gathering that could be called to consider this extremely important matter. The Attorney-General is in the course of preparing a paper for me, but I should point out that no government other than the Commonwealth Government can take an initiative for an alteration of the Constitution. The State governments cannot do it. The power resides with us, and consequently the final decision too must remain with us. But the AttorneyGeneral has been working for a considerably long period on a paper which he will present to me soon. As soon as that has been done I will take it to Cabinet, and later I will be able to make a statement to the House not only as to the substance of the matter but as to the procedures to be followed. 
As I understand the trend of the honourable member's question I advise him that on Friday of last week the Reserve Bani of Australia gave the most detailed examination of capital flows into this country that has ever been given. If the honourable member looks at that examination he will see that very little of the finance could have been made available by overseas corporations for building in this country. I know that this is a difficult document to understand - it is a very technical document - but if the honourable member should wish to examine it further I will make officials available to explain it in full detail to him and to other members of his party. I will refer the second part of the honourable member's question to the Minister for Works and obtain an answer for him. 
This is a strange question to come from the honourable gentleman who, as I understand, according to newspaper reports of either yesterday or today, wants to abolish penalties for the use and abuse of drugs. So as to the first part of the honourable member's question, I have not read the article in the paper to which he refers and it is highly improbable that I ever will. 
As to the second and third parts of the honourable member's question, I wa refer the matter to my colleague the Minister for Health and 1 am sure that he will be only too anxious to give him a reply. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board advises that the Review Team Report is an internal management document which required consultation and agreement with the Permanent Heads of several departments before tentative conclusions could be reached. As such it is not available for general distribution. 
The Board accepts the view that important advantages derive from exchanges of information between management and unions. In the case of the Engineering Review the Board from an early stage took steps to keep the staff associations informed of the progress of that review and, when it had reached tentative conclusions in discussions with the relevant Permanent Heads, interested staff associations were provided with detailed supporting documentation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I am informed that there was no altercation on the occasion to which the honourable member refers. Reports available to the Government indicate that a question arose as to the appropriate gate through which  Sir John  Pagan could enter. My information is that, at Heathrow Airport terminal No. 3 (long haul - all operators) through which  Sir John  entered on the day of the incident, there is provision for three entry gates through which persons entering the United Kingdom may pass. These gates are for use, respectively by- 
those carrying United Kingdom passports; 
those carrying Commonwealth and Irish Republic passports; and 
those carrying other passports 
Commonwealth citizens, including those carrying Australian passports would pass through the second of these three entry points. It appears that, at the time of  Sir John's  arrival from America on 14 December 1971, entry via the Commonwealth gate was temporarily unavailable and  Sir John  felt unable to enter through either of the other two gates. 
The following persons holding office in the States are eligible for the grant of Australian Diplomatic Passports - 
State Governors; 
State Ministers of the Crown; 
The Chief Justices of Supreme Courts; 
The Permanent Head of a State Premier's Department accompanying bis Premier on an official visit; 
Agents-General. 
Australian diplomatic passports are recognised by British officials as carrying the same privileges accorded to the representatives of all friendly nations. I am informed that British immigration officers are instructed to extend all assistance and courtesies to the holder of any diplomatic passport. 
The Government will continue to investigate any incidents coming to its notice when the holders of Australian passports encounter entry difficulties. The honourable member will appreciate that the nature of arrangements for entry into Britain is a matter within the domestic jurisdiction of the United Kingdom. 
I would not expect replies to be received to the inquiries I made of the relevant governments. I see no reason why they should give me a reply. 
I wish to inform the House that  Mr Garland,  in addition to his duties as the Minister for Supply, will assist the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  I also wish to inform the House that the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is to leave Australia tonight to have discussions and to make inspections in the urban transport field in South Africa, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Europe, and to attend the launching of the Australian National Line container ship 'Australian Explorer' in Germany. He is expected to return to Australia on 12th April. During his absence the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  will act as Minister for Shipping and Transport. 
I have already ensured that appropriate communications were made with the relevant State governments relating to local government authorities being represented at the convention. I have also pointed out in the House that no government other than the Australian Government can initiate a referendum for an alteration of the Constitution, and that consequently at some time or other it must be this Government that takes an initiative to look not only at the substance of changes but at the form m which we shall conduct inquiries, have a convention or have the matter dealt with by this House. I also said - I can but repeat this as I had hoped the honourable gentleman had listened to me on the last occasion - that this matter is now receiving the detailed consideration 
If we are to go through a catechism of this kind in the national Parliament, wasting the time of the Parliament I might just as well ask the question whether the Leader of the Opposition remembers his attacks during the 1966 election upon his then Leader on the subject of the Australian presence in Vietnam. I might also ask the honourable member for Grayndler whether he remembers his persistent attacks upon the Leader of the Opposition on the question of whether or not the approach of the Leader of the Opposition to the immigration problem fits in with the Labor Party's platform. In other words, what I want to point out is the way in which question time in this House is being steadily eroded by questions of a frivolous nature and questions which waste the time of the House when what we should be doing here is building up the reputation and status of the House to make it the great national forum that it should be. I can assure all honourable members and anyone else who is listening that it is the Government's objective to do all it can to sustain the national dignity of this House and to make our contribution to the welfare and development of the country. I hope that when the time does come and voting takes place in Grayndler the people will be sensible and the honourable member will not be back after that. 
A little over a year ago it was thought that there were 3 areas of excess demand in the Australian economy and one of them was in the field of commercial and industrial building, particularly in the capital cities. However, that state of affairs no longer exists and consequently the Government will take no action to reduce the amount of building and especially the number of approvals at the present time. In other words, the best analysis one can get shows that there is not an excessive demand on resources and we would not like to take any action which would reduce in any way the increase in employment that we want to see occurring with the growth in the national economy. It was on that basis that I dealt with the question asked by the honourable member for Reid yesterday. While we do have a problem which is being analysed in very great detail by the Department of the Treasury, in specific terms we do not think that the capital inflow relating to the provision of funds for buildings of a commercial and industrial kind should be dealt with in isolation because it does not present a problem to the Government. 
 The Government will agree to the motion for the suspension of Standing 
Orders so I do not think there is a necessity for any debate on the motion, but I will have a little more to say when the actual motion is moved. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with  a  view to inserting the following words in place thereof: this House repudiates and condemns any antiSemitic attitudes wherever expressed or implied. 
When I was in the United Kingdom in November of last year I did take up with the British Prime Minister and also with the Chancellor of the Exchequer two separate but related problems. Firstly, I wanted to ensure that when the United Kingdom went into the European Economic Community we would not be placed at any disadvantage so far as the flow of money to and from Australia was concerned. I was given a clear assurance by them that this would not occur. Later on at a discussion I had with the Confederation of British Industries 1 again raised this question together with the second question that I will mention in a few moment's time, and I again expressed the Australian attitude. I also took up with  Mr Heath, Mr Barber  and their Minister representing the United Kingdom at the Council of Ministers of the European Community the point that when Britain went into the Community it should be outward looking and consequently that it should ensure the greatest freedom of multilateral! trade and multilateral exchanges. I am glad to be able to say, although I do not want to go overboard on this matter, that the United Kingdom- 
I have given answers to questions asked by the honourable gentleman and I think that my attitude and the attitude of the Government should be well known. We are having papers prepared by Crown Law officers of the AttorneyGeneral's Department and as soon as they are available they will be put to Cabinet and then brought to this House. 
On Monday night at a Mining Industry Council dinner, I spoke on this very problem. I will obtain a copy of the speech that I made and will let the honourable gentleman see it. T think he will see that I pointed out very clearly that one of the ways in which we could reduce somewhat the impact of capital inflow into this country would be to permit greater opportunities for Australian investors to invest overseas. The matter that the honourable gentleman has mentioned is one which will be examined in detail not only by the Treasury but by the Reserve Bank as well. When the statement is brought down by the Treasurer, the honourable member will get the full answer to his question. 
It should be known that it is a cardinal principle of the Liberal and the Country Parties that we believe in freedom of worship and freedom of belief. This applies to all the great religions. I believe that everyone should be permitted to exercise his religious beliefs free from intimidation and free from criticism of any kind whatsoever. I know that I speak on behalf of every member on the Government benches when I say that we have very great respect for people who practise the Jewish faith and for the enormous contributions they are making to the development of this country. I have expressed these views publicly before Jewish audiences. I now am only too happy to do so in the Federal Parliament of the Commonwealth. I also want to state that I believe that a question of the kind asked by the honourable member for Perth raising a sectarian issue of this kind is to be deplored, and it is more to be deplored because already the senator in respect of whom the honourable gentleman has- 
 Mr Speaker,  I said a few moments ago that I hoped we would be able to avoid the question that is now being put because I pointed out as clearly as I could, but it has not been accepted by the Opposition and particularly by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  that there was no personal reflection on the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson).  I was reflecting on the kind of question which implicit in it had a query associated with religious problems. This is what I was speaking about. I can go no further than to say what I emphasised before, that is, that it was no reflection on the honourable gentleman. 
by leave - I dissociate all members on this side of the House from any statement at all that could be regarded as antisemitic or as introducing religious or sectarian policies or principles. I can say no more. From the depth of my feelings I dislike any kind of anti-religious feelings being expressed in a political forum. Consequently I am only too willing to do what the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  suggests. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
by leave - Having heard what has been said by members of the Opposition I believe it is prop:r, to prevent any misrepresentation or misunderstanding, that we should immediately move to a vote on the original motion moved on behalf of the Opposition. So I withdraw my amendment but later on I will put in a substantive motion in exactly the same terms as the amendment. 
The Leader of the House will answer the question. 
 I wish to inform the House that the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  is ill and will be unable to attend the House for some weeks. During the Minister's absence the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  will be Acting Postmaster-General.  Senator Cotton,  in regard to his function as Acting Postmaster-General, will be represented in this House by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch). 
I am well aware of the 5 statements made in the honourable gentleman's question. As he knows, I had already referred the matter to the Public Service Board which had given me answers to certain questions asked by him. Last Thursday or last Friday, I believe, I signed a letter setting out details of the report I had received from the Public Service Board. Nonetheless, knowing of the honourable member's great interest in the matter - particularly in the loss in salaries that might be involved - I have again taken the matter up with the Public Service Board. The honourable member can hope to get another letter from me as soon as I am able to get a reply from the Public Service Board itself. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I said at the Premiers' Conference on 14th February and in a Press statement I issued that day, the Government had in mind that the research undertaken in the proposed Centre to be established within the Australian National University should embrace all aspects of CommonwealthState financial relationships, should provide for post-graduate study in this field and that the results of the research be published. 
However, I said also that the Centre would act on its own initiative in relation to these matters. 
I have since written to the Vice-Chancellor of the Australian National University to ascertain whether the Government's proposal to establish the Centre has the approval of the University. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There are on the Notice Paper at present Orders of the Day relating to this matter. The question of the timing of discussion on them will be considered in the light of the Government's legislative requirements and other demands on the Parliamentary programme. 
The statement made by the Minister for Defence and the defence paper itself have been widely and well publicised in the newspapers this morning. But I believe that in some cases there has been misunderstanding about the differences that exist between the policies of the Liberal-Country Party Government and those of the Opposition. These differences are profound and unbridgeable. 
These differences are profound and unbridgeable. I will discuss the matter with my colleague the Minister for Defence in order to make certain that either in the debate on the motion in the House or in the preliminaries leading up to that debate the differences become well known to ensure that the Australian public understands those differences in policies between the Opposition and the Liberal/ Country Party Government. 
I did make the 2 statements attributed to me by the honourable gentleman. They were then matters of principle, and I stand by those principles. I shall find out from the Treasurer the actual amounts being paid on the 2 bases mentioned and I shall let the honourable gentleman know. 
I will take the matter up immediately with the Attorney-General and I will advise the honourable member of the result. 
The honourable gentleman has put very eloquently the policy of the Government - that we do not believe in any kind of policy that will-  (Mr Foster interjecting)  - 
Already the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Customs and Excise have given what I regard as more or less a perfect explanation of Government policy on this matter. We have also been looking at the regulations to which the honourable gentleman referred, and after discussion with my colleague the Minister for Customs and Excise, who has pointed out various inconsistencies within the regulations and the difficulties of interpretation. I gave an instruction that the relevant Ministers and the relevant departments examine the regulations with a view to making them more consistent with common sense and so as not to prohibit information of a legitimate character and of a character which a mature community like Australia should be permitted to see and to make up its own mind about. 
I have had discussions with representatives of Trans-Australia Airlines, Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd. They all desire that the system at present in existence - the 2-airline policy - should continue. I have insisted that whatever is done in the future must be on a basis of equity and without any kind of discrimination. But the point has been raised as to what might happen as to the ownership of the shares should a takeover or partial takeover take place, and I can state accurately and clearly the position of the Government. First of all, we will not permit any foreign takeover or action which would result in foreign control of the corporation. That is the fixed Government policy. Secondly, the position is being watched very closely not only by the Treasurer but also by myself in order to ensure that no action is taken by either Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd or Ansett Transport Industries Ltd that might prejudice the Commonwealth's position relating to Commonwealth guarantees for the aircraft borrowing programmes. In other words, not only will we protect the nation's interest but we will also protect the financial interest of the Commonwealth. 
I believe it is already well known to the House that the whole question of restrictive trade practices and monopolies is now engaging the very earnest and detailed consideration of the Government. Regrettably it is an extremely complicated problem and it is compounded by reason of the fact that the number of drafting officers is not sufficiently great to permit the Government's objectives to be achieved so that we can introduce immediately a Bill relating to the legislation. I have been in constant contact with my colleague the Attorney-General and I have been urging as strenuously as I can that the Bill in respect of this legislation should be brought down as quickly as possible. I am sure that this is the desire of the Attorney-General and of the legal officers of the Crown as well. 
Some person must think that I have very good reason to complain about the television interview last night on the Australian Broadcasting Commission otherwise this question could never have been raised. The fact is that neither I nor any person on my staff has made any complaint. Having been forewarned immediately before I came into the House that this question would be asked, I ensured that a check was made with the ABC and have ascertained that it has received no complaint. 
I will ensure that an inquiry is made as requested by the honourable gentleman and I will let him know the result of it. But I should advise him that the tapered means test will be substantially liberalised in the way mentioned by the Treasurer in his statement to the House last night. 
As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, I am not aware of such a statement being made by the Queensland Premier. As to the balance of his question - the first and last parts of it - I will have a look at the files and advise the honourable gentleman of the position. 
The Government has already decided to increase the number of members of the Tariff Board. It has also decided to act in respect of unused preferences under the tariff legislation. My colleague, the Deputy Prime Minister, will be making a statement about those 2 matters later tonight. I have no wish to anticipate what he intends to say. 
I have received correspondence from the Queensland Premier, and I have replied to him. I have also had occasion to discuss the matter with my colleague, the Treasurer of Queensland. I will have a look at the actual terms of the reply that I have sent and I will let the honourable member know the details of them. 
I have not informed the ABC to this extent and I have given no-one any authority to make a statement on my behalf. What I said to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is correct. No complaint was lodged. 
I wish to inform the House that the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  is leaving Australia today to attend the Third United Nations Conference on Trade and Development in Chile and to visit other South American countries for discussions on trade matters. He is expected to return to Australia on 8th May. During his absence the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  will be Acting Minister for Trade and Industry. 
I wish to inform the House that the 
Treasurer,  Mr Snedden,  left Australia on 14th April to attend the annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank in Vienna and to visit the United Kingdom, France and Japan for discussions on economic and financial matters. He is expected to return to Australia in early May. During his absence I will be Acting Treasurer. 
I believe it is basic to the thinking of all members of this House that they believe in the preservation of the rights of the individual under the Declaration of Human Rights, and above all I think I can emphasise for members on this side of the House that we deplore antisemiitism no matter where it might be practised. As to the second part of the question, I think the honourable gentleman should know or at least the House would know that on several occasions we have raised in the United Nations this question of discrimination on religious and other grounds and we have in particular drawn attention to the plight of Jewish people. I will discuss this problem with my colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs to ensure whether by diplomatic means or through the United Nations we can take action to try to protect the rights of these deserving people. 
The first comment I could make is that the guesses that have been made by people like the Leader of the Opposition and the leader of the trade union movement,  Mr Bob  Hawke, have turned out to be amazingly wrong, thank heavens. I think that to raise a question like this does no good to the Australian community and is making too much politics out of the problem of unemployment. Nonetheless,  Sir, if  you look at the substantial reduction that did occur in the crude figures - that is of 17,000 unemployed - you will see that while it is not as good as we had hoped, and we hope for better in the months to come, under the prevailing conditions it could be regarded as along the lines the Government wants to achieve. Naturally, if we ever felt thai more in terms of economic policy would have to be done we would be only too happy to do it. 
As to whether anything special is to be done, the honourable gentleman should know that at the Premiers Conference we took decisive action to reduce the unemployment rate in the Commonwealth. In his statement of Tuesday last the Treasurer also indicated additional lines of Commonwealth action to ensure that we have an impact on the unemployment figures, which I have previously stated in this House, is an act of faith so far as we are concerned. One of the cardinal objectives of this Government is to keep unemployment as low as we can. I personally am watching these figures very carefully and if I felt that our plans were not likely to be achieved over a reasonable period of time the House could rest assured that I would be anxious - more than anxious - to take action. 
It is Commonwealth Government policy that we should work towards an agreed balance and effective agreement relating to the presence of naval forces in the Indian Ocean, no matter which nation might provide them. We have been interested also in proposals that have been put by the Prime Minister of Ceylon relating to a zone of peace and we have in the United Nations ensured that we have participated in debates relating to this mat ter. But there is a strong division of opinion on this among member nations of the United Nations with a majority favouring but many disagreeing with this idea of  Mrs Bandaranaike.  Consequently the United Nations has not been able to achieve part of the objectives of the proposal. It is absolutely sure that, if anything were to emerge, not only the littoral states but also the great powers would have to participate and take part in an agreement of the kind I have mentioned. I could, of course, ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to give further consideration to what could be done in the United Nations, but because of the debates that have taken place recently I doubt whether there would be very much prospect of success. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been advised by the Public Service Board that in all departments the Chief Officer has the power to impose fines on permanent officers for disciplinary purposes. The Minister for Labour and National Service has advised that management in the following instrumentalities has the power to impose fines on employees for disciplinary purposes: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Trading banks do not pay interest on current accounts of general depositors, except for the Bank of Queensland which conducts limited operations in the Brisbane area. Trading banks do, however, customarily pay interest on certain current accounts of community service and educational organisations, religious and charitable bodies, and governments. Savings banks also pay interest on cheque accounts of similar non-profit organisations and local authorities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes- on 19th October 1971. 
Already there are some provisions in our foreign exchange regulations which permit investment by Australians in overseas corporations. I give these illustrations: firstly, if Australian management is involved or, secondly, if Australian expertise and technical considerations are involved. In cases where Australian export income is likely to be improved, of course, we are only too happy to provide the foreign exchange in order to permit the investment to be made. But in most cases unless the shares of the company are registered in Australia we do not, under the existing regulations, permit investment to take place in overseas corporations. I think it has been made clearif not by me then by the Treasurer - that because of the very substantial increase that is taking place in our international reserves we are at present looking very carefully at this question of Australian investment overseas. In particular I can assure the honourable gentleman that the problems he has mentioned will be one of the subjects in the White Paper which will be introduced into the House. 
It was certainly not the intention in the changes made either in Commonwealth loans or in the consequential changes that occurred in the bank overdraft rates to do as the honourable member for Corio suggested, as a deliberate result of Commonwealth Government policy. We wanted to ensure that the benefit flowed to all people, and particularly that it flowed to corporations and to people who get small advances as well as those who get large advances. I had not heard the argument that has just been put by the honourable gentleman, that when interest rates increased the cost was passed on to the actual borrowers and that in the reverse situation the benefit had not been passed on to the borrowers as well. I am only too happy to hear from the honourable gentleman, and, if what he says is correct, to assure him that I will make approaches to the Reserve Bank to see whether it can take it up with the trading banks. 
I differ substantially from the opinions implied in the question asked by the honourable gentleman. In my view the people who should be proper judges of the state of the Australian economy are the Australians themselves and not the members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. If the honourable member wants it another way and for our affairs to be handed over to organisations other than this Parliament and the Australian people, he should have the courage to say so. As to the 3 questions asked by the honourable gentleman, normally within the OECD there is an examination of the economies of various countries. I know of no reason why it is to be thought that this will not occur in the case of Australia or that Australia would object to any inquiry by the OECD. As to the second part of the question which related to the visit in, I think, the honourable member said, September, I was not aware of that visit until this moment. But I should say this: In my recent discussions with representatives of the OECD in Canberra, they certainly welcomed our presence in the organisation. They know what a healthy economy we have and we know that this economy is basically sound. As to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, I have already answered that. If he has the courage to stand and say that he wants this country to be handed over to others he should do so rather than hide his views behind a lot of words. 
It should be known to the House that the Public Service Board in its wage determining functions is completely independent and free of the Government. We have no legal right to intervene and we have not intervened when particular matters of this kind have been involved. Anything that is said to the contrary, irrespective of whether it happens to come from the opposite side of the House or elsewhere, is completely incorrect. I take it a stage further and say that if there were any intervention or attempted intervention I believe it would be the responsibility of the Public Service Board publicly to report on it, and that is what I believe it would do. So,  Sir, the  answer is clear. No, there has not been any intervention. We have no legal capacity to intervene and under no circumstances would we do so. I know from my personal knowledge that no intervention has occurred since I have been Prime Minister. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Ministers, the Presiding Officers, the Leader of the Opposition, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Second NonGovernment Party in the Senate, when travelling overseas on an approved official visit, receive a lump sum advance to cover the costs of that travel. The advance is designed to cover the costs of accommodation, sustenance and incidental expenses. Payment is subject to the refund of any unexpended balance. When approval is given for a wife to accompany her husband on such a visit, the advance is increased to meet the additional accommodation cost of her travel. Fares are paid by the Commonwealth. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government in 19S9 accepted the recommendations of the Richardson Committee and the amount of electorate allowance recommended was approved by the Parliament in the Parliamentary Allowances Act 1959. I refer the honourable member to those sections of the Richardson Committee's Report which set out in detail the considerations leading to the recommendations. 
The facilities afforded Ministers and their wives in relation to the specific matters raised by the honourable member are also set out in the Richardson Committee Report. 
I refer the honourable member to paragraph 128 of  Mr Justice  Kerr's report following his 1971 inquiry into the salaries and allowances of members of the Commonwealth Parliament. 
To the best of my information and knowledge the statements contained in the first 3 parts of the honourable gentleman's question are correct. I believe it is true that as yet a certificate has not been issued by the Commonwealth 
Statistician to the Chief Electoral Officer. As to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, he should know that the Statistician is governed by an Act of Parliament and he is independent of the Treasury but nevertheless I will ask Treasury officers to speak to him to see whether he can do something about issuing a final certificate as soon as possible. 
I think it best if I localise my reply to whether or not I have received any representations recently from  Sir Henry  Bolte relating to the underground railway. I have not seen the statement attributed to  Sir Henry  in this morning's newspaper but I can say that officially he has not yet conveyed those views to me. I have also made inquiries this morning following the information that was conveyed to me about the article, and the officials do not think we have any current matter that is outstanding, although as a result of what  Sir Henry  has said it is expected we will receive it in double quick time. 
Referring first to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, he should know that this is a policy matter and as such is not a suitable subject for a question in the House. As to the first part of the question, there were so many figures in it that I doubt whether any person on this or the other side of the House could answer it. 
1 do not need them, I can get them from Hansard. I will refer the question to the Treasury, Department of Labour and National Service and the Department of Social Services and let the honourable member have a reply. 
by leave - I wish to inform the House and I believe that honourable members will wish to know that the Prime Minister of New Zealand, the Right Honourable J. R. Marshall, has accepted the Australian Government's invitation to make an official visit to Australia.  Mr Marshall  is expected to arrive for discus sions in Canberra on 19th-20th June and to return to New Zealand over the weekend of the 24th and 25th June. I am delighted that  Mr Marshall  has found it convenient to make his first official visit to Australia so soon after becoming the Prime Minister of his country. My colleagues and I are much looking forward to his coming. Consultations will now take place to prepare a programme of engagements and an announcement of these details will be made later. 
I am not aware of the notice that was given by the honourable gentleman as to what should be done in terms of notification on packages. The Government agreed with submissions made by the Department of Health and the Minister for Health. In fact, the Government agreed in full with the Minister's recommendation. 
 I will not give the honourable gentleman any undertaking whatsoever. But we are very carefully watching the position of Australian personnel there; we will keep this problem under continuous observation. What I can say is that the lives and interests of the Australian people will be placed on the highest possible level and we will take action if we think it is necessary. 
I know that the House and particularly the honourable gentleman will forgive me for not replying to thelast part of that question. I say that because the Archbishop is well and favourably known to me and I regard him as a personal friend. If I may answer in substance the 2 questions asked, it is obvious to me that the Archbishop does not have a very great knowledge of the problems associated with inflation or for that matter unemployment. As to inflation it should be known, as I am sure it is well known by the House, that fundamentally or basically the problem is due to wage and income causes and certainly is not due to excessive demand. Action the Government has taken to try to rein in inflationary pressures due to wage causes includes, wherever we have had a right of audience, appearing before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the Public Service Arbitrator. We have taken action in terms of productivity to restore the investment allowance and we have taken action to boost the research and development allowances. On the tariff front, a matter of long term concern, the Minister for Trade and Industry made a statement relating to unused preferences and the Government is examining in detail the problem associated with restrictive practices reforms. In other words, over a very wide area we are watching the problem and taking whatever action we can. If there are excessive wage increases beyond productivity limits there is an in-built pressure and no-one can overcome that problem. 
As to the problem of unemployment, it should be well known that in a monetary field over the Christmas period we took off as many monetary restraints as was practicable. Following the Premiers Conference a large amount of money was injected into the income stream. At the same time the Government made a big increase in the unemployment benefit and provided funds to reduce unemployment in country areas. Recently in this House my colleague the Treasurer made a statement relating to the economy. That statement was fundamentally directed towards increasing demand and stimulating growth in employment and therefore reducing unemployment. I shall make certain that  His  Grace the Archbishop is informed of what the Government has done and that he has every opportunity to form a better view. As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question on Australia's performance, I agree with the sentiments he expressed. 
I will ensure that either I or another Minister will contact  His  Grace, the Archbishop, to see whether we can get the statistics mentioned by the honourable gentleman in order to determine whether we can be of further assistance. 
I know that the honourable gentleman would not know how a Prime Minister's office is run or, for that matter, I am told, how any other office is run. Two letters were sent to my office - the first one at least was answered by the Minister for the Navy on my behalf. It did ask that some official action be taken by the Government, and the reply was given by my colleague. I am not certain of the actual contents. The second letter that was received set out the draft of a statement prepared by the ping pong association to be issued with my approval. That was not agreed to. I can add no more than what was said by my colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he set out the Government's policy attitude to this problem. 
I have received representations from both the Opposition and the Government parties to have a look at the travelling allowance and the Canberra allowance. I have tried to treat this matter as it is normally treated, that is on a completely bi-partisan basis, as I know the Deputy Leader of the Opposition wishes it to be treated. I have given it very careful attention and have conferred with Treasury officials, particularly with my colleague the Treasurer before he went away. I hope to have leave to make a statement on the matter immediately after question time. 
by leave - In response to representations from both sides of the House, the amounts of travelling allowances paid to members of Parliament have been reviewed. Along with his recommendations for increased salaries,  Mr Justice  Kerr in his report tabled in Parliament on 8th December 1971 recommended that travelling allowances payable to members and to Ministers and office holders be increased. The Government subsequently decided not to proceed with any of the 3 Bills relating to increases in parliamentary salaries and allowances. That remains the position. Travelling allowances are not covered in this legislation and can be regarded separately from salaries, electorate allowances and ministerial allowances. The travelling allowance, or Canberra allowance, paid to members of Parliament for living expenses and outofpocket expenses incurred in attending parliamentary sittings has been $15 a day since 1968.  Mr Justice  Kerr recommended $22 a day. In several areas of the Commonwealth Service in Canberra in the less senior grades, the travelling allowances now paid is higher than the Canberra allowance paid to members of Parliament. It has been put that to meet members' increased living costs in Canberra and the increased costs of outofpocket expenses, the current rate of Canberra allowance should be increased. It has been decided to accept this view and to increase the allowance to $22 a day as recommended by  Mr Justice  Kerr. 

 Mr Justice Kerr made recommendations about the payment of Canberra allowance for party and committee meetings held when the Parliament is not sitting. These recommendations will be accepted. It was also recommended that the conditions of payment of travelling allowance be clarified. With this objective, a review of the conditions of payment will be undertaken. As part of his general review,  Mr Justice  Kerr recommended that members of Parliament residing in the Australian Capital Territory should receive half the Canberra allowance. As this matter is now being treated in isolation, it has been decided that members of Parliament residing in the Australian Capital Territory will not receive any increase in Canberra allowance but will not have the allowance reduced. These members will continue to receive $15 a day.  Mr Justice  Kerr recommended increased travelling allowances for Ministers and office holders. In general, the amounts of these allowances have not changed since 1964. The allowances are paid for travel away from Canberra on official or parliamentary business. The recommended allowances were: 
Prime Minister . . $42 a day 
Senior Ministers and the Leader of the Opposition . . . . $36 a day 
Ministers, the Presiding Officers, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate . . . . . . $33 a day 
Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and the Leader of the Second Non-Government Party in the Senate . . . . . . $28 a day 
These recommended amounts of travelling allowance will be paid. The current travelling allowance of $21 a day payable to members of some parliamentary committees for meetings away from Canberra will be increased to $25 a day. Travelling expenses will be reimbursed to Assistant Ministers to a maximum of $25 a day. The new rates will be payable from tomorrow. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as followed: 
I am informed that companies are controlled in Australia by the uniform Companies Acts of the States and Territories. The relevant provisions of the Acts already require all companies, other than certain kinds of 'exempt proprietary companies', to file copies of their accounts annually in the office of the Registrar of Companies or Commissioner of Corporate Affairs in each Territory or State of the Commonwealth in which they are registered and these accounts are, of course, open to public inspection on payment of a fee. The Act also makes public, in the place of incorporation, the register of members of companies incorporated in Australia. 
The need for substantial shareholders, whether foreign or not, to disclose their interests in Australian companies was considered by the Company Law Advisory Committee in its second interim report which was tabled in this House on 20th May 1969. Legislation in accord with this report has been passed in New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland and it is expected that other States will shortly be introducing similar legislation. An Ordinance with respect to this matter has been made in the Australian Capital Territory and will shortly be in operation. A Bill with similar provisions will be introduced in the Northern Territory Legislative Council in the near future. 
While it is the view of the Government that no Minister should be unreasonably debarred from the ordinary rights of ownership of shares or other property by virtue of his position as a Minister, it is the practice of Ministers in my Government to disclose to their Cabinet colleagues any, interest they have which may be regarded as likely to colour the judgments they are required to make on matters of Government business. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 1 assume the honourable member is referring to the T.V. programme 'Monday Conference' on 6th December 1971, when I was asked did I see a lot of people leaving the wool industry in Australia. 1 replied that when we first looked at the matter at Budget time we thought that there were at least between 11,000 and 14,000 who should be withdrawn from the industry. This was in the context of the long term prospects of the industry, and the fact that in a reasonably good year for the wool industry some 20 per centof woolgrowers in Australia would have net farm incomes of less than $2,000 per annum to cover servicing of their debts and expenses. 
The number of ancillary and service persons maintained by primary producers who will be affected is a matter for conjecture. It would appear from the question that the honourable member may be under the misconception that the Rural Reconstruction Scheme was formulated to move people off the land. Such is not the case. The prime purpose of the Scheme is to helpthose producers in financial difficulty who have sound prospects oflong term commercial viability if assisted by way of a reconstruction of theirdebts or in building-up of properties to an economic size. 
The Rural Reconstruction employment Training Scheme has been introduced to help farmers who cannot be so assisted to transfer to suitable employment away from the farm. Also, under the Rural Reconstruction Scheme loans made availableto the States may be used by them to provide financial assistance to eligible producers who experience personal hardship and are obliged to leave the land. The upper limit of this assistance for an eligible producer was recently increased from $1,000 to $3,000. In addition, the Government's grants to the States for the encouragement of non-metropolitan employment will be of material assistance. 
and (4) The prospects to whichI alluded are essentially long term and the honourable member's questions are hardly relevant in these circumstances. 
Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Question No. 5013) 
I am not sure of the details but I shall obtain them for the honourable member and let him know. 
Yes, not only will I do so but I think I can assure the honourable member that every member on this side of the House, Liberal or Country Party, would join with him in expressing the sentiments he has. 
No, I have not. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
While no payments of financial assistance have been made to Queensland during the last 10 years specifically for flood mitigation projects, payments of financial assistance to New South Wales over the last 10 years for the specific purpose of construction of new capital works on certain coastal rivers for flood mitigation have been as follows: 
I have been advised that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Details of the staff of each Minister as at 20th April 1972 are included in the table set out below. This table includes the designation, salary and special allowance (where applicable) payable to each staff member. 
Travelling allowance is payable on the following basis: 
staff required to reside at the same house of accommodation as the Minister receive $2.20 a day while standard hotel charges for accommodation and sustenance are met by the Commonwealth; 
staff not required to reside at the same house of accommodation as the Minister receive the following rates from which all accommodation and sustenance charges and incidentals have to be met: 
Private Secretaries and Press Secretaries $17.65 a day; 
other staff with salary of $14,374 per annum or less - $17.65 a day when in capital cities and $13.05 a day elsewhere; 
staff with salary of $14,375 per annum - $25 a day. 
The first question asked by the honourable member about action taken by the Premier of Victoria is one that concerns his Government, and his alone. Simultaneously a committee of our own Senate will be meeting and we in the House of Representatives have no intention of interfering with the legitimate conduct of its business by that committee. 
The honourable member then asked what action we have taken. If he had listened to the answer I gave in the House he would not have asked the question; alternatively he would have asked the question because he had not understood what was said. I will see that the appropriate section of my answer is given to him. 
The honourable member also asked what would happen to protect the shareholders of Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd. As yet no report has been made by the Senate Committee and therefore no action can be taken. As a consequence the honourable gentleman's question for the most part is hypothetical. 
I think the honourable gentleman has exaggerated the number of people at the meeting or the newspapers are wrong because they referred to a figure of SOO, not double that number as mentioned by the honourable gentleman. Secondly, I think he will know that I made the statement in the House that we have no right of intervention with or direction of the Public Service Board. This is well known to the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association. Therefore the basis of its objection must be wrong, and this must be known to the honourable gentleman who represents the Australian Capital Territory. As to what action we have taken to isolate or quarantine the increase, we have when we have had the right of audience, as I said yesterday, intervened or have sought leave to intervene before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to ensure that moderation was exercised by it. If we have had recourse to other arbitration procedures we have done exactly the same, but we have not approached the States. We have not in any way made representations to the Public Service Board, which is independent and free and makes its own decisions on what it thinks is right in the interests of the Commonwealth Public Service. 
Later: 
Earlier I said that we had not approached the States in relation to auy individual wage claim. I point out now that 1 did speak to the Premiers at the Premiers Conference. 
As most honest members of this House will know, the debates which took place last night were a contrived and crude political stunt mounted by the Left wing of the Australian Labor Party, aided and abetted by the Australian Union of Students and, I believe, by 'This Day Tonight' 
by leave - I rise to inform the House of new arrangements that the Government will make in relation to science and technology in Australia. These arrangements will involve the establishment of an Advisory Committee on Science and Technology and provision for an appropriate secretariat. The function of this Advisory Committee is to furnish co-ordinated advice on actions and policies that would assist in the alignment of our science and technology to our national objectives. Honourable members will be aware of striking advances in science and technology over the past half- century. A few familiar examples come to mind - radar, anti-biotics. the jet engine, immunology, satellite communications and, latterly, space exploration. There are many others. After World War II, it was recognised internationally that major investment in science, in education and in science-based activities would be a prominent feature of the future. Scientific research in all fields has therefore received increasing support from governments and, as a consequence, science and technology in their totality have contributed enormously to the economic and social advancement and well-being of many countries. Australia has both contributed to and benefited from these advances. The Commonwealth Government has been involved in the development of science and technology in Australia virtually from the time of Federation, and has played a key role through the policies which it has developed over the years to meet the changing pattern of national needs and opportunities. 
These policies comprehend the creation of a resource of skilled scientists and technologists, and the pursuit of rigorous programmes of scientific research and technological development, both within the Government and outside - principally in the universities and in industry. Some of these activities have been undertaken in partnership with the States. The Commonwealth has encouraged and expanded the scientific and technological efforts of its own agencies, such as the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and the Department of Supply. Moreover, the Commonwealth has developed schemes to provide financial support for science and technology outside of its own fields of immediate responsibility. For example, research of high scientific merit is supported financially through the Australian Research Grants Committee; industrial research and innovation are assisted through the Industrial Research and Development Grants Board; and scientific work in the fields of medicine and health services is supported through the National Health and Medical Research Council. One result of this support has been the emergence, in fields such as radio astronomy and medicine, of institutions which have achieved international recognition and have become centres of excellence. The Government will continue to foster the development of such centres, and in this context I remind the House of the Government's decision to establish an Australian Institute of Marine Science which we trust in the fullness of time will achieve similar international recognition. 
The Government has thus played, through its various policies and actions, a major role in bringing Australian science and technology to their present advanced state, and has, I believe, abundant reason to be proud of the record of Australian scientists in this regard. The Government will continue to play a major role in these fields. 
The rapid, and at times spectacular, advance made by science and technology in recent years has brought with it a number of problems. For example, some research has become very expensive in terms of manpower, money and equipment. Indeed some fields require facilities which are beyond the resources of almost any single one of the developed nations - beyond the resources, that is, if the country concerned is to maintain balance among the competing claims on the public purse. As a consequence, countries have been compelled to make explicit choices from among their various scientific and technological projects and to determine priorities for the allocation of resources. There is an increasing tendency therefore for countries to concentrate part of their resources on particular areas in which they have demonstrable need, expertise, or unique environmental opportunities. In addition, there is a growing tendency to avoid the national development of large and very expensive projects and to look towards the possibility of co-operation on an international basis. 
Another problem of increasing concern to many countries, arises from the adverse effects which have been recognised as flowing from some applications of science and technology. I need not elaborate in detail on such matters as despoliation of national resources. What I do want to emphasise is that the Government takes the view that, before deciding to support new areas of science and technology, it is mandatory not only to assess the potential benefits, but also to forecast possible undesirable results. Only the best advice that can be obtained for this purpose is good enough. 
Australia has reached the stage where it becomes more important than ever to judge our priorities carefully because we cannot cover the whole field. We are therefore obliged to make decisions as to which of the demands should be satisfied. It may also be necessary to create opportunities for new scientific and technical developments so that specific national objectives can be achieved. We have thus 2 aims - to resolve the demands and promote areas outside of these demands. Neither can be neglected and a balance must be achieved. 
The growth and complexity of science and technology, together with the emergence of problems such as those outlined, have led other countries to establish formal machinery for providing to them expert advice on a co-ordinated basis. While the Government has been aware of these moves it has only reached its present position after careful consideration of the desirability for Australia to adopt similar procedures. 
Up to the present time in developing policies for science and technology it has been our practice to seek advice through formal or informal channels from those sources most able to assist. However, with the experience of other countries as a guide and the increasing range and complexity of the problems which we face it is now timely to change our approach. 
After examination by the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of experience and developments overseas, the following discussions with leading industrialists, with the Australian Academy of Science and with senior Government scientists, the Government has decided to establish an Advisory Committee on Science and Technology. 
I should perhaps point out to honourable members that the establishment of similar advisory committees in other countries and the problems tackled by them have led to the use of the term science policy, the meaning of which is frequently misunderstood. Science policy in the sense in which it is generally accepted by governments implies a deliberate and coherent framework for the provision of advice on the size, structure, creativity and utilisation of scientific and technological research, as a basis for policy decisions on these matters. 
The purpose of this framework, in the sense that I have described it, should be clearly understood. It is one of the means by which governments can be assisted in their considerations of the various factors which need to be taken into account in reaching decisions concerned with the attainment of national goals. 
The primary function of the Committee to which I have referred and which will report to me through the Minister for Education and Science will be to make recommendations to the Government on Australian efforts in civil science and technology. It will assess on a continuing basis Australian requirements, resources and potential in civil science and technology and will provide advice on these matters. 
The Government intends that the Committee should make wide-ranging and comprehensive assessments of the scientific and technological situation. It will advise on such facets as long-term planning, new areas which are of importance to Australia, the priorities that should be assigned to specific projects or areas of research, the means for improving efficiency in the use of resources and the effective development and utilisation of scientific and technological manpower. The Committee will be empowered to undertake studies on its own initiative, in addition to providing advice on specific matters that are referred to it by the Government. 
The Committee's interests will lie mainly in the fields of civil science and technology. It is not intended that it be concerned with questions of defence science except to the extent that these may be related to matters that fall in its own fields of primary concern. Nor is it intended that the Committee's activities extend into fields of medical research which are the responsibility of the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
The Committee will have a membership of 11 distinguished persons with experience in manufacturing industry, primary industry, mining industry, commerce and finance and science. All members, including the  Chairman,  will serve part-time and will be appointed for 3-year terms. Members of the Committee will be announced at an early date. Senior Commonwealth officers, including Permanent Heads, will not serve directly on the Committee, but will assist it as assessors and will be available to advise on specific matters within their areas of individual responsibility. It will be seen therefore as completely independent. 
The Committee will consult with other relevant advisory bodies with a view to ensuring liaison on areas of mutual interest and to avoiding duplication of effort. It will submit an annual report which will be tabled in the Parliament. The Committee will have difficult and long-ranging tasks to perform and it will be serviced by a competent and high level secretariat which, by the qualifications and experience of its members, will be able to provide the support which the Committee will need. 
As I have already mentioned, the Commonwealth, over many years, has played a key role in the development and application of science and technology in Australia. However, the Government recognises the important roles also played by State governments, by industry, and by universities. It therefore looks forward to their co-operation in the work of this Advisory Committee, in the belief that the effective and balanced development of the national effort in science and technology will be in the best interests of the nation as a whole. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Father Connor's letter was received in my office on 11th February 1972 and a reply was sent on 13th March 1972. 
I know that I have already answered a question and written to the honourable gentleman in regard to this problem. I think that the report of the inspectorial committee is well known to my Department and to myself. As soon as question time is over I will communicate with the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board and will see that a second letter is written to the honourable gentleman. 
 I have no comment to make relating to the Archbishop of Sydney,  Dr Loane,  other than that the man has my complete respect. I regard him as a man of integrity and, much more, I think that his activities in the social services field deserve commendation rather than an attempt to drag them into political debate on the floor of this House. As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, I have read the various objectives that are set out by the people concerned and I will ensure that each of those objectives is very carefully considered by my colleagues. 
The honourable gentleman is under a complete misapprehension as to what was said. Consequently. I will ensure that my Press officer sends him a copy. 
Very well. We were dealing with one single problem in that, and that was the difference between the policies of the 2 parties. What I have said in that document illustrates those differences, and they are unbridgeable, no matter what people might say. As to people who have come here under our migration programme, of course we have welcomed them. But what I do insist upon is that the programme now being administered and the policy that we have enunciated is the policy of the Liberal Country Party Government and will remain that way. 
I have not seen the statements to which the honourable gentleman refers. What I believe in is a system of arbitration in this country and the Government wants to sustain this system against the anarchy that it feels would follow from the systems that are advocated on behalf of the Labor Party, principally by the honourable member for Hindmarsh. So neither  I  nor my colleagues, including the Minister for Labour and National Service, have made any specific reference whatsoever to the minimum wage other than what we wanted the minimum wage to be increased significantly by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. We appreciate the action of the Commission in paying particular attention to this needy section of the community. 
by leave - I refer to the important decisions which President Nixon has been obliged to take in the present very serious situation in Vietnam. These decisions were taken because of the blatant invasion of South Vietnam by the North Vietnamese, supported by outside governments. Not only has there been this invasion of South Vietnam across the demilitarised zone, but the North Vietnamese forces have been carrying on offensive military operations in Laos and the Khmer Republic for a period of years. The Australian Government strongly condemns North Vietnam and iti associates. It is they who must take the complete moral responsibility for these actions. 
The United States has made - with full Australian support - every effort to bring about a negotiated settlement of the present conflict. These efforts have met with an absolute refusal by North Vietnam to negotiate seriously. The United States has also tried to de-escalate the fighting by progressively withdrawing its forces from Vietnam. The response from Hanoi has been the launching of a long and carefully planned invasion. The Australian Government understands and supports the decisions which the  President  has felt compelled to take. In our view, the United States had done everything in its power to ensure a negotiated settlement and to maintain the independence of South Vietnam and not to abandon the people of that country. The present decisions by the United States reflect its determination to stand by its international obligations and alliances. The United States must also avoid endangering the lives of its own forces in Vietnam. I present the following paper: 
President Nixon's Decisions on Vietnam - Ministerial statement, 9th April 1971. 
The answer to the  honourable  member's question is as  follows: 
Facilities approved for Assistant Ministers are: 
actual travelling expenses, to a daily, limit, reimbursed for travel in connection with official duties undertaken on behalf of the Minister being assisted (for travel to and from Canberra to attend sittings of Parliament; Assistant Ministers receive the same rate of daily allowance as private Members); 
use of official cars in connection with official duties; 
postage stamps supplied for official mail; 
telephone charges, including home telephone, met by the Commonwealth; 
use of official travel warrants for wife's fares on those occasions when the Minister concerned considers that it is necessary for the Assistant Minister to be accompanied by his wife in the course of his official duties. 
In addition, one Clerk/Stenographer position has been approved for the Assistant Ministers assisting the Prime Minister, the Postmaster-General and the Minister for Primary Industry. 
Travelling expenses reimbursed to each Assistant Minister against claims made by him to the date shown, in respect of travel in his capacity as Assistant Minister were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
&amp; (2) Details of the accommodation provided in Canberra and in each State for Assistant Ministers in their capacity as Assistant Ministers are shown in the table below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The appointment of Justices of the High Court to the Privy Council stems from an arrangement between the Australian and British Governments entered into in 1962. Under these arrangements, the Australian Prime Minister recommends to his British counterpart that he tender advice to the Queen that Justices be made Privy Counsellors. This is usually done after they have been members of the High Court for some time. Although Justices of the High Court appointed Privy Counsellors become members of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, there are no formal arrangements concerning their participation in the proceedings of that Committee. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Commonwealth-State Officials Committee on Decentralisation met on 27th April to consider a draft report which' had been prepared since the Committee last met in October 1971, which among other . things will bring together the findings of the commissioned studies referred to in answer to Question No. 3794 on 10th September 1971. I am advised that the Committee's deliberations should enable it to finalise its report and present it to the Governments of the Commonwealth and the States in the near future. . . 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As announced on 26th January 1972 the Government has decided that a 30-year access rule should in future apply to Cabinet papers and that the remainder of the war-time Cabinet papers covering the years 1942-1945 should also be released for public examination. Before the papers can be made available however it is necessary to examine them in order to withhold those which, in accordance with normal archival practice and policy, should not be released. A number of departments are engaged in the examination of these records but the final decision, wilh regard to the withholding of any of them, will of course, be made by the Government. 
As  I also announced  it  is hoped  to  make available the first group of Cabinet papers covering the years 1939 to 1941 by about the middle of this year. Further groups of war-time papers will become available  as  they are processed. I am advised that as soon  as  possible after this, work will commence on the pre-1939 Cabinet papers. Meanwhile, it would not be practicable to attempt  a  search of  all  pre-1939 departmental records  in  order to extract any Cabinet records which may be contained in them. If a researcher requests from the Commonwealth Archives Office, access to  a  file which  is  then found to contain  a  Cabinet paper, that paper will be withheld and referred for special individual clearance while the remaining part of the file will be made available for access. 
It happens that  Mr Sinclair  is on the staff of the Department itself and has been there since long before I became the Prime Minister. I have no other comment to make because I do not wish to reply in the same peculiar way' as that in which the honourable gentleman asked his question. 
Later: 

 Mr Sinclair is a consultant to the Department on a part-time basis and he has also helped me. 
I have been advised by Crown Law officers that the 3 islands which the honourable gentleman has mentioned are part of the territory of Queensland and I can also confirm to the honourable gentleman that under, I believe, section 123 of the Constitution, there can be no change in the boundaries of a State without the approval of the State. I should add that the interests of the people on the islands must be very carefully considered and that no change whatsoever should occur unless they were fully consulted and it was felt that the change would be to their advantage. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  in one way or another I have listened with great interest to my friend, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)- 
Well, he was a friend of mine once even though he might want to deny it now. 
Your colleague is denying it. You stick with him if you wish to do so. During the time that I was Minister for Labour and National Service I had a fairly long and interesting association with the honourable member for Hindmarsh on industrial matters. But I venture to say that on this occasion I have been disappointed in what I have heard. The first point that I would like to make is that if honourable members listened to or read the speech of the honourable member for Hindmarsh - and I have done a bit of each - they would find that he completely misunderstands the causes and origins of inflation. The honourable member for Hindmarsh said that prices were the commencing point of wage increases. Can any person in Australia with a sensible knowledge of economics and of the fact that wages rose by between 11 and 13 per cent in the last financial year argue for one moment that this was a case of wages following prices or, as is the truth, that this was a clearcut illustration of prices following wages? There can be no doubt that the moment you find wage increases of between 11 and 13 per cent, whichever it might be, exceeding productivity which is going along at the rate of 2i per cent per annum, then automatically you must get an inbuilt inflationary force to the extent of the difference between the two. I think that the honourable member for Hindmarsh knows this. But equally he knows that  Mr Hawke  was in the precincts of Parliament House yesterday and probably today, and he knew that he had to toe the line in exactly the same way as the rest of his colleagues. 
I now turn to the policy aspect because this is important to us. Honourable members will find in what I say tonight, following my colleague the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  that we are enunciating a clear, comprehensive policy for an industrial arbitration system. To my knowledge the honourable member for Hindmarsh mentioned policy on only one occasion, and that was when he said agreements made under the auspices of the Australian Council of Trade Unions would in fact be supervised and probably all action would be taken to ensure that the agreements were made. What absolute nonsense. Why then did not  Mr Hawke  of the ACTU, or even the honourable member for Hindmarsh successfully intervene in the La Trobe Valley problems? Do you think for one moment 
I am saying: Do you think for one moment that you would be ever able to control it? 
I do not. This is where there is a difference of opinion between you and myself, my Party and the rest of the Australian people. Let us go now to a strange conflict. In the course of 3 or 4 months there has been this unbelievable confusion and conflict of thought in the mind of the honourable member for Hindmarsh. He said that we have neglected conciliation. The very basis of this legislation is to provide conciliatory and arbitral functions. This is one the bases on which we are acting. We are giving the conciliators a wide range of activities and powers in order to operate. Little regard can be paid to what was said by the honourable gentleman. From my knowledge of his information and his deep respect for the system of trade unionism, I regret to say that I stand here tonight very disappointed that he should have forgotten so much. 
As everyone should know, this is an extremely important Bill. As I said previously, I regret that the honourable member for Hindmarsh has not given us a very deep insight into what the Labor Party means. The particular deficiency in the honourable gentleman's discourse was, as I have previously said, this problem associated with inflation. I have to emphasise that I regard it as the most single important economic factor that we face today. We are slowly but surely coming to grips with the problem, but we cannot come to grips with it unless we find a different atmosphere in both the Labor Party and the trade union movement - an atmosphere that is favourable to moderation and an atmosphere that is favourable to giving a fair go to each and every worker in the community. 
By contrast, I want to commend my colleague the Minister for Labour and National Service because when he introduced the Bill he made clear what the overriding concern of the Government was. The Bill before the House is, I believe, valuable to us for 2 reasons. They are based on philosophical considerations, and I believe that they are philosophical considerations that should be of great importance to the Labor Party and the Government as well as to the community. Our concern is for the community and for the individual worker. This concern has been the basis of all the legislation introduced by successive Liberal-Country Party governments since 1949. Let me take honourable members a little over the history of this matter. It was a Liberal-Country Party government which really made workable the secret ballot legislation which had been introduced by our predecessors. 
The legislation that we brought down in the early 1950s put into the hands of rank and file unionists the opportunity of ensuring good government in their organisation. By legislation, they have been able to ask for elections to be conducted by independent officials. They have been able to have the court inquire into irregularities in ballots. It is a Liberal-Country Party government which ensures a viable sanctions process under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
Whilst over the years we have stood firm on the principle that there must be sanctions or fines to deal with industrial lawlessness, we have been realistic enough to make changes in that process as the need to do. so has arisen. We have approached the question of sanctions or fines with resolution, but we have sought to provide under the Act every opportunity for parties to resolve their differences by the traditional processes of both conciliation and arbitration. We have sought to give every opportunity to a. union to resile from strike action and to avoid a penalty being imposed on it. However, as the Minister for Labour and National Service pointed out in his second reading speech, if that opportunity is not taken a union must face the consequences under the law, 
It has been said the sanction process has fallen into disrepute. At one point of time there might have been some truth in that statement. However, it is no longer the case. We are determined to ensure that if fines are imposed under the so-called penal clauses of the Act those fines will be collected. That is a firm statement of intention by this Government. One must, of course, refer to the historic amendments of 1956 to the Act. These were introduced by the Minister for Labour and National Service at that time, the late  Mr Harold  Holt. As honourable members know, the real thrust of those amendments was to separate the administrative and judicial functions of the old Court of Conciliation and Arbitration. This meant that the administrative function of the preservation and settlement of disputes became the responsibility of the new body, the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, while the judicial functions have been the responsibility of the Commonwealth Industrial Court. 
Those amendments removed a lot of the legalism of the system as it had existed. They resulted in the new Commission adopting a more flexible approach to its responsible task of prevention and settlement of disputes. I, for one, believe that over the years the Commission has carried out its very onerous role in a responsible and painstaking manner. It has, I believe, served the community well. I think too that perhaps the community does not always realise the very great value to the community of our system of conciliation and arbitration. Save for that which operates in New Zealand, there is no other system comparable to it. 
One of the greatest benefits of it has been that, by and large, this country has not had infficted upon it the very long, drawn out disputes that characterise industrial relations in a number of other countries. Relatively speaking, strikes in this country are of short duration. This is largely because parties are able to take their differences to the appropriate tribunal and, indeed, that tribunal has power to step in of its own volition when disputes occur. It would be a mistake, however, to see our system of conciliation and arbitration as an institution merely existing to serve the interests of management and labour - the parties to industrial disputes. 
Employers and unions simply cannot be permitted to resolve their differences without regard to the effect on those groups which are not themselves directly involved. The Government has a significant role because it has a responsibility for the management of an increasingly sophisticated economy. The Government is itself perhaps the most important party in industrial relations because it represents the community. This always has been recognised by the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in a variety of ways. It has long given the Government the right to intervene in certain proceedings: It envisages Ministers notifying disputes. It has long contained provision for the public interest to be taken into account in the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes. We are proposing in this Bill to enhance the protection of the public interest. It has been the factor uppermost in our minds whenever we have come to consider alterations to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It is what the community is entitled to expect of tha Government and they will get it. 
I have sketched very briefly some of the principal changes that have been made to the Act over the years, but it is not only the Conciliation and Arbitration Act itself to which we have given a great deal of attention. Honourable members will recall that when this country was faced with one of the most serious periods of disturbance on the Australian waterfront we were not slow to act. Perhaps the honourable member for Hindmarsh will remember the part I played in trying to ensure peace on the waterfront. We concluded at that time that strong legislation was needed and we introduced it in 1965. That legislation had a most salutary effect on the Waterside Workers Federation, as indeed it was intended to have. 
This leads me to speak of the importance attached to this current Bill as part of our total fight against inflation in this country. We are concerned to ensure that the parties to industrial disputes settle their differences within the arbitration system where the public interest factor is an all-important one. We have included in the Bill, for example, a provision that the Commission must have full regard to the economic consequences of what it might decide. We have included in the Bill provisions widening the particular matters which are reserved for determination by a full bench of the Commission. We believe that this is particularly important because these are matters that ought not to be considered on a piecemeal basis. They demand a co-ordinated approach by the Commission. They demand that every opportunity is given to Government and to the widest possible range of interested parties to put their views to the Commission when matters of this nature are being determined by it. 
As part of our total planning in our fight against inflation we are strengthening also provisions of the Act to deal with irresponsibilities of trade union power. We are convinced that certain powerful elements in the trade union movement have exercised their strength on too many occasions in a totally irresponsible fashion. Unfair and undue pressure has been placed upon employers by the use of the strike weapon. This has resulted in excessive rises in wages and salaries relative to national productivity. I must stress here and now that we have long held the view that it is important to the community that there be a strong trade union movement. We do not wish to see a weak trade union movement but, by the same token, we have to see a balance of power between employers and unions in the settlement of industrial disputes. Over the last 12 months consumer prices have risen by 7 per cent - a marked acceleration of the rate of  2i  per cent to  3i  per cent which Australia experienced throughout most of the 1960s. 
You will not help. I believe it is recognised by most economists that this increase in inflationary pressures has been due largely to excessive rises in wages and salaries to which I have already referred. Inflation is a pernicious economic and social evil. The losers in the inflationary struggle are people often least able to afford it, namely, retired people, small savers, the unemployed, and less organised groups of workers. It is for these reasons that the Government has been seriously concerned about inflation and has taken action on several points to deal with the problem. Firstly, we have recognised the importance of greater competition in the economy. So the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  will make a statement to Parliament shortly, outlining proposals for some important changes to the trade practices legislation. 
We also have indicated our intention to carry out a systematic review of the tariff structure and we have taken an active part in promoting higher productivity through the assistance we have given to inter-firm comparisons, productivity groups and productivity promotion. Lastly - and here we come closer to the crux of the problem - we are intervening actively in Arbitration Commission hearings whenever these have general economic significance. We are seeking to ensure that restraint is exercised within the areas of the Government's own responsibility - the Public Service and the various Commonwealth statutory bodies. It is within this total context that the extensive amendments proposed by this Bill must be seen. This is not the only piece of legislation that we have brought forward in this session to deal with the problem of industrial unrest that has dogged this country in recent times. Parliament has just recently passed an amendment to the Public Service Arbitration Act which is specifically designed to deal with industrial situations arising in the area of Commonwealth employment. We have strengthened that Act by making available to management and the unions the traditional means of conciliation and arbitration to resolve industrial situations as they arise. I am sure this is a provision which has been widely welcomed. There is absolutely no reason why organisations with members in Commonwealth employment should need to engage in industrial disturbance. The Public Service Arbitration Act, as it has now been amended, will ensure that constitutional and legal means are available if and when industrial situations emerge in the Commonwealth area of employment. 
I spoke earlier of the extent to which this Government over the years has strengthened the Act to ensure every opportunity for democratic control in organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. There is a wide range of provisions included in this Act to extend further those opportunities. We firmly believe that unions and employer bodies should not be the playthings of those who sit upon executives. A heavy responsibility rests upon executives to see that the affairs of those organisations are conducted scrupulously and with respect to the views of the members. The members should have the widest possible opportunity for expressing their views and for seeing to it that their organisations are properly controlled. Surely no-one can disagree with any of this. Surely no-one can disagree with the provisions of a Bill which are designed to achieve this objective. If the Opposition is going to argue against these provisions, as the honourable member for Hindmarsh did, then all any reasonable person can say is that they are merely the spokesmen of those union bosses who must have something to fear by these provisions being brought into law. 
There has been much said in recent months about the amalgamation of organisations, in particular the amalgamation of unions. We recognise that amalgamation of unions is a characteristic of industrialised societies. We recognise that there can be benefits to the members of organisations in combining their resources to undertake more effectively their responsibilities. We believe, however, that because amalgamation of organisations is such an important step it should be clearly authorised by the membership of the organisations which propose to amalgamate. We do not wish to see amalgamations take place unless the widest possible opportunity is given to members to voice their opinion about an amalgamation proposal. (Extension of time granted.) 
I thank the House for its indulgence. We do not want to see organisations grow so large that members of them see themselves to be so minute in the total scheme of things that they lose all real contact with the officials whose task it is to run the affairs of the organisation. 
The Bill now before the House does not simply consist of a whole range of unconnected proposals for change in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It is, as I have pointed out, a cohesive document. It is designed to ensure that the interests of the community are not lost sight of when parties sit down to settle disputes. These interests must be paramount. It is designed to ensure that the organisations involved in the settlement of disputes faithfully reflect the views of their members. There is a single philosophy running through the whole of it. That philosophy may be summed up as one which aims to protect the community and the individual in the total area of industrial relations, and that is vital to our success and prosperity as a nation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I did receive a submission from the Parent-Teacher Council of South Australia dealing with the financing of education in Australia and I have replied to the Council. 
As usual, the Leader of the Opposition tries to be impertinent and, I believe, political. If the honourable gentleman will read my answer carefully 
He might have read it, but not perfectly. He certainly has not understood it. What I was dealing with when this matter was raised by the honourable member for Perth was the question of the application by the trade unions for an increase in the national wage. The attitude we took up there was that the greatest industrial, the greatest economic, problem that this Government faces is the one relating to inflation. It is against that problem that the whole of our case has to be interpreted. I hope that the honourable gentleman will look at page 49 of the transcript where we pointed out that we did not want an increase in the national wage but that in a consideration of the minimum wage, we did not set our face against any increase in the minimum wage. 
The word 'some' was not used at all on page 49. We said we did not set our face against any increase. 
by leave - In this House on 9th December 1971 I announced measures for additional assistance to both government and independent schools to help them in areas of particular and immediate concern. Honourable members will recall that those proposals, for which legislation has since been enacted, involved unmatched capital grants totalling $20m for government schools in the States over the 18 months to June 1973, together with an increase in the rates of per capita Commonwealth grants towards the running costs of independent schools in the States estimated to cost 
S9.7m in 1972. There was also an increase in the per capita grants to independent schools in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
The Government has now decided on longer term measures for direct assistance to both government and independent schools throughout Australia. Our decision has been taken against the background of the direct and indirect contribution which the Commonwealth is already making to education in schools. I remind honourable members that under the general financial assistance arrangements with the States, the Commonwealth is meeting approximately half of the recurrent expenditure on government schools. In almost every year for a number of years the Commonwealth has made a substantial contribution by way of special loans to support the overall works and housing programmes of the States from which the States finance capital construction in schools. State schools have also had the benefit of unmatched Commonwealth capital grants for science laboratories and libraries in secondary schools. 
The independent schools in the States have received capital grants from the Commonwealth for science laboratories and libraries in secondary schools. Since 1970 the Commonwealth has been making per capita grants towards the running costs of both primary and secondary independent schools and under the measures announced last December those per capita grants were increased to their present rates of $50 per head in primary schools and $68 per head in secondary schools. 
Notwithstanding the assistance already being given to the States, we are convinced of the need for the States, on a longer term basis, to devote more resources to the building of new schools and the replacement of outmoded and crowded accommodation than they are likely to be able to make available from their general purpose funds. Therefore, as a measure of assistance which will facilitate forward planning, we have decided to offer unmatched capital grants over a 5 year period for government primary and secondary schools. These grants will commence in July 1973 and carry on when the present $20m programme has been completed. Over the 5 years to June 1978 the Commonwealth will provide $167m and the annual rate will be $3lm in the first 2 years rising to S35m in the 3 later years of the programme. 
This increase in the annual rate from 1975-76 is in recognition of the fact that the grants specifically for science laboratories will cease in June 1975. ft is part of the Commonwealth's intention that outstanding demands for science laboratories for government schools be met thereafter from within this new programme I have just announced. These unmatched capital grants will be divided among the States on the basis of school enrolments. Over the 5 year period each State will receive the following: 
As these grants are intended to increase expenditure on school buildings we wish to have an understanding with each State that it will maintain the present share of total loan funds being devoted to schools construction. We also wish 70 per cent of the funds to be used for additional facilities rather than replacement facilities. However, beyond these conditions each State will be free to develop its own programme, including the provision of science laboratories and libraries in secondary schools, lt is the Commonwealth's objective in making these general capital grants to permit flexibility so that each State can select the priority areas for school construction as it sees them. 
I turn now to the position of the independent schools about which the Government has stated its policy position clearly and precisely. Our policy is that, relying on their own efforts and with assistance from governments, the independent schools should be able to continue to provide places at a reasonable standard for that proportion of school population which in the past has sought education in non-government schools. It has become increasingly apparent that to give full effect to this policy the independent schools need assurances for the future, including assistance of a capital nature as well as continuing help with running costs on a basis that will take positive account of cost increases. 
While the per capita grants towards running costs from both the Commonwealth and the States have been a major factor in keeping existing independent schools in operation, there are many newly developing residential areas where parents are not able to exercise the choice between government and independent schools which is available to them elsewhere. There are also many independent schools which badly need to extend their classroom accommodation and other basic facilities or to replace temporary and outmoded buildings. To assist in meeting this need for capital facilities the Government has decided to make available a total of $48m over the 5 years commencing July 1973 in capital grants for the construction of classrooms and associated facilities in independent schools. For the first 2 years these grams will be at an annual rate of S9m rising to $10m in the final 3 years. As wilh the government schools, the increase in the latter years is in recognition of the fact that the special funds for science laboratories will run out in .lune 1975. 
Let me interpose at this point to explain that although the funds specifically for science laboratories in both government and independent schools will cease in 1975. the special programme for libraries for both government and independent schools, for which funds have been approved to December 1974, will continue as an addition to this new general purpose programme because of the large outstanding requirement for libraries in both government and independent schools. Returning to the capital grants for independent schools, these will be distributed among the States in proportion to enrolments in independent schools on the following basis over the 5-year period: 

<graphic href="078131197205110_59_1.jpg"></graphic>

As for the government schools, it will be a condition of the grants that at least  70  per cent of the funds will be used for additional facilities rather than for replacement facilities. For the independent schools, the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will approve the individual projects and authorise the amount of assistance to each of them. It is the Government's intention that we have advice from a committee of experts on the facilities to be provided in particular schools together with advice from committees in the States on priorities among projects in individual independent schools. This new measure of Commonwealth capital grants for both government and independent schools will be the subject of legislation for specific purpose payments of a capital nature to the States. I am inviting the Premiers to accept the grants for their own schools and to cooperate in making payments, as approved by the Commonwealth, for the independent schools. 
I come now to the important question of running costs in independent schools. The Commonwealth first entered this field in  1970  to help arrest a financial crisis which had developed for many independent schools. Following a review of the situation with which independent schools would be faced in  1972,  we took action at the end of  197 1  to increase the rates of our per capita grants. In our further consideration of the position of the independent schools we have been impressed with the fact that they have no guarantees for the future. Although faced with rapidly increasing costs, they have had to rely on decisions taken by Commonwealth and State governments independently and usually at different times in the spring of one year about the funds to be available to those schools a few months later when the next school year commences. 
Over the last  2  years, running costs in government schools have risen by over  $80  per pupil at the primary level and by over  $130  per pupil at the secondary level. Many independent schools have had to face even larger increases because of the higher rate of salary increases in their schools. Grants from governments, although they have been substantially increased, have not kept pace with these increases in costs. 
We believe the difficulties facing the independent schools can be resolved if the Commonwealth and the States join in assuring the independent schools that they will receive grants towards running costs on a continuing basis. These grants should be expressed in per capita terms and be set at a nominated percentage of the assessed cost of educating a child in government schools. After careful consideration of the level of support which would be appropriate in all the circumstancses, the government has decided to recommend to each State that it join with the Commonwealth in sharing equally the cost of making per capita grants to independent schools at a rate equivalent to  40  per cent of the assessed Australia-wide cost of educating a child in the government primary and secondary schools. We propose that this arrangement should operate for a period of  5  years from the beginning of  1973  and that the combined Commonwealth and State per capita rates be assessed and announced in the latter part of each calendar year for application from the beginning of the following calendar year. 
I have written to the Premiers inviting them to join with the Commonwealth in a joint operation along these lines. I emphasise that the Commonwealth intends to meet its share of the proposed assistance to independent schools irrespective of the decision of the States. We hope that all States will join with the Commonwealth in this new measure because we and they share the responsibility to assist the independent schools. However, the Commonwealth will contribute its full half share from the outset even if a particular State feels obliged to move to its half share of assistance over a period of perhaps  2  or  3  years. 
The assessment of the actual rates of assistance will require consultation with the States to determine an appropriate figure for the Australia-wide average of the per capita cost of running government schools. However, as an approximation we expect that for  1973,  the present Australian average of the combined Commonwealth and State per capita grants of around  $92  per primary pupil and  $119  per secondary pupil would increase to about  $125  per primary pupil and  $210  per secondary pupil. Putting it another way, the present rates of Commonwealth and State assistance are equivalent to about  29  per cent of the cost of educating a child in a government primary school and 23 per cent for a government secondary school compared with the 40 per cent for both primary and secondary schools the Government now proposes. 
The following table illustrates the approximate cost to the Commonwealth and to the States of these increased per capita grants to independent schools in the full year 1973. I repeat that these figures are subject to detailed assessment.  Mr Acting Speaker,  I ask for leave to have this table incorporated in Hansard. 
I cannot vouch for the accuracy of the figures that have just been made available by the right honourable gentleman. I have recently received through my office a statement which is somewhat contradictory to the figures given by the right honourable gentleman. It has been passed on to Treasury. I will ask that an analysis of the 2 sets of figures be given and I will let him know the answer. As to the last part of the right honourable gentleman's question, I think he knows, or at least it has been stated in the House, that the Government is now considering the whole question of monopolies. When that is done and the Government's decisions are known it will be seen that we will be acting in order to take a very deep interest in this very important facet of takeovers, whether domestic or international. 
The matter is now being considered by the Government and when a decision is made we will announce it to the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I am informed that in response to a question by the  Chairman  of  the  joint Committee,  Mr Butler  said: 
We do have registered for employment quite a number of school-leavers who, if there had not been the reduction in recruitment, would have been employed by the Service or many of them would have been. How many of these, having been told that there was no available employment for them in the Commonwealth Service, have been able to find other jobs through the Commonwealth Employment Service or through their own initiatives, I am not sure. Perhaps in somecases, even where they have found other jobs, they are still available to us when and if the employment opportunities are available. I couldnot really answer your question in a precise sort of way as to whether there are people who are just unemployed waiting on us to make an opportunity.' 
and (4) The Public Service Board has advised that summarised information on the numbers of aplicants registered for employment, in each of the last five years is not readily available and that extraction of this information would entail substantial administrative effort; and in any event, such information does not distinguish between school-leavers and others. 
The Public Service Board has provided the following table showing the total number of permanent appointments in the Australian Capital Territory (classified by age) in each of the last five years.' School-leavers and others cannot be distinguished. 
I have been informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
12th October 1971 and 27th April 1972. 
The Committee's deliberations on 27th April 1972 should enable it to finalise its report and present it to the Governments, of the Commonwealth and States in the near future. As I have stated in answer to previousparliamentary questions (e.g. Hansard of 10th 'September 1971,. page 1148), the question of tabling the report in the Commonwealth Parliament will be decided after the Commonwealth and 'State Governments have considered the report. 
This matter has been under consideration and I hope to be able to make a decision soon. As soon as 1 have done so, as is usual, the decision will be made known to the House. 
First I think it should be known that it is a golden rule that we say nothing publicly about Liberal-Country Party discussions in joint party meetings. Certainly no-one at official level does so. Secondly, as to the last part of what the honourable gentleman has said, if he can contain himself in patience for not very long I am sure he will get an answer. 
During the course of this Parliamentary sessional period I was asked a question relating to interest rates and the degree to which they had fallen. I can assure the honourable gentleman that it is clear from the Treasury paper I have received that the reduction over the whole range of interest rates was of the order of 1 per cent. The honourable gentleman asked about the amount that can be made available for building loans and the interest charged by savings banks. I will have some discussion with my colleague the Treasurer, and Treasury officials, and I will be only too happy to communicate to the honourable gentleman the information I obtain. 
I will give very careful consideration to the question asked by my colleague. I will have no hesitation whatsoever in approaching the State governments and letting them know the substance of the honourable gentleman's question and then, if they care to do so. I would have no hesitation in discussing it with them. 
 This afternoon. the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  asked me a question without notice about the Bill before the House relating to the territorial sea and the continental shelf; that is, order of the day No. 87. I also draw the attention of the House to the fact that the fourth notice of motion - a contingent notice of motion in the name of the Leader of the Opposition - also is relevant to this Bill, as is order of the day No. 16, the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill. Before I touch upon the substance of what I want to say relating to the Government's attitude to the 2 Bills and to the contingent notice of motion, may 1 deal with 5 matters which have been referred to by the Leader of the Opposition. I do so only to keep the record straight, because each of the statements is wrong. 
In the first place, the Leader of the Opposition referred to discussions within my Party room about the 2 Bills. As 1 have said, his impression is wrong, and a guess therefore must be completely disregarded. Secondly, in his speech, the Leader of the Opposition kept saying 'the present Prime Minister's Bill', despite the fact that he had been corrected. The simple fact is that I was a member of Cabinet at the time we decided to introduce a Bill and I, as the then Minister for External Affairs, gave approval that this should proceed. From then on, I had little or no association with the Bill. In fact, the second reading speech was completed during my absence and was approved by the then Acting Minister for External Affairs and presented to the House by the present Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz).  I kept correcting the Leader of the Opposition; but, in his own inimitable fashion, being very, very clever and very, very smart about these matters- (Honourable members interjecting)- 
The truth is that the first time I sighted a copy of the speech was when it was sent to me in Singapore, when I was there with the then Prime Minister at a prime ministerial conference. 
The third matter that I want to point out to you,  Mr Speaker,  relates to the urgency of the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. The fact that according to the Leader of the Opposition it was introduced over 2 years ago itself shows that the Bill cannot be regarded as urgent. If it were as vital as he likes to point out, surely the attitude would have been taken that provision would have been made in the orders of the day for the Bill to be presented. However, this was not done and I believe that that shows the degree of urgency of the matter and the fact that again the Leader of the Opposition is wrong. To refer to the fourth point, which clearly illustrates that no urgency can exist, if the Leader of the Opposition wants the matter to go to the High Court of Australia for determination, it could not go to the High Court this year: there is no possibility of it going; and, therefore, the sense of urgency, if there ever was one, has disappeared. 
That is because you are here. Finally,  Mr Speaker,  there is no doubt at all that there is little direct connection between the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill and the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill. There is a very good reason why we want the Bill relating to the institute to be established at Townsville to go through, and it is this: From Townsville's point of view and from the point of view of the research that can be carried out, it is an important Bill. As I have given assurances to my colleagues that we will put the Bill through, that is the policy that will be adhered to by the Government. It is true that this morning I initiated a discussion in the Government parties and a unanimous view was then expressed that we should proceed immediately with the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill. 
I also want to point out to honourable gentlemen that negotiations are now proceeding between the Commonwealth and the State governments on matters relating to 3 related subjects. They are the Senate committee report on off-shore petroleum resources and the law of the sea conference for the United Nations conference in 1973; and discussions are also taking place between the Commonwealth and the States in the Australian Minerals Council relating to the report of the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources. These discussions have been initiated not only on a ministerial basis but also on a Prime Minister to Premier basis, and I am pushing ahead with these negotiations just as quickly as I can. I am doing this in an endeavour to bring them to finality as quickly as is possible. 
However, I also point out that the Government wants to ensure the closest cooperation and goodwill between the Commonwealth and the States. We do not want to take any action which will prejudice in any way the conduct of these discussions. Accordingly, we have decided to proceed immediately with the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill and, after the passage of that Bill, there will be some debate on the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. In view of the present position of Commonwealth-State negotiations, the second reading debate of that Bill will not at this stage be carried to a final vote. That is the indication of the Government as to what it intends to do. So, before the continuation of the debate on the motion which has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition, I want the House, and particularly members of the Opposition, to know clearly what the position of the Government is. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa- Leader of the Opposition) -  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I ask whether it is a personal explanation. 
I do not give leave to make a statement. 
As to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, I have made a detailed study of the papers and I now confirm from the papers themselves that what I said yesterday, in substance, was absolutely correct, that I was on 17th April - (Opposition members interjecting)- 
If this is the way honourable members opposite wish to treat it, I now confirm that every one of the 5 statements made by the Leader of the Opposition was wrong in substance. On 17th April - the day after it was presented to the House - I was sent a copy of the speech. It was sent to me in Singapore, not  at  a time when I was there with the then Prime Minister at the Prime Ministers' conference but in fact when I was travelling to Saigon, to Bangkok and to other parts of South East Asia. The substance is absolutely correct and the Leader of the Opposition  is  absolutely wrong. As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, I have written to the Premiers on the matter of the territorial sea and continental shelf. I have also had communications- 
As I am presently inclined I have no intention of disclosing the correspondence between the Premiers and myself. Nonetheless, I will have another look at the  matter  and,  if  I think  it  is necessary or desirable, I will let the House know the actual date on which the letters were written and what the replies were. 
I have nothing to add to the statement I issued immediately after the Cabinet decision was made relating to proposals that had been put before it by the Minister for Primary Industry. However, while I now have the opportunity, might I say that there is an obvious intention in some sections of the media to create the impression that there is a very strong difference of opinion between myself and the  Deputy  Prime Minister concerning the wool industry proposals. I have also had my attention drawn to the statement that he made relating to this issue. There have been no confrontations and there is no serious difference of opinion between the  Deputy  Prime Minister and myself. As I have read the various extracts from what he said, I believe he has set out in a sensible and realistic fashion the approach that has been taken by the Government. The statement that he made this morning in this House in answer to a question has my complete endorsement. 
This morning representatives of Travelodge on their own initiative saw officers of the Department of the Treasury and put their case to Treasury. I have not yet received a report from them. I hope to be able to do so either this afternoon or tomorrow, and then I will be in a better position to make a comment. But I think that at this moment it is not practicable for anyone to make a sensible comment, because apart from the Treasury officials, representatives of Travelodge and other people intimately involved, I am not and I do not think any other Minister is aware of the details. But what I can say in very strong language is that within the course of the next 2 days the AttorneyGeneral will be making a statement in the Senate relating to monopolies and takeovers, and I think that this will indicate very clearly to the House and to the Australian public where we stand on these matters and the course of action we intend to follow. 
I am not particularly attracted to the proposal at first glance, because I think we should be able to find in Australia people of comparable quality to those in other countries to carry out this task. After all, in the past we have handled tasks equally as great as this one and we have been able to rely upon our own efforts. Nonetheless, now that the suggestion has been made by the honourable gentleman, I will refer it to the Treasury and also to the Commissioner of Taxation to see whether they feel it is desirable to have secondment or recruitment of overseas personnel for this purpose. 
I will answer this question. The Cabinet gave very careful consideration to the proposal relating to Project N and decided to go ahead with the proposal. My colleague the Minister for Defence will make a statement to the House on it just as soon as he can. 
 Mr Speaker,  referring to the question asked by the honourable member for Barton, I will have the second part of it referred to the Treasury, too. 
If the honourable gentleman has any concrete information to give as to this alleged splurge I would be only too happy to receive it and send it on to the Treasury for examination. 
I wish to inform the House that the Treasurer,  Mr Snedden,  left Australia on Saturday, 20th May to attend a meeting in Paris of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. He is expected to return to Australia on 29th May. During his absence I will act as Treasurer. 
I will give very careful consideration to what the honourable gentleman says and I will discuss it with him privately. 
If I can make arrangements to have it read simultaneously I will attempt to do so. As to the balance of the question, I will take it up immediately with the Leader of the House. 
The answer to both questions is yes. 
Thank you, sir, for answering the question for me. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The amount of income tax payable by taxpayers subject to provisional tax whose assessments in respect of 1970-71 Income year returns were issued to the end of February 1971 was $431,550,000. 
Statistics of tax outstanding are not available in sufficient detail to provide information on the amount outstanding at the end of February 1972 in respect of the assessments referred to in part (1) of the honourable member's question. Tax on these assessments was not due for payment before 31st March 1972. However, the total amounts outstanding al the end of February 1972 in respect of assessments of individuals (including those not subject to provisional tax) based on 1970-71 and prior income year returns was $529,447,000. 
and (4) The total amounts of income tax payable by taxpayers subject to provisional tax in respect of assessments based on income tax returns for the income years 1968-69. 1969-70 and 1970-71, are set out below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (6) Between the commencement of the 27th Parliament on 25th November 1969 and 21st April 1972  - a  period of 2 years and 5 monthsthere has been  a  total of 72 overseas visits by Ministers (44 of these accompanied by wives) and 7 by office holders of the Parliament (5 of these accompanied by wives). 
So far as Ministers' visits are concerned, it is the practice to announce details of each visit at the time in Parliament or, if Parliament is not sitting, by means of Press statements. 
Information on each individual visit over the two and a half years is not centrally recorded in the form required by the honourable member's question. To compile it would be  a  substantial task and I am reluctant to authorise the administrative effort that would be involved. 
Costs incurred on ministerial visits and visits by office holders of the Parliament during this financial year will be shown in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1972-73; costs in relation to earlier visits have already been published in the relevant Appropriation Bills. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This question was answered on 9th May 1972 (Hansard, page 2266). 
Law Reform Commission of the Australian 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
These questions were answered on 9th May 1972 (Hansard, pages 2266-7). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that this is the case, subject, of course, to the necessary detailed feasibility studies. 
The Government fully recognises the advantages to taxpayers and their representatives of the location of a regional taxation office in close proximity to their place of residence or business. 
Unfortunately, it is not yet practicable, for a number of reasons, including die cost factor, to set up regional offices in all the major centres of each State. 
In the progressive decentralisation of the Commonwealth Taxation Office, preference is being given to the establishment of regional offices in centres of commerce and industry. The Gosford-Wyong area does not fall in this category since the district is at present predominantly residential. 
Nevertheless, the development of the Gosford-Wyong area will be closely examined when the question of additional regional offices in New South Wales is again under consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commissioner of Taxation has stated that, because of the secrecy provisions contained in the Income Tax Assessment Act, he is unable to supply the names and addresses of school building projects in respect of which applications for approval under section 78 (1) (a) (xv) have been lodged. During the calendar year ended 31st December 1971, 105 applications on behalf of school building funds were considered, of which 101 were approved and 4 refused. As the provision applies equally to government schools and private schools regardless of denomination, the Commissioner is unable to provide an exact dissection of the 101 applications approved in 1971 along the lines previously, requested in Question No. 5106. It is estimated, however, that the 101 approvals related to 27 government schools, 15 pre-schools, 54 private schools and 5 other schools not readily identifiable as falling within any of the categories mentioned. 
In each instance where approval was given, the purpose of the fund was the acquisition, construction or maintenance of a building used, or to be used, as a school or college. As section 78 (1) (a) (xv) does not impose a limitation on the amount that may be raised by a school building fund, a record is not kept of the estimated value of each approved school building fund project. 
I wish to inform the House that the Minister for Health and Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, is leaving Australia tomorrow to have discussions with health authorities in Europe, the United Kingdom and North America. He is expected to return to Aus tralia on 29th June. During his absence the Minister for Immigration,  Dr Forbes,  will be Acting Minister for Health. 
I am aware of the very great interest of the honourable gentleman in the costs involved in home construction and in the rest of the building industry. J have looked at the figures relating to the increase for the year ended in March in the cost of materials involved in housing construction, and I am glad to say that it has fallen from an annual rate of 7 per cent to somewhere in the vicinity of  41/2  per cent. While this is a favourable trend,I can say no more than that. We would need to see much more reassuring figures before we could be certain that we had inflation anywhere near under control. 
I am aware of the marked attractions of the western district of New South Wales and I think it could become a very good tourist centre. As to the specific question asked by the honourable gentleman, the problem has not been brought to my attention by the Treasury. I will make inquiries immediately after question time. 
Today the AttorneyGeneral will be making a statement in the form of a White Paper to the Senate setting out the Government's policy relative to monopolies and takeovers. At the same time, or at about that time, the Leader of the House will, I understand, be presenting the paper to the House. It can then be noted, if that is the wish of the Opposition, and an opportunity will be given for a full debate on it. I think the House can take this as the attitude of the Government. The Government believes that the proper course to follow in a matter which is so important as this and which can have an impact, not only upon this country but also upon the social approaches that are taken to these problems and on the shareholders, is to have a full and free debate in this House. I hope that we will be able to make time available so that a debate can take place. 
My statement means exactly what it says. If the honourable gentleman cares to look at it in total, I think he will get the impression that I wished to create and did in fact create at the meeting I attended. If the honourable gentleman had attended that meeting with my colleague, the honourable member for Holt, he would have found a very enthusiastic audience and one that, I think, indicated quite clearly its confidence in the honourable member for Holt as a member who not only has a social conscience but also has represented the electorate very well in this House and elsewhere. The last part of the honourable gentleman's question was not relevant to what I said, but if he would like the remainder of my speech to be sent to him he should ask my Press Officer for it. I can assure him that if he does he will receive it this afternoon. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) This question is  a  matter for the  Speaker  in the first instance, and I have therefore referred it to him. 
The Government did announce that the measures taken towards the end of last year would be only interim measures. Since then we have been carefully considering the problem associated with both nursing homes and nursing attention in homes. This is regrettably a very complicated and difficult problem. There have been several discussions of the matter in Cabinet or Cabinet committees and we are rapidly approaching the stage where I believe we will be able to make another statement about it. Regrettably too, we will not be able to make any Government statement relating to it in the House, but I will ensure that a statement is made public just as soon as I can get final decision on it. I think the honourable memberwill realise too that there is a pretty clear association between hospitalisation, nursing home attention and nursing attention in the  homes themselves. So we will have a lot of negotiating to do with the States. Nevertheless, I repeat what I said to the honourable member previously: We are anxious to come to a resolution of this problem and I will try to get the answer as soon as I can. 
The answer to the first 2 questions is that the Bill will be produced in the Budget session. Consequently, the assumptions in the honourable member's first 2 questions are wrong. The proposed Travelodge takeover is now under consideration by Treasury officials. I have received a preliminary report from them but I am now awaiting a final report which, when received, will be submitted to the Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) lt is not the practice to make public details of discussions and communications between Ministers. 
The honourable member knows that this matter is of profound importance and involves policy decisions by the Government. I will take careful note of what he has said and discuss it with my Government colleagues. 
The right honourable gentleman did ask me a question and subsequently I informed him that I had had preliminary examinations made and that I had been informed that the percentage interest of Redland Ltd in the joint merger would be reduced from 49.9 per cent to 40 per cent. This is something we would all like to see. I hope only that the statements made to me turn out to be correct. I can now make it clear that, so far as competition is concerned, Humes Ltd will have a major share of the Australian market and that there will be at least some competition between 2 Australian corporations. Nonetheless the Government has this matter under very careful consideration. I can say only that these are the facts which have been disclosed to me so far. Treasury is still considering the matter and as soon as it has made a report to me I will submit it to the Government. 
I should also let the honourable member know that we could not take this matter to the monopolies commission which the Government is establishing because yesterday's paper was put down for the purpose only of inviting discussion. T hope there is the fullest discussion on this matter and that in one way or another the House will be given an opportunity to discuss in full this question of takeovers. 1 like to see a maximum Austraiian ownership and this is a policy of the Government. We will do all in our power to achieve this but we will do it consistently with the national interest, which must be of paramount importance. The Government must take into consideration also the interests of Australian shareholders and make certain that what it does is based in sound knowledge of those interests. That Will be the Government's policy. 
I think it is appropriate that the Australian Parliament should develop for papers that are presented to Parliament names that are more suitable to Australian conditions and consequently should not adopt immediately titles- (Honourable members interjecting)- 
Within the course of the last few days I have given instructions that this matter is to be finalised. A decision has been made as to the appropriate reply which is to be sent to the Queensland Government. I will make certain that the reply is sent not later than today. After that has been sent I will make the decision known to the honourable gentleman. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The further letter referred to in the question was sent on 1st October 1971. As at that date formal replies to the previous letter, of 7th September 1970, had not been received from New South Wales and Victoria, but the dispatch of the letter of 1st October obviated the need for further replies to the earlier letter. The letter of 1st October 1971 stated the Commonwealth's position on the Nation-wide Survey of Educational Needs - a subject also dealt with on 5th October 1971 in a statement to the House by the Minister for Education and Science- and did not call for any reply. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am reluctant to authorise the time and expense involved in collecting and collating the information requested by the honourable member. 
I suggest that if he has any particular benefit in mind he ask the appropriate Minister who will examine the matter to see what information can be provided. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The letter from the Premier is under consideration. A decision has not yet been made in relation to it 
AlthoughI am aware that there are such centres in other cities, I am not able to give the honourable member a completelist of these. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Treasurer announced on 10th April that it is the intention of the Government to proceed with a public issue of yen-denominated bonds on the Tokyo market, subject to negotiation of acceptable terms and conditions and other arrangements for the issue. The borrowing is expected to be for an amount of 10 billion yen (about SA27m). There is no proposal before the Government at present for a public bond issue in the Federal Republic of Germany. However, the Government did borrow by way of a public bond issue in Germany last January. The amount of the borrowing was DM100 million ($A26m). The bonds were issued at par and carried an interest rate of 7 per cent payable annually. This interest rale was, at the time, the lowest paid by an international borrower on the German market for more than 2 years. 
and (4) Terms of all overseas loans are considered carefully before they arc approved by the Commonwealth and other members of the Australian Loan Council. 
Final agreement to the terms depends on their being considered fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the time. The Treasurer's Press statement concerned the proposed borrowing in Japan, a copy of which is being forwarded to the Honourable Member, explained that it would serve Australia's national interests in such important ways as establishing for Australia a position in a new capital market which will constitute an alternative to existing markets and which seems destined to grow substantially in the years ahead, and making a major contribution to the development of closer financial links (generally with Japan. In a Press Statement on 21st January announcing the terms of the bond issue in Germany, the Treasurer pointed out that it was considered prudent to maintain Australia's access to large and important capital markets, such as the German one. We had not borrowed in the German market for more than 2 years. (5), (6) and (7) The Government keeps under close review the availability of loan funds on the domestic market. However, the fact is that for many years past the proceeds available from Commonwealth loan transactions in Australiawhich represent the maximum amounts that could be raised with the interest rates and other terms considered appropriate by the Commonwealth and the Loan Council - have almost invariably been substantially less than the borrowing programmes of the Commonwealth and States approved by the Loan Council. Moreover, as indicated above, there are various considerations relevant to Commonwealth borrowing overseas in addition to the factors mentioned by the Honourable Member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Estimates have been made of the costs to income tax revenue in a full year of exempting from income tax all individual taxpayers with annual actual incomes falling within the ranges corresponding to the ranges of weekly incomes specified in the honourable member's question. The estimated full year costs, at levels of income estimated for the 1971-72 income year, are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has provided the following table in answer to the honourable member's question. These figures, prepared on a national accounting basis, relate to the 20-year period ended 1969-70, and the Statistician advises that he is unable to extend them to cover the 30- year period requested. The Statistician also advises that separate figures for 'semi-governmental' organisations of interest paid and total outlay are not available. The transactions ofthese organisations are reflected in the figures for State authorities given in the table. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Negotiations are under way with France and the Federal Republic of Germany, for the conclusion of new comprehensive double taxation agreements. These negotiations have progressed to the stage of technical study of draft agreements initialled by officials prior to their being brought before the several Governments concerned for approval. 
An agreement with Italy, under negotiation on 9th December 1971, restricted to the reciprocal exemption by each country of profit derived by the international airline of the other country from international operations, was signed recently. 
There is no order of priority in respect of the negotiations listed. 
The simple answer that I can give is that the matter is worthy of consideration. 1 will refer it to my colleague, the Minister for Social Services. 
 Mr Speaker,  honourable members will be aware of the death of his Royal Highness the Duke of Windsor in France on Sunday last. He was 77 years of age. We mourn his passing, for he was widely respected and admired wherever he went. Honourable members will know that it was on 11th December 1936 that this Parliament gave its assent by resolution to the Declaration of Abdication by  His  Majesty King Edward VIII. By so doing the Australian Parliament became associated with a constitutional development of considerable magnitude and of great moment in the history of the monarchy. But today,  Mr Speaker,  the motion I am to move shortly has another purpose. It is an act reflecting the affection that we in this house hold for the Royal Family - and for the Duke whom we will remember always as a person of warmth, humanity and vitality. 
Memories of the dramatic event of the abdication on 11th December 1936 stir the imagination and the heart. A choice of great difficulty had been made. The decision was attended by public candour, and debate without precedent, as the chronicles of those days record. The conflict between constitutional duty on the one hand and what King Edward VIII sought in human happiness was honestly faced and a brave decision was taken. It is a remarkable achievement that the monarchy emerged strongly from this testing time. To this  His  Royal Highness contributed a great deal by his dignity and the way he accepted the role of a private person always in the public gaze. At all times he showed care and consideration for his successors - his brother the late King George VI and his niece, our Queen. 
I think, honourable members will agree, that our constitutional relationship is such that the monarchy and all it stands for distributes considerable benefit to the working of public affairs in this country. It was inevitable, however much the Duke of 
Windsor would have wished it, that he could not be regarded as a private citizen with all the freedoms of a private citizen.  His  activities were attended by inquisitive international media, and it is to his great and lasting credit that at no point and in no way did this create any problems for the royal house. 
The Duke of Windsor will be remembered in this country as one who wholly captured popular imagination.  His  personality could pierce the screen of formality, which in those days of his visit to Australia in 1921, was most formidable. He never lost the capacity to achieve a direct contact with the ordinary man. In his first broadcast as King Edward VITI he added a personal passage that referred to his opportunities to get to know people of almost every country of the world.  His  lively identification with his own countrymen in the workingclass areas hit by an industrial depression still grips the popular imagination. It stamped him as a leader of initiative and humanity. It was his desire that people should know that he cherished the memory of his direct contacts with ordinary people, and it was that experience that he wished to carry into the monarchy. 
There is one aspect of his life and that of the royal house that I am sure will not have escaped honourable members. He was one of a family with the normal relationships of family. We are al) touched by the obvious affection that members of the royal family extend to one another. The Duke of Windsor enjoyed this personal standing with his brothers and their children in high degree. We respect  Her  Majesty the Queen's personal sorrow, and I have sent a message to  Her  Majesty conveying the Government's condolences in her bereavement. I have, too, sent a message of sympathy to his widow, the Duchess of Windsor, who shared all the years after the abdication with him in a spirit of great devotion and with a natural dignity. In inviting honourable members to support this motion, I should mention that the Queen will observe a period of court mourning which will end on Monday, 5th June, the clay of the funeral. 1 move: 
That an address to  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth 11 in the following terms be agreed to: To the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty: Most Gracious Sovereign, we, the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia in Parliament assembled, have received with profound sorrow the news of the death of  His  Royal Highness, the Duke of Windsor. On behalf of your people throughout the Commonwealth of Australia we express deep sympathy to Your Majesty and to members of the royal family in the loss that y,ou have sustained.' 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to inform the House that the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr N.  H. Bowen, left Australia on Saturday, 27th May, for discussions with government leaders in India, Bangladesh and Indonesia. He is expected to return to Australia on 9th June. During his absence the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  is Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. I also wish to inform the House that the PostmasterGeneral,  Sir Alan  Hulme, is leaving Australia today to represent the Australian Government at the Tenth Anniversary Independence Celebrations in Western Samoa. He is expected to return to Australia on 4th June. 
I received a telegram and as a consequence I made immediate inquiries to find out whether there was any truth in the statement that had been made. In summary form, there is no truth in it. No member of the Federal Parliament, and that includes the Ministry, has been given a private screening. I have been informed through the PostmasterGeneral that the General Manager of the ABC informed him that the action was taken under section 116 f2.) of the Broadcasting and Television Act which honourable members opposite well know was introduced by a Labor government when it was in office. 
If you had listened, and as you are a truthful man, you would have accepted the fact that the ABC has informed me that the accusations are false. I have to add that in 1956, of course, a Liberal-Country Party government did amend the Act in order to provide for television coverage as well as for broadcasting. 
First of all, the honourable gentleman is in error in saying that the Government intervened. As has been made clear, no member of the Federal Parliament asked for a private showing. It can be taken that I had never heard of the programme until I read in the newspaper the accusation made relating to myself. 
As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, it is clear that it was the ABC itself which decided to take action under section 116(2.) of the Act. I am not aware of the provisions of section 116 (1.) but I presume that it was a subject which would have been taken care of by the ABC itself and not a matter in which the Government would have directly intervened. I see no reason why we should, and consequently 1 have no intention of asking the Attorney-General to give me his opinion of whether or not the ABC was right in its interpretation of the law. I point out also that as we have not intervened and we have no intention of intervening, I cannot understand why the Labor Party is pursuing this problem in the way it is. We like to have freedom of the ABC but we like the right of protest, too. I can see no reason why members of the Opposition or any other persons should be deprived of the right of dissent or the right of objection if they felt that the ABC was doing something which was perhaps objectionable. It has not occurred in this case, but it is a good principle that there is no discrimination in this country. We are all treated the same, and we certainly do not discriminate against the ABC. 
I took this matter up with the Commonwealth Statistician through the relevant Minister and I was advised that unless other very important work was set to one side it would be extremely difficult to get this matter through. I believe it is correct to say that it would be difficult to get it through within the period relevant to the purpose mentioned by the honourable gentleman. Nevertheless, I will have a further inquiry made today, but I think he will find that it is probably now too late to be able to take action. I will find out from the Statistician through the Minister himself. 
I have no knowledge of the statements contained in the first 2 parts of the question asked by the honourable gentleman. As to the last part of the question, if a letter from  Mr Jedlin  or representations from  Mr Jedlin  are in my office I will ask the officials to look at them immediately and see what we can do. 
As to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, monetary and interest rate policy is obviously one of the instruments that the Government must use in order to control inflationary pressures, but I think that the honourable member will know that on this occasion they have worked only at the margin because the real cause of difficulty was the increase in average wages in excess of productivity. 
You asked the question. As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, it is regrettable that so much of the income flows has gone out of the banking system into what shall be called the extra-mural finance institutions of this country. 
As I explained to the honourable gentleman, in this case the real cause is the increase in average earnings, particularly in relation to the increase in productivity. Nonetheless, this matter is kept under very close control, and it is one of the matters that no doubt will be dealt with when we are looking at this whole question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Question No. 4941 was answered on 30th May 1972 (Hansard, page 3289). 
 The Public Service Board has advised me as follows: 
The preliminary total of graduate clerks who took up duty in 1971 is 386. 309 offers of appointment have been made in the first three months of 1972 but the number who will take up duty is uncertain at this stage. 
The table below shows preliminary figures for the disciplines represented in each year's intake'. The 1971 percentages refer to those graduates who took up duty. The 1972 percentages refer to those who have been offered appointment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has advised that information on capital gains is not available. 
I have this day answered question No. 4711. 
I have seen a report of the statement alleged to have been made by the Leader of the Opposition. If the report is correct, then both parts of his statement are inaccurate. He could have ascertained the truth by, first of all, reading the communique which I issued at the time of President Suharto's visit to Australia, and secondly, he could have easily obtained the information by making an inquiry of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
The Leader of the Opposition said that the Government had failed to live up to an undertaking. That is absolutely untrue. No undertaking was involved. In the discussions with  President  Suharto I agreed with him that all outstanding issues should be negotiated at an early date. The negotiations, which have taken place over a period of close to 2 years, have not been cancelled. They have been deferred; and only deferred. As and when we find that it is desirable to continue with the negotiations, we shall do so. I assure the House that this will be done at an early date. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has provided the following information: 
The information requested is not available. However, the amounts of net earnings of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation and State banks for 1969-70 and 1959-60 were $21 3m and $78m respectively. These figures expressed as a percentage of the total figures reported for capital and reserves of those banks in those years were 62 per cent and 37 per cent respectively. Net earnings are defined as 'discount and interest earned, net exchange, commissions and other items (including transfers from contingencies accounts) after deducting interest paid and accrued on deposits, rebate on bills current at balance date, amounts written off assets and losses on realisation of assets and transfers to the credit of contingencies accounts (out of which accounts provisions for all bad and doubtful debts have been made)'. Details of net earnings were not collected prior to the introduction of the Banking Act 1959. 
No information is available. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Some information in respect of foreign-owned companies is collected by way of surveys of overseas investment conducted by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. Although information is not available from these surveys on profits earned or taxes paid by foreign-owned companies, the Commonwealth Statistician has advised that the investment income (including interest) payable overseas by all companies in Australia amounted to $239m, $309m and $673m, respectively, for the 3 years 1960-61, 1965-66 and 1970-71. 
No taxation statistics are available that would provide a basis for a reliable estimate of the amount of income tax assessed to foreign-owned companies. Furthermore, the information which I am supplying in answer to parts (1) and (3) of the honourable member's question would not provide the basis for a satisfactory estimate of the tax payable by foreign-owned companies. 
The Commonwealth Statistician advises that company income, as estimated for the purposes of the Australian National Accounts, would be the closest approximation to the total profit, before taxation, of all companies registered in Australia. Estimated company income for 1960-61, 1965-66 and 1970-71 is $ 1,394m, $l,898m and$3,021m, respectively. The estimate, 1970-71, is preliminary and subject to revision. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that on 2nd April 1971 the South, African Minister of Sports confirmed to the 
Press that he had refused the South African Cricket Association permission to include 2 non-white cricketers in the South African cricket team which was to tour Australia later in the year. 
to (8) I have nothing to add to my statement and answers to questions with and without notice on these matters which already appear in Hansard, 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. I have already advised the House to this effect. 
I do not consider it appropriate to disclose the further details about the' internal processes of Government sought by this question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that four Japanese companies intend participating in an alumina project in the north-west of Western Australia along with American and European interests. The consortium has indicated clearly its willingness for Australian interests to participate. On the basis of current plans (he total estimated cost of this venture could be of the order of from $300m to $3 50m of which Japanese investment could be approximately one-third. 
Overseas investment in Australia has played an Important role in the development of our natural resources. Japanese investment in Australia in the development  of  the resources is relatively small in the total  of  overseas investment. 
Japan is aware of and accepts our policy for projects to be carried out in association with Australian equity and management and for some of our natural resources to be processed in Australia, where economically feasible, before export. 
In implementing our policy on overseas investment in Australia no preferential treatment is extended to any investing countries. 
The right honourable member will be aware that the Treasurer tabled in the House on 16 May (972 the Treasury economic paper 'Overseas Investment in Australia'. This paper analyses, from the Australian viewpoint, the principal economic issues raised by overseas investment in Australia and provides a basis for policy discussion. As has been announced, the Government has under review, following tabling of the paper, the policy issues which are raised by overseas investment in Australia in its various forms. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Since 16 February 1971 employees of the Commonwealth and its statutory authorities have made the following official visits to the People's Republic of China: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Industry Development Corporation Act 1970, which lays down guidelines for the operation of the Corporation, is administered by the Minister for Trade and Industry. The Act does not empower the Treasury to lay down guidelines. 
The Public Service Board has advised me as follows: 
At 30th June 1971 the total number of officers employed at inspectorial grade in Commonwealth defence establishments throughout Australia was 841. 
(a) The number employed at each establishment is shown at Attachment 'A'. 
The number employed in each State is shown in Attachment 'B'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no national minimum award wage as such in Australia. However, the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has inserted in Commonwealth awards provision for  a  minimum wage for adult males. The 6 State Capital Cities average minimum weekly wage for adult males under awards made by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is at present $51.10 per week which is equivalent to $2,657.20 per annum. 
To ensure that a taxpayer with 2 dependants earning an income of $2,657.20 per annum is exempt from income tax on that income it would be necessary to exempt from tax taxable incomes up to and including $2,137, i.e., it would be necessary to raise the minimum taxable income to $2,138. It has been assumed that the 2 dependants maintained by the taxpayer are a wife and a child for whom the taxpayer would be entitled to  a  deduction from assessable income of $520 for a full year. 
The cost to revenue in a full year at levels of income estimated for the 1971-72 income year of raising the minimum taxable income to $2,138 is estimated at about $300m. 
In this estimate, allowance has been made for shading-in', i.e., a reduction in tax otherwise payable on taxable incomes somewhat higher than the amount of $2,137. The purpose of 'shading-in' is to ease the transition from complete exemption from tax to liability for tax at normal rates. Under the 'shading-in' arrangement assumed for purposes of the estimate, the tax payable on the excess of the taxable income is limited to 47 per cent, i.e., the approximate rate (after inclusion of additional tax payable under section 8 of the Income Tax Act 1971-72) to which the tax payable on income falling within the 'shading-in' range under the present law is limited. Reduced tax therefore applies to taxpayers with taxable incomes up to the level at which the amount of tax calculated at normal rates equals the amount of tax payable under the 'shading-in' arrangement. This level would be $3,087 if the assumptions made for the purpose of the estimate were realised. 
At present, general rates of tax, when combined with additional tax payable under section 8 of the Income Tax Act 1971-72, exceeding 50c per dollar apply to that part of an individual's taxable income which exceeds $10,000. If the combined rates were limited to 50c per dollar and applied to the parts in excess of $10,000 of taxable incomes estimated for the 1971-72 income year, the resulting full-year loss to income tax revenue would be approximately $75m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has provided the following information. 
Particulars for the years 1954, 1961, 1966 and 1971 are shown in the table below. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Insufficient information is available to say whether a 2 per cent levy on cigarettes would produce revenue about equal to the expenditures mentioned in the honourable member's question. 
Duties on cigarettes, like duties on a number of other commodities including beer, potable spirits and motor spirit are levied by the Commonwealth for general revenue purposes. The revenue derived from these and other taxes is, under Section 81 of the Constitution, paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund where it is used to meet the overall financial commitments of the Commonwealth. 
To hypothecate, for particular uses, the revenue raised from a 2 per cent levy on cigarettes would cut across the principle that the need for particular expenditures should be determined having regard to the priorities applying to competing expenditure demands rather than the revenue yield of a particular tax. 
Committee on Aboriginal Land Rights  (Question No. 5727) 
The anwer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 6 May 1971 1 announced the appointment of a Ministerial Committee to review the Government's policies relating to the Aboriginal people and their aspirations and indicated which Ministers would be participating in the work of the Committee. I would not propose to go into the detail of which Ministers were co-opted at relevant stages or of the changes in the core committee which may have occurred from time to time. 
On 26th January 1972 I issued a statement entitled 'Australian Aborigines- Commonwealth Policy, and Achievement' which, inter alia, outlined the new decisions the Government had taken as a result of the first stage of the work of the Ministerial Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. This Statement was tabled in the House of Representatives on 23rd February 1972. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of the Interior has advised that an average of approximately 60 per cent of compulsorily transferred Public Servants are housed immediately on arrival in Canberra. This figure relates to the last 5 years as earlier statistics are either not reliable or readily available. 
I have been advised by the Public Service Board that because Government housing is allocated immediately where required, compulsorily transferred Public Servants do not qualify as a group for Regulation 97 allowance. As regards other Public Servants moving to Canberra, while actual figures are not readily available, it can be said that in almost all cases, Government housing is not made available immediately and therefore these officers would be entitled to Regulation 97 allowance pending the allocation of a Government house in the normal manner. 
and (4) The Department of the Interior has advised that an average waiting time for the allocation of a new 3-bedroom house during the last 10 years is about 3 years. It would be reason able to assume that the average waiting time for public servants in receipt of Regulation 97 allowance would be about the same. 
As the longest waiting time for a Government house was 42 months in the .10 year period, it is assumed that the longest time for which public servants were in receipt of Regulation 97 allowance would be the same. 
In relation to the remaining parts of the question the Public Service Board has advised: 
and (7) That records on which to base an answer to these questions are not available. But so far as sums payable under Regulation 97 are concerned Hansard, 27th August 1968, page 609 gives a figure of some $400,000 for the financial year 1966-67. Figures for 1968-69, 1969-70, 1970- 71 are in round figures $519,000, $637,000, $903,000 respectively. So far as the numbers of public servants receiving allowances are concerned a survey made in June 1971 produced a figure of 946 as at 30th June 1971. 
Payments under Regulation 97 are made only to the officer involved. (8), (9), (10) and (11) Regulation 97 payments are made on the basis of an upper rental limit which is fixed by the Public Service Board from time to time after a survey of the market of suitable available houses. Each officer contributes according to a scale based on what he might reasonably have been expected to pay if a suitable unfurnished house were available. The amount of contribution is greater for officers on higher salaries than for officers on lower salaries. The detailed procedures to be followed by Departments are set out in instructions issued by the Public Service Board. 
Payment of a rental subsidy has never been restricted to officers occupying premises which have been fair rented following application under the Landlord and Tenant Ordinance. An officer choosing to rent premises above the rental limit set by the Public Service Board must normally bear the excess rental whether or not the premises are fair rented. The intention is to give an officer freedom to select premises which best meet his needs within the framework of an upper limit which is known to him. 
For a period which concluded in 1965 an officer in Canberra renting furnished premises which had been fair rented had applied to him a slightly higher upper rental limit for allowance assessment purposes. This arrangement was discontinued in 1965. 
There are no records or estimates available to allow a clear conclusion to be drawn on this point. It appears, however, that there was an increase of some 10 per cent in average Regulation 97 rental subsidy payments in Canberra between 1968 and 1971. A spot check in 1968 showed an average subsidy of SI 5.91 per week (see answer to Question No. 252, Hansard, 10th September 1968, page 878) and the Board's survey of June 1971 showed an average subsidy of $17.55 per week. 
Details are not available of the occupations of applicants for fair rents which would show whether there is any relationship between the lower number of applicants referred to by the honourable member and the changed practice introduced in 1965 as referred to above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The request was received on 17th February 1972. No specific sum was requested but it was stated that reports then to hand indicated that damage to government and semi-government assets could exceed $1.5m. 
After full examination of the circumstances, and of detailed information concerning the damage subsequently supplied to the Commonwealth, I have informed the Premier that the Commonwealth has been unable to accept this damage as coming within the ambit of established Commonwealth arrangements for natural disaster assistance to the States. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not the practice to give information which would either confirm or refute allegations of particular activities of the Australian Security, Intelligence Organisation. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member may be referring to a reply I gave to a question put to me during the television programme' This Week' on Channel  7  Melbourne on5th March 1972. The text of my reply, was published at the time. 
The Foreign Minister made a statement to the Parliament on 9th May 1972 on international affairs, and there was an opportunity for debate on that statement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Reserve Bank has provided the following information: 
23rd November 1971. 
A further useful exchange of information and views on economic and financial conditions and prospects. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Budget Estimates of payments to primary and secondary industry in 1971-72, together with the amount of such payments in each year since 1959-60, are shown below: 
The dates of commencement of operation of the schemes under which payments to industry are being made in 1971-72 are as follows: 
This question is predicated on the assumption that the speculations are correct. As soon as the Budget is heard tonight honourable members will be able to make up their minds as to their accuracy or inaccuracy. 
I do not remember making a statement about the matter referred to by the honourable gentleman. I will have a look at the records and I will advise him what the results are. 
It is with very deep regret that I have to inform the House of the death on 7th July of  Sir Owen  Dixon, a former Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia, at the age of 86.  Sir Owen  Dixon was without doubt one of the truly great Australians of his time.  His  reputation as an outstanding jurist was acknowledged both in Australia and overseas, particularly in Britain and the United States.  His  contributions extended far beyond the legal field. 
He was born at Hawthorn in Victoria on 28th April 1886 and was educated at Hawthorn College and at the University of Melbourne where he took degrees in Arts and Law. He was called to the Victorian Bar in 1910 and in 1922, at the age of 36, became a Kings Counsel. Within the next 2 years he was twice to appear in London before the Privy Council, an unusual event for Australian lawyers in those days, and nearly 3 decades before he himself was to be appointed a member of that Council. In 1926 he became Acting Justice of the Supreme Court of Victoria and in 1929 was appointed a Justice of the High Court. He was Chief Justice of the High Court from 1952 until his retirement in 1964. 
When called upon in times of crisis  Sir Owen  Dixon served with equally great distinction in other spheres. In 1940, at the request of the Menzies Government, he undertook the chairmanship of the Central Wool Committee, which had been set up to administer the wartime handling of the wool clip. During the following 2 years he became  Chairman  of the Australian Shipping Control Board, the Marine Risks Insurance Board, the Commonwealth 
Marine Salvage Board and the Allied Consultative Shipping Council in Australia. In 1942 he was appointed by the Curtin Government as Australian Minister to the United States and remained in that important post until he resumed his seat on the Bench in 1944. In 1950 he was appointed by the United Nations as mediator in the dispute between India and Pakistan over Kashmir.  His  tireless efforts to bring an end to that unhappy conflict were not to succeed but it was widely recognised that he had done as much as any man could possibly have done in those most difficult circumstances. 
In 1963 he was awarded the Order of Merit by  Her  Majesty the Queen - a rare distinction and one bestowed only on the personal initiative of the Sovereign. He also was a Knight Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George. He held honorary law doctorates from Oxford and Harvard. It is, nonetheless, as an outstanding man of the law that  Sir Owen  Dixon will be remembered.  His  immense scholarship, his qualities of mind and his unfailing personal dignity set him out among his fellows wherever he moved. He commanded respect in every field of human endeavour to which his talents were called and he was held in deep affection by all who knew him. Australia has indeed lost a great man. This country is richer for the life of Owen Dixon. We salute his memory and we send our deepest sympathy to his family. 
It is also with regret that I have to inform the House of the death . on 27th June 1972 of the Honourable Arthur Blakeley.  Mr Blakeley  represented the electorate of Darling in New South Wales for the Australian Labor Party froth 1917 until his defeat at the general election in 1934. From 1929 until the beginning of 1932 he was Minister for Home Affairs in the .Scullin Government. In 1928 and 1929 he was  Deputy  Leader of the Labor Party in the House of Representatives.  Mr Blakeley  was born in Gilberton in South Australia in 1886 and was educated at the North Broken Hill convent school. He held several important posts in the Australian Workers Union and was its General  President  from 1919 to 1923. Following his defeat in the 1934 election he took an appointment as a Commonwealth arbitration inspector, and for the last 10 years before his retirement in 1952 was a Commonwealth conciliation commissioner. We extend our sympathy to his family in their loss. 
I wish to inform the House that the Minister for National Development,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, has informed me that in view of his impending retirement at the end of this Parliament he wishes to relinquish his position as Leader of the House. I have accepted  Sir Reginald's  decision with very great regret. He has carried out these most onerous and responsible duties with distinction and has been an outstanding Leader. I have appointed as the new Leader of the House the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp.  However, I have asked  Sir Reginald,  and he has agreed, to make himself available to the Minister for Customs and Excise, and to myself and the Government, in a consultative capacity in relation to matters of House proceedings. 
On the contrary, I have the full text of what has been said by the Prime Minister of Singapore. He said that he accepts - and rightly accepts - the constitutional position of the Australian Government. He went on to say that if the Australian Labor Party did become the Government, it would have a sovereign right to withdraw troops from Singapore. That is the context in which the statement of the Prime Minister of Singapore has to be accepted. I remind the honourable gentleman of our policy, which is welcomed by the governments of Malaysia and Singapore. They welcome our troops there and they have not expressed any intention of withdrawing them. We too, if I can state our position very clearly, are anxious and willing to retain our troops there while they are wanted. As the honourable gentleman would know from the statements I made while I was overseas, in the communique between Tun Razak, the Malaysian Prime Minister, and myself and in statements made while I was in Singapore, our Air Force is welcomed in one place and elements of our fighting Services in another. 
I also point out to the House that not only must it be recognised that if the Labor Party has its way we would have no capacity to bring a degree of confidence to these countries and to give them an ability to expand their operations in order to have greater development programmes, but it is my belief that if the statement made by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition were accepted we would have very little capacity to defend ourselves. 
Already the Commonwealth has made investigations into the alleged operations in Australia of subversive organisations from overseas, particularly as to whether certain kinds of operations were carried out by the Mafia or by similar types of organisations. Crown Law officers and the Attorney-General also have been investigating allegations that people formerly resident in Australia were involved in subversive operations in another country. I can assure the honourable member that Crown Law officers and the Attorney-General on behalf of the Government, are investigating each of these matters in great detail. The AttorneyGeneral has made a public statement, I believe within the course of the last 3 or 4 days. 
I go along with the honourable gentleman when he suggests that not only should we be looking at the activities of the types of subversive organisations I have mentioned which engage in threats, intimidation and other kinds of atrocities but that also we should be interested in those which by force and by other forms of objectionable practice are determined to overthrow democracy in this country. I will refer this matter to the Attorney-General and ensure that he inquires fully into the problem raised by the honourable gentleman. 
I did not know it was to come on today in this sense. Coming back to the question, the Government has again given consideration to the problem of holding an inquiry into poverty in Australia and we have agreed that such an inquiry will be instituted. Already the Minister for Social Services has prepared draft terms of reference which will be further considered by the Government, and when that has been done we will decide on the person or persons who will carry out the inquiry. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to replies to earlier questions in this House, the Hansard references to which he has already drawn attention. 
It has been more or less a constant problem, since 1 have been Prime Minister, to answer questions relating to whether or not the Public Service Board has been the leader in salary fixation throughout the Commonwealth. From all the inquiries I have been able to make and the answers I have received, I have come to the conclusion that the Commonwealth does not lead but is well in the centre of salary fixation throughout the Commonwealth. During the course of the last one or two days I have noticed an article in the 'Australian Financial Review' stating that the Commonwealth is the leader in the salary fixation race. The article is based upon a false assumption and the argument is fallacious. Only today I received a report from the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board pointing out where the errors lie, and I will either approach the Public Service Board or, if that is not appropriate, see that my Press officer provides the necessary information to the editor of the Australian Financial Review'. I will also make a copy of the information available to the honourable gentleman. 
Again, as I believe the Leader of the Opposition did yesterday, he has misrepresented what I said on a radio interview. I did not refer to the words terms and conditions of employment'. In fact 1 said 'industrial disputes'. So he has based his question on a completely wrong premise. I am still making inquiries, and as yet I cannot find a reference in the question that he asked yesterday relating to a different matter. The second point that I wish to make is that if he looks carefully at what I said he will find that I said that this was a problem that had to be solved on a Commonwealth-State relationship basis, because I believed that there were some powers that could be exercised by the States more effectively than they could be exercised by the Commonwealth but that the States had to be given the effective power in order to do so. So I believe that first of all this matter should be examined, and I hope it will be examined. Certainly we will make all the efforts we can to see that it is examined at the constitutional convention to be held early next year. The next point I would like to make is that I do not believe that it is a common sense or sensible proposition that at a time when you are having an election and when the whole attention of the community should be directed to election issues you should attempt to confuse those issues by introducing such a matter as constitutional reform. 
I have no intention whatsoever of making any comment about the Governor of New South Wales other than to say that he is a very distinguished Australian with a very distinguished war record and a man who is highly respected by me. As to the substance of the honourable gentleman's question, I remind him that a statement was made only yesterday by the former Chief of the General Staff of the Australian Army who then pointed out that if national service were abolished, half the Army would go and that about 20,000 Citizen Military Forces personnel would also have to be taken out of the Army. He went on to point out that 4,000 officers and non-commissioned officers would be found to be redundant and would, therefore, have to be discharged, with all the difficulties that that would create not only for them but also for their families. This is not the Government's policy. This is the Opposition's policy and it would mean, as I said yesterday, the destruction of the effective fighting capability of the Australian armed forces. I believe that national service is essential in the interests of maintaining the Army at a strength of 40,000, or even a little greater than 40,000, so that we can not only fulfil any potential international obligations but also play our part in the defence of this country if, unfortunately, we are ever called upon to do so. I contrast that statement with the statement made recently by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Labor's policy is diametrically opposed to ours, because obviously the Australian Labor Party's policy would destroy the Army and its effective fighting capability. 
When drawing up the Budget, particular attention was paid, certainly by me, to the report by Professor Henderson and others relating to poverty in Victoria generally and in Melbourne in particular. I carefully examined very nearly every part of that report in order to ensure that when we were looking at the Budget we did not leave any of the matters out of consideration. My colleague the Minister for Social Services has drawn up a table showing the poverty line, brought up to date, as suggested by the Henderson Committee, and also the way in which that can be compared with the action taken by the Government during the course of the last 16 or 17 months and the action taken in the Budget announced last night. I think the House will be delighted when it hears the report that is to be made by my colleague the Minister for Social Services. To give just one example, if we lake the case of a widow with 3 children we will see that for them the Henderson poverty line - I emphasise that it is the Henderson line and not one which I am stating would be mine - is $44. The House will see that in this Budget we have taken action to ensure that the amount that will be granted to a widow with 3 children will certainly be above that line, to the extent of probably $2 or $3. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I reply to that explanation? 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has not said that I agreed to a public inquiry on this matter. I have made as many searches as 1 can, and my Department is still searching, to find out whether I said that there would be a public inquiry and as yet we have not been able to find such a statement. But I did say yesterday in answer to a question - perhaps J did not say it. I believe that my colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  did. Yes, he did. He said that there would be a public inquiry associated with the means test and that national superannuation would be encompassed within that inquiry. I stand by what I said, which I believe up until this moment is accurate. 
The Public Service Board has advised me that the numbers employed under the authority of the Public Service 
Act (excluding those in the Departments of the Parliament) in receipt of a salary equal to or in excess of $9,500 or on a salary range with a maximum equal to or in excess of that figure are as follows: 
at 20th November 1968: 862 
at 8th December 1971: 7,267 
A precise figure at 23rd May 1972 is not readily available. However, as the number of staff categories receiving a salary equal to or in excess of $9,500 has not been affected appreciably by salary increases granted since 8th December 1971, the figure would not have changed significantly since that date. 
On 21st March last the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  asked me, without notice, a question concerning foreign investment and investment by insurance companies in office buildings in central business districts. 1 undertook to obtain further information for the honourable member. I am informed that there is no published data on the activities of insurance companies and overseas investors in the field of office construction. The information that is available, however, does not indicate that there is an excess of activity in the overall field of nonresidential building. Consequently, the Government sees no need to take action to reduce the amount of non-residential building. 
The Public Service Board has provided the following answer:  (1), (2) and (3) The schedule at Attachment 'A' updates the information provided in the answer to question No. 1642. 
and (5) As advised previously, information on those parts of the questions related to State public services and local government bodies is not available. The number of qualified social workers employed by Commonwealth departments at 31st May 1972 is shown in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The amount of $167m is being provided as unmatched capital grants for government primary and secondary schools. 
The Commonwealth will provide to independent schools per capita grants for recurrent expenses equal to 20 per cent of the assessed Australia wide cost of educating a child in government primary and secondary schools; it has invited each State to match this assistance from the resources available to it. 
The full amount. See (1) above. 
No. The revenues of State governments, including the general revenue assistance provided by the Commonwealth have increased substantially in recent years and are expected to continue to increase in the future. 
On 31st May the hon ourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  asked me a question without notice in several parts about monetary and credit control. I answered some parts of the question, but said I would treat that part of the question which asked what action the Government proposed in respect of the inflow of overseas funds and Australian exchange reserve levels as being on the notice paper. 
Australia's holdings of international reserves are at a very high level by past standards. While the Government does not believe that the level can properly be described as 'dangerously high', we are not complacent about the situation. 
The rapid build-up in reserves over the past few years has been importantly due to the high rate of capital inflow, although more recently the substantial reduction in the deficit on current account has been the predominant factor. 
The Government has been concerned for some time at certain aspects of the high rates of capital inflow over the past 18 months and the degree of overseas participation in the economy, and the Treasury recently undertook a comprehensive study of the economic effects of overseas investment in Australia. 
As the honourable member will know, the results of this study were published in the form of a Treasury Economic Paper which was tabled in Parliament by the Treasurer on 16th May 1972. The policy issues raised by the high level of capital inflow are under examination. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My predecessor's reply to Question No. 542 (Hansard, pages 3086-3087) indicated that there were approximately 4,700 local employees in Commonwealth Departments in Papua New Guinea. 
My reply to Question No. 2375 (Hansard, pages 2018-2019) made it clear that not all of the some 4,700 local employees were eligible for permanent appointment to the Papua New Guinea Public Service. When I answered Question No. 2375 it was estimated that approximately 1,600 of the 4,700 local staff were employed in Commonwealth Departments on conditions generally similar to those of the Papua New Guinea Public Service staff employed under the Public Service (Papua New Guinea) Ordinance, and that less than half those 1,600 persons would meet the requirements for permanent appointment to the Papua New Guinea Public Service. 
In response to the honourable member's further question, I have been advised by the Minister for External Territories and by the Commonwealth Public Service Board that - 
(i) Since 1st July 1971 a total of 896 local staff employed by Commonwealth Departments in Papua New Guinea have been appointed as permanent officers  of  the Papua New Guinea Public Service. Under arrangements made between the Papua New Guinea Public Service Board and the Commonwealth Public Service Board the services of these officers have continued to be made available to the Commonwealth Departments concerned. 
An additional 50 local staff employed by Commonwealth Departments are currently completing pre-appointment formalities and are expected to be appointed shortly as permanent officers of the Papua New Guinea Public Service. 
As permanent local officers  of  the Papua New Guinea Public Service they have the normal tenure, career opportunities and retirement benefits applic  able  in that Service and these rights continue while their services are made available to the Commonwealth Service. 
In relation to career opportunities, it is mentioned that 54 of the 896 local staff who were permanently appointed have subsequently, moved from Commonwealth Departments to Departments of the Papua New Guinea Public Service. 
Local employees of Commonwealth Departments who are not eligible for permanent appointment have continued to be employed by the Commonwealth under the provisions of the Commonwealth Public Service Board's determination of 31st January 1968. Many of these employees are employed in day labour categories and it is proposed that a Day Labour Determination, which is intended to cover all such Administration local employees, will be extended to Commonwealth employees in the same categories. The Papua New Guinea Public Service Board is working towards the issue of such a Determination. 
A co-ordinated programme of training for local staff which is directed at accelerating the pace of localisation and involves close consultation between the Papua New Guinea Public Service Board and Commonwealth Departments has been established. Under the programme places are made available for local staff of Commonwealth Departments on in-service training courses arranged by the Papua New Guinea Public Service Board. Commonwealth Departments also sponsor local officers for cadetships offered by the Papua New Guinea Public Service Board and these are now arranged under an integrated procedure which has as its primary objective the allocation of cadets to employment areas to meet priority needs. Commonwealth Departments are continuing to arrange in-service training courses and on the job training to meet their particular needs. 
Details of local staff of Commonwealth Departments who are currently undergoing training and those who have completed training courses since June 1971 are shown in the following table: 
I think it is well known - I certainly saw it reported over 10 days ago - that I did pay a courtesy visit to  Sir Robert  Menzies in his home. 
I think that if the honourable member had been there he would have been delighted to listen to  Sir Robert  because he has lost none of his old form and is one of the best conversationalists that I or my wife have ever talked to. I think I can assure the honourable member that  Sir Robert  talked to her just as much as he did to me, not about my problems. 
The honourable member would want to gossip about everyone's problems. He is a somewhat different person from  Sir Robert  Menzies. This will always be so. 
As to the substance of what was published in today's paper, [ can assure the right honourable member that it is totally false. I did not go to seek any advice from  Sir Robert  Menzies but I had a most interesting conversation with him. 
 I can assure the honourable gentleman that if he paid  Sir Robert  Menzies a visit he would find that he was just the same pleasant conversationalist. He was in a very good mood; he had lost none of his punch; and I enjoyed myself immensely. 
I have had discussions with my colleague, the Minister for Defence, on the DFRB report and he has made certain recommendations to me. In a large part, the recommendations made by the Jess Committee have been accepted but there are parts of the report in relation to which it is believed that further discussions should take place probably at Cabinet level or a Cabinet sub-committee level. I will be further discussing this matter with my colleague, the Minister for Defence, today and I hope to be able to give the honourable gentleman a much fuller reply within the course of the next few days. 
Some days ago  Mr MacLachlan,  who I believe had made arrangements to purchase the property, did contact me and say that he was prepared to permit the property to be sold to Mie Commonwealth at cost. Immediately this matter was placed in the hands of the Crown law authorities and an officer of the Department of the Interior. It is my understanding that until this morning negotiations had not been completed but that they are at a delicate stage. Consequently I am not in a position to make any further statement about this matter. I can assure the honourable gentleman that officials are conducting these negotiations and that when they have given me a report I in my turn will make a full report to the House. 
I did make the additional inquiry and found that it would have been extremely difficult for the Commonwealth Statistician to give the required certificate unless other business of a very urgent nature were delayed. That is the answer to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question. As to the first part of the question and its relationship to the other questions that he and other honourable members have asked in the House, I will find out from the Minister for the Interior and let him know. 
I did make the statement that the honourable gentleman has attributed to me. As to the second part of his question, the honourable gentleman will have to direct that to the PostmasterGeneral and get an answer from him. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to inform the House that the Minister for Health and the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, is ill and is not expected to resume duty before 11th September. During his absence, the Minister for Immigration,  Dr Forbes,  will act as the Minister for Health. 
The answer to the first question asked by the honourable gentleman is yes, the report has been completed. The answer to the second question is that we in the Commonwealth have considered it to the first stage and I, on behalf of the Government, now state that we are prepared to have it published. The publication of the report therefore depends upon whether or not the States agree and, if they do agree, on what conditions. But in the hope that there will be a favourable reply I have already given an instruction that the report be printed. I believe that the printing will take a considerable time, certainly extending over some weeks. 
Most of us know of the humorous type of conduct embarked upon in this House by the honourable member for Grayndler and the frequent ridiculous kinds of assumptions that he makes when he asks questions. I can assure him that the assumption upon which he has asked his question is just as ridiculous as most of those he asks and that will be shown when we hold the next election. As to the last part of his question, as soon as I think it is appropriate and proper to make an announcement, I will do so in this House. 
I believe that the 2 problems mentioned by the honourable gentleman are different and each of them requires a different remedy. In the first place, I do not believe that the recent oil strike had very much to do with prospecting for further oil resources in Australia. In fact, it was due to the maintenance men belonging to the metal industries going on strike to achieve increased wages. Nonetheless, I will have a look at the problem of increased incentives for oil exploration. I will ensure that this matter is taken up by my colleague, the Minister for National Development, who will let the honourable member have an answer. 
The honourable gentleman is obviously under some misapprehension - even a complete misapprehension - as to the intentions of the Government. I said on a television interview on Sunday night that the Government did not believe in political interference with either the staffing or the programming of the Australian Broadcasting Commission which, I believe, should be in exactly the same position, with respect to its independence, as the universities should be with respect to theirs. I went on to say, and I believe this is of critical importance, that if they have these very great privileges they should also have some very great responsibilities. Those responsibilities are to ensure that no one group should be permitted consistently to present its idealogical ideas, that no one group should have a monopoly of presentation of its ideas, that there should be a balanced presentation of views, and in particular, that we should know from the Australian Broadcasting Commission what is the devolution of authority from the General Manager down to the other echelons of control of the ABC. These are totally different matters. As to comment and criticism, I do not believe that the ABC should be regarded as a sacred cow and should therefore be completely immune from any kind of comment or criticism. That was the kind of question that  I  answered. I believe I expressed the feeling of all on this side of the House. 
 Of this I am certain: Increasingly it becomes obvious that many members of the Opposition are left wing socialists. Some of them are obviously closely associated with public disorder and are publicly associated with deriding this Parliament and, therefore, deriding the very instrument by which the policies of democracy are carried into effect. 
The honourable member is not accurate in the quotation. What I did say was that I would ask the Treasury to prepare a document on the history of prices-incomes policies in various countries and would show how those policies had failed, and that this could be the basis of sensible and informed discussion in this House. Honourable members must know that the Treasury has been under tremendous pressure. It has been faced with so many matters of a novel and important kind - such matters as the Budget - that it has not been able to complete a paper relating to the history of prices- incomes policies. I have on various occasions asked the permanent head of my Depart ment to contact the Treasury. I know that the Treasury is doing its best to have a paper prepared, and as soon as that paper is prepared it will be presented by me or by the Treasurer for debate in this House. 
In answer to the last part of the question, I certainly will not reprimand the honourable member because I regard him as one of the most valuable and intelligent members we have in the whole of the House. 
So far, at least until the last few days, the whole of the recommendations or pressures coming to me have been foi an inquiry into poverty and already the Government has approved of the terms of reference for a poverty inquiry. We have also decided that that poverty inquiry will be undertaken by one man. We have one man in mind but as yet we have not been able to make contact with him because he happens to be out of Australia. My colleague, the Minister for Social Services, is doing all he can, not only by telephone but I believe too by telex, to contact him. We have been informed that he will be back in Australia by, 1 believe, Sunday or Monday. As soon as he is back the full terms of the poverty inquiry, which is what the churches asked me to carry out, will be announced and the name of the person will be announced at the same time. 
As to the second part of the question, I have not taken this matter to the Cabinet but 1 do emphasise the point that poverty is the critical matter which I have been asked to inquire into and 1 have taken the responsibility of stating in this House that the inquiry will take place as soon as possible. 
There has been a great deal of speculation and many statements about whether there should be an immediate election. In my view, the Treasurer in the Budget presented on the Tuesday before last introduced the most wide ranging and humanitarian series of policy changes relating to social welfare for the removal of poverty, assistance in nursing homes and similar matters that I can remember for many years. I believe that my recollection would be shared by most other sensible members of this Parliament. In a case like this where a promise in fact has been made I express my unqualified opinion that promises of this kind must be put on the statute book before any date for an election is announced and that those who are entitled to the benefits that the Treasurer mentioned should receive the benefits as soon as is practicable and is possible. That is my view and it is one to which I will adhere. Of course I have given very careful consideration to the date of the election. However, as the  Deputy  Prime Minister said, this is my decision and I will announce that decision at a fit and proper time and I will do so in this House. As to the general aspect of the question, I can say that I watched with great pleasure the  Deputy  Prime Minister on television last night. I share his enthusiasm that when we have the election the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party will go into it with confidence, and I believe that we will have the support of the majority of the Australian people. 
One of the most beneficial reforms introduced by the Treasurer in his Budget was that relating to nursing home attention and home nursing attention, together with assistance that can be given by various organisations. I personally regard this as one of the reforms that deserve a great deal more publicity because so many people can benefit from it, I believe that it has taken a load off the shoulders of very many people. Not so long ago we agreed that there should be an increase of $10.50 a week for nursing home attention, and in this Budget we have agreed also that the Government will pay a subsidy of $10.50 a week in some cases - and in Victoria of $22.40 a week - to assist people in nursing homes. We have made changes with regard to ordinary as well as intensive care patients; so much so that now not only can a pensioner himself or herself retain portion of the pension but also there will be no gap when sensible charges are made for nursing home attention. 
We have made provision also for organisations to have their subsidies - in particular, their subsidies for specialised attention - upgraded, and provision has been made for $14 a week to be paid when home attention is given by people who have professional ability and who can provide regular treatment. The Budget goes further than that with regard to people who are not pensioners. I believe that this is so important that I will have discussions with my colleague, the Acting Minister for Health, to see whether a statement can be put down in this House so that the Australian public can know how valuable the policy changes are, who will benefit from them and how they can go about getting the benefits. 
It will be known that at the last Premiers Conference substantial increases in financial assistance were given to the semi-government authorities and that we increased the limit of the amount that local authorities can borrow without reference to the Commonwealth. These were very substantial increases indeed, and it is by this means that we hope to ensure improvement in sewerage and other types of services. I resent the use of the words: could not care a damn'. In fact the very action taken by the Government itself and the kind of action we have continually thought about are designed to ensure that so far as the environment and the quality of life of people in the metropolitan and urban areas- 
I think it is appropriate that I should state a Government view on the problem of revaluation, or devaluation. Last year this matter was considered in depth by the Government. Initially I took the view that there should be a revaluation of 6.32 per cent of the Australian dollar against the United States dollar. I adhered to that view. This was the decision that was made by the Government. 
We took that view for various reasons which I have already announced on television on at least 2 occasions. While I concede that there are reasons why in pure monetary theory there might be some revaluation - that is an appreciation - pure monetary theory does not alone determine what the Government shall do. We also had to take into consideration the position of the primary industries that had to compete with countries with currencies that are devalued. We had to take into consideration the interests of mining companies for which every 1 per cent of appreciation meant a loss of $8m in foreign exchange and earnings. We had to take into consideration the position of manufacturers who had to compete with imports and manufacturers who had to export overseas. We had to ask ourselves the question of what in fact would further revaluation do to confidence in this country at a time when we faced the problem of unemployment. 
Above all. confidence was important to us. I certainly had the very strong opinion, shared by my colleagues, that the proper limit was 6.32 per cent. I believe that the decision we made then was right, and I adhered to that decision. T see no reason why it should be changed today. Tn recent days 1 have had discussions, of course, with my colleague the Treasurer, who has functional control of problems of this kind, and also with the  Deputy  Prime Minister. They share my view that the decision we made then was right and will be adhered to. 
As my colleague the  Deputy  Prime Minister said, the Leader of the Opposition has confirmed his statement that he believes there should be an upward revaluation of the Australian currency. I do not agree with him and neither does the Government. The second point is whether an instant policy decision was made by the Minister for Trade and Industry and  Deputy  Prime Minister yesterday. Obviously the honourable member did not hear me answer the previous question because I have already stated that 1 had had discussions with both the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Treasurer about this problem. Thirdly, as to the matter of tariffs, on this also we have to take a national point of view. Normally while we accept recommendations of the Tariff Board we do not accept those which we believe can do harm and can create unemployment if they are immediately introduced. We take a wider view than the Tariff Board can take. I certainly believe that, in relation to those Tariff Board recommendations which we think could create great problems not only for manufacturing industry but also in respect of unemployment, we as the Government should make the decision. We will do so decisively. We will carefully consider Tariff Board recommendations but we are not bound by them. 
As to the last part of the honourable gentlemen's question I think that by subtle persuasion and by a clear indication of the fact that we do not like certain types of takeover we have been- 
You have not got one to break. 
We have had a considerable amount of success. I mention the proposals by the International Telephone and Telegraphic Corporation to take over Frozen Food Industries Ltd which were dropped when the Government's attitude was made known. I mention the more recent proposals relating to the takeover of Kiwi International Ltd. Shortly after I expressed my view that it was not one that I favoured or the Government favoured that, too, was suspended. I can also refer to the Monier concrete case. There again proposals not for an international takeover but for a domestic takeover were also dropped. 
It has been made clear by my colleague the Treasurer and by the AttorneyGeneral that the problem of monopolies is being investigated and that we will be introducing legislation as and when it can be produced. In that monopolies legislation we will be looking at the problem of takeovers, international and domestic, insofar as they might be against the public interest. As my colleague the Treasurer said in answer to a question one day last week, papers are now in the course of preparation - they have been almost completed - relating to private capital flows from overseas. We hope to have those papers before Cabinet soon. After they have been before Cabinet a statement relating to them will be made in this House. 
I have already obtained the approval of the gentleman whom we wanted to head the commission of inquiry. He has agreed to take the responsibility. He has also agreed to the terms of reference. He has asked that certain other matters be looked into and that he be informed of the answers to certain questions that he has posed. I have not yet been able to prepare a ministerial statement for the House, but I have officers working on it and I hope to be able to make a statement on this matter later in the day. 
I believe that the honourable member should have reserved comment in the last part of his question because he has asked me to establish certain facts for him. I assure him that I will do so, as to both the cost of going to the employment office and of returning home. I will refer these matters to the Minister for Labour and National Service and will obtain an immediate reply for the honourable member. 
I was asked whether I would see  Mr Dowling,  and I was not at that time certain of the substance of the question or the proposal to be put to me. I delayed for some time and when I came round to examining it on the next occasion I was informed that the matter had been resolved. I did not see  Mr Dowling  nor did I hear any more from him. 
The . answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Report of the Commonwealth-State Officials Committee on Decentralisation was forwarded to the Commonwealth and State Governments on 16th June 1972. As I staled in reply to a question without notice by the Leader of the Opposition on 22nd August the Commonwealth is agreeable to the publication of the Report. Publication depends also on agreement by the States and I am consulting them about the matter. On my instructions, the Report is being printed in anticipation of the States' agreement, but 1 am advised that the printing will take some weeks. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The review has not yet been completed. It is being conducted within the Government itself and its benefits are expected to emerge in the longer term. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 am advised that the then Minister for Immigration did not attend, in April 1970, a meeting celebrating the Anniversary of Croation Independence, nor has he ever done so. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The quality of the environment is of course a matter of great concern to me and to the Government. 
However, speaking from an Australian point of view, I disagree with the view taken by Professor Ehrlich. 
I lean towards the view expressed by  Sir Peter  Medawar in his Presidential Address to the British Association 'On "The Effecting of All things Possible " ', when he said that 'The deterioration of the environment produced by technology is a technological problem for which technology has found, is finding and will continue to find solutions.' 
The Commonwealth has taken, and will continue to take, appropriate action within its constitutional responsibilities to protect the environment in ways appropriate to Australian circumstances, e.g. by looking into the desirable level of the Australian population; establishing co-ordination of Commonwealth and State activities in the environmental field; and taking part in international activities such as the recent Stockholm Conference on the Environment. 
As I was expressing a personal view I see no need to quote authorities. However, I am prepared to suggest some suitable reading to the honourable member if this would be helpful to him.* 
*'The Closing Circle: Nature, Man and Technology' by Barry Commoner. 

 Sir Peter Medawar, Presidential Address to the British Association 'On "The Effecting of all Things Possible" '. 
The Doomsday Syndrome' by John Maddox. immigration's Role in Australian Population Policies', an address to the 1972 Metropolitan International Relations Seminar (Association of Apex Clubs) at Picton (New South Wales) by The  Hon.  A. J. Forbes, M.C., M.P., Minister for Immigration on Sunday, 21 May 1972. 
-I am informed that the the answer to the honourable member's question is no. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
The terms of reference and the membership of the inquiry into poverty will be announced as soon as possible. 
-Honourable members will be aware that the death occurred yesterday of  His  Royal Highness Prince William of Gloucester the elder son of the Duke and Duchess of Gloucester. He died when his plane crashed on take-off at the start of an air race at Wolverhampton.  Mr Speaker,  this is the second time in a few months that I have asked the House to express its condolence to  Her  Majesty the Queen following the death of a member of the Royal family. I am sure I speak for every honourable member in this House when I express our sincere sympathy to  Her  Majesty on this occasion. I have sent a message to  Her  Majesty conveying the Government's condolences in her bereavement. I have sent also a message to Their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Gloucester. 
Many Australians will remember the Princes father, His Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester, who occupied with distinction the post of Governor-General from  1945  to  1947.  We recall also that His Royal Highness visited us again in  1965  to represent Her Majesty at the Jubilee of Anzac. So the association of the late Prince's family with Australia has been a close one. Prince William was born in  1941  and spent his early childhood in this country while his father was GovernorGeneral. After his education, which he completed in the United States of America, he served as a diplomat from  1965  to  1970.  During this period he held appointments in Nigeria and Tokyo. In June  1970  he represented Her Majesty the Queen in Tonga when it celebrated its return to the comity of nations. Since his return to Britain in  1970,  Prince William has followed his extensive farming interests.  I  move: 
That an address to  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth II in the following terms be agreed to: 
To the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty: most Gracious Sovereign, we, the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia in Parliament 
Assembled, have received with profound sorrow the news of the death of His Royal Highness, Prince William of Gloucester. On behalf of your people throughout the Commonwealth of Australia we express deep sympathy to Your Majesty, Their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Gloucester, and to other members of the Royal family, in the loss which you have sustained'. 
by leave - I am pleased to announce that Professor R. F. Henderson, Director of the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research in the University of Melbourne, has undertaken to conduct the inquiry into poverty on behalf of the Government. The terms of reference of the inquiry are as follows: 
To investigate - 
The extent of poverty in Australia, including changes in its level; 
The incidence of poverty in Australia upon special categories of persons or localities; 
Factors which cause poverty in Australia; 
The ways in which Commonwealth and State governments, local government bodies and other bodies and persons currently assist the alleviation of poverty in Australia; the extent and effectiveness of existing measures and services; and differences between and within States in the efforts of State government, local government bodies and other bodies and persons to alleviate aspects of poverty in Australia; 
Any desirable changes that would contribute to the reduction of poverty in Australia; and 
Any associated matters relevant to the general objects of the inquiry. 
The Government will ensure that Professor Henderson has the necessary supporting staff and that relevant Commonwealth departments provide him with assistance where practicable. 
Professor Henderson will himself determine the method of inquiry to be adopted, and the time necessary for the work to b finalised. 
Professor Henderson is well known for his work on poverty. Honourable members will be aware that he and the Institute of which he is Director were responsible for People in Poverty: A Melbourne Survey' which has been of great use to all those interested in the dimensions and quality of the problem of poverty in our land. The Government is, I think, fortunate to have obtained his services for this inquiry. 
It will be seen that the terms of reference for the inquiry are very wide, having been drawn so as to enable the inquiry to be as far-reaching as possible in its field, whilst concentrating on the solution of the immediate problem of reducing poverty in Australia. 
I feel confident that the decisions which I have just announced will commend themselves to both sides of the House. I present the following paper: 
Inquiry into poverty - Ministerial Statement, 29th August 1972. 
Motion (by  Mr Chipp)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The Minister for National Development will answer the question. 
While it is unusual to be stating what goes on in the party room of either the Australia Labor Party or of the Government Parties I can assure the Leader of the Opposition that the matter was placed on the business notice paper for a meeting of the joint Government Parties but was withdrawn. I was willing at that time to have it discussed. 
I have seen some articles relating to VIP flights to various parts of Australia. There are, as it were, guidelines laid down for the Minister for Air and, in certain cases, for the GovernorGeneral and for me to approve of flights to various parts of Australia. I can say in relation to one newspaper report of alleged visits to a dentist that there has never been a single occasion when the gentlemen involved has gone to Western Australia on other than primarily official visits, although he did during some visits incidentally visit a dentist. I can say also that the dentist referred to was not his dentist and was not even known to him. I will go a little further - and this will be pleasing to the honourable gentlemen who asked the question - and say that the Government regards Perth and Western Australia as part of Australia anc' consequently within the jurisdiction of the person concerned. 
I believe that most Australians today favour the anthem 'God Save the Queen'. From all the representations that I receive I can say that there are constant requests that that anthem be retained. J also believe that there would be no harm whatsoever in reconsidering the matter, but what I do point out to the honourable member for St George is that, whenever a question comes up affecting the loyalty of this nation and the principles that we regard as of absolutely fundamental importance to the national spirit of Australia, we always find him against them. 
This is, as one would expect from the honourable gentleman, a question containing a very nasty innuendo which he could not support because he has not read the documents involved. Therefore, the honourable gentleman has drawn conclusions from no evidence whatsoever. We are doing all in our power to see that these records are made available as soon as possible. When they are made available the honourable member will find that the Liberal and Country Parties have every right to be proud of the way in which they conducted the administration. That was admitted by leaders of the Labor Party immediately they assumed office. 
 Mr Speaker- 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, this debate concerns the most humanitarian, the most wide-ranging and the most acceptable Budget that the great majority of members of this House can remember. It has been notable, at least so far. for one outstanding reason; that is the utter and total failure of the Opposition to fault it. For nearly 3 weeks members of the Opposition have tried to misrepresent it, have tried to distort it and have failed. This Budget has been accepted nation-wide. Even our regular critics have praised it and said that it was responsible. But in this House the Opposition has officially opposed it, in general terms at least. Well, it is the official Opposition and no doubt Opposition members see it as their duty to oppose even when their hearts are not really in it. There could be no other explanation of the flat and flaccid contribution to this debate by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  a speech which everyone could see was just as much of a damp squib for his own followers as it was universally throughout the whole nation. If ever there was a time when one could point to the Opposition ranks and watch morale collapsing like the air from a pricked balloon, that was it. 
This is a Budget for every man, every woman and every child in this nation. It is a Budget of action, of major and decisive commitments to the Australian people. It is a Budget of incentives and of confidence. But it is also a document of humanitarian hope and compassion. It lifts the social welfare horizons of our nation and it clearly shows a path ahead under a Liberal and Country Party Government. It is a Budget designed to help all sections of our society, to restore full employment and to quickly stimulate growth in our national economy. 
May I first speak about national economic growth. This Budget will both directly and indirectly stimulate spending, strengthen employment and speed up economic growth. It will provide direct stimulus in the area where it is most needed - that is in private consumption demand. In money terms, the domestic deficit of $60m in this Budget will represent a turnaround of almost $450m on the actual outcome of last year's Budget and this will ensure that the strengthening trend already apparent in the economy will be improved. This is the basis on which the consumer and the businessman can plan and spend with confidence. 
Some critics say that unless the Budget is 'defused' by the middle of next year there will be a major bout of demand inflation and that savage counter-measures will be needed. There is no evidence whatsoever to support this view. That is not opinion but fact. Inflation was very much in our minds as we planned this Budget and iwe will continue to keep it there. To understand the Budget we must distinguish between the various causes of inflation and we must at present distinguish between inflation and the level of consumer and other types of demand. We have attacked the causes of inflation, particularly the current phenomenon of excess wage increases. We have done so by our intervention wherever practicable before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. But, as I have said, inflation and the level of demand at the present time are separate and severable problems. It is, as the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said, central to our objectives that consumption demand needed to be stimulated by a boost to private sector spending and not by excessive growth of Government spending. For this reason we decided to reduce the burden of taxation by $565m in a full year. 
We also have made great concessions in the social welfare field. This year social welfare payments will add an extra $377m to demand. I believe this is a dramatic contribution towards achieving our goals of stimulating growth, of ensuring full employment and of contributing to our vitally important social objectives. 
I think that having set the Budget in its economic context it is fair to have a look at what the Opposition has said. For this reason we must look once again to the contribution made by the Leader of the Opposition in what should have been the keynote speech, both in answering and providing an alternative to the Government's strategy as set out in the Budget documents. Instead of a considered reply, instead of an alternative strategy, instead of a choice between 2 parties, we find absolutely nothing. We find the Leader of the Opposition's speech devoid of economic content, without hardly a mention of economic priorities. It was a speech full of bland and irrelevant slogans and generalisations. He gave us plenty of broad brush and unspecified proposals. But we waited in vain for even the slightest hint of serious economic analysis or practical alternative action to what is proposed in the Budget itself. 
It is worth recalling that his 2 great criticisms of the Budget - what he termed his 2 fundamental propositions - were, first, that the Budget narrowed the role of the national government and secondly that it narrowed the real meaning of being an Australian citizen in 1972. I submit that a very great many Australians, certainly a majority of them, will find it very hard to accept that the great increase in our contribution to Aboriginal advancement in the Budget narrows the real meaning of being an Australian citizen. Is it narrowing the role of this Government to revolutionise arrangements for nursing home care, or care in their own homes, for the aged? Are the very substantial increases in pensions of all kinds demeaning to other Australians? Is it narrowing the real meaning of being an Australian citizen to ease the disincentive of personal income taxation? Does it demean us to increase foreign aid? Is it narrow to extend the help and financial strength of the national Government to Australian children in Australian schools? There is only one answer to such questions - unbelievable and absolute nonsense. 
This must have been surely the most ineffectual and soon forgotten Budget speech by a Leader of the Opposition for many, many years. But let me outline to honourable members for a moment what else we are offered on the other side. The Opposition has talked with abandon about national goals, but it has never told us what they are. So let me tell honourable members. In foreign affairs members of the Opposition talk about independence when they mean isolation. They would abandon our role in the Asian and the Pacific region and destroy our security treaties. They talk of co-operation when they mean control - government control of just about every aspect of our lives. They talk of a vast new structure of centralised authority which would dominate the whole life of the nation and which would certainly involve unknown but vastly increased taxation for all. They threaten to make fundamental changes in Australia's tariff machinery. They say they would set up some kind of protection commission with powers exceeding those of the present Tariff Board and impose a degree of direction on resources and people going far beyond anything we have had in Australia since World War II. They speak with two or more voices on our rate of exchange. It is clear from all that has been said that the Leader of the Opposition would now revalue the Australian currency. This would inevitably, under present circumstances, seriously prejudice our primary, manufacturing and mining industries. It would slow down business, create unemployment and seriously destroy confidence. All of these are the consequences of their expressed intentions and the results that would flow from them. I speak of them in this Budget debate because they represent a planned gigantic exercise in economic and social dictatorship. 
The national goals of the LiberalCountry Party Government are, I believe, clear and uncomplicated. We seek one Australian society, free, secure and progressive. We seek an environment where man and nature can live in harmony. We seek to use our resources to our best advantage and our greater prosperity. We seek equality of opportunity of jobs for everyone able and willing to work. We seek to secure the dignity of man by our social welfare policies which provide for all those in need. We seek a responsible place in the international community, giving aid to the needy countries. We seek these in this society, where the rule of law is honoured, where the individual and his liberty are first in our consideration and where the incentive genius of man has unfettered opportunity in a climate of free enterprise and healthy competition. These are our goals and I submit that they are reflected throughout this Budget. 
Now may I turn to some of the main points that merit emphasis. I believe that this Budget is one of the most significant and humanitarian for many years. It reaches out into many fields and is based on concepts which will carry out well into the future and will provide the answer to our immediate short term problems. The Budget is the result, I believe, of superb team work within the whole Ministry and is a credit to the Treasurer personally. 
I want to refer to social welfare and then to taxation. We have made the historic decision to abolish the means test within 3 years. The Leader of the Opposition, as honourable members know, has with indecent haste, decided to do the same.  His  shadow Minister resisted strongly, but was peremptorily overruled. This Government's initiative is, I assure the nation, a major social advance and will, I believe, meet with the widespread approval of the Australian people. It will enable citizens to receive their age pensions as a right without having to disclose personal and private information. It will be a hedge against inflation for those on fixed incomes and on superannuation. It will give all citizens the right to share in the national wealth which they have helped to create by their own work and the taxes they have paid. The new provisions that we have made for age and invalid pensions will put most above the poverty line as defined by Professor Henderson. 
In addition I draw the attention of the House to the provisions in the Budget relating to child care centres, to nursing home benefits, for more hostel accommodation for elderly citizens, for young couples building their first homes and for relief from estate duties which have been unchanged for years. Further, the poverty inquiry which I announced on Tuesday will provide us with evidence on which future action can be based to eliminate pockets of poverty. In our Australian society these should be wiped out as quickly as possible. 
The Opposition has challenged our policy on social welfare. Again it is wrong. I reject the statement that pensions have merely been adjusted to where they were before inflation was cut back. In fact, the standard rate has gone up from $15.50 per week to $20 a week for single pensioners, an increase of 29 per cent in 18 months. In that same period prices have risen 9 per cent. We have doubled supplementary assistance to $4 a week for pensioners paying rent and extended it to married pensioner couples. We have more than doubled the level of minimum taxable income - that is from $417 a year to $1,041 a year. 
I now turn to the taxation reductions. Earlier I spoke of the extent of the tax cuts. Let me refer briefly now to the reasons for those cuts. They are designed to do 2 things. Firstly, they are an act of social justice. They recognise the changes in money values which have taken place in recent years. Secondly, they will stimulate consumer spending. As I have already pointed out, slackness in consumer spending has been one of the major causes of subdued economic activity and the stubborn unemployment figures. An extra $434m of the taxpayers own earnings will be left in their pockets in 1972-73 and, as I have said, $565m in a full year. This will allow them to greatly increase their spending. 
The Opposition on the other hand betrays its class-conscious outlook on this issue as on many others. It says this is a rich man's budget - that he gets the best deal in the tax cuts. This again is absolutely false. The Labor Party has never been able to shake off the mentality of the great depression. A depression long past and never to return under a Liberal-Country Party government. The simple fact is the greatest tax cuts go to those on the lower incomes. I remind honourable members that 57 per cent of the reduction in taxation will go to those with taxable incomes under $4,800 a year; 75 per cent will go to those with taxable incomes under $6,400; and 83 per cent will go to those with taxable incomes under $8,000 a year. In short, those whose need is the greatest, will receive the greatest assistance. 
I repeat that the $3 77m increase in social service benefits will also soon be reflected in increased consumer spending. In short, in economic terms the Budget is aimed at areas where it will do the most good in the shortest possible time. The tax cuts are a beginning, not an end of taxation reform. I remind the House that the Government has initiated a wide-ranging inquiry into the whole taxation system. This independent inquiry will provide the information on which a fundamental resstructuring of our taxation system can take place. 
There are, of course, other matters of national significance in this historic Budget. It provides for a substantial increase in the defence vote, to match our declared policy of ever-increasing self-reliance, and a sustained capacity to meet our international obligations. It provides for greatly increased spending on education - another area where Labor would impose class distinctions by downgrading the place and rights of independent schools in the education system. And it provides larger grants to the States to enable them to increase their own expenditure on education, health and all those services within their authority. In short, this Budget is a prospectus. It is a prospectus for a national company with growth prospects and the capacity to pay a healthy dividend for its shareholders, the people of Australia. 
Labor has complained that the Budget is a reversal of the policy of a year ago. This clearly shows that Labor suffers, as it has long suffered, hardening of the arteries and is obviously unable to move with and match the times in which we live. This as a contrast is a Budget for the times and for the future. I conclude on this note: We in the Liberal and Country Parties want a happy and prosperous country. The people have a right to happiness and we will do all we can to create the social and the economic conditions conducive to the realisation of this dream. We look to the future with confidence, and I believe the people of Australia will share that confidence with us, too. 
 Mr Speaker,  the outrage by terrorists at the Olympic Games in Munich is still very much in our minds. 
Pursuant to section 22 of the Public Service Act 1922-1972,I present the annual report of the Public Service Board for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
I ask for leave to make a statement about the 35-hour week. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A recommendation to The Queen for Aus tralian regulations governing the acceptance and wearing of foreign awards has not been made either by me or by my predecessor. 
No. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to inform the House that the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr N.  H. Bowen, left Australia yesterday to attend the meeting of the South Pacific Forum in Suva. He is expected to return to Australia on 15th September. During his absence, the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  is Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs and represents the AttorneyGeneral in this House. 
I also regret to say that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has not yet recovered from his illness and will be absent for a further period.  Dr Forbes  will continue to act as Minister for Health. 
The answer to both questions is no. As to the first part of the question asked by the honourable gentleman, I can see nothing improper about it; in fact, I think it is wise that it should be done. As to the second part of the question, I will have a talk with my colleague about it. 
As to the last part of the question, it is unbelievable that any man could come to such a conclusion as the honourable member has come to. If the honourable member wishes I can make arrangements for him to go to Channel 9 where he not only could see a replay of the programme but also could have someone explain it to him. 
 The reply to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth and the Western Australian Governments have agreed to have a survey made of the feasibility of introducing a joint electoral roll system for Western Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has advised me that it is at present considering a number of aspects relating to the furlough provisions, including the question of the basic qualifying period of service for furlough entitlements. The Board's examination is nearing completion. 
I shall treat this question as being on the notice paper and get a reply for the honourable gentleman. 
The answer to the 2 questions asked by the honourable gentlemen is yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
International Conferences held in Australia between 1st July 1970 and 30th June 1972 which have received support from the Commonwealth Government are listed in the table hereunder. The list has been compiled from information provided by the relevant Ministers. 
As previously, the table includes conferences which might broadly be described as 'intergovernmental' and 'non-governmental' (i.e. sponsored by private organisations). The inter-governmental conferences, which for the purposes of this answer include conferences of an official nature such as those associated with United Nations bodies and the Inter-Parliamentary Union, are marked by an asterisk. Conferences and working groups relating to inter-Service co-operation - e.g. pursuant to the American, British, Canadian and Australian Armies Standardisation Agreement - have not been included. For these, the Departments concerned have continuing secretariats as part of their normal functions. 
The table includes the cost of support by the Commonwealth. With regard to non-governmental conferences, where support in addition to a financial contribution has been provided, the form of support is shown. With regard to intergovernmental conferences the host facilities appropriate to the conference have been provided. These facilities vary from conference to conference and may include such items as conference accommodation, departmental administrative services, including secretarial services, transport and entertainment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The preliminary figures made available in December 1971 were not sufficient for the Chief Electoral Officer to act on for the purposes of the Representation Act. Firm figures are expected to be available by the end of this month. This is in line with the time factors that operated in the case of the previous 2 censuses. The provision of firm figures at an earlier date would have required the Statistician to undertake a special programme of work by giving priority to processing the information required for population totals in isolation from all other census information. The undertaking of such a programme would have caused considerable disruption to census processing with consequent delays in the production and issue of detailed statistics from the Census, and would have added appreciably to census costs. 
I also refer the honourable gentleman to a Press statement issued by my colleague the Minister for the Interior on 24th July 1972. 1 have arranged for a copy of the statement to be sent to him today. 
If the honourable gentlemen wants me to answer the question, I will refer the matter to my colleague and get him to give an answer in writing to the honourable gentlemen. 
 Mr Speaker,  1 seek leave to make a short statement on export incentives. 
The House will know that this matter is within the jurisdiction of the Public Service Board, and consequently I was under compulsion to refer it to the Board. I have been in touch with the Board on at least 2 occasions since the reference was made in an attempt to get a quick decision from it. Until 10 minutes ago I had had no reply, but I will ensure that the Secretary of my Department contacts the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board today to see whether the matter can be quickly resolved. As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, I agree with him that the position of the private secretaries needs urgent consideration. I think it should be considered on the basis that these men not only work long hours effectively but also give complete loyalty to those for whom they are working. I hope that these facts will be taken into consideration by the Public Service Board. 
It must be obvious that no person in this House could yet have considered the Voumard report or its implications because, as I understand it, the report was released yesterday and is a very voluminous document. No copy has been sent to us. 
The honourable gentleman did not ask that question. If he will let me complete my answer I think he will receive the kind of answer he wants. Please let me finish the answer in my way. The honourable gentleman can then ask a second question if he wishes. It was a little premature of the Leader of the Opposition to expect thai any detailed consideration could have been given to that report by either the Commonwealth or, for that matter, the State Government. I will attempt to obtain a copy and see that it is submitted to close scrutiny quickly. As to another of the 3 complex questions that the honourable gentleman asked, I am a great believer in ensuring that the local government authorities are represented at the constitutional convention and I believe they will be represented. Whether they will have a vote is another matter, but the Liberal-Country Party Government is per sisting with its request that they be present and we will expect them to be able to express their views as fully as they wish. 
As to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, up to the moment we are concerned only with the problem of the preliminary conference that is to be held soon. We have not put substantive requests or substantive recommendations to that Committee, nor have we put to it recommendations dealing with the constitutional reforms that were suggested by the all-party committee. Nonetheless, that part of the honourable gentleman's question makes a lot of sense and I can assure him that, when we make our recommendations at least, we will very carefully consider the recommendations of that committee, and those parts with which we agree we will refer to the constitutional convention. 
I wish to inform the House that the Treasurer,  Mr Snedden,  left Australia on Sunday, 17th September to have discussions with officials of the Organisation for 
Economic Co-operation and Development in Paris, and to attend the meeting of Commonwealth Finance Ministers in London, and the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank in Washington. He is expected to return to Australia on 5th October. During his absence 1 will act as Treasurer. 
When I answered  a  previous question I inadvertently used the word 'unemployment'. I should have said that full employment is a cardinal principle of Liberal and Country Party policy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the years 1970, 1971 and 1972, 10 awards were made to Australian citizens on the recommendation of the United Kingdom Government. 
None of the recipients was a public servant. 
From 3rd August 1969 to 3rd August 1972, 154 awards were made to Australian citizens by foreign Governments. Two of these awards were to public servants. 
Internees on Transport Ship 'Dunera'  Mr Howson  - On 12th September the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  asked me, without notice, when it was likely that the Government will be able to release the report of an inquiry which followed charges of irregularities and illtreatment to the internees by some of the personnel of the transport ship Dunera'. 
I have now been informed that the records relating to the 'Dunera' held in the Commonwealth Archives Office do not contain the report of any such inquiry; however, they do suggest that such an inquiry was undertaken by the British authorities. 1 have also been informed that the records relating to the 'Dunera' held in the Commonwealth Archives Office are being cleared for public access and should be available within the next 2 weeks. The records available for access will not, of course, include the list of passengers for the reasons which I gave on 12th September. 
In answer to the honourable member's question I have been provided with the following schedule listing the official overseas visits commenced by Ministers between 1st November 1971 and 31st August 1972. Private overseas visits made by Ministers at their own expense have not been included: 
I want to confirm what the Minister for Labour and National Service has just said. The simple fact is that the unemployment figures have fallen. They fell by 2,375 last month. Statements that appear in newspapers, such as one metropolitan paper in Victoria, that the number of jobless rose by 7 per cent are in fact wrong. I think it is high time something was said about these seasonal figures. They are calculated so that the Commonwealth Statistician can try to help technical experts, Treasury officials and others to forecast trends. Our Budget was deliberately designed to have an impact upon unemployment, and its effect will be increasingly felt as the days go by. 
The honourable member for Adelaide might like to know the unemployment rates in the 3 Liberal States. The unemployment rate is 1.61 per cent in New South Wales, about 1.63 per cent in Victoria and 1.15 per cent in Queensland; and in South Australia it is 2.49 per cent. Only yesterday I received a letter or a telegram from  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia. I will be giving this close attention today. It is probably in the hands of the Treasury by now. But what I want to say to the honourable gentleman is this: I have said before that I regard unemployment as a cardinal principle for the Liberal and Country parties. We do not play politics with this issue. We regard it as more humanitarian than economic or political. We will do all in our power lo ensure that people get jobs and we will keep the unemployment rate to the lowest possible level. 
Later: 
I have not seen the letter to which the honourable member refers, but I remind him that normally a letter of this kind would come through the Premier of Western Australia and not direct from a semi-government or local government authority. 
Well, I have not seen it. The honourable member has asked a question and he is getting the answer. 1 will see that the letter is sent to me today and I will ask for the Treasury report to be sent at the same time. 
Through the courtesy of the New South Wales police 1 have been in constant contact with them since Saturday when they sent a representative of their detective branch to my home in order to inform me of the facts. On the same day I inspected the sites where the outrages took place and visited the hospitals where the 2 men who were severely injured had operations performed. I also went to St Vincent's Hospital. Since then 1 have been kept in frequent contact - more than daily - with members of the police force who have let me know the course of their investigations. A high powered group of police who are expert in these matters has been appointed in order to investigate the crimes and to attempt to bring to trial those responsible for them. What is uppermost in my mind al the moment is that we must do nothing whatsoever that would in any way impede the action of the New South Wales Police Force or prevent it in any way from carrying out its investigations in the most effective and satisfactory way. Only yesterday the Premier of New South Wales said that he hoped for early favourable developments of the inquiries taking place. So the matter is under investigation by the members of the New South Wales Police Force and they are receiving the closest support and cooperation from the Commonwealth Police. I cannot express a hope or expectation, but as this matter will probably involve criminal prosecution and possibly therefore criminal sentences I do not want to go any further at this time. 
I can say to the House that for some time now my colleague the AttorneyGeneral has had under very close consideration the problem of political violence and terrorism in Australia. I have instructed him to prepare a paper on this and to bring it to the Cabinet as soon as he can. I can express to the House the opinion that I certainly am not opposed to a royal commission to consider these 2 types of offences. 
This is hardly a question relating to administration but a blatant political exercise. 
Opposition members  -  Oh! 
Perhaps I put it  a  little mildly. I should have said it was blatant and politically crude. As to the substance of the honourable gentleman's statement as it is, I will obtain for him figures relating to increases in grants that have been made for public works and housing for semi-government and local government authorities. I will also obtain for him figures showing the extent to which we decided at the last Premiers Conference to increase the amount up to which local government authorities could borrow without recourse to the Commonwealth itself. I think that when the honourable gentleman sees those figures he will realise that there have been very substantial increases in every kind of government, semigovernment and local government expenditure, or at least approvals for them, and that in each case loans have at least mct the standard of approval set at meetings of the Prime Minister and Premiers. As I said, this is a political question but nevertheless it will be a pleasure for me to show how wrong the honourable gentleman is in what he said in his question and how much the Liberal Party and the Country Party live up to their promises. 
I agree that this type of outrage is heinous and that the police in Australia, assisted by government agencies, should do all in their power to see that those who perpetrate the crimes are brought into the criminal courts. But as to making a general statement about every single case without knowing the individual facts, I think that is a somewhat foolish approach to take. As to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, I will discuss the matter with the Attorney-General and if I think it is necessary, I will let the honourable gentleman have a reply. 
I leave aside any criticism of the honourable gentleman for getting mixed up in 2 completely different sets of facts. I am delighted with the price of wool. Frankly, I hope - and I am expressing a personal view - that it goes still higher and stays there. 
I have said that I cannot see the connection between the 2 parts of the honourable members question. However, this side of the House in particular believes in realism; that is, we like to ensure that whenever there is an increase in average earnings in the community at least that increase can be supported by productivity and that it does not lead immediately to a vast increase in inflationary pressures and an increase in the consumer price index. 
If the honourable gentleman had any knowledge at all about economic and financial principles he would be playing his part to ensure that we keep inflation at a minimum, that we keep employment at a very high level - at a full employment level - and that we do our best to ensure that we have a constant increase in real wages rather than the mythology that occurs when we get increases in wages but not an increase in effective take home pay. 
I think I am as fully informed as anyone about what the current position is. I can state it because the ideas of the Minister for Primary Industry, myself and the Treasurer are identical. What we are interested in is to provide lone term finance for the rural industries. I stated that in the House on Thursday of last week. I have read through most of the papers that have been associated with this problem and I discussed it with the Treas urer before I answered the question that was asked of me last week. 
This is a difficult problem. However, the difficulty will not stop us from ensuring that we do devise a method by which long term finance is assured to the rural industries and we hope to be able to achieve those purposes as quickly as practicable. 
 by leave -  Mr Speaker,  I make this statement on urban and regional development in Australia with particular reference to the Commonwealth Government's role in this matter of great national importance. 
In recent years, the concentration of our population and our industries in and around our principal cities has created problems of congestion and contributed to pollution. Unless these problems are tackled with vigour and imagination, our efforts to secure a better quality of life for Australians will be compromised and the consequences will be such that our growth and progress as a nation will be impeded. Our population has now reached 13 million. In 1971, about 60 per cent of the Australian population lived in the 6 State capitals. Approximately 40 per cent lived in Sydney and Melbourne alone. Overall, in the 5 years to 1971, the population of the metropolitan areas increased by an amount equal to 75 per cent of the increase in Australia's population in the same period. As things stand, thereis no evidence to suggest that this trend will change unless new initiatives are taken 
It is against this background that the Commonwealth Government has decided that it will take immediate steps, financially and in other ways, in a co-ordinated programme with State governments directed towards fostering a better balance of population distribution and regional development in Australia. I have written to the State Premiers informing them of this and seeking their co-operation. Funds will be made available for the remainder of this financial year to provide for the initial operations of a new Commonwealth authority concerned with urban and regional development to which I will refer in detail later. 
The planning and development of our major population centres in the States is, of course, the direct responsibility of the State governments, but the totality of the associated urban and regional problems and challenges is clearly national in character. Commonwealth initiatives in this field must be carried out in full consultation and in partnership with the States. Our early discussions with the States will have as their first objective the fullest understanding of the nature of the problems to be overcome, and establishing how best the combined resources of the Commonwealth and State governments can be marshalled to tackle them in the interests of the natron as a whole. 
We believe that the most effective means of achieving our objectives will be found in concentrating our efforts in a limited number of centres rather than by spreading them thinly over many projects each having only a limited impact. We propose, therefore, to give Commonwealth backing to 2 separate concepts: The development of regional growth centres, and the promotion of sub-metropolitan centres around the existing cities. There is undoubted scope for the expansion of most Australian cities provided this is done by means of balanced development rather than by the spread of residential or 'dormitory' suburbs that add to traffic congestion and strain on the existing facilities in the city and inner urban areas where commerce and industry offering employment are largely concentrated. 
It will be our aim to identify and foster the balanced growth of sub-metropolitan centres that offer potential for development. Decentralisation offers further opportunities of relieving concentration in existing cities. The report by a committee of Commonwealth and State officials on decentralisation has concluded that the only type of decentralisation which offers significant prospects of success is selective decentralisation. The Commonwealth endorses this view and favours the concentrated development of a small number of carefully selected centres, having regard to factors likely to be favourable to their growth. We expect that, as we grow in experience and as more resources become available to us, more centres will be selected for accelerated growth. 
The programme for selective decentralisation, under which the Commonwealth will, as an initial step, assist the States with the accelerated development of growth centres, will be separate from, and additional to, present State programmes fostering decentralisation. These State programmes embrace a number of measures designed to bring about a more balanced distribution of people and industry throughout Australia. The Commonwealth in this new initiative has similar objectives. The Commonwealth therefore looks to the States to maintain their expenditures for these purposes, and we hope that their programmes will continue to be developed in the future. Selective decentralisation is not a simple process. Ways and means will need to be devised to attract to the selected locations the employment and industries which will be basic to their establishment and their faster growth. 
In addition, the Commonwealth and State governments could directly assist in the growth and development of new centres since they are both large employers. The Government is anxious that the development of the selected centres will bring maximum benefit to the nation as a whole. For example, it will be necessary to guard against the cost of development of the selected centres being inflated by increases in land values directly attributable to the policy initiatives of the States and the Commonwealth. Land acquisition policies in the selected centres will need to be consistent with that objective. The selection of particular projects or sites for putting into effect the 2 approaches I have outlined is one of the first tasks to which the Commonwealth and the States will need to address themselves in the co-operative approach we envisage. 
For these purposes, we have considered, in broad outline, the scope and nature of the machinery that will be required. We propose the establishment of a ministerial council, consisting of the Prime Minister and Premiers, as the principal body for consultation and co-ordination in the fields of urban and regional development. The Commonwealth's own machinery will provide for the establishment of a statutory organisation to be known as the National Urban and Regional Development Authority. Interim legislation will be introduced into Parliament this session. This Authority will be responsible to me, as Prime Minister. It will be headed by a Commissioner, and my Government proposes to invite  Sir John  Overall, Commissioner of the National Capital Development Commission, to accept the first appointment to this office. 
The Government also has in mind the establishment of an advisory committee, or committees, as necessary, which would include members of various organisation and groups, chosen for their expertise in relevant fields. In deciding upon the steps outlined, the Commonwealth has recognised that practical, effective action to cope with the problems of the cities, and to promote regional development, is a matter for the Commonwealth and the States working together in a truly federal spirit. To achieve the best results for the Australian people as a whole, we must together define the relationships, roles and contributions which will characterise our future co-operation in what we in the Commonwealth believe will be a major step towards further enriching the quality of life in our Australian community. I commend these proposals to the House. I present the following paper: 
Urban and Regional Development - Ministerial Statement, 19 September 1972. 
 Mr Speaker.  I wish to inform the House that the Minister for External Territories,  Mr Peacock,  left Australia yesterday to attend the South Pacific Conference in Apia, Western Samoa. He is expected to return to Australia on 24th September. During his absence the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr N.  H. Bowen, will be Acting Minister for External Territories. 
by leave - I wish to inform the House that it is being announced today from Buckingham Palace that the Queen will open the Sydney Opera House on Saturday, 20th October 1973. The announcement arises from an invitation which as Prime Minister of Australia I was most happy to convey to Her Majesty with the full support and concurrence of the Premier of New South Wales. Her Majesty's visit will be a short one, limited to a brief stay in Canberra and then her visit to Sydney. It will follow the pattern of Royal visits for specific purposes - in this case the opening of the Opera House. The likely dates are arrival on Wednesday, 17th October, and departure on Sunday, 21st October. The opening of the Sydney Opera House will be a great national and international occasion, and it is fitting that Her Majesty will be here to perform the ceremony. I share with the Premier of New South Wales great pleasure that Her Majesty and the Duke of Edinburgh will visit Australia for this purpose.I am sure they will be most warmly welcomed. 
I have now received a telegram from the Premier of Tasmania relating to the matter raised by the honourable gentleman. 
It sounds like one and it will be treated as though it were one. I received the telegram late last night and I immediately referred it to the Treasury for examination and report to me. But I gave the answer, in truth, to a similar type of question which was asked of me yesterday. I said that I would have the matter examined. I can confirm that the examination is taking place. 
Naturally I cannot remember an answer I am said to have given 4 years ago. I will have a look at this matter to see whether the statement contained in the honourable gentleman's question is correct. As to the last part of his question, I will find out the position from the Treasury and the Reserve Bank of Australia and let him know. 
There are procedures, routines and policy relating to the impact of droughts in the various States and the way in which the Commonwealth Government will assist. I will obtain a copy of the actual policy statements and I will forward them to the honourable member. They are much too detailed and complex to be mentioned at question time. As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, within the course of the last few days 
I have received representations and those representations will be considered by the Government. 
As the honourable member well knows, because I directed my answer deliberately to him, this is a CommonwealthState document that is at the moment classified. I have written to the various Premiers asking whether they would approve of the printing and tabling of the document. As the honourable member very well knows, I have already instructed the Government Printer to print the 2 documents, so that the moment I get approval from the State Premiers I will be able to table the document in the House, providing that the Government Printer has had an opportunity or the necessary personnel to print it. It is a very large and long document and I have asked my Department to ensure that everything will be done in order for the document to be tabled at the earliest practical moment, and the honourable member knows it. 
I was waiting until such time as I knew that the New South Wales Police Force had positively recommended to the New South Wales Premier that a reward should be offered and that the New South Wales Government had agreed. I knew of the strong recommendations of the police andI am glad to be able to say that the New South Wales Government has agreed to offer a reward. I will now take up the matter immediately with the Treasury. 
I believe I have heard of the name, but I have not had any papers submitted to me by the Treasury or the Reserve Bank and I personally have not been involved in this transaction in any way. I will obtain the details for the honourable gentleman and let him know. 
The Government has set a growth rate for the Public Service for this current financial year of 3 per cent. 
by leave - I wish to correct a statement I made this morning about a Bermudan corporation, in answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  I said then that I had heard the name of the corporation to which the honourable member referred but I had not had any papers submitted to me on the matter. Certainly I have not had anything submitted to me recently, but on 17th April I did receive a minute from the Treasury informing me that both the 
Treasury and the Reserve Bank of Australia recommended approval of the application submitted by the corporation, and subsequently the application was agreed to. I confirm also that I will write a letter to the honourable gentleman who asked the question setting out most of the details of the matter. 
Sitting suspended from 1.3 to 2.15 p.m. 
Shortly after the Minister for the Environment made  a  statement in this House relating to impact statements, I caused a letter to  be  sent to each of  my  ministerial colleagues, over the signature of the permanent head of my Department, giving instructions that whenever the problem of environment or pollution was involved in any submission to Cabinet there must be interdepartmental consideration and the results of that interdepartmental consideration must be mentioned in the Cabinet submission. Instructions were given that, particularly when there was likely to be an environmental or pollution effect, a statement had to be attached to each one of the Cabinet submissions setting out the nature of the effect. This was to ensure that a statement in fact was issued. I also wrote to each of the Premiers informing them that whenever Commonwealth assistance was given to the States we would expect them to take into consideration the environmental and pollution impact of whatever activities were to be carried out  by  the States. I am rather sorry that the honourable member for Reid has now left the House, because he seemed to be interested in this problem. I will have a short statement on this matter prepared and it will be made available to any bonDurable member who cares to have it. 
The American people can vote for or against  Mr Nader  as they choose and the Australian Labor Party can have htm as a candidate if it wishes, but he certainly would not be acceptable to my Party. I had a talk with  Mr Nader.  I gave him well over an hour of my time and agreed to continue the discussions if he wished to do so. He had no wish to do so. At least I was prepared to proceed to illustrate how little he knew about the Australian Constitution and the method of conducting government in this country. I can give honourable members an example. The honourable member for Robertson mentioned automobiles.  Mr Nader  did not know the difference between the American and Australian methods of verifying whether a vehicle was fit to go on the road. In the United States of America motor vehicles are put on the road without verification. Random checks are subsequently made to see whether the vehicles come up to specifications. In Australia we test them before they are put on the road.  Mr Nader  was not aware of that. 
I have no detailed knowledge of the arrangements made between the then Prime Minister and the States. I, as Prime Minister, have not called such a conference, but I will look into the matter again. 
I have no recollection of such a letter. I will find out from my Department whether I have received a copy of it or whether it has been referred in any way to me. 
I wish to inform the House that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  left Australia on Sunday, 24th September, to lead the Australian delegation to the 27th General Assembly of the United Nations in New York. He is expected to return to Australia on 3rd October 1972. During his absence the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  will be the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
As is not unusual, the assumption on which the honourable gentleman asked his question is totally false. No deal whatsoever has been made between the New Zealand Prime Minister and myself, although I did have 3 discussions with him and I agreed as to the date on which he should hold his election.I made no statement about our date. 
by leave - Last May, the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  tabled in this House a Treasury economic paper entitled 'Overseas Investment in Australia'. In doing so, he identified 3 problems associated with overseas investment. They were the high level of capital inflow and the potential problem that creates for managing the domestic economy; the suggestions of exchange rate speculation to which such inflows give rise, and the possible consequences of that; and, the sheer growth of foreign ownership and control of important elements of our economy. Since May this year, the Government has been conducting a review in depth of our policy towards overseas investment. We were aided in this by the public debate which the Treasury economic paper generated. 
Today I want to announce the Government's decisions to date arising out of that review. Before doing so, however, I wish to make clear the Government's view of the past and future role of overseas capital. Overseas capital has played a vital role in Australia's development. It has added considerably to the resources available for our growth. It has brought with it valuable technological know-how and access to overseas markets; it has created new industries. As a result, Australia is a larger nation, and a more prosperous one. The inflow of capital has been associated with increasing overseas ownership and control of industry in Australia. This has been one cost of the increased growth which has come from welcoming overseas capital. In the past, this has been a cost which, in our judgment, has been outweighed by the benefits. Nonetheless, our policy has been to encourage overseas capital to come insofar as practicable on a joint basis - and in close co-operation with Australian-owned enterprises. But circumstances change and so must policies. 
In the past 2 years, capital inflow has increased dramatically. In 1969-70, net apparent capital inflow was $797m. In 1970-71, it was Si, 4 18m. Last year, it was $l,841m. A very high level of capital inflow seems in prospect again this year. Until 2 years ago, capital inflow, by  3nd  large, was broadly matching our deficit on the current account of the balance of payments. That is, the overseas capital was being used to add to the resources available in the economy. Without it we could not have sustained a large net inflow of goods and services from the rest of the world. That situation has now changed. In 1970-71 net apparent capital inflow exceeded the current account deficit by $598m. In 1971-72, the excess rose to $1 ,443m. Between end-June 1970 and endJune 1972, official reserve assets rose from $l,538m to $3,764m. They now exceed $4, 100m. 
In brief, in the past 2 years, capital inflow has resulted chiefly in a build-up of international reserves rather than an addition to resources actually being used in the economy. The greater part of this recently increased inflow has been in respect of company borrowings. Exchange control approvals of gross borrowings abroad rose from S568m in 1969-70 to $ 1,222m in 1970-71 and to Sl,681m in 1971-72. With the existing unimpeded access to overseas lenders, our ability to use monetary policy effectively has been called into question. The House may recall that the Treasury economic paper said that 'private capital flows have now acquired a practical potential to nullify the effects of monetary policy on internal economic conditions.' To date, this has not happened. But the buildup in liquidity which is proceeding will, if allowed to go unchecked, produce some headaches for the future. 
As a separate but related matter, the Government has also been considering the growth of overseas ownership and control of Australian industry. We need to be sensible about this. We all want to see a bigger Australia. We all want the tangible benefits that access to overseas capital and skills brings us. Yet there is legitimate cause for concern. The right balance between our desire for an Australian Australia and for greater growth and prosperity must be struck. After 20 years of vigorous growth, we are today a relatively wealthy nation. We have less need to depend on overseas capital for our growth today than we did some years ago. We can afford now to trade off, at the margin, some of the benefits of overseas capital for a greater Australian share in our industry and resources. We can do it. too, without frightening off overseas capital. Overseas investors are expecting us to move. In brief, the policies which have served us well in the past now need modifying. 
I turn now to the 4 specific decisions we have taken as a result of our review to date. Three relate to the problem of net capital inflow and the fourth to the problem of overseas control of our industry. I begin with the first of the 4 decisions, that is: 
Exchange Control on Short-Term Borrowings Overseas 
The largest part of net capital inflow is accounted for by borrowings overseas by 
Australian residents, including foreign companies resident in Australia. We have decided to act to reduce the level of short term borrowings. The Reserve Bank will, from tomorrow, refuse exchange control approval for all overseas borrowings which would be repayable, or carry options to repay, in 2 years or less. Loan agreements which have already received exchange control approval will not be affected. 
With a view to rendering the proposed measure effective, the present sterling area exemption, under which, inter alia, borrowings in Australian dollars from sterling area residents are not subject to exchange control approval, will be terminated forthwith. For the sake of administrative simplicity, at any rate in the early stages of the scheme, borrowings totalling less than $100,000 in any one year will be exempt. The appropriateness of this exemption limit will be reviewed from time to time. I come now to the second decision which concerns: 
The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows. 
This is essentially a matter of policy and not one which I would wish to canvass by way of Parliamentary Question. However, I will have the right honourable member's proposal examined. 
I personally have not given consideration to the question whether the impact statements should be made public. Offhand, I believe that they should be. But I have said, and this might be the proper substitute, that attached to every Cabinet document must be a statement relating to the impact of matters concerning pollution and conservation. I took it that impact statements would be issued immediately decisions are announced. I will make certain, if there is any misunderstanding about the matter, that they are in fact issued. 
I stated in the House within the last 2 or 3 weeks that Government officials were negotiating with the owners of the leasehold and the intended buyer,  Mr McLachlan,  so that the Commonwealth would be able to purchase the property. I am pleased to be able to announce that the negotiations have been brought to a very satisfactory conclusion and that the amount being paid for Everard Park is about the amount which the Government contemplated and would have agreed to pay when it first heard that  Mr McLachlan  had an option to purchase. I think it is appropriate that at this time also I should thank those people who have been so helpful to us -  Mr Joseland, Mr Walker  and others- - for the great assistance they have given, and also  Mr McLachlan  for the assistance he has given, so that v/e can purchase this property for the Aboriginal people. 
As to the middle part of the honourable genelman's question, if he would care to have the David Frost interview re-run so that he can hear exactly what I had said, and if he would like to see the other television interviews in which I made similar statements, I would be only too happy to ensure that they are brought to Canberra where he would be able to have a first class look at them. As to the first part of the question, the answer is no. 
I do remember some of the ill-fated projects that were started by the Australian Labor Party. I want to emphasise the difference between the policy of the Liberal-Country Party coalition relating to the savings of people who hold policies in life assurance corporations, and that of the Australian Labor Party. Firstly, we believe that people who have saved money and to whom the money belongs, have voluntarily invested it in life assurance companies and have trusted the boards of those companies to invest those funds satisfactorily in their interests. We will continue to ensure that that policy is followed. Secondly, 1 point out that it has been made clear by the Leader of the Opposition that the Labor Party, if in office, intends to use those funds for Labor Party policy purposes. I do not believe that this is necessary, and it is a policy that we on this side of the House totally repudiate. I believe that it is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution for a government to mobilise these funds and, in fact, take control of them. The Constitution requires that a fair price be paid if somebody's assets are taken over. I can assure the honourable gentleman that I will have a look at the Life Insurance Act in order to make certain of the powers of a government in this respect. Whilst I do not for one moment think that we will have the opportunity to amend the Act prior to the date on which the Parliament will rise, I will nonetheless consider what statement can be made to make clear the complete difference which exists between the predatory intention of the Labor Party and our intention to keep a voluntary system whereby the assets of the people will be properly administered by those corporations to which they have entrusted their funds. 
As to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, it may well be - I cannot confirm it - that the information relating to 40 per cent of water is accurate. The Tonkin Government in Western Australia has already put certain proposals to me or to my colleague, the Minister for National Development, relating to other uses of the water from the Ord scheme. I will obtain details of them for the honourable gentleman and let him have them. As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question relating to the series of assurance and insurance Bills that have been considered by the Government, I doubt very much whether we will be able to pass them into law by the time the House rises. But at least we will have done this: On each occasion the papers will be on the table of the House for mature consideration. If any person feels that he can make some sensible contribution towards a better provision it will be considered by the Government in a very sensitive and proper way. 
I made it clear that the negotiations with regard to Everard Park were deliberately put into the hands of officials of government departments and were left there. I see no reason in the world why these papers should be tabled. If the honourable member has any suspicions, he is under an obligation and a duty to me to let me know what they are. If he feels there are suspicions, I will do my best to try to remove them from his brain. 
A very detailed statement has been made b- my colleague,  Senator Wright,  in another chamber. I will obtain the facts relating to this particular part of the transaction from the Department of Foreign Affairs and I will let the honourable member know about it. 
The last part of the honourable gentleman's question exposes my feelings completely, which are that we will do all in our capacity to ensure that these magnificent parts of the Sydney Harbour foreshores are made available for ne convenience of the people of Sydney and of the rest of Australia. I can inform the honourable member that within recent weeks we have completed arrangements relating to a handing over under certain conditions of about 550 acres to the New South Wales Government in order to permit the ideals he mentioned being fulfilled. There are some technical details to be completed associated with whether or not this land will be freehold or leasehold. I hope to be able to complete these details soon. But that does not detract from the fact that the land will become available to the Australian people for their use and enjoyment. 
I listened with great pleasure to the statement made yesterday by my colleague, the Acting Minister for Health. I think it is a statement that deserves wide publicity. If the shadow Minister for Health likes, I will take the maximum steps to ensure that it receives that publicity. Above all, at the same time if he wishes it, I will show how completely the honourable member has been disowned by the Australian Medical Association according to this morning's papers. 
The first part of the honourable gentleman's question, which amounts in fact to a statement, is wrong. Whenever we get evidence of taxation avoidance we look at it particularly carefully. As the honourable gentleman will know, we have decided already to take additional action to prevent such evasion of taxation. As to the second and last parts of the honourable gentleman's question, I think he can take it that whenever we see evidence of avoidance or evasion taking place we will very carefully consider it to see that the maximum of taxation is. collected, if it is legally and properly justified. 
I said yesterday that I believed that the substance of the environmental statements should be made available and published. I ended my statement by saying that I had issued instructions through the permanent head of my 
Department that attached to each Cabinet submission was to be a statement which would be publicly available and if necessary tabled. 1 now add that if necessary the statements can be tabled and debated in this House. Naturally enough I will not under any circumstances table either the Cabinet submission or the contents of that Cabinet submission, but yesterday I issued instructions to the permanent head of my Department that a second letter is to be written to all permanent heads of other departments informing them that they should make certain that statements are attached to the Cabinet submissions made to the Government. It is those statements that I will make certain will not only be made public but also, if necessary, can be debated. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has advised that the details requested concerning interest receipts and payments of banks are not available. 
I do not know the details associated with this matter. 1 will have a discussion with the department about it. 
 Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a statement because I have been misrepresented and that misrepresentation has been confirmed by the Leader of the Opposition. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Considerable progress has been made in the investigation of the Commonwealth superannuation scheme and the examination of methods of adjusting superannuation pensions after retirement. It is not expected, however, that it will be possible to introduce legislation concerning these matters into the Parliament during the present Session. 
The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable member's question: 
The latest estimates of personal consumption expenditure on education services are published in 'Australian National Accounts, National Income and Expenditure, 1970-71'. The following table sets out these estimates for the 10 year period up to 1970-71. 
 The answer  to  the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
In its submission to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control the Australian Insurance Association concluded that while the total capital and consequently the degree of ownership cannot be accurately estimated, it would appear that overseas ownership of the industry could be between 50 per cent and 70 per cent'. The Australian Insurance Association made certain recommendations in its submission and I have noted those recommendations. 
No. The proposed non-life insurance legislation ls directed towards ensuring the financial stability of all general insurance companies operating in Australia. The question of overseas ownership and control of Australian industries is being considered separately by the Government. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details of interest receipts of banks are not published. The Commonwealth Banks Act 1959- 1968 provides for one-half of the net profits of the Commonwealth Trading Bank and the Commonwealth Savings Bank to be paid to the Commonwealth, and one-half to be credited to the banks' Reserve Funds. For the year ended 30th June 1972 the net profits of the Commonwealth Trading Bank were $4.60in of which $2. 30m was paid to the Commonwealth, while the net profits of the Commonwealth Savings Bank were $7.5 lm of which $3. 76m was paid to the Commonwealth. 
If the honourable gentleman will read the statement that was made in the Senate by  Senator Wright  he will see the reasons set out and in particular he win be able to read the letter that was written by the permanent head of the Department of Foreign Affairs to the Auditor-General which sets out the facts perfectly. I am rather glad that this question was asked. 
Do not be rude and offensive; try to behave yourself. Might I say this relative to the Department of Foreign Affairs: I admit that there was an irregularity but no more. I believe that the officers of that Department acted honourably and wisely. They were able to purchase 11 aircraft at a cost of $480,000 whereas previously they thought they would be purchasing 5 aircraft for $425,000. The purchase from Jetair was a very, very satisfactory transaction from the Commonwealth's point of view. I regret that an irregularity occurred. It was no more than an irregularity. The Department of Foreign Affairs took very strong action to rebuke the officer involved. As 1 look at the files. 1 think the Department rebuked him too severely. I regard him as an honourable man who operated in the best interests of this country. While I regret that a technical irregularity occurred, I see no impropriety whatsoever, and frankly I think the officer deserves some credit. 
Yes. 
The Australian Government has consistently followed a policy of hostility to China. It has blindly followed United States imperialism and aggression. As far as China is concerned, trade, economics and politics are inseparable. Trade in wheat with the Australian Government can only be continued and further developed if normal political relationships apply between our 2 countries. We regard the political relationship between Australia and China as the fundamental question as regards further wheat sales. Because of Australia's hostility to China it follows that such an attitude cannot but affect our trade policy with the Australian Government. 

 Mr Pai then said, when I asked him to define what those obstacles were, and again in the presence of Australian journalists: 
Firstly, Australia is supporting Chiang Kai-shek and has established diplomatic relations with Taiwan; secondly, Australia has continuously opposed the restoration of China's legitimate seat in the United Nations; thirdly, Australia supports and follows United States aggression in South East Asia; fourthly Australia refuses to recognise the Government of the People's Republic of China as the sole legal government representing all the 
Chinese people, including the people of the Province of Taiwan; and lastly, Australia is collaborating with the United States of America to create  2  Chinas, or one China and one Taiwan and is, therefore, interfering in the internal affairs of  China 
On my return to Australia the first statement I made was that the door to trade with China was open. I said that in regard to wheat I was convinced that this was only a temporary loss for Australia and that as soon as political considerations became more normal Australia would share in imports of wheat to China. We notice that never does the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  refer to China now as 'Red China' or 'Communist China'. Who will forget the occasion in 1966 when he ranted around Australia about the Red arrows coming down from China to invade Australia. This was open hostility to the Chinese Government. Who will forget the occasion in 1967 when the Australian Government handed a note to the Austraiian Wheat Board delegation in Hong Kong to give to the Chinese Government stating that the wheat contract for 1967 could be terminated unless the Chinese Government interfered to stop the Hong Kong riots. Does the  Deputy  Prime Minister deny the truth of that? No, of course he does not, because the Prime Minister himself has admitted in writing that a note was sent by the Australian Government to the Wheat Board to be passed on to China. This was deliberate intervention by the Australian Government, in the affairs of the Wheat Board, and this was bitterly resented by the members of the Wheat Board. To nail this once and for all, I refer to the first statement I made in the Parliament after J returned from China. It was made on 23rd August 1971, and is reported in Hansard. I said: 
As regards the restoration of the wheat trade with China, the facts are that while in China I did everything possible to persuade Chinese authorities to alter their wheat policy as it presently discriminates against the Australian unheal grower and to resume wheat purchases from the Australian Wheat Board. I argued that if China were prepared to trade with Australian private companies like Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd which comprised people or shareholders, China should be prepared to trade also with Australian wheat farmers who are really shareholders of the Australian Wheat Board. 
On the day I left Peking I was informed that consideration would be given to my request to resume the wheat trade with Australia on the grounds that Australian wheat farmers, like the shareholders of an Australian private company, were not responsible for the Australian Government's foreign policies and hostility to China. Contrary to the Deputy Prime Minister's crude attempt to blame me personally for the loss of last month's wheat sale, if the Chinese Government does decide to resume wheat purchases from Australia in the near future it will do so because of the explanations and pleas which we - 
That is, the Australian Labor Party -  made to China's trade policy makers on behalf of the Australian wheat farmers. 
I am not making that statement now; I made it on 23rd August 1971. It was the first statement I made in this Parliament after returning from China on the restoration of the wheat trade with China. It makes clear my attitude in relation to this matter and it highlights the deliberate misrepresentation by the Minister for Trade and Industry. 
by leave - I desire to inform the House that as required by the Representation Act 1905-1964, the Chief Electoral Officer has ascertained the numbers of the people of the Commonwealth and the numbers of the people of the several States consequent upon the taking of the census on 30th June 1971. Copies of the Chief Electoral Officer's certificate specifying the said numbers have been tabled. Pursuant to sections 9 and 10 of the Representation Act the Chief Electoral Officer has determined the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen for the several States. As a result of that determination the representation for Western Australia will be increased by one member as from the first general election held after that State has been redistributed into electoral divisions. Section 25 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act provides: 25(1.) A re-distribution of any State into divisions shall be made in the manner hereinbefore provided whenever directed by the GovernorGeneral by proclamation. (2.) Such proclamation may be made - 
whenever an alteration is made in the number of members of the House of Representatives to be elected for the State; and 
whenever in one-fourth of the divisions of the State the number of the electors differs from a quota ascertained in the manner provided in this part to a greater extent than one-fifth more or one-fifth less: and 
at such other times as the GovernorGeneral thinks fit. 
It will be noted that Western Australia qualifies for a redistribution under the provisions of Section 25 (2.) (a). 
The Chief Electoral Officer has advised the Government that there is not now sufficient time to give effect to a redistribution of any State before the forthcoming House of Representatives elections. Nevertheless, the Government believes that it has an obligation to set in motion the machinery for a redistribution of Western Australia so as to ensure that that State gains its entitlement of an extra member from the beginning of the 29th Parliament. The Government therefore proposes to recommend to the Governor-General the appointment of distribution commissioners for Western Australia. Although there has been some shift of population in the other States, there is no requirement at present for a redistribution in any State other than Western Australia and consideration in respect of those States will be deferred for the time being. 
by leave - I wish to announce that pending the retirement of the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull),  of the Australian Country Party, as the  Deputy  Government Whip, the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  has been elected to that position as from 10th October. This is not the time to be making statements or salutations about my colleague and friend, the honourable member for Mallee, birt perhaps I can be forgiven on this occasion for saying what a remarkable Australian he is, what wonderful service he has given to this country and what a loyal and wonderful friend he is to have. I shall deeply regret the fact that he will be leaving this Parliament and also that he will cease to be the  Deputy  Government Whip. 
by leave - I had previously said that the statement I am about to make would be made by the Reserve Bank, but having read the draft statement and because I think it is of importance to the House I felt that it was preferable that it should be made here. That is why I asked for approval to make this statement. 
Following my announcement on policy changes in respect of overseas investment, I now wish to give details of the new exchange control policy which will apply for the time being to portfolio investment abroad by Australian residents. Persons or companies wishing to invest abroad should apply by letter through their bankers for the necessary Reserve Bank authority. Applications by individuals for amounts up to $10,000 in any period of 12 months in total will normally be readily approved. Institutional investors, public companies and 'he like can normally expect to be permitted to make investments up to Sim in any period of 12 months. Applications for amounts in excess of the amounts mentioned will be considered in special circumstance?. 
Eligible investments will include portfolio investment overseas in stocks and shares and purchase of real estate, but will not include investment in loans or other fixed interest securities. The general arrangements will, of course, be subject to review from time to time. This policy change is the first significant relaxation in the almost complete embargo on portfolio investment overseas which had operated since exchange control measures were introduced in 1939. Policy towards direct investment overseas has, however, been very liberal for a number of years and will continue unchanged. 
I ask that that be withdrawn,  Mr Speaker. 
As is usual, there is a distortion relating to the implications that can be drawn from my statement. I will obtain the exact statement that I made and the honourable gentleman can look at it. If he does read it he will see that everything I said was couched in terms of possibilities. I have discussed this matter with senior representatives of the Department of Foreign Affairs this morning and they see do difficulty in it at all. 
As I am no longer Minister for Foreign Affairs I believe this matter should be left in the hands of the present Minister for Foreign Affairs or, as the problem is being handled in the Senate also, the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Senate. I will ensure that they give answers to the Leader of the Opposition. 
I am informed the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information previously supplied on Commonwealth and State securities on issue, total debt of semi-government authorities and local governments, annual interest liabilities, capital repayments of Commonwealth and State Governments and funds provided for redemption by semigovernment authorities and local governments has been consolidated and brought up to date in the following tables: 
The  answer  to  the  hon  ourable member's question  is as  follows: 
I have been informed that 
The payments which it is estimated the Commonwealth will receive in 1972-73 in respect of hydro-electric and water projects for which it has made loans are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that: 
It is estimated that in 1972-73 the Commonwealth will receive the following amounts, representing repayments of principal and payments of interest, under the Agreements indicated in respect of loans made for railway projects: 
by leave - I wish to inform the House that it is the intention to hold she general election for the House of Representatives on Saturday, 2nd December 1972. It is proposed to recommend to His Excellency the Governor-General that he dissolve the House of Representatives on 2nd November 1972. The date proposed for the issue of the writs is 2nd November 1972 and for the close of nominations 1 0th November 1972. 
I draw the honourable member's attention to the answer given by the Treasurer in the House on 29th August in relation to this matter and to my own statement to the House on the same day. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the statement made by the Minister for the Interior on 26th September 1972 (Hansard, page 1873). 
The obvious way to describe this is that it would be disastrous to the prosperity and development of this country. Anyone who made that statement obviously could not have understood the implications of what he said. A very large percentage of the migrants who come here are nominated by the Commonwealth or the States. These are the people who make  a  great contribution to our development programmes. Such a policy would obviously mean that the big programmes such as the development of the north-west and other similar kinds of activities would be very severely slowed down. About 78,000 of the 98,000 tradesmen who come here would be prevented from coming. Without any doubt it would mean that there would be a very severe curtailment of migration from the United Kingdom, North America and South America and a big reduction in migration from the northern European countries and the southern European countries. Therefore it can be seen very clearly that this policy would affect our development programmes. 
I believe that a reduction in the migration programme would very seriously impair the development of this country if it were done under all circumstances. Circumstances change. As we moved towards overfull employment we would want migrants to come who would be able to help us. We have already started an in depth survey of population, including immigration and emigration, rates of births and deaths and similar matters. For any person to be making a definitive statement until this population survey is completed is, I believe, acting in a foolhardy way. The consequences of the statement would be inimical to the development of this country. 
I did make the statement mentioned by the honourable gentleman and I made a correction about it as soon as I had the opportunity to do so amongst the media that had published it. The position can be stated very clearly and accurately in this way. I have had 4 measures under consideration relating to somewhat similar subjects together with the urban and rural- 
The urban and regional development authority. The measures that I have been looking at are these. First of all the measure relating to restrictive practices; the second relating to monopolies, both domestic and international; and the third one relating to foreign takeovers, which was mentioned in the statement I made in the House. 
I have already mentioned the fourth one, with a little bit of help from the Leader of the Opposition. The first 2 measures that I have mentioned will be placed on the table of the Senate today. They will not be passed into law because we believe that people should be given the opportunity to study them and to make recommendations to the Government should they think that desirable. The very important legislation in relation to urban and regional development has in fact been approved by me. I had the final draft approved on Wednesday and I will be introducing that legislation into the House. It was this Bill to which I should have referred. 
As to the third piece of legislation, which relates to foreign takeovers, I have already agreed to the terms of reference for and the organisation of the Government authority which is to vet and control, as far as practicable, foreign takeovers. It is already working and I believe it has a considerable amount of authority and can work over a pretty wide area. I did receive advice that it would be difficult to introduce a permanent measure covering the whole gamut or range of takeovers. It was because of the advice given to me late on Thursday or Friday evening that I decided that I would make a statement. Yesterday I had further discussions with my colleague the Attorney-General who has assured me - and his advice is the same as my own - that not only would it be wise but he believes there is a reasonable prospect that we will be able to introduce a measure supplementary to the administrative arrangements that are made. I have given instructions that the Parliamentary Counsel, with whom I have already discussed the matter, and other senior officers do all in their power to have a Bill prepared. As soon as that Bill is prepared and is looked at by my colleagues and myself I will make a further statement to the House. 
As I have indicated in answers to parliamentary questions, the Commonwealth and State governments received the report of the CommonwealthState Officials Committee on Decentralisation in June of this year. I also indicated that the Commonwealth was agreeable to the publication of the report and that I was seeking the agreement of the States to this course. All the States have now indicated their agreement to its public release and the printing of the report has now been completed. In undertaking its task the Committee commissioned a number of studies - in some eases involving outside bodies - which are listed as Attachment A of the report. The printing of the studies in a separate volume is proceeding, but because of their size and for technical reasons it will be some time before the printing process is completed. In the meantime, arrangements have been made for copies of the individual studies to be made available in (he Parliamentary Library. 
I should mention that the report is the work of officials of the Commonwealth and the States and it does not therefore necessarily represent the views of the Commonwealth and State governments. The Premier of New South Wales has asked me to point out that the views expressed by the New South Wales' Department of Decentralisation and Development in the supplementary statement to the report should not be taken as necessarily representing the views of the State Government. As far as the Commonwealth is concerned, I said in my ministerial statement of 19th September 1972 on urban and regional development that the 
Government endorses the view of the Committee that the only type of decentralisation which offers significant prospects of success is selective decentralisation. I also said that we propose to establish a ministerial council, consisting of the Prime Minister and Premiers, as the principal body for consultation and co-ordination in the fields of urban and regional development. The Premiers have been advised of the Commonwealth's initiative in this area of urban and regional development. So far as Commonwealth machinery is concerned, we will be introducing interim legislation shortly to establish a statutory organisation to be known as the National Urban and Regional Development Authority. I present the following paper: 
Report of the Commonwealth-State Officials Committee on Decentralisation - Ministerial Statement, 10 October 1972. 
Motion (by  Mr Chipp)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My last visit to the Northern Territory was made during the recent Parliamentary recess. During that visit I opened the Darwin River Dam on 29th June and, after opening the Ord River Dam, visited Gove on 30th June and 1st July, during which time I visited the Yirrkala community, opened a Transitional College at Dhupuma and opened the alumina plant. 
Although I have not maintained detailed records of my visits to the Northern Territory, I have been there on several occasions. Available departmental records show that on 23rd March 1967, when Treasurer, I visited Alice Springs and had discussions with the Administrator. Further, during my tenure of the portfolios of Navy and Air, I visited Darwin from 15th-19th March 1954, when I made tours of inspection of defence installations in the area, including the site for the new 11,000 foot main runway at Darwin Airport and Naval facilities. 
 The honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  asked me a question on 19th September 1972, without notice, concerning a letter to the Treasurer from the  Chairman  of the Perth Metropolitan Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage Board asking for Commonwealth funds to assist the Board in providing sewerage facilities. 
I saidI had not seen any such letter, and reminded him that normally a letter of that kind would come through the Premier and not direct from a semi-government authority. I undertook to obtain the letter, and to ask for a Treasury report to be sent at the same time. 
I have been informed that the  Chairman  of the Perth Water Board did write such a letter, but that it was addressed to the Minister for Supply and the Minister Assisting the Treasurer, who replied to it and who has subsequently answered a fur ther letter from the  Chairman  of the Board. 
Copies of the Chairman's first letter were sent to the Treasurer by some members of this Parliament, including the honourable member for Stirling. They were answered by the Minister Assisting the Treasurer. The Treasurer himself answered a letter from the Minister for Air on the subject. 
The replies made by the Minister Assisting the Treasurer, and by the Treasurer, set out the Commonwealth Government's policy on the matter of Commonwealth assistance to State semi-government and local authorities, which is well known to honourable members. In brief, the Commonwealth's policy on this matter is that these authorities are created and function under State law and their finances are a matter for State Government consideration. In accordance with this attitude the Commonwealth, rather than provide funds specifically for such authorities, provides large amounts of untied assistance to the State Governments which they are free to disburse as they wish. It also, of course, provides assistance to the State Governments, as appropriate, in connection with their Loan Council works and housing programmes. A significant proportion of the latter is made by way of grants. 
The replies also pointed out that Western Australia received a further temporary addition of $3m to its semi-government borrowing programme for 1972-73 (making a total of $9m in all) following submissions to the Loan Council by the Premier concerning unemployment in the Perth area and the suitability of an expansion in the Perth Water Board's works programme to assist in overcoming this. The State will also continue to benefit from permanent additions to its semi-government borrowing programme of $2m and $3 that were approved, again with Commonwealthsupport, in 1970-71 and 1971-72 respectively. 
As I reminded the honourable member for Stirling, it would not be appropriate for the Commonwealth to consider any policy change in relation to such a matter otherwise than as a consequence of an approach made to me as Prime Minister by the Premier of the State concerned. 
Today I will be introducing a Bill relating to urban and regional development. The honourable gentleman then will be able to see the extent to which the Government has authority to take action in respect of the kind of development project mentioned in the Bill and in the statement that I made to the House. As to the 2 specific questions asked by the honourable gentleman, it has been made clear that with respect to State jurisdiction the Commonwealth has no constitutional power to intervene. Nonetheless I will take the matter up with my advisers and if there is anything that I can say to the honourable gentleman as a result, I will do so. 
This question obviously indicates a complete lack of experience by the Leader of the Opposition of the functions of the Minister and of the way in which the administration of the Department is carried out. (Honourable members interjecting) - 
The first part of the honourable gentleman's question is untrue because I did not state this as a positive fact; I stated it as a possibility. The second point I would like to mention is this': I confirm that I did speak to the most senior official in the Department of Foreign Affairs yesterday and again this morning, and he confirmed that there are no difficulties associated with this matter. 
To the best of my knowledge, I have received no communication recently from the Premier of South Australia relating to drought in the Mallee area. There is a well recognised formula and procedure to be followed in matters of this kind. If the Premier feels that it is beyond the capacity of his State to pay in accordance with the formula, then he can invoke the Commonwealth and ask whether assistance can be given. If such a letter is written I will consider the request and ensure that it is answered as quickly as practicable. 
The loan was granted on exactly the same terms as that granted to the State of Victoria 2 or 3 years ago and that granted to New South Wales last year. The honourable gentleman should recognise that his State applies to the Commonwealth Grants Commission which recommends very large grants. These are immediately agreed to by the Commonwealth Government. It ought to be very significant to the honourable gentleman that the States which have a bad record in employment and unemployment are Labor governed States. If the honourable gentleman will control himself in some patience for the' next week, I think he will find that the next unemployment figures will be an enormous disappointment to himself and, particularly, the Leader of the Opposition. 
I will answer this question,  Mr Speaker,  because I have been in control of this matter this morning. 1 realise the great difficulties that have -been caused by the oil strike to people in both northern New South Wales and southern Queensland. This morning the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  contacted .me urgently to see whether the Commonwealth would be able to ensure that the- oil industry case to go before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission was brought on for hearing immediately because of the great difficulties that the present situation was causing te Queensland, particularly to industry within the State. I immediately contacted the relevant officers - 3 officers, in fact - of the Department of Labour and National Service to ensure that they took immediate action to  try  to have this matter brought before the Commission The problem here may well lie not so much with the Commission itself -but with the parties in dispute. I have caused the 'information to be conveyed to  Mr BjelkePetersen  and as soon as question time is over I will again contact him. Officials of the Department of Labour and National Service have assured me that they will do all in their power to ensure that this matter is brought before the Commission at the earliest possible moment and certainly not later than 4 o'clock this afternoon. 
The Leader of the Opposition, as well as the honourable member for St George, tried to create the impression both yesterday and today that I was being specific in what I had said, but the Leader of the Opposition in his subsequent statement this morning has made it abundantly clear that 1 said a situation might arise. Therefore I was not talking about what was actually happening today but about a potential difficulty. Therefore I stated that we could be helpful in problems that might arise in the future. We were not considering an immediate problem that required the immediate attention of the Government. 
Malaysian officials are angry at a statement last night by the Australian Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  that the presence of Australian troops in Singapore could prevent possible trouble between Malaysia and Singapore. 
It will be noticed that I did not quote those words. I quoted the transcript. The article continued: 
Officials said  Mr McMahon's  statement was most irregular' since all 5 nations had emphasised that their joint force could be used only in the event of external aggression. 
A Foreign Ministry spokesman said that immediate clarification had been sought from the Australian High Commission. 
Until this had been obtained there would be no comment on the issue, the spokesman said. There was also reference made today on the radio and in other newspapers with the same purport. 

 Mr McMAHON (Lowe - Prime Minister) - I ask for leave to clarify this matter. 
I contacted the Department of Foreign Affairs this morning and I understand that no further action will be taken about it. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
On 19th September, I made a statement to the House announcing that the Government proposed to take new initiatives to work with the States towards urban and regional development objectives. I said that the Government had decided that it will take immediate steps financially and in other ways in a co-ordinated programme with the State Governments. The introduction of this Bill fulfils the commitment I then gave to introduce interim legislation into Parliament this session. Although the legislation is interim, the new authority set up by the bill will nevertheless be required to operate with vigour and in accord with its charter from the outset. In a vast country which is developing as rapidly as Australia, it is most important that the Government take responsible action which will influence the distribution of population and economic activity to the economic and social advantage of the nation. 
The stresses and strains of growth are having an impact on the living conditions and the environment of the entire Australian community. These pressures which are being felt in many countries, present issues of national moment warranting co-operative action between the Commonwealth and the States. We have the experience of the United Kingdom, France and Canada amongst others to draw on. The Government believes that unless we embark on a vigorous, imaginative and responsible programme of urban and regional development, in partnership with the States, our efforts to secure a better quality of life for the Australian community through a wide variety of existing programmes will be compromised. The consequences of the imbalance caused by the concentration of population and employment around the principal Australian cities with the resulting problems of congestion and pollution are such that action must now be taken. The trend to increasing concentration is already evident to a degree which is causing concern. If no action is taken, the problem will become more acute as our population grows from 13 million to possibly 22 million over the balance of the century. The increasing concentration of population in our great cities will magnify the consequences of increasing population growth. It is the geographical distribution of population and industry rather than total scale which calls for our attention. 
We believe it is widely accepted that these are national problemsrequiring urgent attention, and that the Commonwealth should participate with the States in. solving them. We believe too that a properly conceived and well managed programme of urban and regional development will be approved and welcomed by the community generally. It is clear that the Commonwealth and States must work together. 'It is also clear that there will be a need for additional expenditure and the Commonwealth stands ready to contribute its share. As, importantly, we will shape our own policies and programmes where appropriate so as to ensure that urban and regional implications are fully taken into account. The implementation of a successful national programme of urban and regional development could mark a turning point in the social and economic life of this country. 
Our efforts must be successful. Therefore, they must be properly conceived. The Commonwealth/ State Officials' Committee on Decentralisation which conducted its researches in the Australian context concluded that the only type of decentralisation which offers significant prospects of success is selective decentralisation. As I stated on 19th September, the Commonwealth endorses this conclusion and favours the development of a small number of carefully selected centres, having regard to factors likely to be favourable to their growth, kater on, with the benefit of more experience and the availability of more resources, it can be expected that additional centres will be selected for accelerated growth. We will want to identify and encourage the balanced growth of submetropolitan centres as an alternative to growth in the existing city areas. 
In co-operation with the States, we will look for those sub-metropolitan centres that offer the greatest potential for rapid development. These will be centres near to but distinct from the existing major cities. It is our view that the development of regional growth centres and sub-metropolitan centres - projects capable of being defined, programmed and financed - offers the most direct and beneficial means of immediate Commonwealth involvement. As 1 have emphasised, however, the action to be taken must be taken in consultation and partnership with the States. Our early discussions with the States will have as their first objective the fullest understanding of the nature of the problems to be overcome. We will be seeking to establish how best the combined resources of the Commonwealth and State Governments can be marshalled to tackle these in an economic way and in the interests of the nation as a whole. 
As 1 have said previously, it will be necessary to guard against the cost of development of selected centres being inflated by increases in land values directly attributable to the policy initiatives of the States and the Commonwealth. This bill is the first step towards implementation of a new Commonwealth initiative. It is, however, designed to establish the National Urban and Regional Development Authori on a proper and sound basis and to enable it to commence its work immediately. The nature of any later legislation will, of course, be determined in the light of experience. Nevertheless, the name given to the Authority clearly indicates the Government's longer term interest. We are concerned with national objectives in urban and regional development and we are concerned with development itself. Ours is a practical approach and the concept of a statutory authority and of the title chosen for it reflects our practical aims. 
It is proposed that the Authority be constituted by a Commissioner. I have already announced that with the passage of the legislation, the Government proposes to invite  Sir John  Overall to serve as the first Commissioner and to guide the new organisation in its initial establishment period. The Government is fortunate in having a person as experienced and so able as  Sir John  to call on until his retirement in July next year. The bill also provides for the Commissioner to be assisted by a  Deputy  Commissioner. The appointment of statutory office holders will be effected as soon as possible after the bill is passed. The duties of the Authority are stated in Clause 12. It will be required to investigate and report to the Prime Minister on matters relating to urban or regional development. This investigation and advice would be designed to assist the Government in making decisions having urban and regional implications. It will also be designed to assist the Government in its consideration of the grant of financial assistance to a State in connection with urban or regional development. 
Such matters as the selection of centres for the promotion of rapid growth, tha particular steps by which this might be encouraged, practical arrangements tor rapid development, and financial questions including the scale of Commonwealth support, are relevant to the establishment of a co-ordinated programme. Advice would be available to the Government from the Authority on the terms and conditions on which financial assistance for urban and regional development might be granted by Parliament. The bill provides for the Authority to have power to do all things that are necessary or convenient for the performance of its functions. It may undertake pilot or experimental projects, studies, including feasibility studies. It may enter into consultative engagements with professional groups and Government agencies, and provide information and advice to other authorities. 
Provision is made in the Bill for the Authority to comply with any directions given by the Prime Minister with respect to matters to be investigated by the Authority. This clause will ensure, for example, that decisions reached by the Ministerial Council, consisting of the Prime Minister and the Premiers, to which I referred in my statement in this House on 19th September, are followed through in the operations of the Authority. 
In addition to the normal provision for an annual report, the Authority is required to report to the Prime Minister not later than 30th June 1973 on matters relating to urban and regional development during the 5-year period thereafter. It is not the Government's intention that the Authority should produce by that time a definitive statement on a national urban and regional development strategy. The Government does, however, propose to move in an expenditure sense commencing from the financial year 1973-74. It will be the responsibility of the Authority, therefore, to advise the Government in time for its Budget considerations in 1973 of the broad direction in which Commonwealth activities in urban and regional development might be shaped over the 5-year period. This will not be a final blueprint but rather the first statement of an active programme. The steps involved in its preparation will be discussed by the Ministerial Council. Funds w.ill be made available during this present financial year 1972-73 for the initial operations of the Authority. 
The Bill, of course, contains appropriate provisions relating to officers' rights, staff, audit and finance. The Bill establishes an advisory committee of up to 12 members including the Commissioner. The committee will be comprised of persons who, by virtue of- their knowledge and experience, can assist the Authority in the performance of its duties. This is a formal committee created by the statute with membership appointed by the Prime Minister and designed to ensure the availability of a wide range of advice and response to the Authority. 
At the level of governments, I have already mentioned that 'we propose the establishment of a ministerial council consisting of the Prime Minister and Premiers as the principal body for consultation and co-ordination in the field of urban and regional development. I have already written to the Premiers about the Commonwealth's intentions. .Honourable members have already noted from my remarks that the Authority will be responsible to me as Prime Minister. This central place in the machinery of Government will add strength to the discussions between me and my State colleagues. 
This Bill is amongst the most important legislation introduced into the Federal Parliament during the post-war years. It marks our recognition that there is a direct contribution that the Commonwealth Government can make in national urban and regional development for the benefit of all Australians. Commonwealth assistance for urban and regional development is not new. What is new is Commonwealth participation with the States in a co-ordinated programme of urban and regional development. 
Our objectives - the objectives of the Liberal and Country Parties - will not be achieved easily dr overnight. But it is important to make a start in the prevailing climate of accord about the need for new initiatives and the broad nature of them. We will pursue these objectives vigorously. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  .Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
I think this matter is getting to fanciful proportions. On the Opposition side of the House we find people who are determined to take the Australian forces out of Malaysia and Singapore. On this side of the House there is determination that those forces will remain in that region as long as the governments of Singapore and Malaysia want them to do so. The second point to be made is that we have made it clear to the Malaysian Government that there has been no change whatsoever in the arrangements that were made by my colleague in London relating to the Five Power arrangements. Nor is there any difference whatsoever in the communique issued by myself and Tun Razak relating to the presence of the Australian forces at Butterworth. So this matter is getting to fanciful proportions. There has been no change in our policies. I stand exactly by what I said, and I can now confirm that there has been no statement whatsoever received from the Malaysian Government about the statement I made on television on Monday night. 
I have seen statements in newspapers but I have not received copies of any reports. I did see a reference to a statement made by  Mr Jago,  a very reputable and intelligent member of the New South Wales Government. I expect that soon that Government will be making representations to me but up to the moment I have received none. 
I was informed first thing this morning that the union members had decided to hold a stopwork meeting at 6 o'clock tomorrow morning. If that meeting is held and there is a favourable vote to go back to work,  Mr Macini,  the Commissioner, will stand ready  to  continue the discussions relating to the cause of the problems that brought about the stoppage. I believe that the matter is proceeding satisfactorily and I hope that the men will go back to work soon. 
We seem to have got into a world where more furphies have been created than I have ever known in my parliamentary history. I think I should issue the caution immediately before an election campaign that I have never known so many incorrect and totally wrong statements to have been made in my long parliamentary history. 1 come now to the specific questions asked by the honourable gentleman. He asked 5 questions and the answer to each of them is no. I have laid down no guidelines whatsoever. (Opposition members interjecting)- 
 The matter can be treated in one of 2 ways. We are agreeable to either. The matter will be dealt with in whichever way the Opposition wishes it to be dealt with. If the Opposition wishes it to be dealt with immediately we will agree to that. However, the Opposition might prefer - I think this is the best course that can be followed - to wait until the end of question time. I repeat what I said before. I hope that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  heard me. We will give ample time to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to state his case after question time. 
Yes. 
I am speaking to this motion,  Mr Speaker. 
Yes. I thought I was speaking to the motion, but with the indulgence of the House- 
Opposition members - No. 
Again you are making a ghastly blunder. You are determined to put your foot into it. 
I will communicate with my friend and colleague the Premier of Victoria and ask him to examine the proposal that the honourable member has raised. 
Both the  Deputy  Prime Minister and I have given answers to this question already and I will make sure that those answers are made available to the honourable gentleman. I should make it clear to him that the statutory authority has not yet been established. Until it is established no request can be considered or feasibility studies carried out. 
I will answer the question. I took the initiative- (Opposition members interjecting)- 
This problem as to the disclosure of the ownership of nominee shares has not been raised. 
I will ensure that immediate investigations are made into the matters raised in the question asked by the honourable member and that he gets a written reply. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Premier wrote to me on 11th August 1972 and again on 22nd September 1972 with regard to this matter. The issues raised by the Premier are under consideration and I expect to reply to him in the near future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has advised me that the N.S.W. Public Service Board granted leave with pay to N.S.W. State public servants attending the Congress as delegates. 
The Government has considered similar requests on several occasions., but has been unable to approve of Commonwealth staff being granted leave with pay to attend State Congresses of the League. The view has been taken that absences for this purpose are appropriately covered by deduction from recreation leave or by the grant of leave without pay. A similar approach is taken with absences associated with activities of a great variety of other organisations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that a meeting of Tourist Ministers was held in Sydney on 18th August 1972 and was attended by the  Hon.  D. A. Dunstan, Q.C., M.H.A., Premier, Treasurer and Minister of Development and Mines, South Australia; the  Hon.  T. L. Lewis, M.L.A., Minister for Lands and Tourism, New South Wales; the  Hon.  V. O. Dickie, M.L.C., Minister for State Development and Tourism, Victoria; the  Hon.  J. D. Herbert, M.L.A., Minister for Labour and Tourism, Queensland; the  Hon.  B. K. Miller, M.L.C., Minister for Tourism and Immigration, Tasmania; the  Hon.  J. B. Poe, M.H.A., Ministerial Member for Trade and Industry and Minister for Tourism Papua New Guinea.  Senator the Hon.  R. C. Cotton, Minister for Civil Aviation, also attended at the invitation of the State Tourist Ministers. I understand that there was a meeting of State Ministers for Decentralisation and Development in Melbourne on 17th August 1972. The Commonwealth was not represented at the meeting. 
I am informed that the proceedings of the meeting of Tourist Ministers are confidential. It is therefore not appropriate to provide this information. For information on the meeting of State Ministers for Decentralisation and Development, it is suggested that the honourable member should approach the State Governments. 
The answer to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question is: No, there have been no consultations. Again the honourable gentleman's assumptions have turned out to be wrong. As to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, he asked me about this and I subsequently referred this problem to the Minister for Foreign Affairs who is responsible for it. I asked the Minister this morning before coming into the House whether he was in a position to give a reply to the honourable gentleman. He is not yet in a position to do so but I have asked that the matter be pursued as quickly as possible so that a reply can be given to him. If my memory holds good - I have to rely upon my memory - what I said was that negotiations had been commenced. If the honourable gentleman looks at those words I think he will find the answer to his question. Nonetheless, I will ensure that a reply is given as quickly as can be done. I will look very carefully to see whether the relevant cable, which is classified, can be made available to the honourable gentleman. Provided it is treated as classified and under confidential conditions I am willing to let him see it. 
 I have listened with a lot of attention to what has been said by the 
Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  First of all I would like to outline the circumstances that existed when the aircraft were purchased from Jetair Australia Ltd. It will be remembered that at that time a blatant attack had been made by the North Vietnamese upon the Khmer Republic and we with our colleagues in the United States of America were anxious to be able to give the maximum assistance that we could, consistent with our budgetary and financial positions, to permit the Khmer Republic to resist the North Vietnamese attack and to permit that country to survive. Also at that time we were conscious of the fact - I think this would have been known to all members of the House - that if Cambodia had fallen, the danger to South Vietnam would have become greater and the prospect of survival of South Vietnam would have become increasingly endangered. 
Those were the conditions which existed when the Jetair aircraft were purchased. I would like to add this as one single comment before I continue with the debate: Until a minute was submitted to me by the Permanent Head of the Department of Foreign Affairs 1 had never heard of the company, Jetair Australia Ltd. I did not know what kind of business it carried on. I had no knowledge whatsoever of the Bartons and I had never had any commercial transactions with them. If they had passed me in the street I would not know who they were. As to  Mr John  Bovill, he happens to live, or once lived - I do not know whether he still does - in the same street as I live at present. I have never had any business connections with  Mr John  Bovill. My relationships with him have been social and no more. I have very seldom seen him in the last 3 years, and on the occasions I have seen him I have said no more than: 'Good day. How are you?' I have never had a conversation with him during that period. In other words, my knowledge of Jetair was minimal until the date I received the first minute from my Department. 
The Government will oppose the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
But I will put in its place what we are prepared to do. We are prepared to table all papers held by the Department of Civil Aviation relating in any way to the purchase from Jetair Australia Ltd of aircraft for foreign aid purposes. In relation to papers held by the Auditor-General on the acquisition of aircraft from Jetair Australia Ltd, it may be contrary to the public interest because of legal and other proprieties to table such papers. However, the Government is prepared to offer the papers for inspection by the Leader of the Opposition. In regard to points (c) and (d) of the Leader of the Opposition's motton, so far as the papers relating to the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Supply, which have been tabled, are concerned, certain documents were excluded for reasons of ordinary parliamentary practice, as explained by  Senator Wright  in his statement. These papers were offered for inspection to the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair).  I now offer them for inspection by the Leader of the Opposition. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I ask for leave to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbett)Does the Prime Minister claim to have been misrepresented? 

 Mr McMAHON (Lowe - Prime Minister) - Yes, I have been very seriously misrepresented. Early this afternoon, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  raised the question of a purchase by Jetair Australia Ltd. He said: 
Why, in 1970, did Jetair of Australia Ltd profit by $200,000 by using dummy nominees by the names of Peter Hookway and Stanair Ltd of the U.S.A. to purchase and re-sell 2 surplus VIP Viscount aircraft? Secondly, why did the Government allow this illegal transaction to take place when it had prevented Australians from buying the planes by stipulating that they could not be operated in Australia? 
The honourable member went on to say that DC3 aircraft could not be flown profitably but that Viscount aircraft could be. He said further: 
These aircraft were to be the muscle behind Jetair's application to destroy 'the 2-airline policy. Jetair would have been the third airline. The present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  was to spearhead the attack. 
He later went on to say: 
I urge the Government to have the AuditorGeneral examine this matter and bring a report to this Parliament for next Tuesday because this is where the smell really is, where the Prime Minister's involvement is. 
I had never heard of this transaction until it was raised some time ago in the Senate. There an answer was given by  Senator Cotton  in reply to a question asked by  Senator Bishop.  It answers the question completely.  Senator Cotton  then said: 
I should like to add something.  Senator Bishop  will probably be delighted to learn that his assumption that the Department of Civil Aviation  had allowed the aircraft to which he referred to fly in Australia in the field of civil aviation is incorrect. Those aircraft have been exported from Australia in accordance with the terms of the original tender schedule. I repeat that at no time did they fly in Australia in a private or commercial category. 
It is a pretty serious thing that character assassination of the kind that is occurring immediately before an election should be tolerated. It is a scandalous matter and one which outside this House would be regarded as libellous. I take this immediate opportunity of condemning the statement made and saying that it is absolutely false. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbett)Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
That is a delightful suggestion made by a delightful man. 
It is obvious that the Leader of the Opposition is not hearing as well as he should. I said that special aid was approved of by the Government in April-May 1970. 
by leave - On 12th October last I told the House that there might be legal and other proprieties involved in the question of whether papers held by the AuditorGeneral could be tabled. So far as the Auditor-General personally is concerned, I am informed that he would be glad to make the papers available for inspection by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  so long as there are no legal obstacles under the Audit Act relating to confidentiality of information. The legal position is being examined by the Attorney-General's Department. 
 The  answer to  the  honourable  member's  question is  as follows: 
1 am informed that in December 1908 the Commonwealth appointed a Roy,a! Commission to inquire into and report on the laws relating to and methods of operating fire, life, industrial and other insurance in Australia. The report of the Royal Commission was presented to the GovernorGeneral in 1910. lt is understood that the only Royal Commission on insurance appointed by a State Government was the Royal Commission on Industrial Life Assurance which was appointed in Victoria in 1938. 
I am not aware of any widespread discontent among elderly policy holders. 
I see no justification for the appointment of a Royal Commission to conduct an investigation into the benefits provided under life and non-life insurance. 
As the honourable gentleman would well know, there is a routine and recognised procedure for the analysis of proposals of this kind. It went to the relevant departments, which reported to me, and I immediately then wrote to the Premier of Queensland. The answer to the second question is no. The answer to the third question is that I will give it consideration. 
I think it was on 20th August that the Minister for Defence answered a question on this matter in the House. This morning I was making inquiries to find out whether anything more had to be done, and I was informed that officials of the Department of Defence and the Treasury were considering the matter this afternoon. I will make further inquiries later today, and if the honourable gentleman can have a second question directed to me I will give the answer to the House then. .'.'&gt;. 
I have discussed this matter with my colleague, the Deputy Prime Minister, and we are both anxious that we should do all in our capacity to ensure that action is taken to provide long term finance to Australian rural industries as soon as it is practicable to do so. That is a commitment. The ways and means of achieving that objective or commitment are still under consideration. During the absence of the Treasurer, after some discussion with the Deputy Prime Minister I said that I would take a very great personal interest in this in order to ensure that we could make provision for long term finance. On Friday I saw a representative of the trading banks. I understand that they are meeting today and I hope to be able to get a report from them soon. 
 Mr Speaker,  I think you can take it that all proper administrative procedures were followed. I would like to point out how this happened andI would like to incorporate this document later. It will be seen that on 31st December 1970 I received a minute from the Secretary of the Department of External Affairs. In that minute he said this to me: 
This Department and the Department of Supply have inspected the Jetair fleet and found the aircraft in good to very good condition. 
In paragraph 10 of that report he said: 
The Department of Civil Aviation has been consulted and is in agreement with this Department purchasing the Jetair fleet for aid purposes. Similarly, this proposal has been discussed with the Treasury which, while having some general misgivings on supplying second-hand aircraft as aid, has no objections to the purchase of the Jetair fleet. 
He went on to say: 
Should you approve the above, a draft Press release will be submitted for consideration when purchase details are finalised between the Department of Supply and Jetair. 
I think that sets out fairly clearlythat not only did the Department know the proper procedures but that it advised me about them as well. Subsequently I became a little disturbed when I heard that there was an irregularity within the Department and I gave instructions that the matter would be submitted to  Sir Kenneth  Bailey for his consideration. On 22nd February he sent a minute to me in which he said: 
In the event the Department of Supply has taken the necessary action to make the proceedings regular. I would not think any element now remains either of illegality or of administrative irregularity. This however is a matter on which, if it becomes necessary, the Attorney-General's Department would need to advise. 
I am informed that  Sir Kenneth  did discuss the matter with the AttorneyGeneral's Department. The minute concluded: 
As I understand the position, no legal effect is now attributable to the Department's letter to the Company of 6th January last. It is somewhat confused in expression, but I think may best be regarded as an intimation to the Company that the Department would recommend to the Depart ment of Supply the purchase of the aircraft at the price stated. 
Subsequent to that, the Auditor-General's Office took up the matter with the Department of External Affairs and, after a reply was received from the Secretary of the Department, took no further action. 
It must be abundantly clear, therefore, that all responsible action that could be taken was taken. Initially, there was an irregularity which I hope will never occur again; but it was an irregularity which meant that at least the Commonwealth got a remarkably good deal in the purchase of these aircraft. I point this out so that it can be clearly understood, particularly by the Leader of the Opposition, that if he reads those memoranda he will see that the Department of External Affairs knew the proper procedures and advised me about them; but regrettably there was a breakdown in the administration. I ask that those 2 documents be tabled or, if possible, incorporated in Hansard. 
I have not had this, decision drawn to my attention other than by reading about it in this morning's news-, papers. As honourable members would expect, some of my colleagues descended upon me first thing this morning to see whether I could get an immediate alteration made to the law. I will take this matter up with the Treasurer and let the House know what decision is reached. 
Yes, I am. But I believe that an outline of the figures at least has already been given to the Leader of the Opposition by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The dates of commencement were these: In the case of Nepal, OctoberNovember 1969; in the case of Laos, April 1970; and in the case of Cambodia special aid was approved by the Government between April and May 1970. It can be seen that the commencement dates were different. They did occur some time ago, as early as October-November 1969. But there is a supplementary question to be answered here relating to the cable of 8th January 1971 in which I understand the Leader of the Opposition is interested. We have already agreed that this cable will be made available in confidence to the Leader of the Labor Party in the Senate but my information is that he has not taken advantage of reading that cable. I am now prepared to make it available under similar conditions to the Leader of the. Opposition. If he wants it, I will ensure that an officer of my Department or of the Department of Foreign Affairs lets him look at that cable today. It is classified and consequently I cannot divulge all the information in it but what I can say is that in the cable of 8th, January it was made clear that there had been an offer by the Australian Government to supply DC3 aircraft to Cambodia. Obviously, therefore, that offer must have taken place before 8th January 1971. In the cable of 8th January 1971 the Leader of the Opposition will find the phrase that General Sak Sutsakhan had given full agreement to the proposals. We find, therefore, that if there was any misapprehension as to the dates before and as to whether I had misled the House, those doubts can no longer be held because this cable, which will be seen, by the Leader, of the Opposition if he chooses to see it. will, I think, clear away .any possible doubts whatsoever. 
I do not dispute that at all. I gave the honourable gentleman the statement as to the date the Government approved and I did no more than that. I went on to state that if he looks at the cable that will be given to him, dated 8th January 1971, he will see that the Australian offer was made prior to that date and that the General whose name I have mentioned had given full approval to the proposals. I go no further than that. My statement stands on its own, as the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs stands on its own as well. 
That is a difficult question relating to the procedures before Professor Henderson. I have placed no embargoes at all upon the method by which Professor Henderson should conduct his inquiry. But if it is contemplated that public servants should give evidence I will make inquiries from my Department or from the Attorney-General's Department to ascertain the position. 
That is a highly technical question involving a matter of great constitutional and policy importance. I have not looked at these papers for some time but I will ask the Prime Minister's Department to let me have the file and I will look at them again. 
I am sorry; whatever the name of his electorate is. It is the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating). 
It is all right; I will do it myself. It is the honourable member for Blaxland. Each of these men has to answer that charge, particularly the honourable member for Newcastle who has been totally wrong in every statement he has made in this House. 

 - Mr Speaker- (Opposition members interjecting) - 
It will be obvious that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  destroyed every particle of his own statement to the House by saying by way of introduction: 'If the papers had been tabled 18 months ago it would have been all over'. The Government was never asked to table the papers until recently. It is only in the last few days that the Leader of the Opposition asked me. 'It would have been all over'. In other words, the Opposition has found nothing whatever to justify the statements made by the Leader of the Opposition, nothing at all, and I will go through each statement in detail. I would like first of all to detail the circumstances in which the Government took action relating to special aid and, a few months later, took action under that special aid to provide aircraft to Cambodia as part and parcel of an aid programme to Nepal, Laos and Cambodia. 
Let me speak of the circumstances existing at the time of the decision to provide special aid to Cambodia. They have been mentioned already by the Leader of the Opposition. I believe from our point of view and from the point of view of honourable members in this House that we were interested in the survival of Cambodia and South Vietnam. At one time so too was the Leader of the Opposition but I ask every honourable member to read the opening paragraphs of the memoirs of the former Leader of the Opposition, the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell),  and ask: Who changed his mind under pressure from the left wing of the Australian Labor Party? Prior to the elections when the then Leader of the Opposition was describing the South Vietnam campaign as a dirty campaign, the present Leader of the Opposition disowned him. He was disloyal to his own colleague. What is stated by the then Leader of the Opposition is available for everyone to read. Now the present Leader of the Opposition comes out and is an advocate of handing over South Vietnam. 
I ask that the statement be withdrawn. 
I have asked that that statement be withdrawn. 
I turn now quite specifically to the nature of the decision to send aid to Cambodia, the first question raised by the Leader of the Opposition. I have partially described it. We first received a request - I think it is wise to mention this date - on 16th April 1970 from the Foreign Minister of Cambodia in which he asked us to let Cambodia have items of military equipment that Australia could supply in order to ensure Cambodia's defence. That then was the date on which we received the first request and if the Leader of the Opposition likes to do so he can have a look at the copy of that cable. 
This is the type of operation - semantics, I choose to call it - of the Leader of the Opposition, unable to keep to the facts, unable to be literal and honest. He is now splitting hairs and trying to create impressions- where there is no ground for these impressions to be created. We immediately initiated an inquiry into this to see what we could do. But shortly afterwards the question of the Djakarta conference arose. It was then decided that while we would go ahead with examining what equipment we could provide, in the interests of ourselves and of the part that we were able to play in Djakarta, it would be better, (a) to co-operate with our allies, but (b) to suspend judgment as to when equipment could in fact be supplied or would be supplied. That, I believe, was a wise decision. But nonetheless, it was a decision taken properly and in the interests of trying to get a negotiated settlement in Cambodia. 
No-one knows this better than I do because I was the one who went to Djakarta. I was the one who handled every detail of these negotiations. So that then was the nature of the problem. We then looked on several occasions at what should be done, and we had several Cabinet submissions about it, culminating in the fact some months later that we would in fact supply aircraft to Cambodia, and I made a statement to the House on the supply of the aircraft to Cambodia after we had decided on 2 other occasions not only to increase the vote but also to supply items of dual purpose equipment - for example, telecommunications equipment - and also to provide motor vehicles and later on to provide other different kinds of equipment, and then I made the statement relating to the DC3 aircraft. 
I am not going into the dates because it is too difficult to be able to pick up each one of the details, but if you like to ask me I will put them in the form of a letter to you. 
So it was therefore a sequence of events. But much more importantly, I want to put out the dates of commencement of negotiations for the DC3 aircraft themselves. The dates of negotiations were accurately given by my colleague. I am not talking now about special aid; I am talking about the negotiations for DC3 aircraft - not machine guns, not the provision of vehicles and trucks, not telecommunications equipment, but DC3 aircraft. They,  Sir, were  accurately stated by my colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  when he said in the House - and I support him - that the dates were: Nepal, October-November 1969; Laos, April 1970; and Cambodia, December 1970. This disposes of any suggestion that this was a last minute decision. In answer to my colleague the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  I deliberately used the words Cambodia, Laos and Nepal. Consequently when I was thinking of the dates I was thinking of each one. That is known to the  Leader  of the Opposition, yet he has deliberately deceived the House in trying to create the impression that my statement related exclusively to Cambodia. It happens to be true. 
I take the adjective out; I leave the noun in. 
I withdraw the adverb. I refer now to the history of this transaction to show whether there was any administrative failure whatsoever. I believe that when the Leader of the Opposition looks at the facts he has to concede that there was none. But, driven by his own left wing and some feline disposition which I have mentioned on other occasions he has, he persists with this argument. The first point that has to be made - I think it is one that I have put in the House before and I mentioned it in the House on the same day that I last spoke - is that every relevant department was contacted about these negotiations. I was assured by the Secretary of the Department of External Affairs that funds were available for expenditure on the aircraft as listed in paragraph 11 of the document I had incorporated in Hansard. He said: 
Should you approve the above, a draft Press release will be submitted for consideration when purchase details are finalised between the Department of Supply and Jetair. 
In those circumstances there can be little doubt that until that moment there could have been no administrative failure on my part. I admit and, if necessary I am prepared to say that on the doctrine of ministerial accountability to the House, of course I have to be accountable. But immediately I found out that there was this irregularity I took every step practicable to ensure that the matter was dealt with through proper administrative procedures. I tabled in the House and had incorporated in Hansard the opinion given to me by  Sir Kenneth  Bailey who, even the Leader of the Opposition had to admit, is an eminent lawyer and one who can be completely trusted for his integrity. What did he say? Rather than quoting his words from the actual document I state that this eminent gentleman said that there was basically an irregularity but that the irregularity had been removed. I was entitled ta rely fully upon that statement. 
It is true that there was an inderdepartmental minute, not to me but between the  deputy  secretary and the secretary which did use the language mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition. I do not deny that; but the minute was not to me. I stand on the information furnished to me by  Sir Kenneth  Baitev. I believe tha* ;&lt;s the only document to which this House can direct its attention. Having examined the matter of ministerial competence I have no doubt at all in saying that so far as the administration of my Department was concerned there was little more that I could have done In order to ensure that this difficulty was cleared up. 
Another point I want to raise is the question of ministerial responsibility because I think that this is a question that has to be cleared up and cleared up immediately. Naturally enough I have had this matter under consideration for some time. I believe it has to be cleared up completely. Firstly. I inquired where ministerial responsibility for the purchase lies. Ministerial authority for the approval of the funds for aid purposes was in the hands of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Department. Ministerial responsibility for the actual purchase was covered in the administrative orders by the Department of Supply. In the final analysis that Department was the one that finished the transactions and said that the negotiation was satisfactory. As to the question of ministerial accountability - I do not use the phrase ministerial responsibility' at all - yes, I am responsible to this House. However, I have received from the Crown law authorities a statement showing very clearly where that accountability lay. If the House will allow me the indulgence I will find the statement so that I may quote it for honourable members. First, I asked for an opinion from my own Department. 
No, I will not. It is a confidential document. If the Leader of the Opposition wishes to see it, I will let him have a look at it. This is an opinion given to me by the permanent head of my Department and is an opinion that comes from the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board: 
Your responsibility as Minister for Foreign Affairs was to authorise the provision of funds. The Minister for Supply was responsible for approval of the contractual obligations. 
I go a stage further and say that I have already asked the Crown law officers to give me their view. They confirm that you cannot pursue this doctrine of ministerial accountability to too great a length. As an illustration I take the case of the PostmasterGeneral. Does it mean that if there is some accident in the PostmasterGeneral's Department the Postmaster-General has to take the complete responsibility for what happened? If the Leader of the Opposition will keep quiet for a moment it will provide a better opportunity for honourable members to be able to understand me. I have no doubt at all,  Mr Speaker,  that not only was the irregularity cleared up but also that there is no residue of responsibility left so far as I personally am concerned. 
I turn next to the question of whether there had been in fact any deceit. I would like to read out what I can about ministerial responsibility: 
The following comments appear to be justified by parliamentary practice and the observations of constitutional authorities, mainly though not wholly British. A Minister is not liable to censure for everything done by the officers of his Department. Thus no-one could suggest that a PostmasterGeneral should resign because a postal clerk misappropriates mail. 
I quote: 
There is no absolute vicarious liability on the part of a Minister for the sins of his subordinates 
I think that disposes of this matter completely. 
I turn to the second part - whether there was any attempt whatsoever to deceive or whether in fact any deception took place. The fundamental question that has arisen is not only as to when we considered the proposal relating to the supply of arms and equipment to Cambodia - which was dated 18th April 1970 - but also the subsequent course of transactions leading up to the supply of the DC3 aircraft. My colleague mentioned the date on which we decided to supply the DC3 aircraft. On 14th February 1971 I made this statement: 
by leave - I wish to announce to the House the terms of reference for a committee of inquiry into the best way of abolishing the means test over the next 3 years and of responsibly financing this significant measure in association with the possible introduction of a national superannuation scheme. The Government's decision to introduce meanstestfree pensions for people aged 65 and over represents a major social advance with considerable financial, economic and social implications. We accordingly announced in the 1972-73 Budget speech our decision to appoint a committee of inquiry to examine and report on these matters, including the question of how the proposal for means-test-free pensions could be responsibly financed with particular reference to national superannuation. As announced in the 1972-73 Budget Speech, the Government is committed to abolition, within the next 3 years, of the means test on age pension eligibility for residentially qualified men and women aged 65 years and over. The Government has also decided that the free-of-means test pension will be subject to tax but, following past practice, provision will be made to exempt or partially relieve from taxation persons in the lower income groups receiving freeofmeans test pension. In addition, the Government has determined that eligibility for supplementary assistance and for Commonwealth ancillary pension benefits will be conditional, as now, on satisfaction of the relevant special means test. The terms of reference of the committee will be: 
Having In mind the policy of the Government to abolish the means test within the next 3 years on age pension eligibility for residentially qualified men and women aged 65 years and over, as announced in the 1972 Budget speech, to report on - 
Matters involved in the implementation of the abolition of the means test in accordance with the Government's announcement as set out in the Treasurer's 1972-73 Budget speech. 
Appropriate ways and means of financing the free-of-means test retirement benefits associated with a possible national superannuation scheme, including - 
the type of national superannuation; 
the  persons to be covered; 
whether the scheme of national superannuation should be voluntary or compulsory. 
The relationship of the new free-of-means test retirement benefits and national superannuation (if any) to private schemes and to life assurance. 
The method of adjusting the new benefits over time. 
The taxation treatment of the new benefits. 
Methods of making the administration of the new scheme as simple as possible. 
Any associated matters that the committee considers relevant to the objective of the inquiry. 
I am glad to be able to announce that the committee of 3 to inquire into these matters will be under the chairmanship of  Sir Leslie  Melville, K.B.E., C.B.E. With him as members of the committee will be  Mr T.  P. Scott and  Mr J.  E. M. Dixon. On behalf of the Government, I express our thanks to these gentlemen for agreeing to undertake this important and substantial task. I have been asked to metion that  Mr Dixon  is the retired  Deputy  General Manager of the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd and that  Mr Scott  is the retired General Manager of the National Mutual Life Association of Australia Ltd. I present the following paper: 
National Retirement Benefits Inquiry - Ministerial Statement, 19th October 1972. 
Motion (by  Mr Wentworth)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that the Agents-General have advised the Australian High Commissioner that they have not gone direct to the British Home Office at any time. They have made representations at all times through the High Commissioner. 
and (3) The High Commissioner and  Mr Maudling,  the previous Home Secretary, have had several talks during the last 2 years about Australians entering the United Kingdom particularly when the British Government's immigration legislation was being drawn up. On 12th May 1972, on behalf of the 6 Agents-General, the High 
Commissioner wrote to  Mr M audling  about the administration of the British Immigration Act in so far as it affects visiting Australians and the treatment they are accorded by immigration officers at ports of entry. A reply was received on 21st June 1972. The High Commissioner has waited until the new Home Secretary,  Mr Robert  Carr, has had time to settle into his new department before taking up these matters with him. I am informed that the High Commissioner is to have a meeting with  Mr Carr  on 19th October 1972. 
I am informed that the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Fourteen, including one officer who joined the party in the United States and then returned to Australia. Four other persons, being overseas for other purposes, were associated with the visit for different stages of the journey. 
Ten. 
and (4) The estimated cost of air fares paid to each airline (including the cost attributable to the visit of the 4 persons mentioned in (1) who did not undertake the full journey) is as follows: 
As Qantas arranged the bookings it is entitled to receive a 7 per cent commission for the travel with other airlines. The Commonwealth carried no financial responsibility for the press party. 
I refer the honourable gentleman to my reply to a question without notice (Hansard, 24th November 1971, pages 3548-9). 
I am aware of the problem raised by the honourable gentleman. It has given my colleague the Minister for External Territories, in particular, a great deal of concern. But I have not received the report referred to by the honourable gentleman. 
I will have a look at the question asked by the honourable gentleman but I remind him that if he is accurate on this occasion it will be one of the first occasions I have known him to be accurate since he came into this place. 
As I said, I did ask the Treasury to prepare this document as a matter of urgency but I think the House will recognise that so many matters have intervened in the meantime that the Trea sury has been literally inundated and has had to give priority to matters of ever so much greater importance than this. Regrettably, therefore, I have grave doubts whether the paper can be completed in time for it to be presented to the House, but I will have to check this with the Treasurer before I can be precise about it. I regret it, but it is pressure of business and only pressure of business that has prevented the Treasury from preparing the paper and submitting it to the House. 
The honourable gentleman has not accurately reflected what I said in the House. I said that a paper would be produced, if it were practicable, relating to the price-income policies of other countries. I gave no assurances whatsoever of what the consequences of that might be. But if the honourable gentleman had taken a real interest in political life he would have perhaps seen the television programme 'Monday Conference' in which Professor Downing raised this very question of price-income policies. I was then able to inform Professor Downing, and he confirmed to me that his opinion coincided exactly with my own, that if one looked at the countries that have price-income policies and those that do not have price-income policies, one would find that those which are most successful - and some are outstandingly successful - are those that have not introduced price-income policies. Those which have introduced price-income policies solely for political reasons usually have the greatest rate of inflation. 
1 ask leave of the House to present a Bill to control foreign take-overs of certain Australian companies. 
I hope to be able to get the Bill through even tomorrow. 
Yes. it will be, whenever you want it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answer to Question No. 3928. 
I move: 
Thai the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill makes provision for the control of foreign takeovers of companies. The House will recall that in the statement I made on 26th September last concerning overseas investment in Australia I announced the Government's intention to legislate for the control of those foreign takeovers it considers would be against the national interest. In outlining the measures that would operate under the legislation I indicated that decisions on whether particular takeovers would be against the national interest would be taken by the Government. I added that in making its decisions the Government would be assisted by an independent authority established under the legislation. This authority would analyse and report to the Government on takeover proposals which the Government judged warranted further investigation as to whether they would he against the national interest. I indicated that the proposed measures for the control of foreign take-overs would apply from 27th September 1972 and that they would embrace takeover proposals then current. 
Pending the establishment of the proposed independent authority I said that there would be an interim arrangement under which departmental machinery would be used for consideration of particular takeovers on the basis of the announced criteria. This departmental machinery has been established and is functioning. A special group of officers has been appointed specificially for the purpose of examining the national interest aspects of particular takeover proposals. This group is located in my Department but it comprises officers from several other departments and is under the direction of a very senior officer who has been seconded from the Department of Trade and Industry. The reports of the group are considered by very senior representatives of several departments before being referred to the Government for decision. 
The administrative arrangements for the examination of particular foreign takeovers are an important step in the implementation of the Government's policy which I announced on 26th September. That policy recognises that we are not as dependent on others as formerly and that Australians have rights at stake in foreign takeovers in the ownership and control of Australian industry. But we also recognise that the interests of the Australian investors should not be prejudiced, except when the overriding interest of the nation requires it. The administrative machinery alone is not sufficient. If it is to be fully effective that machinery must have the backing of the law. A decision that a particular foreign takeover should not proceed must be one that, if necessary, is enforceable in a court. On the other hand, the parties to foreign takeover proposals are entitled to know with certainty where they stand. The law should make their position clear too. 
The Bill will give immediate legal backing to the proposals I announced on 26th September insofar as those proposals relate to foreign takeovers of companies. The Bill will ensure the effectiveness of the Government's control of the takeovers. It will also provide clear and precise procedures for the business world. Parties involved in or contemplating takeover proposals will know just what steps they should take to remove uncertainties. The Bill does not at  this stage establish the proposed independent authority. That will be provided for in a further Bill, which will be introduced next year and will necessarily take some time. In the meantime it is desirable, that the effectiveness of the control being exercised under the departmental machinery should be ensured. The present Bill will do this. 
The powers under the Bill to prevent foreign takeovers that are against the national interest will be exercisable by the Government, acting through the Minister administering the Act. This is in accord with the proposals announced on 26th September. In exercising these powers, however, the Government will in practice act on advice from the departmental officials I have mentioned. The present Bill applies to foreign takeovers of companies, and these comprise most of the takeovers within the proposals of 26th September 1972. Certain other types of takeovers are not covered by the Bill. These takeovers will continue to be controlled administratively under the departmental machinery. They will be provided for in the Bill to be introduced next year. I assure the House that the Government will not hesitate to use its powers to the full to ensure compliance with the controls. The Bill will apply to proposals for foreign takeovers of trading or financial corporations formed within the Commonwealth and also of bodies incorporated in a Territory of the Commonwealth other than Papua New Guinea. Holding companies of such bodies  are  also covered. 
The Bill is not confined to companies of any particular size. But the Government does not propose, except in special circumstances, to apply the legislation to takeovers of companies unless their assets exceed Sim, Two main powers are provided in the Bill. One will enable the Minister to make an order prohibiting a particular foreign takeover proposal, whatever its form, from being implemented if the Minister is satisfied that it would be contrary to the national interest. The other main power will enable the Minister to limit the beneficial interests that a particular foreign interest or associated group of interests may have in a specified company. This power will be available to ensure that the prohibition of one particular takeover proposal is not avoided by resort to some alternative proposal which would achieve the same ultimate effect. It will also be available if foreign control of an Australian company has been achieved since 26th September 1972 without prior notification of the proposal to the Government. 
The question whether a takeover proposal will result in control of a company passing from Australian to foreign hands will be a matter for separate consideration in the circumstances of each case. The question in each case will be whether there is a passing of effective control. In general such control will be treated as passing :f, as a result of the takeover, 15 per cent or more of the voting power would be controlled by a single foreign interest or associated group of interests. A similar position will apply if in the aggregate 40 per cent or more of the voting power is controlled by foreign interests. These percentages will not be a conclusive indication of foreign control. 
If the Minister is satisfied that having regard to all the circumstances an acquisition would not give a significant degree of foreign control over the conduct of the company in question, the powers of the Bill will not apply. The question whether a particular takeover would be against the national interest will be a matter for decision by the Government. That is where the responsibility should rest. In discharging this responsibility the Government will apply the criteria that I outlined in my statement on 26th September 1972. In that statement I mentioned that a takeover may be treated as against the national interest if the company concerned is considered by the Government to be an economically strategic industry leader, or to be so large that the takeover would significantly affect the relative balance of Australian ownership and control of the industry concerned. 
I mentioned also the criteria that are to be applied to other foreign takeovers. The first criterion is whether, against the background of existing circumstances in the industry concerned, the takeover would lead, either directly or indirectly, to net economic benefits in relation to such matters as production, prices, quality and  range ot products and services and efficiency and technological change which would be sufficient to justify the increased degree of foreign control of the particular industry that would result from the takeover. If the proposed takeover is judged to be not against the national interest on this basis, the following additional criteria will also be taken into account: Whether, after the takeover, the firm concerned could be expected to follow practices consistent with Australia's interest in matters such as exports, imports, local processing of materials produced, research and development, and industrial relations, including employee protection; and whether the takeover would have adverse effects on the Government's defence objectives, environmental protection or regional development. 
In making judgments as to whether particular foreign takeovers would be against the national interest on any of the foregoing grounds, due weight will be given to 3 other matters. One is the extent of Australian participation in ownership and management that would remain after the takeover; another is the interests of shareholders of the company subject to the takeover; the third is the attitude of its board of directors. The Government's consideration of takeover proposals will normally be in 2 stages. The first stage will involve preliminary consideration to see whether a detailed investigation is warranted. This preliminary consideration will have to be completed within one month from the date that the proposal is notified to the Minister. 
The Bill does not formally require all foreign takeovers to be notified. But its effect will be to cause all takeovers within the ambit of the Act to be notified. This will be because the Government will have the right to make orders to reverse takeovers that have proceeded without prior notification. If a conclusion is reached that further investigation of particular proposals is desirable, the Minister will have power to issue an interim order prohibiting implementation of the proposal for such period not exceeding 3 months as is necessary for the further consideration to be given to it. 
If no order is made in respect of a takeover proposal within a period of one month from notification, it will be free to proceed. In addition, the Minister will be able in appropriate cases to grant clearance certificates in respect of take over proposals notified to him. A breach of any of the orders I have mentioned will be an offence punishable by a heavy penalty. In addition a Supreme Court will have power, on application by the Minister, to make further orders against a person who commits such an offence. The Court will be able in such circumstances to restrain the exercise of voting rights, direct payments to be withheld, direct the sale of shares, and make desirable ancillary orders. 
In exercising these powers, however, the Court will be required to satisfy itself, as far as it reasonably can do so, that any order it proposes to make will not unfairly prejudice any person. The Court's powers are limited where the breach in question was due to inadvertence and excusable. Orders made by the Minister under the proposed Act will have to be published in the Gazette. Parliament will also be informed of the making of the orders as soon as it is practicable to do so. Some will come into operation on the date of their publication. Others will operate as from a later date specified in the order. Ii the provisions I have outlined are to operate effectively it goes without saying that the Government will need to be able to obtain any relevant information and documents. In particular, information as to the persons who have beneficial interests in shares held by nominees will be needed. The Bill recognises this need and accordingly empowers the Minister to requisition relevant information and documents by notices in writing. 
This Bill is a major step in the implementation of the Government's decisions which I announced on 26th September. The Bill will ensure the effectiveness of our decision to prevent foreign take overs of Australian companies where they are against the national interest. It will do this in a way that has due regard to all relevant interests and, most importantly, keeps uncertainty to a minimum. 
In due course a further Bill which will provide amongst other things for the establishment of the independent authority will be introduced. With this in mind the operation of the present Bill will cease on 31st December 1973 or such earlier date as may be proclaimed. In the meantime this Bill will ensure that the interim arrangements function both smoothly and effectively. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I am informed the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Conference was of international standing with eminent overseas speakers delivering papers. It is Government policy to support such conferences where there is benefit to be derived by Australia. The scientific theme of the Conference was 'Drug Delivery', a matter of uttermost concern to the Government and community generally. In addition, there were discussions relating to pharmaceutical legislation affecting the control of pharmaceutical practice, and the manufacturing, quality and safety of drugs; and modern dispensing techniques both in hospitals and in private pharmaceutical practice. The Conference therefore provided benefit to the profession of pharmacy and, through it, to the community al large. 
Australian Fisheries Council: Fourth Meeting  (Question No. 6419)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What were the names and portfolios of the Ministers who attended the fourth meeting of the Fisheries Council in Sydney on 11th September 1972. 
What requests and suggestions were made at the meeting for legislative or administrative action by (a) the Commonwealth (b) the Territories and (c) the States. 
What follow-up action has been taken on requests and suggestions made at earlier meetings Of the Council (Hansard, 31st May 1972, page 3391). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the honourable member will be aware, I intended to visit the Territory between 2nd and 5th August During my visit  I  would have met with the Chief Minister and the Administrator's Executive Council and with the Leader of the Opposition, and would have given an address at a Parliamentary Dinner. I would also have visited centres in Papua, New Guinea and the Islands. However, developments in relation  to  the oil dispute made it necessary to cancel this visit at short notice. It remains my intention, as I stated in reply to a question without notice from the honourable member on 25th August 1971, to make another visit when I can. 
Although I have not kept detailed records of my movements as a Minister, a check with departmental records still available shows that, as Minister for the Navy and Minister for Air, I made 3 visits to the Territory (not one, as suggested in the honourable member's question without notice on 7th September 1971). 
Between 13th and 18th January 1952 I visited Papua and New Guinea in the course of an official visit to north-eastern area units of the RAAF and a general review of facilities. I travelled by RAAF Dakota aircraft and visited Port Moresby, Lae, Manus Island and Rabaul. Official calls were made on the Administration at Port Moresby, Lae and Rabaul. 
Between 18th and 20th November 1952 I visited the Naval establishment and facilities at Manus Island during the early stages of a visit to the Far East and Japan. I inspected the Naval tank farm which was overrun by jungle and was to be rehabilitated. I also inspected Seeadler Harbour where a proposal was under consideration for the construction of a new jetty and considered issues relating to the repatriation of Japanese prisonersofwar 
I flew to Manus Island again on 14th-15th March 1954. On that occasion, I visited the RAAF unit at Momote and reviewed the Naval establishment and inspected facilities after which I flew to Darwin to inspect facilities there (see answer to Question No. 5460 in Hansard of 10th October 1972). 
In January 1952 I travelled to Manus and back by RAAF Dakota. In November 1952 I flew to Manus by RAAF Dakota and departed by Qantas aircraft for Guam. In March 1954 I journeyed to and from Manus by Lincoln aircraft. 
I can assure the honourable member that over many years I have maintained contact with the affairs of Papua New Guinea, and with those concerned with its administration, and am fully and sympathetically aware of this important area of Commonwealth policy responsibility. 
The Prime Minister: Visits to Papua and New Guinea  (Question No.  4044)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What wask (a) the date and (b) the duration of each visit he has paid to the Territory of Papua and New Guinea and what centres did he visit on each occasion. 
The honourable gentleman should recognise that this is a policy matter. 
Then he should know, if it is a policy matter, that it is not suitable to be raised at question time. 
As soon as the Government is in a position to make a definitive statement it will do so. 
As soon as the Government is in a position to make the statement it will do so, and it will do it in this House if that is practicable. 
The Government has not announced its intentions about the scheme up till this moment in a positive and definitive way. I have this under my personal supervision. I will be discussing it with my colleagues this afternoon or this morning. 
The question asked by the honourable gentleman raises a fundamental difference in organisation and philosophy between the Opposition and the Liberal and Country parties. Under the Liberal and Country parties' system of government, it is the parliamentary members themselves who decide what the policies are and it will be for the leaders and the members of those parties to explain not only those policies but also the remarkable achievements of the Government over the period of the last 18 months. It is well known and beyond dispute or even argument that honourable gentlemen on the other side of the House are controlled by an outside organisation not responsible to this House, lt happens to be a matter of great significance that the leading role in explaining the policies of the Australian Labor Party is now being taken by people who are not representative of this House and who are not endorsed as candidates in the election. We hope that in at least 2 instances they appear on television as much as is practicable; I think it helps the Liberal and Country parties' cause. 
The accreditation as the plenipotentiary of  President  Marcos was refused by me as Minister for Foreign Affairs on my instigation and with my full approval and recommendation. It was I who made the decision and it was I who ensured that it was carried out. It is true that subsequently, under a different name and a different kind of operation altogether and with the approval of the Philippines Government with which I personally ensured that there was a check, this matter was carried out with that Government's approval and this man became an accredited representative here as, I believe, a commercial attache. Those are the facts. If the honourable gentleman wants to seek some reason&gt; at least he can be certain of this; When I was Minister for Foreign Affairs I did not approve of this man being given the position of plenipotentiary. 
I am grateful to the honourable member for asking this question. In recent days the Australian High Commissioner has had very useful discussions with, I think,  Mr Carr  and other members of the United Kingdom Government relating to the entry of Australians into the United Kingdom. He has suggested that they should be given treatment which indicates quite clearly, if I may be permitted to use this phrase, that they are members of the Commonwealth and should be treated as such. From the correspondence that I have received during the course of the last few days the British Government has seemed to me to be taking this matter very seriously and to understand the position taken by the Australian Government. So far as I am able to ascertain, the British Government is anxious that the special relationship between the 2 countries should be sustained. 
I wish to make a personal explanation, because it is obvious that the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is attempting to create another smear campaign and I believe it is appropriate that I should explain my knowledge of  Mr Ysmael. 
It is true that when I was the Minister for External Affairs or the Minister for Foreign Affairs an application was made for  Mr Ysmael  to become a plenipotentiary of the  President  of the Philippines. I looked at the matter with very great care and I came to the conclusion, on recommendations from the Foreign Office, that it was desirable that I should reject- 
I rejected that application after obtaining advice as to whether or not he was entitled to be a plenipotentiary under what I believe to be the Geneva Conventions. I have never met  Mr Ysmael  in my life. I also know - I could make this clear, too - that, I think during the time I have been Prime Minister, the matter was reopened but this time on the basis that  Mr Ysmael  should be a commercial attache. I looked at the matter very carefully to see whether this should be done, and there were cables passing between the Australian Government and the Philippines Government. The recommendation was then made, not by me but by the then Minister for Foreign Affairs, that  Mr Ysmael  should be accredited under strict conditions. That was the position. It was not on my recommendation at alt. Since then I have had no connection whatsoever, in any way at all, with  Mr Ysmael. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) 1 draw the honourable member's 
Attention to Senate Question No. 2062, in reply to which the Minister representing the Treasurer supplied certain statistics relating to costs of domestic air travel by Commonwealth employees. (Hansard 18.5.72 pp 1879-80). As to the remainder of the honourable member's question I am informed that information in the detail requested is not readily available. I am reluctant to authorise the time and administrative effort which would be involved in obtaining these particulars. 
The Public Service Board has advised me that: ' 
For permanent staff employed ' under the Public Service Act 1922-1972, the rate of invalidity retirement for the period 1967-1971 in (i) the Australian Capital Territory and (ii) elsewhere was - 
Average number of officers per thousand per annum retiring through invalidity in the period 1967-1971. 
Includes officers serving in. the States, the Northern Territory, Papua New Guinea and overseas. 
See (1.) 
The figures for invalidity retirement and death during service in respect of permanent staff under the Public Service Act for the years 1967- 1971 by department and location are set out below: 
The honourable gentleman is. as usual, under a complete and mischievous misapprehension and does not understand what my colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry, has said. 
The somewhat long and tedious speech made by the Leader of the Opposition deserves some examination by me as I have not seen either report personally. I will discuss the matter with my relevant colleagues and see whether the reports are proper subjects for release in accordance with normal parliamentary practice. As to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, 1 assure him that my colleague, the Minister for Shipping and Transport, has submitted to me several very valuable and informative statements with recommendations, relating to the urban transport systems of this country. I will be giving these very careful attention. Not only do I regard the papers as of great importance but I think my colleague has gone to considerable trouble to present papers to me that I think indicate a proper attitude by the Commonwealth Government to this difficult problem. 
I think the honourable member for Dawson should be well capable of looking after himself, without the help of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Should the honourable member for Dawson want to see that report he can get in touch with me. 
Since then? 
Well I have not received it yet. 
Only yesterday this matter was taken up with me by the Minister for Social Services. The matter is being given very careful consideration. As soon as a decision is made it will be announced either in the House or, if that is not practicable, outside the House. 
With the approval of the Leader of the Opposition I should now like to clarify an answer that I gave to the questions asked by him and by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I have been informed that my Department has received a letter from the honourable member for Dawson, but has not yet passed it to me. My Department is examining the matter with some degree of urgency and hopes to be able to let me have an answer to that letter today. I should mention also that the Minister for National Development has just informed me that there was a question on notice from the honourable member for Dawson requesting that certain papers be given tohim. Because of the nature of the documents - they are as between governments - the Minister has decided that they should not be supplied to the honourable member for Dawson. 
I can assure the House, that the relationship between the  President  and myself, and for that matter between his Administration and the Australian Government, could not be better. I am sure that he trusts this country and this Government and has complete confidence in us, particularly in the fact that we can be trusted when information is confided to us by him. I can state, also in answer to the right honourable gentleman that I believe that the  President  and his emissary,  Dr Kissinger,  are making an enormous effort to achieve peace in IndoChina on terms that can be regarded as satisfactory to the governments of those 3 countries and also to ensure that the people in those 3 countries will have the. right to self determination and the right to live in peace and freedom, free from aggression from outside. I believe that that answers in full, or very nearly in full, the question asked by the right honourable gentleman. I am very glad that he has asked this question as his last question because I know how much he has dedicated himself to the ideals of peace and the ideals of justice in this area. 
May I complete my answer on another note. I believe that the people of this country are becoming sick and tired of people who run around the country defaming others and engaging in campaigns of denigration of individuals. I congratulate the right honourable member on the award of $18,000 he received yesterday from the court. My only sorrow is that it was not ever so much greater. 
35-HOUR WEEK 
by leave - I table a paper on parliamentary committees. The paper I have just tabled has been prepared by the 2 chief law officers of the Crown - the AttorneyGeneral and the Solicitor-General. It is entitled 'Powers Over and Protection Offered to Witnesses before Parliamentary Committees'. In May 1971, at a time of great public interest in the subject, I requested the Attorney-Genera!  (Mr Snedden)  to prepare a paper on the parliamentary committee system which would give particular attention to the constitutional position and the provision of guidelines for the protection of witnesses. The comprehensive paper I have just tabled was prepared by the Attorney-General in collaboration with the Solicitor-General. Its purpose is to discuss the power of inquiry of committees appointed by Houses of the Parliament and the rights and duties of witnesses appearing before those committees. 
The paper also considers whether there are any additional steps which might be taken to safeguard the interests of witnesses and of persons named in evidence before the committees. The Government has not yet had an opportunity to consider the position as disclosed by the paper or the suggestions made for possible changes. However, in view of the great importance of the subject, the Government has decided that the paper should be tabled so that it can be studied by members of the Parliament and by the public. In conclusion I express to the Attorney-General and the Solicitor-General and, if I may, to my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  who initiated at least one part of this report, my appreciation, which I am sure will be shared by all who read the paper, of the comprehensiveness of the paper and of the very considerable amount of time, effort, skill and learning which has gone into its preparation. 
by leave  -  I am now able to inform the House of the outcome of the Government's consideration of the report of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation tabled in the House on 18th May 1972 by the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  Honourable members will recall that the Committee was formed in September 1970. It quickly embarked on a wide-ranging inquiry in the course of which it recieved 459 written submissions from individuals, departments and organisations and heard evidence from 65 witnesses, in Victoria, New South Wales, Queensland and the Australian Capital Territory. The main recommendation of the Committee was the introduction of a completely new scheme to replace the existing pre-1959 and post-1959 DFRB schemes. The DFRB scheme has now been in existence for 24 years. It commenced in 1948 after an inquiry by an interdepartmental committee under the chairmanship of the Honourable J. J. Dedman, then Minister for Defence. 
The original scheme, which had much in common with the Commonwealth superannuation scheme, proved to be very inflexible in operation and in 1957 a committee chaired by  Sir John  Allison was appointed to renew it. The result was the establishment in 1959 of a new and quite different type of scheme to apply to future members. This is the new scheme now known as the post- 1959 scheme. Existing members were not transferred on to the new basis. Instead special arrangements were made that preserved for them their accrued rights and established a basis for them to contribute for additional benefits as they arose. These arrangements, which were significantly modified in 1965 to permit members to limit their contributions, are now known as the pre-1959 scheme. The pre-1959 scheme is most complex and has attracted a great deal of criticism. 
About 12,000 of the present DFRB membership of around 80,000 still contribute on this basis and the present majority of present pensioners were pre-1959 members, The pre-1959 element of the DFRB Fund is, however, in a most bouyant position. The report of the Commonwealth Actuary on his fourth quinquennial investigation, which the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  received from the DFRB Board earlier this week discloses that on the basis of the DFRB scheme continuing in its present form, and I emphasise that proviso, there was an available surplus of $14.9m as at 30th June 1969 in respect of around 19,000 pre-1959 contributors and pensioners. The post- 1959 element of the fund, on the other hand, was approximately in balance, there being a small deficiency of little importance in actuarial terms. The Treasurer will table the reports of the Actuary and the DFRB Board on the fourth quinquennial investigation later today. 
The post-1959 scheme is simpler than the very complex pre-1959 scheme, but the Jess Committee concluded that it is still unnecessarily complex. It has two distinct parts, one covering other rank members, the other officer members. Each contributor pays throughout his service a fixed percentage rate of contribution which varies with his age and rank at entry. The percentage rates range from 4.75 per cent for entry at 15 or less to a maximum of 6 per cent for other rank members entering at age 30 or more. Only service from age 20 onwards counts for pension purposes but both officer and other rank members who enter before that age pay lower rates of contribution. The difference between the maximum contribution rates for other ranks and officers reflects the different basis on which other rank and officer pensions are assessed. The other rank pension is determined by length of service while the officer pension is determined by age at retirement, the maximum in both instances being a pension approximately 70 per cent of final pay, although the maximum tapers down to around 60 per cent for the most Senior officers as in the superannuation scheme. 
Both the pre-1959 and post-1959 schemes are actuarially based and members' contributions are retained in an invested fund. The earning rate of this fund has increased rapidly in recent years. The estimated earning rate for the year ended 30th June 1972 is 6.58 per cent, which would be an increase of 0.24 per cent over the rate for 1970-71. The Jess Committee recommended that the present fund be transferred to the Commonwealth, that members' contributions in future be paid to consolidated revenue and that the Commonwealth guarantee the benefits provided and meet all costs not covered by members' contributions. In the new scheme recommended by the Committee, the contribution rate would be a flat 5.5 per cent of pay for all members and the level of pensions would be determined for both officers and other ranks by length of service. 
All service, including service before age 20, would count for pension purposes and pensions would range from 35 per cent of final pay after 20 years' service to 76.5 per cent of pay after 40 years. Officers, like other rank members, would be entitled to a pension on completion of 20 years' service, but a pension reduction penalty of 5 per cent would apply for each uncompleted year of service if an officer were retired at his own request before he reached his retiring age for rank or an other rank member before the end of his engagement. The Committee also recommended that, after retirement, the whole of a member's pension be adjusted annually to maintain relativity with average weekly earnings. The Committee said that a possible method of achieving this would be to maintain the relativity of benefits to current pay for the rank held on retirement. Other recommendations include desirable extensions and improvements to provisions that exist in the present scheme. 
The Jess Committee was rightly concerned to seek to avoid complexions in the future operations of the DFRB scheme. For this reason the Committee concluded that all present contributors should be compulsorily transferred to the new scheme and that they should not be offered a choice of remaining in their present scheme. The Government is attracted to the concept of a simple, comprehensible scheme as outlined by the Jess Committee, but, in a letter to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbarn),  the Committee expressed the strong opinion that if any of the Committee's recommendations were detrimental to any section of existing contributors, special short term arrangements should be made to ensure that no detriment occurred. The Government accepted this view and on 20th September last the Minister for Defence announced that no-one would be disadvantaged by participating in the new scheme, that everybody would have a right by election to ensure that by participating he would not be disadvantaged. This inevitably raised the question whether it would be possible to make this assurance effective without introducing a third DFRB scheme to supplement the pre-1959 and post-1959 scheme. The Government has no desire to do so. 
There have been strong representations on behalf of post-1959 late entrant officers. There have also been representations on behalf of those pre-1959 contributors who have taken the opportunity available to them of limiting their contributions and receiving, without increasing the level of their contributions further, the Commonwealth element of future accruing pension entitlements. The crucial point, therefore, is whether it is practicable to transfer in an equitable way the pre-1959 and post-1959 contributors to such a new scheme, without detriment to any one of them. We shall have an independent expert examination of this problem. 
One supplementary suggestion from the Jess Committee related to late entry officers. The number involved are significant. At 30th June 1972 there were 3,516 officer members who entered at age 23 or later, 773 officers entered at age 33 or later. Because of the change in the basis for officers' pension to length of service in the Jess Committee scheme, many of these late entrant officers would have a lower pension entitlement. The Jess Committee in a letter to the Minister for Defence recommended that these officers, in addition to receiving the surplus of their contributions above 5i per cent of salary, should be allowed to purchase back notional service to bring the pension they would be contributing for under the Jess scheme up to the level for which they were contributing under the post-1959 scheme. This proposal is being actively investigated now. 
The Government, like the Jess Committee, is attracted to the concept of a simple, comprehensible scheme provided it is possible to transfer the existing pre-1959 and post 1959 contributors to the new scheme without detriment. This is strongly favoured by the Services. But if the Government's assurance of transfer without detriment should prove to be impracticable, the Government has decided that it would instead incorporate many of the recommendations of the Jess Committee in an improved version of the post- 1 959 scheme to which pre- 1959 contributors would be given the opportunity of transfer on an equitable basis. In any event, the following 7 specific recommendations of the Committee have been accepted by the Government: 
Marriages of pensioners before age 60 will be recognised for widows' pension purposes; 
A dependent spouse of a female member or pensioner will be entitled to pension on her death; 
Subject to conditions yet to be determined, de facto spouses and illegitimate children will be recognised for pension purposes; 
Children's benefits payable to students will be continued until age 25; 
There will be payable to the estate of a contributor or pensioner, who dies without leaving dependants entitled to pension, an amount equal to one and one half times his contributions less, in the case of a pensioner, any pension or other benefits received; 
The tapering of the entitlements of more senior officers will be eliminated; 
A retiring member will not be penalised by reason of his refusing to sign on to a reserve force. 
The Government has also adopted in a modified form 6 other recommendations of the Jess Committee: 
An officer will be able to retire on pension before reaching his designated retiring age on completion of 20 years service for DFRB purposes; 
The present category structure will be eliminated. Contribution rates will be expressed as a percentage of pay for DFRB purposes and pensions as a percentage of final pay; 
For members who enter at age 20, retirement pensions will range from 35 per cent of final page at age 40 to 70 per cent at age 57 or later; 
A retired member will have an unfettered right within a specified period of retirement, say, 12 months, to commute up to the existing one-third of his pension, other than an invalidity pension. The amount of the commuted sum will be determined on an appropriate annuity basis; 
Appropriate provision will be made for the purchase of past non-contributory service by present serving members including those members who in 1948 elected to remain on deferred pay  rather than enter the DFRB scheme; 
The concept of an appeals tribunal has  been accepted. 
As I have earlier explained, the Jess Committee recommended that DFRB pensions be adjusted annually after retirement to maintain relativity with average weekly earnings and mentioned a possible method of doing this. We have concluded that the issue of post-retirement pension adjustments cannot be dealt with in the DFRB context alone. In the past DFRB pensions have been adjusted at the same time and on the same basis as Commonwealth superannuation pensions and similar adjustment principles have been applied to other Commonwealth superannuation-type pensions. The House will recall that last year the Treasurer in his Budget Speech announced that the Government was investigating alternative methods of adjusting DFRB and superannuation pensions. 
We have now decided to refer this important issue to independent expert investigation. This investigation will be called upon to report on various methods of adjusting pensions for which the Commonwealth is responsible and the interrelationships of the various schemes and how they might be affected by the various adjustment methods. Additionally, the investigation will report on the economic and financial effects of the various methods considered. The personnel members of the Navy, Army and Air boards have all agreed that it is premature at this stage to press for an annual updating of DFRB pensions in the light of the other schemes needing similar consideration. Children's and orphans' pensions in both the DFRB and superannuation schemes are expressed as fixed amounts, although there is an alternative basis for assessing orphans' pensions. The manner of determining children's and orphans' pensions in the DFRB and superannuation schemes is at present under consideration and any decisions taken will be incorporated in whatever scheme emerges. 
We have also given careful consideration to the Committee's recommendation that the DFRB scheme be administered by the Department of Defence and that the Minister for Defence should be the responsible Minister. The Government is satisfied that the present arrangement of the one organisation - the office of the superannuation and DFRB boards - servicing both the DFRB and superannuation schemes, is effective and results in significant economies through the common use of highly specialised staff and facilities. There is also a clear need for co-ordination of policy in relation to the main Commonwealth contributory superannuation schemes, namely, the DFRB scheme, the superannuation scheme, the schemes of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation and the Reserve Bank and the parliamentary and ministerial retiring allowances schemes. In the Government's view, this is at present facilitated by one Minister, the Treasurer, having responsibilities in relation to all 6 schemes. 
Another important recommendation of the Jess Committee was that the present invested fund of members' contributions, which stood at $154m at 30th June 1972, be transferred to the Commonwealth and contributions of members in future be paid to Consolidated Revenue. I referred earlier to the improvement in the earning rate of the DFRB Fund. An invested fund is likely in the long term to return earnings at a level that enables members' contributions to provide greater support for benefits than would otherwise be the case. Accordingly, the DFRB Fund will be retained, The Government has, however, decided that the investment powers relating to this fund and the superannuation fund should be widened so that up to 25 per cent of each fund can be invested in shares, debentures, real property, and in loans to building societies. The Government proposes also to establish an investment trust to handle the investment of the 2 funds. The Government is working towards the necessary amending legislation being ready for introduction in the Autumn sitting next year. As already announced, the legislation will operate from 1st October 1972. We believe that the improvements that will be effected by the legislation will simplify the present arrangements and result in a very much better DFRB scheme. 
Before I commend this paper to the House, may I refer in particular to the dedicated and excellent work that has been done by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess),  the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  and the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett).  I have read the Committee's report and I have listened to the arguments that those honourable member's put to me. I have had to accept that there is no monopoly of wisdom in any official group or - perhaps I could put it this way - in any Ministerial group. These honourable members have made a notable contribution. They have persuaded me that some of the amend' ments which they have suggested are worth while and in the interests of the. active and the retired servicemen. I believe they make a notable contribution to the DFRB scheme. I congratulate those honourable members because I think they have done an immensely important job on behalf of the servicemen of this country. I now commend this paper to the House. I present the following paper: 
Defence Forces Retirement Benefits - 'Ministerial statement, 26th October 1972. 
Motion (by  Mr Chipp)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The formal motion of adjournment which closes yet another session and another parliamentary year has an added depth of meaning on this occasion. It signifies also the dissolution of the twenty-seventh Parliament and the fact that, shortly, most of us will be entering the hustings where our fate will be decided by the master we all serve, the Australian nation and people. However, there are some who will be with us here today for the last time. They will be going from the Parliament into a retirement of their own choosing,I refer in particular to 2 ministerial colleagues and friends, the Minister for National Development,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, and the Postmaster-General,  Sir Alan  Hulme. Both have been members of this House since 1949,  Sir Alan  having broken his continuity for 3 years between 1961 and 1963. Each has a long and distinguished ministerial career -  Sir Reginald  since 1961 and  Sir Alan  having received his first portfolio in 1958. 
We are also farewelling 3 former Ministers -the right honourable member for Fisher,  Sir Charles  Adermann, and the honourable members for McPherson, the  Hon.  C. E. Barnes, and the honourable member for Berowra, the  Hon.  T. E. F. Hughes, as well as the Country Party Whip since 1956,  Sir Winton  Turnbull. On the opposite side of the House, former Leader of the Opposition, the Right Honourable Arthur Calwell will be taking his departure.  His  record of service since 1940 confers on him the distinction of being 'father' of the House. He can also claim to be the only Privy Councillor and former Minister among the Labor Party ranks. As a liberal democrat, I can assure him that we will all miss him. I can assure him that as the first Minister for Immigration and the one who laid the foundations ofour immigration programme we have to thank him for initiating the programme and for ensuring that it has been successful up to the present time. We are also saying farewell to the honourable members for Eden Monaro,  Mr Allan  Fraser; Shortland,  Mr Griffiths;  and Gellibrand,  Mr McIvor. Mr Fraser  shares with  Sir Charles  Adermann a long parliamentary career extending back to 1943. We wish them all a long and happy life in their retirement. 
As is customary at this time, I would like to convey an appreciation to all those who help to make this institution of Parliament work. To you,  Mr Speaker,  we owe a debt of gratitude for the manner in which you have handled your arduous duties with dignity and courtesy. Your impartiality and tolerance has been tempered with the right degree of reproof necessary to sustain the atmosphere of decorum as befits the national Parliament. In achieving this you have been ably assisted by the  Chairman  of Committees. This is the first year of duty for the  Clerk  of the House and I would like to commend him for maintaining the high standards of that office. Every member of the Parliament owes a debt of gratitude both to him and to the other 2 sentinels of the table for the valuable assistance which they render. Our thanks also go to the Leader of the House,  Mr Chipp.  In all the years I have been here I have not known the business of the House conducted with such despatch and efficiency. We also offer our thanks to his predecessor,  Sir Reginald  Swartz, whom I mentioned earlier. Special mention should also be made of the Whips, both Government and Opposition, whose strenuous endeavours bear fruit in the good attendance record of members. 
Although I and the other members of the coalition will shortly be joined in combat with the Leader and Deputy Leader of the Opposition and their supporters, I am sure there is mutual goodwill on both sides in a personal sense. We are mindful of our duties and responsibilities as the elected representatives of the Australian people and strive faithfully to interpret their wishes. We may engage in heated debate at times and we have our moments of strife but above all there is respect for the institution as the safeguard of the freedom of the people and of our democratic way of life. This has been a strenuous year as is testified by the number of Bills which have been passed - 64 in the Autumn sittings and some 80-odd in the current Budget sittings. 
Today it is fitting that we in this Parliament should pay a special tribute to the man on whom we have relied to produce these Bills in the technical sense, the First Parliamentary Counsel,  Mr J.  Q. Ewens.  Mr Ewens  will be retiring shortly after a long and honoured career of service to the Parliament. He became the Commonwealth Parliamentary Draftsman in 1949 and took the title of First Parliamentary Counsel when the separate office of Parliamentary Counsel was established in 1970. During this lengthy period in charge of the preparation of legislation,  Mr Ewens  has always set the highest standard of personal and professional integrity and his wisdom and experience will be greatly missed. In wishing him a long and happy retirement we also extend a welcome to  Mr C.  K. Comans, who will be his successor. 
Our thanks are also due to the many other members of the parliamentary staff who work behind the scenes with efficiency and dedication. I would particularly like to mention the reference section of the Parliamentary Library which provides an invaluable research service and keeps us well informed with a constant flow of uptodate factual information. The Hansard staff in their usual smooth and highly competent fashion ensure that our words are immortalised, sometimes making us, particularly me, read rather better than we might have sounded at the time. The members of the fourth estate, the Press, have perhaps redressed the balance by presenting us sometimes in rather more controversial context but nevertheless always performing a most necessary and valuable democratic function. 
I would like to add a special word of thanks to those loyal and dedicated members of the ministerial staffs who do so much to help lighten the burden of Government Ministers and Opposition leaders alike. 1 know, too, you would all like me to acknowledge the courtesy and attention we receive from the attendants, the people in the refreshment rooms, the telephonists and all the rest of the general staff who help keep the Parliament functioning in cheerful and competent fashion. Finally, I- would like to thank all members on both sides of ;he House for their co-operation. I am sure each one of us is proud of having been able to give some service to the nation and to the people he represents. Although Christmas greetings are inappropriate, I would like to wish all honourable members well in the season ahead even ' though I cannot extend that to include 'many happy returns'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Premier's Department in each State has supplied details of salaries and allowances paid to Ministers, office holders and Members. These details are set out in the following tables. 
I have today sent to the honourable member a summary of State Parliamentary superannuation schemes, prepared in the Commonwealth Treasury. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been informed that the Australian High Commissioner has recently had discussions with both the British Foreign Secretary and the Home Secretary. He has reported that both interviews were very satisfactory and that he had been able to register the Australian point of view. The High Commissioner reports that the British authorities are actively considering what action can be taken. 
On 27th September 1972 the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  asked, without notice, a question concerning the use of 40 per cent of the water of the Ord Dam. I undertook to obtain details for the honourable member. 
I am informed that the total area planned to be irrigated by water from the Ord River Scheme is 178,000 acres and of this approximately 47,000 acres is in the Northern Territory. 1 am also informed that when the Ord irrigation scheme was put forward by the Western Australian Government it was on the understanding that sufficient water would be made available to meet the needs of the part of the irrigation area within the Northern Territory. There has not been any formal allocation of water for the Northern Territory sector and in any case the water needs would depend upon the area developed and the crops grown, lt will be some years before the whole of the irrigation area is fully developed and until then the question of the allocation of water will not arise. Because of the very large safe yield of water from the Dam, it is expected that a satisfactory arrangement for allocating the available water should be readily achieved. 
Western Australia has requested Commonwealth finance under the Ord Agreement for the further development of farming at the Ord by opening up approximately 5,000 acres of land on Packsaddle Plain and servicing the development of an additional 2,800 acres on Ivanhoe Plain to be added to the existing farms. 
The Government has agreed to the request, and the Minister for National Development has informed the State of the decision. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
In 1967 the Canadian Parliament endorsed a recommendation that 'God Save The Queen' be adopted as the Royal Anthem to be played when Her Majesty is visiting Canada and 'O Canada' be adopted as the anthem to be played on other occasions. New Zealand, while retaining 'God Save The Queen' as the National Anthem, has a National Song 'God Defend New Zealand' which has semi-official status and is played al the Olympic Games and on other occasions to identify New Zealand. 
and (3) As 1 said in the House on 10th October in a reply to the honourable member for Chifley I am aware that increasing numbers of Australians are anxious that we should adopt a distinctively Australian national anthem and I think it would be worthwhile for competent experts and others to give the most careful attention to this question. The matter is now receiving careful and sympathetic attention. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
My Department, together with the Department of Defence and the Parliamentary Counsel, has been working for some time, on, but has not yet submitted proposals relating to, a draft Royal Warrant which would provide for proposed Australian regulations for submission to The Queen. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) During the period of my term of office as Prime Minister, the recommendations of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review have not been the subject of formal examination by the Government. Questions of Constitutional amendment, including the proposals made by the Joint Committee, would seem properly to be matters to be taken up at the Constitutional Convention next year. The Government's decision to meet half the costs of the Convention reflects our desire to see that a full and comprehensive review of the Constitution is undertaken. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that the Memorandum of Understanding dated 16th October 1967 is in the form of an annex to the Agreement between the Commonwealth and the States of Australia relating to the Exploration for. and Exploitation of, the Petroleum Resources, and certain other Resources, of the Continental Shelf of Australia and of certain Territories of the Commonwealth and of certain other Submerged Land. The Memorandum of Understanding relates to trade between the States and between the States and Territories in petroleum products from offshore areas to which the joint Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967-68 applies. The Memorandum records the agreement of the Governments of the Commonwealth and of the States that they would encourage and would not seek to restrict any such trade. Further, they declared their common intention not to discriminate against any such trade and that they would confer from time to time as any of them requests. 
I am advised that as the Memorandum of Understanding relates specifically to offshore reserves it is not applicable to petroleum including natural gas, recovered onshore - as for example from the Cooper Basin for supply to Sydney. There is, however, opportunity for regular discussions on such matters in the Australian Minerals Council. Moreover, my colleague, the Minister for National Development, has recently had discussions with State Government Ministers in all States in regard to natural gas, and maintains a close liaison with them. At this time no matters have arisen in this regard which appear likely to require a conference between the Governments of the Commonwealth, New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under current policy on natural disasters, the Commonwealth stands ready to reimburse  a  State in full for any expenditures in a financial year on eligible relief and restoration measures which exceed an initial base amount which the State is expected to meet. In letters to me the Premier of New South Wales put certain proposals for changes in this policy and I advised him by letter dated 7th August 1972 that some aspects of the Commonwealth's policy were under examination and that his proposals would be considered in the course of that examination. 
The Premier raised the subject again with me by letter dated 21st August 1972, following  a  decision by his Government to introduce certain drought relief measures. He has since referred .o these measures and to his approach to the Commonwealth when bringing down his Budget for 1972-73. Examination of some aspects of '.he Commonwealth's policy is proceeding, and the situation remains that the Premier's proposals are being considered in that context. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member will be aware that, as indicated in answer to previous questions, it is not the policy of the Government to give, as a matter of course, details of communications between the Commonwealth and the States. However, in relation to nursing homes I am able to say that consultations have taken place with the States on 2 occasions since 5th October 1971. 
As the honourable member will know, my colleague the Treasurer announced in the Budget Speech of 15th August that the Government had reviewed the arrangement for assisting people requiring nursing home care and proposed to introduce new integrated measures to help chronically ill patients in nursing homes, and also to assist aged infirm people who can be looked after in a home environment. A Bill to give effect to these measures was introduced into the House on 24th October. 
In announcing details of the Government's study of the nursing home arrangements in the Senate on 16th August, my colleague the Minister for Health stated that the Government would be seeking the co-operation of the States in the formation of Commonwealth/State Committees to examine proposals for the construction of new homes and/or the addition of new beds to existing homes and to work towards further improvements in standards. Full details will be announced by the Minister for Health as soon as negotiations with the States have been completed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have now replied to the honourable member's letter. 
Ministerial staff is provided to assist Ministers in carrying out their responsibilities and Ministers determine, in the interests of office efficiency, where that staff is best located. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The  President  and 2 other representatves of the Australian Medical Association came to Canberra on 18th October last in response to a request I made to them. This request followed a report from the Minister for Health that the Economic Advisory Committee of the AMA was contemplating recommending to the 'Federal Council that fees for general practitioner consultations and home visits and for some other services might be increased shortly. The Government did not meet the cost of the visit to Canberra. 
The AMA representatives said that the national economic indices had moved upwards at on abnormally high rate since December 1970 and for this reason the Federal Council would be considering the question of interim fee increases on 21st and 22nd October. I told them that the movement in the indices could not properly justify a departure from the 2 yearly review period. The Federal Council decided at its meeting that it would not make a recommendation for an interim variation in fees at the present time. 
and (4) I am of course aware of the dispute involving claims by unions whose members are employed on the construction of extensions to the Queensland Alumina refinery at Gladstone. I am informed that conditions of employment on this project are covered by an award of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Commission of Queensland, and supplemented by a private agreement between the employers and the State branches of the unions concerned. Disputes which arise in relation to employment on this project therefore fall within the province of the Queensland State industrial jurisdiction, which provides appropriate means of resolving them. I understand that discussions between the parties concerned are currently in progress with a view to obtaining agreement on conditions for a resumption of work. 
I ask for leave to make a statement on the ground that 1 was misrepresented at least 3 times ;n the House this morning. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. In effect it is supplementary to the question answered by the Minister for Labour a few moments ago. The Prime Minister no doubt will remember that forecasts were made not only by himself but indeed- 
It is all right. The Minister can sit back and relax for a moment. I will not be offensive to him. Forecasts were made by the Minister for Labour and by the Prime Minister himself, when they were in Opposition, that unemployment would rise to a minimum of 200,000 and probably 280,000. The Prime Minister will also remember that shortly before the elections took place the Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research in Melbourne made a similar type of forecast of about 150,000 by August. But what has become obvious now to those who have any technical knowledge whatsoever, or ability to read for that matter, is that 4 unbelievable blunders were made by the Institute of Applied Economics. One was that it failed to realise- 
I ask the Prime Minister whether, relative to the myth of upward revaluation of the Australian currency, he has been informed that the Japan Silk and Textile Exporters Association has directed its Australian agents to increase their prices in Australia by 11.11 per cent with respect not only to future contracts but also to contracts that are already in existence. In the light of this fact does the Prime Minister now reject the myth that if we upvalue the Australian currency we will get reduced prices for imports and that sellers will in fact exploit the market to the maximum limit possible? In the light of this, does he agree that there was an over-kill both in the unilateral  revalution  in December and in remaining static at 10 per cent when the Americans devalued by 10 per cent? Will he now let us know whether he recognises that a mistake has been made and that this matter should be looked at again? 
This afternoon we are debating 2 appropriation Bills, the Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1973 and Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1973. In 2 senses these Bills can be regarded either as supplementary to or as replacements for Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1972 and Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1972 that were introduced when the last Budget was brought down. The total amount appropriated under the 2 Bills is, I believe, of the order of $123.999m. Under Appropriation Bill (No. 3) the amount is $56m, and under Appropriation Bill (No. 4), that is the capital Bill, the amount is $67,944,000. We have no intention of objecting to either of these Bills, but we believe that, in the interests of this country, certain aspects of the Bills should be highlighted. From an examination of the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  it can be seen that Appropriation Bill (No. 3) relating to maintenance expenditure affects, first of all, the first Whitlam administration order and then the Treasurer's advance account. One item to which we could raise no objection is the appropriation of $10m for the advancement of Aborigines and their development. 
There are 3 different sections to the capital account. One relates to an advance of $15m to the State of New South Wales which was agreed to by my own Government before the last Budget was introduced and the money for which is now being appropriated. The second advance of the order of $3lm is for employment, and the residue of it is for capital expenditure of a maintenance or development kind. 
To sum up, I have looked very carefully through the figures and I can find nothing wrong with the arithmetic. It is to 2 particulars of the Bills that I feel objection has to be taken. But before I deal with those,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I ask you to look at the kind of economy that was inherited by the Labor Government when it took office. When you look at the figures that have been presented, and particularly when you note the dates, unmistakably, even you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  must ask who was responsible for the happy state of the Australian economy today and which Government was responsible for the development and the progress now taking place. 
Let me mention to the House one or two details, perhaps even a few, that I think will be of interest to all. Let us look at what was previously called gross national production or, as it is now called, gross domestic product. In the December quarter of last year there was an increase of 2 per cent in real terms in non-farm income. In other words, the rate of increase over a period of a year was of the order of 8 per cent. That, in anyone's language, is a healthy increase and something of which the former Government could well be proud. What has to be pointed out is that the Labor Government can under no circumstances be credited with what should properly be credited to the Opposition, that is, the former Government of this country. 
Secondly I want to point to the figures for unemployment - and the figures relating to employment too. because we regard this as a humanitarian rather than an economic problem and consequently we want to see unemployment as low as practicable and employment as high as it is possible to get. The figures show that over the months of September. October and November there was a rise of 46,000 in employment. As we would expect, in seasonally adjusted terms we find that in January there was a fall of 1,000 - an extraordinarily high figure, perhaps an unprecedented figure, for the month of January - and in the month of February a fall of 32,000, which brought the percentage of unemployed down to 1.8 per cent of the work force on a seasonally adjusted basis. Nobody could ever claim that this was the result of activities of the present Government or sensible economic management by that Government, but it could only be the result of action taken by the McMahon Government and the result of Treasury and Government action from September 1971, right through from the presentation of the Budget last year until today. 
There are 3 other aspects I want to mention, because they are related to 2 important subjects I will mention later on. The first is the way in which we in the former Government were able to reduce interest rates during 1972. In December 1971 the interest rate was running at about 6.99 per cent, but by December 1972 it was 6 per cent. Added to that, the consumer price index, which is after all a pretty good indication of the way in which inflationary pressures are acting, in 1972 fell from a rate of increase of 7 per cent to about 4.6 per cent. I ask all members of this House to keep those figures in mind, because it is about the inflationary impact of actions by the Government that I want to speak in a few moments. 
Shortly I shall turn to the future of the economy, but before I do so, may I mention 3 problems and give a partial answer to each one of them. We all know that if average earnings exceed productivity, then without any doubt there will be an inflationary relationship, and a pretty precise relationship, between the two. Whilst there can be no completely accurate arithmetical figure, at least one can say that they will be closely related. If average earnings are considerably in excess of the other there is no doubt that there will be considerably increased inflationary pressures. The second point I want to make relates to the administration order, which is part of what was mentioned in Appropriation Bill (No. 3). That Bill appropriates funds for administrative purposes. I believe that if we go back further than this and try to ascertain the causes of some of our inflationary problems today we will find that partially they lie in the fact that in the drafting of that administration order there is no means by which the 
Government can get a consistent and thoroughly cohesive economic policy. In other words, I think it can be argued, and argued pretty conclusively, that unless there is coordination rather than independent action by 27 Ministers galloping off in different directions at the same time inevitably it will be found that there is a lack of Treasury control of the economy, with all the difficulties that that problem can cause in terms of inflation. 
Finally I refer to the fact that for some time we faced difficulties relating to 2 sectors of the economy. Since 1970 we had been continually warned by the technical experts that demand inflation was just about to engulf us and that demand inflation in combination with wage cost inflation would give us a degree of inflationary pressure that we had not known for some time past. Let me go back to answering part of the problem that 1 believe is of vital importance to us. We were worried about the lack of demand. In fact we now find that demand increased by about $2,250m in the December quarter, a rise of about 1 1 per cent as compared with the previous December quarter. Therefore not only are average earnings rising, but we find in the demand sector, particularly that sector relating to retail trade, increases of the kind I have mentioned. It is the combination of these circumstances that creates such grave difficulties for us. In itself I would not worry too much about demand. I feel that there are means by which this problem can be overcome. In fact, you can take it in your stride. But when demand is increasing rapidly it creates conditions under which wage demands can be made with the inevitability, because of the industrial strength of the trade union movement, that those demands will be met by industry, thus compounding the problem and all that goes with it. 
Let me come to the problem, as I see it, before us today. I mentioned the way in which the consumer price index has fallen from 7 per cent to 4.6 per cent - a memorable achievement by the former Government, that is the present Opposition. But what is the Labor Government led by  Mr Whitlam  doing to completely reverse the trend during the course of 1972? 
I refer to some of the claims that are now before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The first claim relates to a flat increase of $11.50 a week to the national wage based on the 1953 base and asking for increases consistent with prices and productivity increases over that period. I think the House and the general public should know that both the employers and the Commonwealth Government itself believe that the cost will be $2,700m in increased wages in any single year; that is, an increase of 17.S per cent. There is also a claim for an increase of $13.80 in the average minimum wage to a minimum of S65 a week. I have had these figures costed but because of the many qualifications associated with the increase I think it is better to proceed to other matters rather than to concentrate too much time on this particular asapect of our inflationary problem. 
The Public Service unions have claimed an increase of 7.5 per cent which could very easily amount to more than $ 1,000m additional to the pay roll of the Commonwealth. That, of course, would be subsumed somewhere within the $2,700m that I have just mentioned. One can add to this the further claim now made by the oil industry for a 35-hour week. Most honourable members are under a compulsion to admit that if it were granted in the oil industry there is no doubt whatsoever, following the Gallagher award and its consequences, it would flow on to every other section of the community, no matter how long the period involved. I suggest that 3 reasonable assumptions can be made. First, the standard working week for all employees would be reduced by about 5 hours a week. Secondly, there would be no associated increase in productivity. Thirdly, output would be maintained by an increase in over-award working and, consequently, over-award payments. If that came to pass in full and the flow on occurred - inevitably it would occur - the cost, according to figures relating to August 1972, would be about $3,000m and unit costs themselves would rise by about 18 per cent. 
The Opposition is more interested today in people and the humanitarian aspect of this situation because these wage claims, approved by the Government, have a moral significance and an economic effect on the less fortunate sections of the community and, consequently, must be carefully considered. The best estimate that I have been able to obtain of the consequences of the 35-hour week would be that it would add $800 a year to the costs of an average family. Frankly, that is something that the Opposition wants to avoid and it is the reason that the Opposition believes that there should be the closest scrutiny of wage demands and that every effort should be made in the interests of those people to keep wage demands to a reasonable amount, an amount which could, in fact, be economically sustained by the community. 
I do not have the source here but if the honourable member wants it I can get it for him. I turn to the last Treasury Information Bulletin because I believe that the increased expenditure mentioned contributes to the inflationary problems that we face today. Despite what has been said by the Treasurer in answer to a question in this House, we will find that the total Budget deficit that we will face - this is put as a minimum and not as the maximum - will have risen from $630m to $960m. The major portion of that increase, excluding unavoidable increases such as those caused by additional numbers of the social welfare beneficiaries, is due to Government action. By direct Government action the cost to the community will be something like $168m for the balance of this year and $33 1 m in a full year. As is pointed out on page 3 of the Treasury Information Bulletin, most of this money, either directly or indirectly, will be in actual expenditure on goods and services, thus adding to inflationary pressures, particularly to demand, and complementing and adding to the problems that arise because of cost inflation in the way in which it is now occurring. 
I make this immediate comment and hope to impress it on members of the House: Look at the achievements of the former government - the present Opposition - and make a comparison based on the possibilities or even the probabilities of what is likely to happen in the course of the next 18 months. It is a pretty safe bet that the trend and tendency towards a reduction of interest rates will change completely. Honourable members can be absolutely certain that the influences I have mentioned - there are others in abundance - are having an impact on inflationary pressures. Honourable members will find over a period that far from a reduction of 7 per cent to 4.6 per cent in the consumer index gradually the consumer index will at least rise to as high as 7 per cent in the period of the next Budget and could be substantially higher. 
Honourable members do not want to get into arguments in this House about possibilities in a period of more than a year because the unpredictable can, in fact, happen. Looking at the situation under normal conditions it can be said that inflationary pressures will be high. 1 think the Opposition is justified in saying that inflation is the greatest economic thief of all because, first of all, it affects people who are less able to look after and protect themselves. It affects our export industries, manufacturing industries and primary industries as well. It then affects all other sections of the community. Particularly in the end will it affect those who have massive industrial power and are able to protect themselves unto the last against the impact of inflationary pressures. In my view, and I believe in the view of the Opposition as a whole, this is the greatest economic problem that this country faces today. Unless it is satisfactorily bandied by the Government as a whole, and not individually by 27 Ministers, it will be found that so much of the good done by the preceding Government will be destroyed but, above all, the alleged goals of the Australian Labor Party to control inflation and to bring real benefits to the Australian people will be destroyed in the process. 
The Opposition will not object to the Bills. However 1 believe it is highly proper, in the interests of the Australian people, that the problem should be identified as much a? possible. We must persist in identifying it and saying where the Labor Government is going wrong. I believe the contributions to inflation are the most mammoth series of blunders that the Labor Party has committed since it has been in office. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I claim to have been misrepresented by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  You,  Sir, will  remember that he said that there was, in effect, a specific invitation for  Mr Bijedic  to visit Australia last month, that is the month of March, immediately before the statement made by  Senator Murphy  in another place. The fact is that a general invitation was issued to the Yugoslav Government for its Prime Minister to visit Australia. It was issued by  Sir John  McEwen who was then Minister for Trade. It was a general invitation. There was also a very general invitation for me to visit Yugoslavia and 1 had not specifically accepted it. What the Prime Minister is doing is trying to create the impression that a specific invitation was given to  Mr Bijedic.  That is not true. He is not accurate in his facts, and I think he should go back again and check with his Department. 
Has the Prime Minister seen a report submitted to me by the AttorneyGeneral's Department dated on or about 12th September 1972 - that is, shortly before the dissolution of the House - that the Commonwealth Police Force had no knowledge of any terrorist group operating in Australia, nor had it been able to obtain any information concerning such a group? As this report is identical with other information submitted to me in writing and known by other departments to be correct, is it the proper interpretation of the words alleged to be used by the foreign affairs officer in the alleged Australian Security Intelligence Organisation minute that the reply to the Whitlam Government should be consistent with the aide-memoire to the Yugoslav Embassy? This being so, does not the repetition of the word 'conspiracy' create the impression of a smear against those civil servants involved and that, accordingly, an apology should immediately be conveyed to the officers who submitted the report to the Prime Minister? 
 J claim to have been misrepresented too. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in the course of his statement in the House, said that the previous Government - that was my Government - had invited  Mr Bijedic  to come here as the guest of the Government. The truth is that at least on 2 occasions during the time I was Prime Minister I received a somewhat perfunctory type of invitation to visit Yugoslavia. 1 then informed the representatives of the Yugoslav Government that I would give the matter consideration and if it was practicable J might be able to make the visit. I was never able to make it. 1 did not give any answer subsequently and I did not visit Yugoslavia. At the same time, naturally, as a matter of goodwill, I said that if it was ever possible for a representative of the Yugoslav Government to come to Australia we would like him to come. I had never heard of the name of  Mr Bijedic.  I did not know that he was the Prime Minister. I knew that Yugoslavia was a communist country. Consequently there was nothing specific on the file of what was said by me to the Yugoslav Ambassador relating to  Mr Bijedic  as the Prime Minister of that country. Any statement to the contrary is false and can be proved to be false by reference to the records of the conversation. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa- Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
The fact is that a general invitation was issued to the Yugoslav Government for its Prime Minister to visit Australia. It was issued by  Sir John  McEwen who was then Minister for Trade. It was a general invitation. There was also a very general invitation for me to visit Yugoslavia and I had not specifically accepted it. 

 Mr McMAHON (Lowe) - 1 have been misrepresented. Those who listened to the honourable gentleman- 
Yes, you have quoted me and you have drawn the wrong interpretation and know that you have drawn the wrong interpretation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! I suggest to the right honourable gentleman that the Prime Minister quoted a statement direct from Hansard. It is difficult for a direct quotation to be a misinterpretation. 
Yes, but I said that I pointed out in my statement that the Prime Minister had referred to the fact that the previous Government - that is, my Government - had issued a specific invitation to  Mr Bijedic.  I pointed out that the original invitation was issued by another Government. 
The honourable gentleman accepts that; the correction has been made. The second point is that I did not issue a specific invitation to  Mr Bijedic  because I had never heard of him, I did. not know who he was and I doubt now whether 1 would have proceeded with any invitation. 
Naturally enough I listened with a great degree of care to what was said by my predecessor in this debate, but I have to admit, even though I listened to him with good will, that he did not touch the substance of any single section of this Act. Instead in a somewhat desultory and perfunctory way he attempted to defend those clauses .which I think were technical even though contrary to the best interests of this country. It is my view - and a very strong view, too - that we must look at this piece of legislation in perspective. 1 believe it is one of the worst pieces of legislation ever introduced in this House, and 1 have been here for more than 23 years. I believe it must be looked at in perspective from 2 different points of view. The first one undoubtedly is its general relationship to social, economic and industrial conditions in this country and the other one, which is not generic but specific, is the way in which this Act will virtually destroy the objectives that are set out in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act itself. 
Let me turn first of all to the present economic conditions. No one can deny that, after some years of efforts, the former Government - that is, my own Government - was able to reduce the rate of inflation from about 7 per cent, 8 per cent or 9 per cent per annum potentially to something of the order of 4.6 per cent. But now we know that in present circumstances the actions of the Government not only in a fiscal sense but also in terms of conciliation and arbitration, will have the inevitable consequence of creating a rate of inflation much in excess of anything we have known during the course of the last few years. In a statement made in this House not so long ago, I said that I believed the rate of inflation during the next fiscal year would be at least 7 per cent. Fortunately for us, the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, in defiance of the request of the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  made a decision this morning which I think will, to some extent in any event, ensure that the actions and demands of the Government are not the predominant influence and that we will not have inflation of the kind that would occur if the Government had a free opportunity to do exactly what it wants to do. 
Let me return to the specifics of the matter, namely, the provisions of the Constitution and the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill itself. I am sure that what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  said is correct. In his presentation of his case, to the House, the Minister for Labour did not deal with the philosophical concepts behind the actions of the Government. I will in a few moment's time mention the motivating force behind this legislation and I believe it will explain completely to the Australian people why action is being taken in this Bill. 
But let us look at the philosophy of the Constitution and the Act. Section  51  of our Constitution provides that the Parliament shall have power to legislate for the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth with respect to conciliation and arbitration. The legislation, that is, the Conciliation and Arbitration Act provides that there shall be action to promote goodwill in industry and to encourage and provide means for conciliation and arbitration with a view to an amicable settlement on a voluntary basis. There is also an overall concept that the nation's interest should be predominant. This view has been favoured by many leaders of the arbitration system, particularly presidential members or, in other days, when the Commission had judicial as well as conciliatory and arbitration powers, those who happened to be the head of the institution for the time being. So, we must ask ourselves  2  simple questions: On economic grounds, do we feel that the actions of the Government, particularly in relation to conciliation and arbitration, will be favourable to containing inflationary forces? The answer is unmistakably no. Secondly - this is the point that I want to prove in a specific debate of this kind - will the actions of the Government in introducing the proposed new clauses to the Bill in effect destroy arbitration in this country? I believe that it will and I will cite the various clauses in a few moments to indicate why  1  have come to that conclusion. ] said that i would mention the motivating forces behind this legislation. Every member of this House will remember that, prior to the elections, the then Leader of the Opposition met the members of the executive of the metal trades union and agreed with them that, if there were a  $25,000  grant to the compaign funds of the Australian Labor Party, he would ensure that fines would not be imposed on the unions and that the bans clause in the Act would be abolished - in other words, to some extent reducing the effectiveness of the Commonwealth Industrial Court and the Arbitration Commission. I will elaborate on this particular aspect in a few moment's time but I believe and I think it can be easily proved that this was the motivating force behind this legislation. However, I have to go further and say that because of his continued hostility to arbitration, the present Minister for Labour is being ever so much more drastic than we would have contemplated from our knowledge of what occurred at the meeting between the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the executive of the metal trades unions concerned. 
I turn to those clauses that I believe ought to be considered carefully by the House. Firstly, I refer to clause  5  of the Bill which, I believe is extraordinary. It introduces a concept of employment that is totally alien and foreign to any concept of employment that we know in Australia today. In effect, it says that if a person happens to be a job delegate or a member of a trade union who holds any official position, he can virtually disobey the law of contract that exists between his employer and himself. What does the Bill actually provide? I am glad to see that at least some honourable members opposite are taking an intelligent interest in this. I believe that they are men who will try to exercise an independent judgment of the position. It is proposed to amend section  5 (1)  of the principal Act by inserting a new paragraph (f) to provide that an employer shall not dismiss an employee or in any day affect or prejudice him because he has done or proposes to do an act or thing in an industrial establishment or elsewhere - not only in the industrial establishment - for the purpose of protecting the union's industrial interests providing only that he feels he has directly or indirectly some authority from the union. In other words, this proposed new paragraph puts him in a position of permanent employment. It permits him the opportunity to walk around the factory and other places in order to decide whether the union's interests are being furthered without the risk of being dismissed. This can be done notwithstanding that sound economic management and sound practices of administration will demand that that employee should, in fact, be dismissed because he is working contrary to the interests of the company, contrary to the interests of the other employees and contrary to the interests of the nation. 
It is true that it is proposed to introduce a new sub-section  (2a)  that states: 
In a prosecution for an offence arising under paragraph (f) of sub-section (1), it is a defence if the employer satisfied the court that - 
the act or thing done or proposed to be done by the employee was or would have been  unlawful under the Civil or criminal law, otherwise than by reason only of its being  a  breach of the contract of employment; 
That is in regard to an individual who may be employed, perhaps, by a corporation. In other words, the proposed new sub-section breaks down the whole concept of the agreement or the arrangement that relates to the employment of the individual. It gives these union officials and others the right .to defy the law and an agreement for employment and virtually to have carte blanche to do whatever they want to do providing that they think that what is done is in the interests of the union concerned, no matter what the consequences may be to the other employees. Associated with this is section 138 of the Act to which reference has been made already. I believe that this existing section was not only valid and vital to the system of industrial arbitration but also should have been protected. Under section 138 a union official was, in fact, prohibited from inciting a union member not to comply with an award, to go slow, to refuse to offer himself for work or to take any other action which was not consistent with an award. 
The present Bill provides for this to be repealed, supporting the action that has been taken already in clause 5 and giving the union representatives power to do virtually whatever they want to do. If this does not mean effectively the destruction of arbitration and conciliation in the sense that we have known it since, the present Act was first brought into force, nobody will ever understand what it means. There is a third and very relevant section, again referred to by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  That is the reference to obligations under the law or obligations with regard to contracts and the breach of those contracts. Honourable members can quote in an emotive way the Taff Vale case or the case of the Tolpuddle Martyrs. 
But anyone with a knowledge of English and the changing definitions of English will know that the interpretations previously given by the courts on such matters as the constituents of a conspiracy or whether picketing would, in effect, be legal or whether there was a civil status in law for a trade union organisation are no longer valid. All these have been overcome and no one would attempt to argue this way in a court of law or, 1 hope, publicly. 
What does proposed new section 146a provide? It states: 146a. (a) . . . 
An act done by a person to whom this section applies in connexion with an industrial matter ... is not actionable in tort on the ground only - 
that it induces another person to break a contract ... or prevents another person from performing such a contract. 
I ask whether any honourable member in this House believes that he should have a right to break a contract legitimately made or whether he should have a right to break an award, made under the conciliation and arbitration provisions of the Act, to which he has agreed and which he has accepted. This applies to every organisation and to every person who holds an office in the organisation and who has authority to act or believes he has authority to act for that organisation. Now it is said that no action for tort will lie if contrary action is taken by a union official. The reservation to which I want to refer is that the proposed new section does not extend to a wilful act that directly causes death or physical injury to a person, physical damage to property or a threat of such act or a wilful act that contitutes defamation or a threat of defamation. 
It has not been added to the Act yet. I think it would probably be rejected by the Senate but of course it is  a  provision with which I would agree. I ask the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  whether he would argue that a person could wilfully injure an individual or murder an individual without there being a provision like this in the Act. We on this side of the House believe that in any system of law there must be sanctions and penalties. I suppose that in conciliation and arbitration I have had more experience than, or at least as much experience as, any other honourable member in this House. I had the good fortune to be Minister for Labour for some years when we at least were able to establish conditions for industrial peace which meant that for the succeeding three or four years we had constant growth, a degree of inflation that was minimal and acceptable, and an industrial community that was prepared to accept what was done by the Government. But in this Bill there is discrimination and, I believe that proposed new section 146a is another clause which is designed to destroy arbitration in the way we understand it. A tort under the circumstances I have mentioned can no longer be committed by a trade unionist, but every other member of the community still has to obey the law of the land and adhere to contracts he has made or the obligation the law imposes. I believe that this clause, in conjunction with other clauses of the Bill, will be damaging to Hae system of arbitration. 
I turn now to one other clause of the. Bill. Prevously I referred to the motivation behind this Bill and to the action taken by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  immediately before the election. What he then promised - the pay-off - is shown in proposed new section 46a which, taken in conjunction with proposed new section 119, takes away effectively the right to put a bans clause into an award and, if a bans clause is broken, the right to insist that there should be some penalty or sanction on the union concerned. For the benefit of those who have not had a long experience in industrial matters, a bans clause is one which, under the provisions of the Act, can be inserted into an award because there has been a consistent line, of action and policy by a trade union of defying the provisions of the Act and award and causing industrial disputation, lack of production and, therefore, a failure in productivity despite the benefits that increased productivity can bring to the Australian people. Proposed new section 46a provides: 
The Commission is not empowered - 
to include in an award, or to vary an award so as to include, a term ... by virtue of which engaging in conduct that would hinder, prevent or discourage - 
the performance of work in accordance with the award; or 
the acceptance of, or offering for, work in accordance with the award, is, to any extent prohibited. 
I repeat that that kind of action by the Commission is now to be prohibited. 
That supports what I have said, namely, that the trade unions are now put in an ever so much stronger position than before. The balance of strength as between the trade unions, the employers, the Government and the Arbitration Commission is changed so seriously that no longer can one think that influences other than the predominance of trade union power can play an important part  in  ensuring the public interest  in  the way  in  which the former governments since the time of  Sir Robert  Menzies have incorporated this concept in the Act; in other words, to further the objectives of inducing co-operation between unions and employers and trying to engender a far better feeling throughout the whole complex of industrial relations and to establish the Arbitration Commission as a body that can respect the public interest, bring the parties together and bring about an award that we all hope will be for the benefit of the country rather than for the destruction of arbitration itself. 
Before I come to the conclusions that I draw from the Bill now before the House and to what should be done, let me refer to a matter that some honourable members on the Government side of the House have mentioned, namely, that we did not collect the fines that were legitimately imposed under section 119 of the Act as it exists today. It is true that 3 sets of fines were not collected. They were not collected because the Act had been amended and the amendments had brought in a totally new set of conditions. But at least during the period when I was the leader of the Government we collected every fine that was outstanding and we strengthened the provisions of the Act relating to bans clauses - section 46  -  and the right and duty to collect the fines under section 119A of the Act. 
Now, what conclusions do I draw from the Bill before the House? The first conclusion I draw - I think that most sensible members of the House will agree - is that it will destroy conciliation and arbitration. I believe that because of the 3 clauses I have mentioned, whether there is a change or whether a section has been abolished altogether, it does in fact open the door for intimidation and, I believe, fraud. We will all pay the penalty when intimidation becomes the rule of conciliation and arbitration - if one cares to use that phrase although, as I have said, I do not believe it can ever again be effective if this does become the law. The Bill puts the employer in a hopeless bargaining position by comparison with the employee and the Left Wing trade unions. It strengthens one and weakens the other and in a sense it weakens the Arbitration Commission because no longer will the public interest provision be as strong as it was and as it is in the present Act. As I have said, the nation's interest is not really protected. It can be defied and, no matter what the consequences are, we will have to live with them. Economically, I believe it will be bad because it will permit the Minister - particularly a Minister such as the one we have today - to pressurise the Arbitration Commission into giving award increases that are in excess of productivity increases. Therefore, an in-built inflationary pressure will be introduced into the Arbitration Commission itself. Finally, it will mean that people will move outside the Commission in order to obtain awards made not voluntarily but under pressure, intimidation and threats. If this does not lead to the destruction of the arbitration system, nothing else will. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti&gt;Order! The right honourable gentleman's time has expired. 

Sitting suspended from 12.54 to 2.15 p.m. 
1 rise to support the action taken by my colleagues in suggesting to the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  that he again give the most careful thought to deleting this clause from the Bill. I do so because I believe that this clause will do great harm. If his Government looks at it in total - not as representing the trade union movement alone - it will come to the conclusion that this clause is contrary to the best interests of the nation and contrary to the system of conciliation and arbitration. It will take us back to where we were before the Hood award, which was one of the actions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which, I believe, had a substantial impact on inflation. 
When the previous government was considering the problem that began in 1970 with the national wage case award, we felt that the impact of inflation would become so severe that it would rise to a level that could well be as high as between 9 and 1 3 per cent. That was a very dangerous position for any government to face, whether it happens to be a Liberal or a Labor government. Later, somewhere in the middle of June of 1971, a very cosy agreement was made between trade unions and manufacturers, particularly the manufacturers in the metal trades industry. 
The parties made an agreement which resulted in the so called conciliated Hood award. I remember giving instructions that this cosy agreement was to be opposed before the Commission. But when the Government decided to appoint representatives to appear before the Court we found that the agreement had already been completed. We, as a government, then had no power of intervention in this case whatsoever. This is the way in which it was approached. Our attitude as a government, therefore, was a pretty clear one. We did not want consummated and completed a kind of agreement that we would not in future be able to oppose in the national interest and be able to ensure that the national interest was respected. 
We say this about this clause, first of all, that we believe that in very important cases there should be a right of recourse to arbitration and, ultimately, to the Full Bench. I do not want to see the Australian Labor Party faced with identical problems - dangerous problems - of a kind which can disturb the national economy and create conditions where there might be subsequent unemployment and where there might be a slowdown of business operations and of orders to the factories. If this occurred, we could have, no matter what the Government might do, stagflation of the type that other countries have had to a severe degree and which we fortunately have escaped to a considerable extent. 
I believe this is a bad clause and, for the reasons I have given, I believe it is necessary to separate the 2 functions. I am a little astonished that the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  could not give us a single practical example of a failure under the present Act. From all the advice that we have been able to obtain from the employers and other sections involved, we have not been able to find any strenuous objection to the Act as it exists at the moment. Even when the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  came into this chamber - I nearly said Minister because one day, 20 to 30 years hence, he may be a Minister in governments, perhaps, succeeding the Whitlam government 
 I know he does: he is a  cv hungry person. But there is little prospect of him becoming  a  Minister. I was surprised that he, wilh all his articulation and with his attempted mock seriousness has not been able to give one practical illustration of a case where such a clause would have been desirable in the interest of the nation as a whole. This should not be looked at as a single case but in the widest perspective, taking a national and overall view of the economy and of the industrial arbitration system. 
The honourable member for Melbourne was not asked to do so;I asked the honourable member for Phillip. I believe that the honourable member for Melbourne might be able to do a little better than the honourable member for Phillip but I have no reason at all to want to establish a competitive spirit between those honourable members and to have one arguing against the other. I want the question answered. We have not been able to get the answer to that question from the man to whom it was directed. 
In our view this clause is not necessary. The Government's case has not been proved. In our view, the proposal will destroy the effect of the measures put to us by the then Department of Labour and National Service as something that was critically important if we wanted to prevent inflationary forces of the kind that I have mentioned being generated in 1973 and 1974 in the same way as happened in 1970 and 1971. I urge the Minister to have another look at this question. I believe it is one clause that could very well be deleted and its deletion would be of benefit to the Labor Party as well as to the country. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6. 
Reconsideration. 
In this case we are dealing with a new, and as I said this morning, alien provision in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It is new in the sense that never before have we had a similar type of provision incorporated in any Act of the Commonwealth. Certainly we have not had anything approaching it incorporated in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act itself. I believe, as I said this morning, that this clause has to be read alongside section 138 of the Act which at present prohibits a boycott or action being taken by a member or officer of a union which is designed to prevent a person complying with the award or with his contract of employment. This provision prevents him from inciting people to go slow or inciting people not to work in accordance with the contract which they have made with their employer. The Government seeks to remove this provision. In other words, this clause, if it becomes law, will permit a shop steward or official of a union to incite people to break awards. This clause will permit people to incite other people to act in a way which is contrary to the contract of employment that they have and to the award which covers the whole of the industry 
If we take it a little further we find that the proposed new sub-section (f) of section  5  of the principal Act relates not as section  138  relates to an official but applies to any employee. We find that it applies to any action which he might take either on the shop floor, within the industry or anywhere else, as is clearly set out, provided only that the employee believes that it is for the purpose of protecting the industrial interests of the union. So here we have a situation in which an employee can turn round and, no matter what he might have agreed to and no matter what the award might say, decide to take action to pull men out on strike. He can say: 'I can take action to ensure they go slow. I can take action to ensure that anything that I believe is in the interests of the union or its industrial interests I can in fact do'. This, as I have said, is totally alien. No case has been made out why we need a clause of this kind in the Bill which will subsequently be incorporated as a section of the Act. No justification has been given whatsoever. 
It is true that the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  attempted to give 2 hypothetical illustrations and the example of the Latrobe Valley. Fortunately he was corrected by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  who sits beside him. The honourable member for Burke pointed out that the problems of the Latrobe Valley were ones about which the Commonwealth did not have jurisdiction, and that this jurisdiction was exercised by the Victorian Government. So he was blown out on this score. He referred to 2 hypothetical problems which need not arise and have not arisen and which, quite frankly, cannot be judged as cases which would in fact justify the incorporation of a clause of this kind in the Bill. 
One other part of the Bill, already referred to by my colleague the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  is the so-called protective provision. It provides that if, through sound managerial practice and in the interests of the corporation in which the employee works, the employee is dismissed because he has done something which is contrary to the best inter ests of the company, in the case of a prosecution the onus of proof shall be shifted from the employee who was sacked and who would have had the obligation of proving that the employer had no right to dismiss him. Thus the onus of proof provision is completely changed. 
We have heard in this chamber tonight of occasions when the late  Dr Evatt  - previously held in high esteem by the Australian Labor Party - has said that certain action should not be taken. We know also that the very same  Dr Evatt  won a referendum that went to the Australian people on the onus of proof clause. The people of Australia decided that when onus of proof was involved it should not be shifted but should reside where true onus of proof should reside and that the dismissed person should have the obligation to prove that he was unjustifiably dismissed or unjustifiably affected in his employment. 
In this Bill is a clause which shows a preference for a particular type of official or person in a union. My colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  has pointed out the growing might of the shop steward. He has pointed to the analogy that exists between Australia and the United Kingdom. Not ons honourable member tonight could deny that the people in the United Kingdom have been virtually driven to their knees by inflation and large scale unemployment, to a large extent as a result of the unco-ordinated activities of shop stewards and the anarchy that they have introduced into British industry, making it impossible to fulfil orders. As a consequence they have been competed out of international markets and slowly and steadily we found, until the Heath Government came to power, the United Kingdom balance of payments changing too rapidly and Britain losing its competitive influence in world affairs. 
Do we want that same kind of anarchical condition to be introduced to Australia or do we want to stand on the law as it exists at me moment and ask that these people observe section 138 of the Act and not be put in a privileged position with power to do whatever they feel is right and which they think is in the interests of the organisations they represent? I wonder what could be worse than giving individuals like these the great power that is vested in them. Here is another example of the Acton dictum that absolute power inevitably corrupts. Undoubtedly it would inevitably corrupt in a place where a man is given the privileged and protected position that members, and particularly shop stewards, are given in these particular circumstances. 
The Opposition regards this matter seriously, being alien as it is and obviously designed to impair the authority of the arbitration commission and the position of management in any industrial concern or industrial business. As we believe it is likely to destroy arbitration as such and lead to the necessity for other kinds of industrial arrangements to be made, the Opposition of necessity will, unless the Minister for Labour is prepared to agree, have to divide on this clause. I warn the Minister for Labour that it is contrary to the Labor Party's interests and to the interests of this country. I hope that in a case like this the Minister will have the common sense not to be guided by some hypothetical sets of considerations and at least will sit down and think hard about it. Is this in the interests of the nation? As a sensible and realistic man the Minister for Labour will come to the conclusion that it is not - that is, if he is a sensible and realistic man. If he does not come to that conclusion, the Opposition will have to put up with this legislation and hope for the early defeat of the Labor Government. 
I ask a supplementary question of the Prime Minister because of his totally inadequate answer to the question asked by my colleague, the honourable member for Mackellar, and the contemptuous treatment of Parliament in the nature of the reply that the Prime Minister gave to that question. I ask the honourable gentleman: ls it not an acknowledged fact, a notorious fact, that the whole trend and direction of Government foreign or international policy has been changed during the course of the last 5 months? Has this change in direction occurred because of the orientation of Government policy toward the communist parties of the world and away from the recognition of the fact that we - the former Government, my own Government - believed that our interests were best served by deepest and continuing associations with the free world- 
I speak on this clause because I think that it is complementary to the other 2 clauses about which I spoke yesterday. They related to the operation of the law of torts as it applies to members of unions and to the privileged position in which it puts trade unionists who state that they are acting in the interests of the union either on the factory floor or in any other place. In my view the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is living in a world of his own, in a fantastic world and in a dilemma of his own creation. No one can deny that today the position of the trade unionist has changed dramatically as compared with the position in the 18th or 19th century. I think that the mind of the Minister for Labour is still in the 18th or 19th century and that his physical presence is in the 20th century. I strongly believe in the philosophy which the honourable gentleman has stated to the Committee relating to the views of the late  Mr Justice  Holmes. We all, I think, believe in fairness and in equality in industrial relations for working men. We believe in their right to combine in order to achieve their industrial purposes. 
That part of the Bill to which we are referring, clause 27 which seeks to insert in the Act new section 46a, deals with a totally different proposition from that which the honourable gentleman has argued about. The truth is that proposed new section 46a and the related section 119 of the Act are directed towards observance of awards. They are not directed specifically to the problems of strikes which can take place outside of an award, for a political purpose or because the unionists are incited to strike by those trade union leaders who usually are of socialist left persuasion. So we look at the clause in this way: We believe that once there is an award there is an obligation on both parties to observe it. They have received the benefits of the award. While they receive the benefits of the award they should accept the responsibility of adhering to it. The opposition does not agree that is difference between the propositions put by the Minister and those that we on this side are putting. 
Taking it a stage further, I think most thoughtful people in this House will agree that in philosophical terms there is no radical difference between the views of the Government and the views of the Opposition - the views that we put when we were in office and the views that we knew the Opposition leaders were putting when they were in opposition. We say that if an agreement or the law provides that there shall be an obligation on an individual, there should be a deterrent to the breaking of the agreement or of the law. No one should doubt that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Labour when in Opposition agreed that there should be an ability to impose fines under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, particularly when there was a voluntary agreement under which was a condition that a fine should be imposed, and the agreement or the law in fact was broken. This is where we come to common ground. I believe that the philosophy of the 2 Parties is identical. 
I thinkI can speak from a great deal of administrative experience of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I had the honour to administer that Act for about 8 years. With the possible exception of the late  Mr Harold  Holt, I think I held the. portfolio for a longer period than anyone else. I dealt with very many redoubtable trade union leaders in that time, particularly the late  Mr Jim  Healy. I remember well when we were having a period of unparalleled industrial disputes, particularly on the waterfront. I confronted the late  Mr James  Healy and his executive, including some of the members of the present executive. We were under compulsion to tell  Mr Healy  that unless he was prepared to ensure better industrial relationships on the waterfront we would introduce legislation similar to the Chifley Coal Industry Act in order to ensure industrial peace, greater production and greater productivity. I remember the anger of  Mr Healy  when I informed him of the Government's intentions. In the few years subsequent to the threat of bringing down legislation for the imposition of penalties, sanctions and deterrents against the union unless it adhered to the existing awards, we had the greatest period of industrial peace that I believe we have known in postwar years. 
No, because there was industrial peace and there was no necessity to impose fines. If the honourable member listened a little more attentively to me yesterday and today he would not make that kind of fatuous interjection. I was referring to my personal experience. We believe that if tnere is an award there must be some means of instituting deterrents. There must be some means of ensuring that the terms of the award are carried out. We regard this clause as being of critical importance and one on which the Committee should divide if the Government is intent on pursuing it to finality. 
What does the proposed new section 46A provide? It provides that no longer will it be possible to put into an award that is duly made a bans clause to prevent certain types of action by members of the trade union movement. The exact words are these: 
The Commission is not empowered - 
to include in an award, or to vary an award so as to include, a term, however expressed, by virtue of which engaging in conduct that would hinder, prevent or discourage - 
the performance of work in accordance with the award; . . . is, to any extent, prohibited; 
In other words, it completely neutralises one aspect of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act; that is the power to ensure that awards are regarded as contracts that have to be observed by both parties. The new position also gives the opportunity for complete neutralisation of the award and thus destroys effectively that part of the operation of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which relates to listening to the parties and negotiating an agreement, or if that is not possible, to arbitrating thus ensuring that the conciliation or arbitration process will be made effective. I believe that this power - that is the power to include a bans clause and also the power to be able to ensure its effectiveness - is so vital tha unless we in this chamber are successful in having the clause retained we will have no alternative but to divide and to vote against the Government's proposal. 
In the minute and a half remaining to me I want to point out that we know that today the power of the trade unions is infinitely greater than the powers of management. We know that under current circumstances and in contemporary life there has to be one or perhaps two organisations or institutions which can ensure that there is justice and equity for all. That is the function of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and, for that matter, it is the function of the Government itself. The whole trend and thrust of the Bill now before the committee is to reduce the capacity and power of the Government and of the Arbitration Commission and to give greater power to the trade union movement, to make it a law unto itself. I believe that the Bill will give to the trade union movement a power that can not only gradually change social conditions in this country but can also create the elements, the basis upon which inflation will become permanently part and parcel of our economic and social life. This will gradually destroy our capacity to produce and gradually compete us out of international trade. Therefore, this is one clause on which the Opposition is determined to divide the Committee. 
The Opposition supports the Bill now before the House. We do so for an obvious reason which I think would be well known to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  It is that this Bill was in fact inherited from my own Government which set the foundations and established the background against which the Bill was able to be presented. Generally speaking, the background of this Bill is this: In, I believe, October 1971 the Treasury commenced an internal inquary into superannuation schemes in the Commonwealth. The investigatory committee consisted of officers of the Treasury, members of the Superannuation Board, the Government Actuary and, if my memory is correct, a representative of the Public Service Board was later added to the committee. The inquiry was an internal investigation by the Treasury. However, my colleague the then Treasurer, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  early in 1972 made a statement relating to the matter and called on a'l people who. thought that they could make a contribution to the inquiry to give their advice and assistance to the committee. 
The House will also remember that during the course of the 1972-73 Budget the then Government stated that it would establish a committee to consider ways and means of financing the abolition of the means test and to look into the general problems of superannuation. 
Later, after the Budget had been delivered, 1 stated that we had appointed Professor Henderson to carry out a major survey into the causes and the incidence of poverty and the action that should be taken by the Government in order to overcome poverty, wherever it might be. At the time we were drafting the Budget we examined the book prepared by the Applied Institute of Economic Science. We ensured that, on every single item touched on by the Henderson Committee at that time, the bentfits that were granted in the Budget would exceed the poverty lines as established by that Committee. 
I well remember at that time discussing the matter in Cabinet, particularly with the then Minister for Social Services, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  We discussed the problems that we would face. We wanted to deal with another problem, namely, whether we should tie the base rate social service pension and the base rate repatriation pension to an index. We looked at such -matters as tying those pensions to average weekly earnings or to the gross national product - I suppose it would now be the gross domestic product - and we also looked into whether we could take into consideration contemporary salary rates for comparable types of employment and tie the pensions to those. We decided also that we would '"n1, ^ other matters which I will deal with later. 
Later - 1 believe it was about 13th November 1972 - I personally appointed Professor Pollard to carry out an investigation into superannuation and pension schemes, particularly in relation to index ties and other matters of that kind. In the statement forwarded to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  by Professor Pollard, the Professor gives full credit to my Government for initiating the inquiry. Professor Pollard considered various means of adjusting pensions. I have mentioned some of those that we considered. Most of them were also given a most detailed and careful investigation by Professor Pollard. The first one that I think he dealt with - it was only this morning that I was able to examine the report - and which was examined very carefully was the question of tying superannuation or social service benefits to the national salary level existing at the time that changes were made and having regard to level of salary of comparable employment existing in the Service at the time of the change. Professor Pollard rejected that proposal for reasons which, though I do not completely agree with them, are sufficient justification for abandoning that method. 
He then went on to examine a method which was favoured by my colleague, the then Minister for Social Services. That was adjusting superannuation and pension benefits in line with changes in gross national production. I believe that this method Professor Pollard effectively ruled out because there were too many elements to be taken into consideration which could move in disparate or opposite ways and could therefor have a distorting effect. He also pointed out, rightly I believe, that there can be changes in gross national production by reason of seasonal factors, as for example  a  drought or changes in the price of wool or other primary commodities. So I believe he was quite right in removing this method from consideration. 
Professor Pollard also examined the question of tying pensions and superannuation payments to average weekly earnings. For similar reasons to those which we had discussed ourselves - that is, that average weekly earnings include overtime payments and payments for piece work - it was considered that this method was not appropriate for the purpose of adjusting pension payments. He also, wisely, drew attention to the fact that Public Service salaries are usually increased at a rate slightly below those of the average weekly earnings and that consequently if this method of adjustment were adopted Public Service salaries over a period of years would get out of kilter with the payments made to pensioners. 
It will be seen here that there was a consistent line of policy and activity by my Government. We wanted pensions to be increased and we had various reasons for wanting pensioners to be able to join in the increased wealth that a country like ours, is able to produce. What' was the change in philosophy that inspired my own Government? I think it is true to say that for very many years it was believed that it was the responsibility of the Government to reduce or to eliminate freedom from fear and freedom from want and that consequently the pensioner should be entitled to have confidence in the fact that he would in moments of anguish and trial be assured of a base pension that would cover, first of all, the basic necessities and later on the conventional necessities such as housing, food and clothing, health and welfare services and similar types of necessities. 
I think it must be accepted that anyone who looks at the history of 23 years of achievement is entitled to say that in making a comparison with other countries Australia has done better than most and it has indeed a creditable record. But in recent years - and I can speak emphatically about the last 22 months when my own Government was in office - we evolved a new type of policy. We came to these conclusions. First of all, that there should be automatic adjustments to basic pension payments including repatriation pensions. We believed that in a country like ours which was growing increasingly in wealth and whose prospects were increasing daily, that the pensioner should not only be entitled to automatic adjustments based on changes in the cost of living but also should receive increases in his pension which would permit a continual improvement in his standard of living. 
In my policy speech delivered on 14th November I stated that we would have automatic adjustments to the base rate of pension, that the adjustment would be carried out halfyearly and that at budget time we would ensure that in order to make certain that the pensioner did receive the benefits of greater growth, the budget itself would make the necessary appropriations to permit higher standards of living for these people. 
It is obvious that Professor Pollard has noted carefully all that my own Government had done and all the recommendations that it had approved. I congratulate Professor Pollard in recommending that the adjustments should be automatic and that the Commonwealth's share of the adjusted pensions should be 1-4 per cent of the changes that occurred in the consumer price index. That was the index that my own Government would have used for social service payments. There is one proviso - and I should mention it - and that is that the percentage increase itself should not be greater than the percentage increase in average weekly earnings. 
Other provisions made in this Bill which I and my Party believe are of great importance include adjustment of the pension in this way and making certain that in the very unlikely event that the consumer price index goes down the pension itself will not be reduced. The Bill provides a built in protection against inflation because the greater the inflationary pressures the greater the increase will be in the pension and the less the inflationary pressures the less will be the increase in the pension. This, 1 believe, is an adjustment which must be of benefit and it is one of which we on this side of the House certainly approve. Adjustments will be automatic. Under this legislation the adjustment will apply from the first pension pay day in July. 
I said that pensions would not be reduced. May I also mention 2 other statements which have been made in the second reading speech of the Treasurer? The first is that the rights of the widow will be  protected.  In the case of orphans and children, this is now under review and it will be considered by Professor 
Pollard as will the other matters which have been referred to him under the terms of reference of the inquiry. The only reservation - perhaps I should not even put it as a reservation - is that I do hope that when Professor Henderson, in considering his report relating to social services, repatriation payments and the means of abolishing poverty within this country looks at automatic adjustments he will take notice of the arguments that are set out in the Pollard report and make adjustments based on the consumer price index with, if necessary, some additional adjustment based upon the fact that the community is becoming increasingly wealthy. In other words, making improvements consistent with both our increased wealth and the changes in productivity - we should ensure that pensioners and superannuation recipients are able to share in the improved economic conditions and are able to feel that the Government wants to abolish freedom from need, freedom from fear and freedom from want. We should all make our contribution to ensure that those ideals of a social services scheme, or a superannuation or pension scheme are observed. Having said that,. 1 do express some regret that the Treasurer did not mention that most of these proposals were initiated by my Government. I congratulate the honourable gentleman on the proposals which he has put before the House. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I want to state my reasons for thinking that the Bill before us relating to the territorial seas, the continental shelf, the historical bays and internal waters is objectionable. But before I do that may I refer to the fact that the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  who preceded me in this debate is doing so under at least one misapprehension, and that is that the Commonwealth Government has not the power to deal internationally with the problems which face us not only in this Bill but in two other measures which were before us both yesterday and today. There is no doubt that so far as the external power is concerned the Commonwealth has the power and this power is not in any way objected to or contested by the State governments. In fact, when we were negotiating with Indonesia over the dividing lines of the continental shelf between that country and Australia all States accepted the fact that the Commonwealth had legitimate and constitutional authority to do so. 
Let me put this matter into perspective against a background of the other 2 Bills that we have been looking at in the House and which were covered by the guillotine and adopted against our wishes. 
I refer to the Bill relating to the national pipeline grid and the Bill relating to the Australian National Airlines Commission which extended the powers of Trans-Australia Airlines. 
Honourable members will see that these 2 Bills and the Bill we are now considering contain a vast extension of Commonwealth powers and that if the High Court upholds the constitutional validity of the Bills and there is any inconsistency between the Commonwealth and State laws then, to the extent of that inconsistency, the Commonwealth laws will prevail. 
I repeat, each of these Bills contains a vast extension of power. I favour private enterprise if it is able and willing to do the job, for reasons that I cannot canvass now. I believe that private enterprise has made a magnificent contribution to the development of this country and that it is at least as efficient as most of the enterprises that are under Commonwealth or State control. 
The National Pipeline Authority is not solely a common carrier. It does not have the sole function of building the pipeline and ensuring the carriage of hydrocarbons and crudes from their place of production to other distribution points within the Commonwealth. Far from that being the position, the Authority has power from the well-head to the point of distribution to control every single aspect of production and distribution. If honourable members read the Act with a great deal of interest and attention they will see that the Authority has the power to intrude very nearly onto the factory floor and into practically every avenue of production. 
An extension of power has been given to the Australian National Airlines Commission which operates Trans-Australia Airlines. As I look at the position the powers of TAA extend, to put it shortly, from Casinos to contraception. 
I believe that this is not what honourable members realised when they heard the title of the Bill and were able to look at the preamble. I believe that both of these Bills have been motivated either by a political objective or by ideological goals. They are of a radical and harmful kind. This is socialisation by stealth. If one examines the preambles to and the titles of the Bills it will be seen that nowhere could it be seen that there would be an extension of power in the way provided in this Bill. Not only is it socialisation by stealth, but also socialisation by deceit. 
I turn now to the actual Bill which relates to the territorial sea, the continental shelf, historical bays and waterways and interior waters. 
The Bill is concerned also with a mining code to which I shall first address my remarks. The mining code was tabled in this House only 10 days ago. It contains 93 clauses of complicated material and is extremely difficult to understand. I doubt that 10 honourable members have read the mining code and I certainly doubt that 5 honourable members, if they have read it, are capable of understanding it. I am prepared to suggest that if this matter were debated on television the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  would not be able effectively to debate the 93 clauses in that code. 
The Government did not present either a green or a white paper explaining the objectives and the means of achieving the objectives of this code. It has given honourable members no time in which to debate this matter as, for example, when my Party was in government we tabled a White Paper and afforded the then Opposition ample time to debate a Bill concerned with conciliation and arbitration. The Government has been prepared to introduce this Bill, guillotine the debate and push the legislation through with a maximum of haste, and without giving any explanation. 
This is another classic example of the contempt with which this Parliament is being treated by the Government. It is contempt not only of the Parliament but also of the mining industry which has part of the great responsibility of developing Australia and of providing the international exchange and finance on which our future national growth, progress and development depend. I refer to every aspect of national growth and progress, including the provision of houses and all those things which the Opposition believes are the basis on which the better society is created. The Government is also contemptuous of the Australian people because few Australians will be able to understand the real substance and real purpose of this Bill. 
I believe that the mineral Division of this Bill are confused and are too difficult to understand. Consequently it would be in the best interests of Australia if this Division of the Bill were rejected and not passed into law. 
On the question of sovereignty, I earlier mentioned various matters including the territorial sea and submerged land. Even if this Bill were passed into law and the High Court ruled that every provision in it was both constitutional and valid a large residue of functions and constitutional responsibility would still remain under the jurisdiction of the State governments. This undoubtedly means that ultimately there must be consultation, cooperation and agreement between the Commonwealth and the States if we are satisfactory to handle the national problems that are faced up to partially in this Bill. 
I have no doubt that sovereignty should be determined, but the Government and the Opposition have differing views on how it should be done and on the ways and means of achieving the objective. The Opposition believes that it can be satisfactorily resolved by negotiation. There are precedents to prove this can be done. The Government is demanding a confrontation. It is not willing to try the successful methods that have been tried in the past. It wants, to the limit of its capacity, to ensure that the States are compelled to submit to the jurisdiction of the High Court. I believe this is an ineffective way of dealing with the problem. I believe that method decided on by the McMahon Government with a view to securing resolution of this problem is the preferable method. 
There should be consultation, co-operation and agreement between the Commonwealth and State governments. As I see it there is ample reason for believing that this solution is practicable and possible. Let us consider the alternative - the means adopted in at least 5 different countries over the last 25 years. If we persist in trying to solve this problem by litigious means - that is by litigation in the courts - it is highly improbable that there will be a solution within a reasonable time. I instance the experience of the United States of America, where, for the past 25 years, they have been attempting by litigious means to get a solution of this problem. Even today after 25 years there are still 3 cases before the American courts demanding resolution. We have precedents favouring negotiation and agreement, as was mentioned by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  who spoke earlier in this debate, related to off-shore production, pollution problems, deep sea channels, lighthouses and other matters. Those problems were resolved by successful negotiation and I believe that this method should be tried in this case. 
During the time when I had the good fortune to be Prime Minister negotiations were commenced with the States to agree on a solution. On 5th September last year I was able to write to the State Premiers suggesting that officials should meet in order to work out the problems and to present to the Commonwealth and State governments recommendations concerning methods by which the problems might be handled. I have good reason to think that at least with the Liberal Party Premiers and the Country Party Premier of Queensland there was a reasonably good chance - perhaps better than a reasonably good chance - of coming to an accommodation. That is conclusive proof that consultation and co-operation is the preferable means of resolving differences. And it avoids all the irritation and problems associated with long drawn out litigation. 
Earlier I mentioned that the honourable member who preceded me in this debate had made a mistake concerning the international jurisdiction of the Commonwealth. I conclude on these notes: Firstly, I do not think it desirable that the States should take the problem of sovereignty and of jurisdiction to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. In an inter se matter of this kind, a difference of opinion between the Commonwealth and the States, the Australian courts should decide sovereignty. I do not think that the Judicial Committee would agree to handle this problem and it is objectionable to me that this course of action should be suggested. Secondly, I believe that we should be generous in our approach to the States in dealing with this matter, particularly so far as royalties are concerned. I know that when my colleague the right honourable member for Higgins (Mr Gorton) was Prime Minister he was prepared to deal very generously with the States and to open up a new avenue through which they would be able to obtain the finance necessary to carry on their responsibilities. 
I think that that is the right approach and I strongly support proposals which would give the States more than 50 per cent of the total royalties obtained through mineral and oil prospecting and production. 
This is not the time to bring down legislation of this kind. It never will be the right time for it because there are better methods of achieving our objectives. We have plenty of time and that being so, let us now exploit the known methods of success which we are sure will be satisfactory to the States. Then we may proceed in goodwill to get a satisfactory solution. 
I favour private enterprise. I believe it can do the job. I see no reason why the Commonwealth should intervene and spend not $ 1,200m but probably 3 times that amount if past performances and multipliers can be any criterion. In dealing with sums between $3,000m and $4,000m it is necessary to take into consideration the fact that the money has to be raised by the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth would have to compromise its fiscal and monetary policies. It places burdens on the Commonwealth. It would be far better if the project were carried on outside the governmental sphere. The Government could be given a greater degree of flexibility, not only in social welfare payments but also in other developmental projects in which the State governments are unable to participate because they are beyond their capacity, and greater capacity to finance projects to which private enterprise cannot or will not commit itself. 
Yes, I do. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has mentioned the facts leading up to this incident in the statement he has just made and I will base my remarks on them in the statement I now intend to make. I will put it as shortly as I can. I had not discussed the question of the withdrawal of the relevant questions that were placed on the notice paper, relating to travailing allowances, with the Leader of the Opposition at any time, until yesterday; nor did I request any member of Parliament to approach the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  and convey a message to him from me asking him to withdraw the relevant question. The fact is that from the date of the withdrawal of the Kerr recommendations relating to members salaries and allowances I had given an unqualified commitment to have those increased Canberra travelling allowances brought before, the Parliament in due course. 

 - Mr Chairman- 

Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Amendment negatived. 
We are now considering cognate. Bills relating to both appropriation and supply. They provide the opportunity for a thoroughgoing survey of the way in which the economy is heading. I want to analyse those trends today. It is an indisputable fact that the Whitlam Government inherited a healthy, growing economy on 2 December 1972. Late last year I forecast that by June of this year we would be approaching boom conditions without any further stimulus at all. It is obvious that that forecast has turned out to be correct. We knew that unemployment would sharply fall and would be at a low level by the end of March 1973. This too has turned out to be true and has surely discredited the alarmist forecasts of the then Labor Opposition and many others, particularly the private enterprise crystal ball gazers and the so-called technical experts at the Institute of Applied Economics, Melbourne. They were wrong, dismally wrong and regrettably the country will have to pay the penalty. 
Few people oan deny the proposition that a Government winning office after 23 years or more in the political wilderness must be given the opportunity to introduce social reform policies consistent with its electoral mandate. But no one can sensibly argue that the right should extend to policies that are contrary to all the rules of sensible and rational economic management and commonsense; policies that will do harm, place a break on national development and create the conditions in which the rich speculators get richer and the poor get poorer and more disillusioned. 
Supply Bill (No. 1) appropriates $1,556,348,000 for departmental expenses, defence services and advances to the Treasurer. Supply Bill (No. 2) appropriates $404,973,000 for Capital Works and Services, payments to and for the States and further advances to the Treasurer - a total of close to $2,000m. 
These are prodigious sums appropriated in the last 3 months of the financial year and they must stimulate inflationary forces. The Treasury Round-up of Economic Statistics Nos. 1 to 4, which cover the January-April period of this year, clearly indicates the trend. I quote from the January report. It states: 
Demand appears to have risen strongly  in the  December quarter. 
In April the relevant report said: 
The strong upturn in the economy is continuing. 
Of course, that refers to actual, not forecast figures. This is the background against which we must consider our present woes. 
The latest Round-up, No. 4 for March, says: 
Production and employment are continuing to grow strongly, Demand continues to strengthen. Housing particularly setting the pace. Actual registered unemployed were down to 1.41 per cent of the work force and the Consumer Price Index rose by 2.1 per, cent in March. 
In previous debates I have highlighted, the fact that the primary cause of inflation was of a cost-wages kind, driven along by wage and salary increases in excess of productivity. Today it is due to a variety of causes: Wage costs are still plaguing us, but are now being strengthened by demand inflation, strikes and shortages of supply and bottlenecks in critical industries. The following factors are now the decisive influences on inflation: Firstly, average incomes are rising at the rate of about 10 per cent per annum. Secondly, demand is rising strongly. In consumer spending retail sales are about 1 1.4 per cent higher than last year. In the first quarter of the year they rose by $40m. New passenger vehicle sales are 18 per cent higher than last year. In housing, commencements are 21 per cent up on the March quarter of the previous year, to 38,526 commencements. Thirdly, other private investment is still a bit sluggish but with signs of revival. Fourthly, total budget outlays rose to $2,46 1m in the March quarter, a rise of 25.9 per cent. 
This is a rise to a disastrously high level. This is an element wholly within the control of the Whitlam Government. Consequently we must draw the conclusion that the Government has lost control of expenditure. This is further evidence, along with revaluation and the asinine statements about the permanent building societies that the Government does not understand the politico-economic effects of what it is doing. 
Turning to one of the elements of inflationary pressures I have mentioned, there are clear and continually growing indications of inadequacies of supply. 
Orders for locally produced steel cannot be completed and world shortages for some varieties are appearing. As the Round-up of Economic Statistics for May says: 
The now clearly excessive demands upon the housing sector are evidenced by the continuing lengthening of the construction pipeline and the sharp rises occurring in costs and prices. 
Unemployment has fallen to about 81,000* Shortages of tradesmen of various kinds are occurring in many industries and unskilled workers in the right places and classes are becoming increasingly difficult to find. 
Industrial strikes have increased with their impact on production and productivity. These figures for January and February 1972 and 1973 relating to lost working hours and wages are instructive. In 1972 186,000 working hours were lost. In 1973 the figure had risen to 330,000. In 1972 $2,8000,000 in wages had been lost and in 1973 the figure was $5,461,000. I remind the House that those figures relate to 2 months only and not to the whole year. This, as every member of the House must concede, is a pretty grim reminder of the economic and the 'sociopolitical' consequences of Labor. 
I turn now to the No. 1 problem facing us today, that is, the rate of increase in inflation. I want to measure its probable growth in 1973-74 based on the facts as we now know them. 
Inflationary pressures are best measured by the relationship between productivity and average earnings. If the rise in average earnings exceeds the growth in productivity, the tendency must be for inflation to fill the gap between the two. In my opinion, we will be lucky if productivity rises by as much as 4 per cent. The expectation towards the end of last year of a much higher rate of about 5 to 6 per cent cannot now be fulfilled. Average earnings are now rising, at the rate of about 10 per cent per annum. They rose by 9 per cent in the December quarter of last year. But with demand rising very strongly; shortages in various industries occurring with growing frequency; the power of the left wing trade unions being ruthlessly exploited to extract higher wages; the impact of the $2.50 and the 2 per cent increase in the national wage, adding at least $850m to the current wage bill, or about 4) per cent to average earnings - these are Commonwealth Government figures - and the $9 increase in the minimum wage - the cost of which cannot be accurately determined by anyone but which the Minister for Labor thought would add about $300m to the wage bill - we would have to be extremely lucky in this 'lucky country' to prevent average earnings rising by less than 12 per cent during 1973-74. 
Taking a conservative view, this means that subtracting productivity from average earnings - that is with average earnings on a rise of 12 per cent and with productivity of 4 per cent - we have a rate of inflation rising during 1973-74 to at least 8 per cent. What effect will this have on the taxpayer? As I have said, average earnings will rise by about 12 per cent. The average wage earner will lose about 4 per cent of his wage or salary rise in tax and about 8 per cent in inflation. In this brave new world of incestuous and extravagant Labor Party economic and fiscal policies, the taxpayer will not receive any increase in real terms because of increased earnings of 12 per cent. If the worker is paid above $150 a week - with a marginal rate of tax of onethird - he will probably lose. Speaking of the taxpayer, including the management group, I said in my Policy Speech last year that rising money incomes bring with them steeply rising income tax. As our Liberal record demonstrates, we have no intention of letting personal income taxation become a brake on incentive. I said we would continue with these policies and also with the restructuring of taxation scales at desirable intervals. In fact, there were 2 reductions each of about 10 per cent in 1970-71. Labor will not reduce personal taxation, although, it says it will not increase it. Consequently there will be a continuous squeeze on the income earners. 
Let hie turn to the critically important question of the direction in which Labor' Party policies are taking us. What are they doing? What have they done? Let me sum it up. Treasury 'Information Bulletin' No. 69 relating to the January Budget figures shows that measures taken by the Whitlam Government on the expenditure side were then estimated to add $168m to expenditures in 1972-73 and $331m in 1973-74. This seems bad enough. It is the familiar story of too much money chasing too little production and setting the stage for more strikes, bottle-necks and industrial turbulence. But the January figures do not reflect the picture today. The most recent figures I can find show that the actual deficit in the first 9 months of 1972-73 amounted to $l,685m compared with the 1971-72 deficit of $ 1,296m for the same length of time, a difference of a $3 89m increase compared with last year. 
That is not the end of the road. Let us look at Labor's next Gadarene rush. In the March quarter of this year, total Budget outlays were $2,461m - 26 per cent higher than in the March 1972 quarter. Government spending has not run riot - it has gone mad. 
It is now estimated by a very eminent economist,  Mr G.  R. Mountain, that the deficit for 1972-73 will rise substantially to about $ 1,000m. That is, $370m more than the Budget figures, and this is at a time when no stimulus is needed. Last year the Budget deficit was $186.9m, a time when stimulus was desirable. The prospects for 1973-74 are for a large Budget deficit too. This is crazy economics and must adversely affect us all, except the speculators and dealers in the money market. 
I turn now to Labor policies for controlling inflationary forces and some of the comments that have been made by economists of considerable talent and ability. In my view the proposal for a prices justification tribunal is not drama. It is not even good theatre. It is a farce. It does not touch causes but only effects. I have mentioned that the causes are primarily wages and the others I have already mentioned. The clearest example of the idiocy of trying to control effects is with retail sales, which vary daily over a wide range of products and goods. Clearly lt is both administratively impossible and economically inefficient as a means of controlling inflation at the source. As  Mr Routley,  of the Commonwealth Department of Labour, pointed out at a meering of professional economists in Adelaide on 24 May 1973: 
A Prices Justification Tribunal would have to be supplemented by a restraint on wage increases- 
A policy absolutely anathema to Labor and the Australian Council of Trade Unions - and that if you were doing something about wage increases you would have to do something about the fight to strike. 

 Mr Philip Bentley, of Macquarie University, at the same Forum said: 
The Unions have quite successfully ignored a Price Justification Tribunal that has been in existence for some time. 
That is the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Obviously  Mr Philip  Bentley disagrees with the false statements of  Mr Hawke  and the Minister.  Mr Robert  Jay, a reader in public accountancy at the Australian National University, said that Australian businesses had not been taking advantage of inflation to boost prices and that a prices justification tribunal was particularly inappropriate. 
The Parliamentary Committee on Prices does not touch causes but concentrates on the end product or effects. I believe it is a politi cal stunt and almost farcical gesture and can have little real effect. I forbear comment on the search and destroy mission of  Dr Coombs,  who will need to play economics in a more nimble way than he plays squash, especially with me. 
Labor policies in the monetary and fiscal field to reduce liquidity are hopelessly inconsistent - somewhat like Stephen Leacock's Lord Ronald who 'flung himself upon his horse and rode madly off in all directions'. I assure the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that I did not get that quotation from his Old Testament friends whom he is so used to quoting in this House. An increasing Budget deficit is inconsistent with the virtual ban on international capital inflow which has had the effect of diverting borrowing to domestic sources. Borrowers have simply turned from overseas lending sources to home trading banks for new and increased overdraft limits, however long they may have been economically buried. It is inevitable too under such a policy and a promise of no extra taxation that Government domestic borrowings must be substantially increased next year. 
Interest rates will be pushed up still more. Whilst savings are increasing, the expansion is not unlimited and the Labor policies will, unless changed, inevitably lead to a squeeze on domestic savings. Private enterprise will be squeezed in the market, which in its turn must have an impact on employment and growth. The alternative is credit expansion - the use of the printing press, which, under present conditions, must still further add to inflationary pressures and the real gap between official and market rates of interest. 
I mention the increased use of overdraft facilities by the Australian trading banks to replace overseas loans. Unused overdrafts of the Australian trading banks have grown in this way: July 1971, $l,144m; January 1972, $l,290m; July 1972, $l,637m; January 1973, $2,1 18m; and March of this year $2,267m. Actual advances have moved in the same direction in the following way: July 1971, $4,835m; January 1972, $4,926m; July 1972, $5,378m; January 1973, $5,960m; and March 1973, $6,207m. These unused overdraft facilities are a component of liquidity and a potential and readily available stimulus to inflation. Associated with the rapid increase in demand they stand as a warning to the Government that there are many fuels to add to the present inflationary fires. 
Interest rates are moving up despite the protestations of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and his own new brand of economics. Official rates in the May loan were up by 0.5 per cent for medium and long term loans and for short term loans by about 1 per cent. We had brought them down from 7 per cent to 6 per cent. This loan of $80m cash and $69m of conversions was an obvious flop, particularly when looked at in perspective, that is, of rising gross domestic product, money supply and incomes. The May 1971 loan raised $197m, a pretty sharp contrast with $80m in the last May loan. Calls to special reserve deposits with the Reserve Bank have so far been cautionary with little impact either on liquidity or borrowing-lending psychology. 
On external account there is a continued current account surplus of $240m in the 3 months to April compared with a deficit of $22m last year, but there is an overall balance of payments deficit of $380m compared with a surplus of $478m in the 3 months to April 1972. Obviously somebody has to pay for this loss and naturally it is the general taxpayer and consumer. International reserves during December 1972 rose to $5,048m. They were reduced by $232m as a consequence of revaluation. They fell to $4,220m on 30 April 1973 largely as a result of upward revaluation again. Revaluation with all its academic attractions has turned out to be a dubious and counter-productive economic weapon. 
The trade components of the balance of payments, exports and imports, have moved in a contrary direction to that theoretically expected at the time of the December and 1972 revaluations. Our balance of trade surplus and surplus on current account is growing fast. The very strong expectations due to upward revaluation that there would be a fall in the price of imports into Australia and reduced returns to Australian exporters, thus narrowing the gap in the balance of payments, has not occurred. The official import price index has fallen much less than the export price index has risen. In fact, overseas prices for a large range of exports have risen substantially. I understand that, as an example, prices of goods imported from the United States have increased by about 21 per cent. So we have had a crazy mix-up of the normal market adjustments by means of the exchange rate mechanism, and the direct controls on capital inflow, that is a ban on short term loans and very severe restrictions on long term loans by means of variable deposits; so much so that the 'money' market, domestic and international, has virtually been destroyed in Australia. 
It's time' both for a change in government and a new look at monetary policy, The Labor Government or some outside technical and professional experts should make an in-depth analysis of present policies and their inconsistencies and develop a rational and effective policy consistent with contemporary events and trends in order to promote growth with an acceptable level of inflation. If they do not want to do this we on this side of the House will be only too happy to help them out of their difficulties. 
There are 2 subjective elements that ought to be taken into consideration when thinking about the Budget proposals for 1973-74. They are the psychology of the buyer, the businessman and the trade unions and the expectations of oversea! interests. Psychology can quickly be affected by a determined and persistent assault by the Government on inflationary conditions. The 1969-70 experience is too recent to be forgotten. The market psychology is capable of changing quickly and unpredictably. But the expectations and opinions of overseas interests are easier to gauge. There is no doubt that overseas interests are growing increasingly sceptical and dubious about capital transactions here. In the short run this may be desirable. In the medium and long terms it could work severely against the interests of this country. But this is a subject for another day. The overall conclusion is clear. Obstinately the Government seems determined to keep on trying to spend its way out of difficulties. In fact, the economy is heading for a mess. But there is still time. Sound fiscal , and monetary policies associated with stronger and more persuasive arguments before the Arbitration Commission can reduce the pressure before it is too late. 
I said at the beginning that the Labor Government inherited a soundly based economy, growing rapidly prospering, producing goods and services in ever increasing quantities, with growing concern for the quality of life and the environment and with a more equitable distribution of all the goods and services produced. What a pity. The prospects were so good. The bases of success are now being quickly destroyed by a government that totally disregards all the canons of sound economic management. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. He will remember that in answer to an interjection by me in the House last week he said he was going to Washington. Yesterday he said at a Press conference that an official invitation was not necessary to visit Nixon. I ask him: Has any other Australian Prime Minister ever before visited Washington with the expectation of seeing the  President  without a formal invitation being issued? I remind him that when I visited Washington in September 1971 it was in response to an official invitation. Does he not think that it is humiliating to the Australian people that an Australian head of Government should create the impression that, Watergate style, he is crashing into the White House uninvited? 
This Bill relates to the administration of the Commonwealth of Australia electoral laws. At the present time the organisation responsible for the administration of the Australian electoral laws comes under the jurisdiction of one of the departments of state. It has no foundation in a statute of its own. Consequently it is not independent, nor does it have the appearance of being independent. 
For some time - I can go back as far as 1965 - various suggestions have been made to the effect that there should be a statutory office for the Electoral Office and that the office should be independent of any department and directly responsible to a Minister. The Bill also seeks to substitute the word 'Australian' for the word 'Commonwealth' wherever it appears in relation to the Commonwealth electoral laws. As an illustration, clause 4 of the Bill provides that the Commonwealth Electoral Office is to be known from now on as the Australian Electoral Office and the titles of the senior officers are to be Chief Australian Electoral Officer, Deputy Chief Australian Electoral Officer and Australian Electoral Officer in each of the States. I think that this is a wise provision, giving independence and with the appearance of independence as it does. I think the word 'Australian', with all its meaning for us, is far better than the word Commonwealth'. 
There is one other matter of importance. There has been - for as long as I can remember, anyhow - a great deal of trouble not only with regard to the officials of this Parliament but also with the members of the Australian Electoral Office, as it is to be called, in establishing their proper place in the range of scales that exist within the whole salary structure of the Commonwealth Public Service. 
It should be known, 1 was continually worried about the status and the salaries of officers of this House. Just as I thought of their responsibilities and of the necessity for them to be upgraded in the salary scales, I have also felt for a long time that the positions of members of the Electoral Office needed to be upgraded and that they needed to be given a status suitable to their responsibilities. Under this Bill it is not necessary for the officers of the division - now the Commonwealth Electoral Office - to apply through normal Public Service channels in order to receive their pay or salary increases. They will be able to make an application direct to their Minister. The Minister can then take it direct to the Cabinet and then have whatever pay scales are authorised validated by the Parliament itself. 
I am sure that this is a long overdue reform and I can assure the Minister for Services and Property that the Bill is worthwhile and should be approved. I have no other contribution to make than to say that the Chief Australian Electoral Officer becomes a Permanent Head with all the rights of a Permanent Head. The rights of the officers themselves, who are transferred, are protected. I understand from my discussions with the Minister that the officers who now occupy the various positions mentioned under the title of Commonwealth Electoral Officer will in fact be put into corresponding positions under the Chief Australian Electoral Officer. We commend the Bill. We think it is long overdue, and I personally compliment the Minister for introducing it and, I hope, getting it through as quickly as he wants to. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has stated that in his opinion the Australian Labor Party's greatest blunder has been the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation affair. I do not agree with him. And even he must be having second thoughts by now. Labor's greatest blunder has been its general economic and financial policy, and that includes the Budget. So let us look at its economic and financial policies in some detail. 
I believe the electorate will clearly show its opinion of Labor's economic blunders committed in the name of doctrinaire socialism as soon as it gets the opportunity to do so. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  admits that this Budget should not be judged on its own. All of the economic and monetary policies and measures of the Government since Labor fraudulently came into office on 2 December of last year must be considered together and their total impact evaluated. Shorn of rhetoric and propaganda what will the effects of the Budget and other Labor economic policies and measures be on the people of this country? 
The Whitlam Government inherited a healthy and growing economy. The Budget of 1972-73 was accepted by most people as economically sound, humanitarian and designed to promote full employment and reduce inflationary pressures. In fact all its objectives have been achieved - a distinct credit to the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden),  who was then the Treasurer, and the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch),  who was then the Minister for Labour and National Service. We showed that we could control inflation with low levels of unemployment Unemployment was steadily falling and inflation, as measured by the consumer price index, had been reduced from about 8 per cent to 4.6 per cent in the December quarter of 1972. 
The Treasury, in its latest annual survey, expressed the opinion that by December 1972 there was good reason for optimism as to the future course of prices. It went on to say that such views were rudely shattered early in 1973. By way of contrast, the rate of consumer price increases has risen to an alarmingly high level of between 12 per cent and 13 per cent and the prospect is that this rate will be sustained. In a veiled but complimentary way the Treasurer admitted that non-farm production at constant prices rose by over 5 per cent and was growing at a faster rate by the end of the year. This was a good performance. 
The growth of non-farm product at constant prices seasonally adjusted - that is a technical term - within the year was considerably higher. In the first half of 1972-73 the seasonally adjusted annual rate of growth was  6i  per cent and there was an acceleration in the second half. These figures make novel and interesting reading now. I wonder how many people believed they were anywhere near as good or as high as this on 2 December 1972. I was not one of them. 
During 1972, as a political tactic, Labor deliberately exaggerated the significance of the trends in unemployment and forecast that it would grow during 1973 to a figure in excess of 18,000. In fact, it is now down to about 76,000, that is, 1.34 per cent of the work force of 5.7 million after taking account of the phasing down of relief work in country areas. Labor was persuaded by its own false political propaganda and came to the conclusion that this country was in for a depression. Since then it has acted as though its political tactics were a correct interpretation of economic trends and it took action to stimulate the economy at a time when no stimulus was needed. Labor's official forecasts turned out to be wrong, seriously wrong, despite Treasury warnings. And the policies it adopted to meet a ficticious set of circumstances have turned out to be wrong too, and will undoubtedly prejudice its electoral prospects. 
Before speaking about these policies let me identify the 2 extremely serious and related socio-economic problems this country faces today. They are the worsening combination of demand and wage cost inflationary pressures and the serious increase in industrial disputes, strikes, loss of working days and wages and industrial lawlessness in the relentless search for wage and salary increases beyond the capacity of industry to pay. 
Let us first look at the problem of demand inflation and the necessity for demand management in the conditions existing in Australia today. In his task force report  Dr Coombs  said: 
Already labour is becoming scarce. So far, rising expenditure has been matched by an increasing flow of goods and services. Nevertheless there are limits to the possible supply of goods and services and we are close to them. 
By now the limit has been reached. Under these circumstances the test of statesmanship and sound economic management lay in ensuring that the growth in internal demand did not exceed the availability of total resources. But Labor washed its hands of any attempt to control inflationary pressures through budgetary action and hared off in the opposite direction. The sensible application of Keynsian economics demanded that increases in Government expenditure, particularly public works expenditure and building contracts, be kept to a minimum and that there should be a considerable domestic surplus in the Government accounts. 
In this context the huge increase in Government spending and the consequent growth in the demand for goods and services in the marketplace were of critical importance if a serious attempt to control inflationary pressures was to be made. In fact, Government expenditures are expected to increase by $1938m or very nearly 19 per cent - an extraordinary large increase, particularly at a time when the economy is working at full pressure. 
I turn now to the other aspect of sound budgetary practice - that is. the Budget accounts and surplus or deficit financing. In fact, there will be not a domestic surplus but an estimated deficit, estimated as at the date of the Budget at $162m. Labor keeps harping on the fact that at the beginning of this financial year, 1973-74, it starts with a lower domestic deficit than the previous government finished with at the end of Budget year 1972-73. It fails to realise that this is a different ball game with different rules. We as a Liberal-Country Party Government started the Budget year 1972-73 with an estimated domestic deficit of $60m. This was at a time when some stimulus was necessary. Labor finished up that fiscal year in June 1973 with a domestic deficit of $2 15m when none was needed. In my opinion, in the present conditions we will be lucky if the deficit for 1973- 74 as a whole can be kept to $400m or $500m, unless there is swingeing taxation and a severe credit squeeze immediately after the Senate election. 
Let me now look at the second basic cause of inflation - wage-costs inflation. The increased inflationary demand pressures will be seriously aggravated by the percentage increases in average weekly earnings in excess of productivity. Wage-costs inflation is an indepedent  in the inflationary equation and can and does compound the inflationary effects of demand inflation. Hidden away in the fine print of the Budget Papers, in Statement No. 2, is the assumption that average weekly earnings will rise by 13 per cent this financial year and that productivity may rise by  2i  per cent to 3 per cent, which could lead to minimum rates of inflation reflected in the consumer price index of about 10 per cent to 11 per cent. Both of these assumptions are subject to very serious qualifications and may turn out to underestimate the increase. I will mention four of the six qualifications. 
Firstly, whilst the Budget may not be properly described as a hone Budget, it will have horrible results in the private sector. Expectations about economic prospects must be affected, with a deadening effect on investment and the introduction of new technologies, particularly in the mining industry. Secondly, a new round of wage negotiations will take place early in 1974 before we have completely absorbed the increase awarded in the national wage case of 1972-73. Already union leaders are stating that they will not be taken in by the 'money illusion' and will expect wage increases to cover rises in both consumer prices and productivity and to pick up the backlog. The year 1973 promises to be a torrid one on the industrial front.  Mr Laurie  Short, the General Secretary of the Federated Ironworkers Association, who knows what he is talking about, said: 
Wage demands for $10 a week or more are very common these days. Demands for $20 could become quite commonplace in the future. 
He went on to say - I and, I believe, all my colleagues can confirm this: 
In today's climate a government which shows itself unwilling or unable to do anything about inflation Will suffer the same fate as a government unwilling or unable to do something about unemployment. 
The Labor Government has, as I have said, washed its hands of any attempt to control inflation through the Budget and will suffer the fate of rejection by the electorate when it next has the opportunity to vote. 
Thirdly, increasingly strong pressures are developing in the labour market and are, with growing inflation, creating the ideal conditions for even bigger wage demands. Fourthly, in combination, Labor policy decisions involving ever growing Government expenditure, Public Service wage and salary increases, increases in the size of the Public Service and Government advocacy of agreement by the Arbitration Commission to maximum wage demands have caused a psychology of expectation. The expectation is that rising prices will intensify and debase the currency and that it is better to spend now than to save for the future. 
There is another side to this picture. Labor is scattering its shot indiscriminately. Not only is it stimulating, inflationary pressures; it is also blasting away at the sources of savings and of production. The consequences of these actions must be understood. Few people outside the Labor Party will doubt that our future development and progress depends on the continued expansion of the marketable resources of the community. That means emphasising expansion of the private sector, not the public sector as advocated by the Treasurer. 
So I now answer the 2 crucially important questions. The first question is: by how much will prices of such things as food, clothing, housing, rates and taxes and transport rise as a consequence of Labor Parly policies and increases? In my view we will be extraordinarily lucky in this extremely lucky country if we get away with a consumer price rise of less than 12 per cent or 13 per cent. 
The second question is: Where does Labor strike next? As the Treasurer has said, this Budget is only a beginning and is designed to clear the decks for the years ahead. The spending spree within the Government sector will go on. The private sector will be still further constrained. 
There can be little doubt that the next move by the Labor Government will be through monetary and interest rate policy - that is, to impose a severe credit squeeze, with the sopping up of the money supply to private individuals and corporations and wish substantial increases in interest rates. We have tried this before and it did not work outside the context of prudent Budget policies and rises in average earnings more appropriate to rises in productivity. So we must look further. If, as seems probable, the Labor Government is window dressing in preparation for a Senate election next year - and possibly a House of Representatives election too - it will, after the elections, introduce a real horror Budget to make up the deficiencies by taxes. 
The Treasurer hinted at such a move in a recent television interview when he said that, because the Prime Minister had indicated that during the first year of the Labor Government he did not propose to increase the income tax, he had ; not been able to do so. The Prime Minister did not use the 'during the first year of the Labor Government' part of the statement. We cannot ignore the impact of the recommendations in the Coombs 'search and destroy' mission. Thirtyfour of his suggestions have been included in the Budget. The remaining suggestions are now being considered. The report is comprehensive, sadistically but well compiled and easy to read. It will repay careful reading by those interested in the future. Lastly, as we know from past experience, the Labor Party has an emotional attachment to direct controls. Of this we can be certain: As Labor pursues its policies and impulses without thought of the consequences and the effects on the lives of individual men and women and on the productive development of this country, while Labor is in office we will be compelled to live under the continued threat of worse to come. 
There is one other matter to which I want to refer in some detail. It involves a question of personal integrity and political morality. It involves the credibility of leadership. In his policy speech the Prime Minister said: 
The huge and automatic increase in Commonwealth revenue ensures that rates of taxation need not be increased at any level to implement a Labor Government's program. 
The Tales for which the wealthier sections of the community,, including companies, are liable are already high enough. 
Later in the speech he said: 
The most pressing need in the tax field is to retard the trend by which inflation has forced lower and middle income earners into the high tax bracket. . . . Modest income earners of, say, $6,000 are being taxed at rates appropriate for  very  high income earners by 1954 standards. 
These statements were given considerable publicity during the election campaign. Despite this, the Budget in Statement No. 5 unashamedly says: 
On the basis of 'existing' rates of taxes and other charges it is estimated that total receipts in 1973-74 would amount to $11, 142m - an increase of 17 per cent on actual receipts in 1972-73. 
Taking into account the effect of the 'new' measures announced in the Budget Speech receipts for the year 1973-74 are estimated to be $ 11,481m, an increase of $339m and of 20.6 per cent on actual receipts in 1972-73. In a full year the increases in tax as a result of the new measures will be $650m. 
This is one of the many policy promises that have been wilfully dishonoured and deserve censure. It is a sorry day in the political life of this country when promises made in the policy speech and confirmed again and again in the political campaign were callously dishonoured because Labor preferred to introduce extravagant new policy measures which could easily have been deferred for a more suitable occasion, as  Dr Coombs  has suggested. 
Let me sum up my reactions and, I think, the considered reactions of large sections of the community. I do not remember so many garrulous and superficial rehearsals of a Budget as there have been on this occasion. And the process of 'top of the head thinking aloud' still continues to create further uncertainties and doubts. But pre-Budget leaks inspired or not inspired were daily and even nightly nightmares. The propaganda tap was turned full an and those who cared to listen or read were either bemused or drowned with doubts. It was a comic affair but it will have a tragic finale. 
The Prime Minister assured the nation that the promises in the policy speech determined labor policy. They would not be affected in the life of this Parliament by the Labor Party platform or new decisions of the Labor convention. Yet promise after promise in the policy speech have been callously, arbitrarily and cynically dishonoured. I have mentioned the wilful dishonouring of the promises made in the policy speech that increases in Commonwealth revenue ensures that rates of taxation need not be increased at any level. 
I add the shabby trick played on home builders by excess spending on housing in the public sector and its stated intention to intro- duce early in the new year an interest rebate scheme which must increase demand, drive up prices and affect the interests of the young married couples, particularly in the outer metropolitan areas of Sydney and Melbourne, that is, in the electorates which voted strongly for the Labor Party in the last election. 
I go further. Despite the election undertaking of  Mr Beazley  that all children whether at state or private schools would be equally the concern of the Labor Government, Labor, without a whimper from the Minister for Education, has blindly followed the Karmel recommendation of discrimination against the independent schools in certain classifications. 
Farm industries have been mercilessly penalised in many cases without rhyme or reason, except that the farmers do .not live in the outer metropolitan areas of Sydney or Melbourne. The mining industries have been battered senselessly and without thought to the impact of Labor's action on future growth. For all these reasons I am sure that the electorate as a whole will reflect its disenchantment of Labor and its desire for a change as soon as it gets the opportunity to do so at the polls. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he believes that, in the interests of public trust and confidence in the Labor Government and of its financial and economic policies, ill-conceived or ill-considered statements or statements creating a false impression of an economically damaging kind should not be made by him or by his Cabinet colleagues. If so, how can he reconcile the Treasurer's statement to which my  colleague the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has already referred this morning, and more particularly his own statement to the Chamber of Manufactures ridiculing the suggestion that there would not be another phase of economic and financial policies with the announcement made on Sunday of the decision to appreciate again the value of the Australian dollar and to increase interest rate structures which already has created great uncertainty throughout the business community? I also ask the Prime Minister: Does he know that it has been a general rule in the past that decisions affecting changes in the value of the Australian dollar have been taken by the Cabinet as a whole- 
Government supporters - Order, order. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question relating to answers he gave in the House last week about official- and bank interest rates, that is of banks which are covered by section 51 of the Constitution. Will the honourable gentleman tell me when he consulted with State Premiers, or Treasurers if that were necessary, in order to obtain their approval for open market operations by the Reserve Bank of Australia with the approval of the Government by which the price of bonds was forced down and the yields on those bonds was forced up, remembering as he will - and as the House will remember too - that he said that interest rates were fixed by the Australian Loan Council. Secondly, can the Prime Minister tell me whether in the case of open market operations by the Reserve Bank there is any precedent whatsoever for consultation with the States before the Reserve Bank engages in these operations? Thirdly, can he also tell me whether he has ever known of any precedent by which interest rates in the trading bank system of the Commonwealth were fixed by other than the Commonwealth Government itself in fact or by a committee of the Government, and not notionally with the approval of the Treasurer? 
The Bill now before the House seeks to amend section 51 of the Australian Constitution by inserting a new paragraph (XiVA.) so as to enable the Australian Parliament to control prices. That is a very limited area and one that does not directly affect the causes of inflation. Section 51 provides that the Parliament shall, subject to the Constitution, have power to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth with respect to 40 different functions of government, such as taxation, naval and military defence, banking, currency, coinage and legal tender, and insurance. These powers are concurrent with powers of the States, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  pointed out yesterday. Theoretically, both the Commonwealth and the States may exercise the power. The concurrent use of power is, however, subject to one vitally important constitutional qualification, that when a State law is inconsistent with a law of the Commonwealth the latter shall prevail and the former shall, to the extent of the inconsistency, be invalid. That section establishes the supremacy of Commonwealth laws over State laws of a concurrent kind. It must also be interpreted against the context that real power rests with the Commonwealth Government in the sense that the power of the purse establishes clear superiority. 
It seems prudent before we become too involved in argument that we should first draw this distinction: The Bill is designed to amend the Constitution to empower the Commonwealth Parliament to make laws relating to prices. In itself this is not enough. The Commonwealth Parliament must, if it wants actually to exercise power over prices, introduce a Bill into this House and have it passed into law by the Parliament. Two separate conditions are necessary: Firstly, the constitutional power and, secondly, the exercise of that power by Parliament. 
My first reaction to the second reading speech of the Prime Minister was that it was a disgrace to the Parliament and bore all the evidence of incomplete and inadequate preparation. It has at least 10 blunders, inaccurate statements or, more accurately, calculatedly crafty misrepresentations bordering on fraud. Let me illustrate. The Prime Minister said: The Australian Government has been active and effective over a broad front from the time we took office and inherited a growing level of inflation. . . . The economy in December continued high inflation with the worst employment for 5 years.' They are the Prime Minister's words, not mine. But these are the facts. According to Professor Nevile, during 1972-73 inflation was lower than in either of the 2 preceding years. In Budget year 1971-72 the consumer price index rose by about 7 per cent to 8 per cent. By the December quarter of 1972 when my Government was in office it had fallen to a rate of 4.6 per cent and as the Treasury had pointed out in its latest annual survey, by December 1972 there was good reason for optimism as to the future course of prices. Treasury went on to say that such views were rudely shattered early in 1973. Treasury had good reason for such optimism and for the rude shattering of its expectations. Again according to Professor Nevile, in the December quarter of 1972 the implicit price deflator which is used for national income and expenditure purposes had been reduced to a rise of only 2.2 per cent and the gross national expenditure deflator had fallen by 2.3 per cent as compared with the previous December quarter. This was a good foundation to build on. But it was quickly shattered by Labor. In the June quarter of 1973 the consumer index under Labor rose by 13.2 per cent. These are the facts. This is where the truth lies, not in what the Prime Minister has said. As to unemployment in actual numbers and leaving aside school leavers, who traditionally and temporarily add to the unemployed in November, December and January, the numbers of unemployed fell from 97,877 in March 1972 to 82,431 in October 1972. I do not believe that any honest and technically qualified person believes or claims that seasonally adjusted figures are an acceptable measure of trends in unemployment. Certainly Treasury does not, nor did the Department of Labour and National Service do so when I administered that Department. The Prime Minister and the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  were predicting unemployment of 180,000. This never came to pass, largely as a result of action taken by my Government. This is the second illustration of crafty misrepresentation. 
The Prime Minister went on to say: 'We, Labor, inherited "stagflation" '. This also is false. As I said in the House - and I have not been contradicted - the Treasurer admitted in a veiled but complimentary way that non-farm production at constant prices rose by over 5 per cent and was growing at a faster rate at the end of 1972. This also was a good performance. And as Treasury pointed out, the growth of non-farm production at constant prices - and if this is what Labor likes - seasonally adjusted, within the year, was considerably higher. In the first half of 1972-73 the seasonally adjusted annual rate of growth was 6i per cent and there was an acceleration in the second half to considerably more than that figure. I repeat that this third statement about inheriting 'stagflation' is false. 
The fourth statement is: *We' - that is, Labor - 'have combined this strong and basically healthy economic situation with the most effective and far-reaching program of social reform*. Does he honestly and sincerely argue that the economy is basically healthy with a consumer inflation rate of 13.2 per cent; with bottlenecks and shortages becoming endemic and covering a very large sector of industry; with the loss of man days worked through strikes reaching record figures - 860,000 in January to June 1973, but twice as many as in January to June 1972 - and with the loss of wages of $13m in January to June 1972, rising to $24m in January to June 1973? Does the Prime Minister claim that the failure to honour promises made in his policy speech and before add up to farreaching and effective reforms? Does he make the same claim in respect of the failure to honour his promise in his own policy speech that he would not increase taxes when in fact he increased taxes in his first Budget by $650m in a full year and $339m in this Budget year? 
Does that claim apply to the failure to honour his promise made at the Festival Hall on 2 May last year that he would not repeal or reduce any educational benefit which is already being paid? I point out that he has already done so. What of the unbelievable series of blunders associated with the home building industry - particularly the provision of homes for young married couples - associated with an ill-conceived and futilely administered policy of increases in both official and market rates of interest which will add about $19.68 a month to the cost of a $15,000 home? Promise after promise has been callously, arbitrarily and cynically dishonoured. Does this add up to far-reaching and effective reforms? Heaven help us if these failures are the basis for the attempt to change the Constitution to give power to the Commonwealth to control prices. The Prime Minister went on to say: 
We assert the basic duty and responsibility of the national Government for economic management. 
I agree that responsibility for overall economic and financial management must be and remain a function of the Commonwealth and I have pressed this view strenuously and persistently during the time I have been in the Parliament. But what is obvious now, and was strongly suspected at the time the Labor Party assumed office, is that Labor had neither the talent nor the ability satisfactorily to administer the Australian economy. Suspicion has now hardened into fact. 
Let us look at the facts again. The pressure of inflation had been substantially reduced at the time we left and Labor assumed office. Now inflation is galloping. Prices are rising alarmingly at a rate of 13.2 per cent, as I have already emphasised. The rate of economic growth was running at a high level. Now, as I have mentioned, bottlenecks are developing. Housing is in a mess and the money market is in turmoil. We showed that we could do the job through the proper application of wage restraint, Budget policy, monetary and income controls, including changes in the value of currency, control of the growth of the civil service and public psychology and persuasion. Labor has failed miserably because it has failed to use the economic, financial and psychological methods available to it even with the good going and all the prospects running for it when it came into office. Is this the kind of government to which greater power should be given? Think and think hard because it is the people of this country, not the members of the Government, who will pay the price and it will be a savagely inflationary one. 
Turning now to the prices referendum Bill itself, these are the reasons why I will vote against the Bill. The Government already has the necessary power to control inflation and therefore prices, but it will not effectively use the weapons available. Why give it more when it has done enough damage with what it already has? Control of prices is a control of effects, not causes. Prices come at the end of a long process. To be effective control must start with the causes. Control must start with, amongst other things, wage and income costs, through the Arbitration Commission; excess demand, through the Budget; import prices, through changes in the exchange rate; the money supply, interest rates and changes in the international value of the currency to sop up the money supply and slow down excessive growth and tariff policy to ensure greater competition. Prices control, even temporarily, would be ineffective without control of incomes, particularly wages. 

 Mr Whitlam led us to believe that  Mr Hawke  had assured him that if the Government would go ahead with the prices referendum he would undertake to restrain inflationary wage settlements when price controls were instituted. For  Mr Whitlam  that was a critical assurance from the head of the Labor Party and head of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. The Prime Minister confirmed this at question time on 17 September. He said that 

 Mr Hawke had told him that 'if the Government were able to moderate the rise in prices through the application of such constitutional powers as is obtains, the trade union movement would fully co-operate in restraining wages and incomes'.  Mr Hawke  has since denied that he made any such promise and added: 

 Mr Whitlam 's statement to Parliament included a promise which I could not give. 
This critical part of  Mr Whitlam's  assumption and argument has thus been destroyed. Income and wage controls have very dubious value except for a short period and that was pointed out very effectively, I believe, by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  who immediately preceded me in this debate. Listening to him I would have imagined that he was speaking from this side of the House and would have been recommending that this Bill be rejected. 
Price control without income controls would be dangerous and against the best interests of Australia. Both the Prime Minister and the honourable member for Kingston know this and they are both understandably very sceptical about their effectiveness. At the Electrical Manufacturers dinner last night, 17 September 1973,  Mr Whitlam  said: 
I frankly confess that I have always had reservations about the value of price control regulations' - reservations I have publicly acknowledged and explained. 
With reservations of this kind how can he, with sincerity, now ask for specific constitutional powers to deal with the problems, knowing he now has the relevant powers if only he chooses to use them? Price controls are, as I have said, an end result and not a cause of inflation and can be used capriciously and for blatantly political purposes. The honourable member for Kingston said that price controls would not increase production but would probably reduce it and, if my recollection is correct, he said they would create distortions, inadequacy and shortages. I agree with those statements of the honourable member for Kingston. 
Finally, there is an easier and quicker method to achieve the same objective than by holding a referendum, and that is for the Commonwealth to persuade the important States to refer to the Commonwealth powers, under section 51 of the Constitution, over prices and incomes for a limited period, say for 6 months or 1 year. To sum up, I think the cost of a permanent reference would be too high and the public would soon become tired of controls. We are a free people and quickly become frustrated and irritated by controls. This has been our experience in the past and is now the experience of the United Kingdom where a recent gallup poll, referred to in 'The Economist' of 8 September 1973, showed that whereas a year ago 75 per cent of the people with a definite opinion said that the unions should hold back on wage claims to control inflation but now 52 per cent think that they should now go ahead, clearly indicating that the public has become tired of income and wage controls. The public psychology can change quickly, particularly when the people have to suffer inconvenience without obvious benefits. For all these reasons, I can assure honourable members that I will vote against this Bill. 
Motion (by  Mr Hansen)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
 I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. As today interest rates appear to be rising very rapidly and the real difficulties we face are immediate and in what could be regarded as the short or medium term, can he explain to me why it was necessary to decide that part of the next Commonwealth loan floated would be a long term loan rather than to attempt to concentrate on the short end of the market, that is, up to 3 years, or on the medium term market up to 10 years? In other words, he could have kept the long term bond rate stable  -  I believe there is every likelihood of that market failing and of more harm being done than he intends to do - 'and we could have concentrated on the short term area where the money has to be found for the immediate future, and I believe that a far greater amount would thereby be contributed to the series of loans. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, for us, it is fortunate that we live in a community which cherishes its freedom of action, a country peopled by men and women who want to do their own thing in their own way and in their own time. It is not a society that will tolerate for long the dictates of others or a government economically and socially illiterate that seeks to rule not by persuasion and common sense but to impose its gut reactions and primitive economic ideologies on a temporarily captive electorate. After 10 months the mood of the Australian public has changed. It wants a degree of certainty and predictability in political life within which the greatest personal freedom can be freely exercised and a society in which they can make their own economic, financial and social decisions freed from the smothering concept that 'mother knows best'. In short I believe that instinctively the Australian people want a liberal society and form of government and the system of free enterprise as the creative element in the production and exchange of goods. 
The Australian people will bung you out; give them another chance now - even you who live on your political life. It is well to remember on occasions such as this that the fundamental economic element in a liberal society - in fact, its basic motivating force - is the system of free enterprise. Let me quote from one of the great political analysts of this century. Harold Laski, a socialist intellectual and a considerable critic of liberalism and free enterprise, had this to say about the system: 
As a rule liberalism has . . . been tender to the claims of minorities and to the rights of free association. It has been suspicious of the control of thought and indeed of any effort by government authority to impede the free action of the individual. 
He said further: 
I do not mean that the triumph of liberalism did not represent real and profound progress. The productive relations it made possible immensely improved the general standard of material conditions. The advance of science was only achieved through the mental climate it created. All in all its advent was one of the most beneficient revolutions in history. 
In his words, a socialist's words, but of my own preface: 
No one can compare the constitutional and social changes brought about by the liberal revolution and its peaceful triumph after centuries of feudalism and clerical government. 
Here follow the words of the author: 
Without the sense of wider and more creative horizons of recognition that there is a greater regard for the inherent worth of human personality, a sensitiveness to the infliction of unnecessary pain, a zeal of truth for its own sake, a willingness to experiment in its service, which are all parts of a social heritage which would have been infinitely poorer without them. These were the gains involved in the triumph of the liberal creed. 
I am not arguing that liberalism per se has been perfect. Unreformed liberalism suffered the defect that its growing production was not automatically matched by the effective fair and equitable distribution of the wealth that it produced. This was a clear function and responsibility of government - a responsibility and a problem that successive Liberal governments throughout history have attempted, with success, to solve. 
I am sure the Australian people want the institution of free enterprise to survive and continue its contribution to national greatness. After less than a year of this Government, the Australian people are sick of ministerial arrogance and contempt of public opinion and the illicit attempts to nationalise large elements of Australian industry. 
This Government preaches in the guise of the public good; it practises the art of early 20th century socialism. The people themselves have shown their feelings at the two most recent by-elections in New South Wales and Victoria. They should soon be given the chance to express it again at a Federal election. 
There is a second consideration against which this Bill must be judged - the maxim once bitten twice shy*. Speaking to the second reading of the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill 1973, I said of the Government's decision to establish a natural gas pipeline grid throughout Australia: 
Honourable members . . . will see that the National Pipe Line Authority has been given the power to intrude very nearly onto the factory floor and into practically every avenue of production. 
And of the new charter given to the Australian Airlines Commission, I said that its powers extend, to put it shortly, from 'casinos to contraception'. I was not mistaken. Under the National Pipe Line Bill the Minister for Minerals and Energy has decided to try to nationalise the distribution and processing  of!  all oil, natural gas and other hydrocarbons] produced in the Woodside-Burmah area of the north-west fields. This, I believe, is beyond constitutional and legal power. 
Just as bad, the Government without any technical knowledge of the problems associated with the production, processing and distribution of hydrocarbons has decided that the crudes will be 'acquired' at well head and that all 'down stream' operations will be nationalised under the relevant minister -  Mr Connor  of all people. To put it in  Mr Dunstan's  words in a similar context -  Mr Dunstan  is of course the Labor Premier of South Australia: 

 Mr Connor seemed to be under the impression that the project near Port Augusta could be established by Australian companies. I cannot agree that there is any possibility of this . . . they do not have the expertise, the technology or the markets . . . 
But confiscation and nationalisation have been attempted after the relevant private enterprise companies have successfully carried out explorations and development work at a cost to the companies' shareholders of well over $150m and in an industry that is now operating on the margins of technical skill and knowledge. This is nationalisation of an Australian company with control in Australian hands and with an assurance given to my Government by Burmah Oil that if desired by the Australian Government the articles of association of Burmah-Woodside would be altered to ensure that this assurance was carried into effect. 
Let me now make some observations about the existing Australian Industry Development Corporation Act and the changes sought to be achieved in the Bills now before the House. In the Act of June 1970 the AIDC was given the job of tapping overseas capital markets for loan funds, in order to put them at the disposal of predominantly Australian companies so that they could undertake, or participate in, new development or expansion. It was restricted in this way by the father of the scheme,  Sir John  McEwen, in order to prevent competition for the relatively limited pool of savings in Australia becoming so severe that it would, firstly, drive up interest rates; distort the effective allocation of resources in Australia; and, draw loan funds away from the Australian Government, semigovernment and local government authorities and from the private sector of the economy into projects favoured by the AIDC; and secondly, to reduce the pressure of demand in Australia for goods and services produced here. This was to be achieved by means of command over the money borrowed overseas which was given by the international resources. In short, it was designed to ensure that the Corporation acted in a way that was consistent with responsible overall economic management by the Government. 
The new powers which the Government wants to confer would destroy this concept. The Corporation was not given power unilaterally to interfere in the operations of Australian companies. It could invest only at the invitation of the company concerned and it was under the obligation to dispose of ils assets to Australians whenever it was reasonably practicable to do so. Australians themselves - not the Government, or a government agency - were to be put in the position of buying back, to use a favourite phrase of  Sir John  McEwen, a 'bit of the farm'. Each of these basic features on which the McEwen bank was wisely constructed will be destroyed if this Bill becomes law. I hope and expect that the Bill be defeated in the Parliament. 
Next, let us turn to the new powers and functions the Government wishes to confer on the Corporation. The range of government interference in business is extended to cover nearly every aspect of our economic and social lives and of the employment of the Australian work force. The Bill attempts to provide the means by which nationalisation of any Australian industry or business can be carried out without the precise approval of the Australian Parliament and without the knowledge or informed opinion of the Australian people, but at their expense through taxation and the temptation of subsidies. It is to be a carnivorous and undiscriminating institution and will attempt to achieve by deception changes in the processes of production, distribution and exchange which could not be obtained by parliamentary means. 
Let me be specific. Clause 5, which seeks to amend section 6(1) of the Act, states: 
The functions of the Corporation are - 
to facilitate and encourage the establishment, development and advancement of Australian industries concerned with the manufacture, processing, treatment, transportation or distribution of goods, or the development or use of natural resources (including the recovery of minerals), . 
These functions cover a very wide range, are well-nigh comprehensive and now include the natural gas and oil industries and transport. But to make certain that the functions and powers of the organisation are enlarged in a comprehensive way, the Bill provides for other changes to the Act which I shall now mention. Clause 5 of the Bill, amending section 6(1) of the Act, puts in 2 dragnet clauses which provide that the functions of the organisation shall include power to provide finance to any industry or activity connected in any way with other functions of the Corporation and, in paragraph (a) (ii), to engage in any activity that has any relation to any activity or industry in which the Corporation is interested. 
While there are many words involved in these clauses, they are unnecessary because proposed new paragraph (ca) of section 7 (2) of the principal Act confers power to carry on any business or activity whatsover. 'Business', according to the legendary Oxford Dictionary means: That with which one is concerned at the time' and, even, 'a matter with which one has the right to meddle'. As I have indicated, this is an omnibus power which could make legal interference with virtually every aspect of our lives. I have said that the Labor Government has no mandate arbitrarily and perfunctorily to nationalise industry at the whim of a Minister or the Government. But in this Bill Labor seeks such power. 
Let us turn now to another clause of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and see how it will work if it becomes law. This is the comprehensive and compulsory power of nationalisation contained in proposed new section 8  (b).  Under this clause, if the Minister considers that: 
the carrying out of an enterprise or project in connection with an industry or activity  . . and 
the provision of finance by the Corporation in relation to the enterprise or project . . . would be in accordance with the policy of the Australian Government . .  - that is, the Australian Labor Party, for the time being - 
. he may direct the Corporation to furnish to him a report in writing in relation to the enterprise or project. 
Under sub-section (4), where the Minister has received a report in relation to the enterprise and is of the opinion that:  . . it is in the national interest that the Australian Government should - 
facilitate the provision of finance by the Corporation in relation to the enterprise or project; or 
assist the Corporation to engage or participate in the enterprise or project, the Minister may - 
with the concurrence of the Treasurer, give such guarantees as will enable the Corporation to provide finance for, or engage or participate in, the enterprise or project; 
Under sub-section (6) (c) these moneys are not to be taken into account for the purposes of sub-section (3) of section 7 of the Act - that is, the limitation on the power of the Cor poration to borrow money shall not apply to action taken under this section. 
This power, associated with other provisions in the Bill, relating as it does to any type of business, provides the legislative framework within which the Government can nationalise any industry or business without reference to or debate in this Parliament, subject only to advice from a national interest committee of such people as the Minister appoints, including one person nominated by the Minister for Minerals and Energy. What a dim prospect for the people of this country. A power of this kind should be exercised only with the authority of a specific Act of the Parliament which has been freely debated in this House and in the media and which obviously has the approval of the Australian people. Taken together with the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill, the Pipeline Authority Bill and the Australian National Airlines Bill, it is a clear indication of the gut reaction and primitive ideology of the Labor Cabinet and its members. The Australian public has already been bitten by these Bills and should shy off passing the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill now before the House. 
The Industries Assistance Commission Bill is to come before the House. It will add yet another commission to the 40 committees and commissions already established. This is bureaucracy gone beserk and will do incalcuable harm to the Australian economy. No reasons are given as to why these powers are needed. There is no protection to shareholders of companies whose assets are compulsorily acquired as to a just and fair price being paid for them other than that contained in the Australian Constitution. As we all know a government can destroy the value of assets overnight, as was done by the Minister for Minerals and Energy as a consequence of the proposed Woodside-Burmah acquisition. I wish to make another point. In his second reading speech the Minister for Overseas Trade said: 
We will work towards more ownership in the hands of individual Australians. 
But he did not mean what he said. He was not telling the truth. The Bill does not work towards more ownership in the hands of individual Australians. Australians will have the right, as he said - even be compelled in some cases - to contribute to national investment funds. Individual Australians will not be the owners of assets and property in the way they would if they invested in a private unit trust. In the case of the AIDC, ownership will belong to the Corporation. In the case of a unit trust it will belong with the people of Australia. 
Finally, I refer to another power which has received little attention. Spattered about in the 2 Bills and the Act - the Australian Industries Development Corporation Bill and Act and the National Investment Fund Bill - are clauses and sections dealing with the capital of the AIDC, its borrowing powers and command over finance. The Minister has also forecast amendments to the taxation laws. A close examination of these powers will clearly show the manner in which the Australian taxpayer and investor may be exploited by the Government. I give but 2 illustrations. The life assurance offices, which are trustees for the savings of large numbers of policy holders for life assurance, superannuation and death cover, will be directed to invest part of their funds in the AIDC. This will be done by a change in the 30/20 rule under which the life offices will be virtually directed to invest contributors' funds in the AIDC, not in the investments the legal trustees would otherwise choose in the interests of their policy holders. Whilst the AIDC may borrow up to 5 times the capital and reserves of the Corporation there is no limit on the amount the AIDC may use through the issue of national investment bonds - no limit whatsoever. This must have serious and adverse effects on the Australian money market and on Australian industry and commerce. 
As honourable members will see, the legislation proposes to give the AIDC and its associated organisation enormous financial power and an extensive range of functions and powers - far too many to be entrusted to a government, let alone a statutory corporation. It is certainly not a power which should be entrusted to a government of the Whitlam kind. I have said that the Australian people are understandably sceptical about government intrusion into private enterprise and business, particularly when that business or enterprise is already being effectively conducted. The Australian people are opposed to legislation by deceit. They do not want nationalisation or socialisation by stealth. They want open government. They want to know what the Government is doing and why. The 2 Bills before the House and others I have mentioned will empower nationalisation intrusion and interference on a grand and arbitrary scale at the whim of an individual Minister or the government. The people do not want this either. I will vote against both Bills and I hope that the Parliament will reject both of them. 
I have already stated my views as to why the Opposition wants to divide on clause 6. It is clearly related to clause 5, which provides for the functions of the organisation, that is, what it can do. Clause 6 is a supporting clause which deals with the powers of the Corporation to achieve its functions. The powers permit the AIDC to raise money otherwise than by borrowing - 'to draw, make, accept, indorse and discount bills of exchange and promissory notes; to form, or participate in the formation of, a company; to carry on any business or activity'. Earlier I added the word 'whatsoever'. We believe that these confer on an agency of the Government the power to socialise any industry it wants to. Therefore, we ask for the opportunity to divide on this clause of the Bill. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I do. Today, in answer to a question, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that he was following the line of his predecessor - that is myself - in agreeing to or supporting a prices and incomes referendum. I have never approved of a prices and incomes referendum. I clearly pointed out in the debate relating to the referendum on prices that I was implacably opposed to the granting of any such power to the Federal Government. That sets out my long term and present view. That view remains unchanged. I admit,  Sir, that  the Sydney Morning Herald' is a great national and metropolitan newspaper of record and is seldom wrong. What might have been referred to was the fact that some 18 months ago or more at least 6 or 7 papers were tabled in this House relating to prices and incomes policy which I had asked the Commonwealth Treasury to prepare as the basis upon which discussions would take place. Subsequently there was a summary of those papers in a speech that was delivered by the then Treasurer and present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  At that time I did admit that there might be some value in a temporary price and wage squeeze. Since then I have given ever so much more consideration to this problem, particularly against the background of the Organisation for Economic 
Co-operation and Development Outlook No. 12, a paper by  Dr Hans  Arndt and some remarks by Professor Tobin of the United States of America. I am more than ever convinced that a prices and incomes power in the hands of a Labor government would be administered contrary to the best interests of the Australian people. I therefore remain implacably opposed to the 2 referendum proposals that have been put forward by the Commonwealth Government. 
I have listened with very great attention to the statement made by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  I think he must understand that enactment of the present Bill will completely change the whole character of the existing Act. I shall give a few illustrations.  Sir John  McEwen was quite deliberate in ensuring that one of the provisions of the Act was that money could be borrowed in Australia only in exceptional circumstances. Consequently there was little danger of there being any interference with the money market for Commonwealth, local government and semi-government organisations and the private market for finance. As well, many of the functions have been substantially increased until there is hardly any area of activity that has not been brought within the purview of the Act. In fact, under some of the dragnet clauses - one where any business whatsoever can be carried out - are so wide in its context that it changes the 
Bill substantially. It makes it a totally different Bill. Perhaps what should have been done on this occasion is an entirely new Bill should have been brought in. 
But then we go a stage further to the investment bonds. Here there is no limit whatsoever on the amount of money that can be obtained from the Australian public. In circumstances like this, with its powers to obtain funds and with its command over resources being so great, again the whole concept of the original Bill and of the AIDC has been changed. As one who probably knows as much about the Australian Resources Development Bank, having brought the measure into the House, and who knows more about the AIDC than any other person, with the possible exception of  Sir John  McEwen and  Sir Alan  Westerman, I know what the purposes of the original Bill were and what Cabinet intended. I can say to the Minister that because the whole concept has been changed we believe that we must ensure that maximum precautions are taken to make certain that proper auditing processes and accountancy processes are carried out. I believe that in such cases as the investments of the Australian people in, for example, business that would usually be done with the life offices, there could be no objection whatsoever to the Government auditor doing the auditing. He is a talented man. He does the auditing of most of the Government's accounts. When the national interest and the interest of individual investors are involved in the way that they are involved on this occasion, we strongly believe that the Auditor-General of the Commonwealth should have the right to investigate and to comment on the accounts. 
This is a clause that the Opposition regards as fundamental to its opposition to the total Bill. If one cares to read the original Act, the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act, one will see that in section 6 the functions of the Corporation are limited to a very severe extent. The Corporation is designed to assist in the provision of financial resources required by Australian companies in order to promote certain objectives, namely, to secure an improvement in the balance of Australia's exter nal trading operations. This provision is no longer required as the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  must know, and as the officials advising him must know. Secondly, the Corporation is required to promote trade and commerce between Australia and places outside Australia, and to promote trade and commerce among the States, between the States and Territories and within the Territories. But when one looks at the provisions of the new Bill one sees that there is very little that cannot be done under proposed new section 6. The functions are now to include a requirement - if the Bill ever becomes law - to facilitate and encourage the establishment, development and advancement of Australian industries concerned with the manufacture, processing, treatment, transportation or distribution of goods, or the development or use of natural resources. The clause covering those functions goes on to provide that without limiting the generality of the preceding provision, the functions of the Corporation may be performed in the capacity of and to the extent that they are appropriate to be performed by, a trading or financial corporation and so on. But it must also be interpreted in connection with the proposed amendment to Section 7 that gives other powers, for example, to raise money otherwise than by borrowing, to get into the money market - the bill market. Sub-clause (ca) allows the Corporation to carry on any business or activity - I add the word 'whatsoever' to make the purposes of the function abundantly clear. 
As I have said, this clause completely transforms the concept of the original Act and it gives the opportunity for any future government, if the provisions remain, to nationalise or to socialise or to acquire, if you like, any part of the Australian resources by its agency. It is of no use bandying words. We have the illustration of the north west shelf and the Burmah incident in which the hydro-carbons are in fact to be acquired at the well-head, and all downstream operations are to be carried out under the control of the Commonwealth. No one can look at the granting of new powers unless he looks at them in the context of past experience and realises what the Government is capable of doing. We could easily take the word of the Minister, but the Minister's word cannot be accepted as the deciding factor. He will know that he gave an assurance that we would be given unlimited time to debate this Bill in the Committee stage. My people took the attitude that he would be overruled by the 
Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  and he was. I explained this position to him. So there is the ground on which we object. I take it a step further. The original Bill, with opposition from the Reserve Bank and from the Treasury, was in fact drafted under the directorship and supervision of  Sir Alan  Westerman. The Minister has said that the Government did not want the new powers.  Sir Alan,  of course, would want to get a vast addition of functions to his own organisation. Is there anyone knowing that we are dealing with human beings and knowing the way that this man acts in life, who would deny the fact that he would want to do this. That is understandable, and I say that without any degree of personal criticism. Understandably he would want to do this. But we do not believe that we should put into the hands of one man, one organisation or one government the powers that are comprised within this clause of the new Bill which could do great harm to the Australian people. 
I know from my own personal experience - I happened to be Treasurer at the time - that both the Reserve Bank and the Treasury bitterly opposed the original concept. If they did that then and if they had a right to ia free expression of opinion would they not be able to make an objection on this occasion too? For that reason I put this to the Minister because it is obvious that he is not as interested in this as are  Sir Alan  Westerman and the AIDC. I believe that this is one clause that should be looked at very carefully because from what the Minister has said to us the clause does not carry out his intention to prevent the nationalisation of any Australian industry. 
Sitting suspended from  4.45 to  8 p.m. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer and relates to the 2 basic assumptions on which, first of all, revaluations and, secondly, the Budget were based. The first one relates to revaluations and the view which members of the Government expressed that it would have a substantial impact on the price of imports into this country. I ask the honourable gentleman whether he has read the most recent monthly bulletin of the Reserve Bank, which indicated clearly that despite the immense suffering that has been caused to efficient Australian export industries the price index, as set out in the Reserve Bank bulletin, has fallen by no more than 5 points from 116 since 2 December? The second assumption relates to the Budget and particularly the actions taken by the Government to reduce tariffs by 25 per cent immediately before the Budget was introduced on the basis, according to the Minister for Overseas Trade, that we would have a pretty big increase in imports of the order of $ 1,200m, $400m worth being associated with the reduction in tariffs. Has the Treasurer seen the latest statistics- 
I intended, when I rose to speak on this and other clauses of the National Investment Fund Bill, to compliment the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  on the statement he made yesterday, namely, that he understood the difficulties involved in the presentation of Opposition views. He admitted that it was not the desire of the Government to have clause 5 inserted. 
But the Minister did not want nationalisation under it. 
He stated quite clearly that he did not want that. I welcome that statement because I think it showed a willing disposition to act in a way in which all honourable members would want a Minister responsible for a Bill to act - that is, to give careful consideration to any recommendations or suggestions made by the Opposition. I assure the Minister that a tremendous amount of attention has been given, particularly by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and myself, to this Bill and to the accompanying Bill - the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. 
Thank you. Firstly, 1 want to clarify two of the assumptions on which the Minister has made his recommendations or put these provisions in the Bill. He says that he wants to make the AIDC what  Sir John  McEwen wanted it to be. I can state emphatically that  Sir John  McEwen did not want it to move in the direction that is proposed in the Bill that was before the House yesterday and the day before. The Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill, followed toy the 1970 Bill, was drafted in a way that would be to the best advantage of the Australian people, would not cause dislocation in the  money market and would not cause the misappropriation or misallocation of resources, which in turn would reduce productivity and affect the standards of living of the Australian people. Secondly, he made it abundantly clear that he does not know much about the structure of assurance in Australia. Most of the big assurance corporations are mutual assistance corporations which are not run for profit. The Australian Mutual Provident Society, for example, is not run for profit. Of course part of the Mutual Life and Citizens' Assurance Co. Ltd is run for profit, but there are few organisations of that kind. The policy holders in corporations like the 
AMP do notionally and legally elect the persons who will be responsible for the proper investment of their funds and such investment is done fairly well. 
I turn now to the question of whether this legislation is necessary. I do not believe it is, because there is no gap in the existing system. Not only is there no gap, but I believe the Australian life offices have achieved a degree of efficiency that is at least the equal of any other group of corporations of which I am aware. 
Finally I believe that the establishment of a national investment fund will be an interference on such a grand scale that it will affect the proper appropriation of resources. I think it will do it in a discriminatory and totally unfair way. I believe that the Minister for Overseas Trade must ensure that the 30-20 rule would be changed in favour of the existing life offices if they were to lose business to the Australian Industry Development Corporation. If the AIDC is to get this power - I hope it does not do so - I trust that the Corporation also will be subject to the 30-20 rule or any changes of that rule which requires that there should be a diversion of life office funds to governments. 
I must concede that I agree with the Treasury view that the 30-20 rule was not good. It was introduced not at Treasury's request or Treasury's will but against its will, at a time a supervisory economic group had been established in the Prime Minister's Department. That group brought the proposals to Cabinet and had them accepted. I wish I had been a little more influential on that occasion. I think I would have done something to correct the market and make it more competitive than it was. 
Not only will the National Investment Fund be entering a world where it is not wanted and where there is no public demand for it but also it will be producing a degree of competition,  spreading the work load, increasing the capital costs of maintaining and running organisations and bringing no benefit to anyone. I believe it will be discriminating unfairly and savagely against the existing life offices. 
I put these points against the background that yesterday the Opposition voted against both the second and third readings of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. We could not honestly have voted against that Bill unless we vote also against the second and third readings of this Bill 'because they are so closely interlocked in their functions. Clause 6 of this Bill relates to the terms and conditions of issue and sale of investment bonds. Powers are conferred upon the Australian Industry Development Corporation which can invest funds in various projects. One cannot really distinguish between the 2 Bills. For these reasons I favour the deletion of sub-paragraph (ii) from paragraph (a) of sub-clause (3). This sub-paragraph reads: -a contributor to a superannuation or retirement scheme or savings scheme maintained by the corporation; 
Similarly I support the deletion of subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (b) of sub-clause (3). It reads: a contributor to any superannuation or retirement scheme or savings scheme in relation to which that Division is maintained. 
I also agree with the proposition that paragraph (b) of sub-clause (4) be deleted. This is the effect of the Opposition's amendment. I am certain that Australia will be better off if the management of these affairs is left in the hands of the Australian life offices that have performed a remarkable job and had no complaints against them that I am aware of. There were none when I was Treasurer or Prime Minister. It seems alarming to me that without any will on the part of the Australian people seeking this change this legislation should be introduced and the National Investment Fund established in an unfair and competitive way, to the detriment of contributors to the Australian life offices. 
I think the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  let the cat out of the bag when he made 2 statements. The first one - he was immediately challenged by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  - was when he said that the yield or return on the bonds will probably be low. In other words, he gave a clear indication that the investment on behalf of the subscribers might not be to their satisfaction and that unless a subsidy was given the inducement would be too low and there would be little or no contribution to the bonds themselves. He went a stage further to indicate why. We were led to believe until today that the very purpose of these bonds was to ensure that money would be subscribed and would be satisfactorily invested and that the people would get a return on those investments which would more than repay them, one which would be much better than an investment in a unit trust or some other kind of investment. But what he said is that a large section of the funds would be put - use the word 'investment' if you like - but I cannot call it investment - in national development projects in which there is no return whatsoever to the people who provide the funds. For this reason he wanted to give a subsidy. 
That was supported by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  himself, whose words must be taken as clear and absolute. He said that one of the main areas in which investment was to take place was in urban areas. In other words he was saying that the funds would be invested in such areas as urban and regional development, which concerns the building up of local areas where people can get out of the central areas of the metropolis and be able to carry on their occupations, if necessary supported by some kind of government activity, and be able to live their lives and have their children educated and looked after without having to live in the somewhat suffocating atmosphere of a great metropolitan centre such as Rome or some other continental part of the world. We have to realise, and the Australian people have to realise, that they now have life offices which can in fact invest their money for these purposes. In the large majority of cases they are mutual offices capable of going overseas and fighting the great international corporations overseas and beating them too. 
Then why destroy them? 
Of course you are. You do not like to admit it. But I am glad that I have got under your skin to the point that at long last a weakness, a chink has been found in your armour. I think that we have shown pretty conclusively that there is no gap that needs to be filled. We have found that the reason for this legislation is to get into the infrastructures of great national development projects. 
It gives no return to the people whose money is involved, who have earned it, who have saved it and who have every right to get the biggest return they can get for their savings. 
Show how agitated you get. The more agitated you get the more it will show how sensitive you are to what you have done. The Opposition objects to all the clauses to which I have referred - 3. (3) (a) (ii), 3. (3) (b) (ii) and 3. (4) (b). We will divide in the House against these clauses. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, on 2 different occasions in this House by the Prime Minister  Mr (Whitlam).  I was not here when the Prime Minister answered a question earlier in the day but I have been very reliably informed that he has kept on asserting that towards the end of last year I was prepared to advocate a prices and incomes referendum and that he did not know what my views were today. I think it should be clear from what I said in the House on either Wednesday or Thursday last week that I had never advocated a prices and incomes referendum and I would not do so. I stated that I was implacably opposed to giving the Commonwealth Government any further power. I said in the House that I would vote against a prices and income referendum when it occurred and that I would advocate to the maximum of my capacity that people vote against it. I think the facts can be well established. I believe in keeping both prices and incomes under control so far as they affect inflation. 
I think it must be obvious to every member opposite, including my friend the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  because of his knowledge of economics, that when we were in government, according to Professor Nevile the implicit price deflator operating over the whole of the economic activity, not only the area covered by the consumer price index, for the December quarter we had reduced inflationary pressures in real terms to 2.2 per cent. Taken relative to gross national expenditure it was minus 2.3 per cent. We showed that we could control inflation without a prices and incomes referendum. 
I am making my point because the Prime Minister said he did not know what I thought now. I am giving the reasons- 
The second point of misrepresentation relates to the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. If the honourable gentleman has any memory at all he will remember that in February last year I informed the House, as a result of persistent questioning and against the advice of the Treasury, that I had written to BHP expressing my grave concern that there should be any inclination on its part to put up steel prices. That was stated in the House. At that time I was hostile to a proposal to increase prices. I believe that in the meantime BHP has justified its opinion that it is entitled to an increase in price. I believe that BHP is justified too, in its logic, anyhow, in the criticism it has made of the most recent findings of the Prices Justification Tribunal. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, just about this time last year- 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The question is: That the question be now put. All those of that opinion say 'aye* to the contrary 'no'- 

 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I take a point of order. Earlier today I discussed with the Leader of the House the question of how long he was prepared- 
As recently as 25 October of this year a Bill to repeal the Trade Practices Acts of 1971 and 1972 and to enact a Trade Practices Act 1973 was introduced into this House. It is a long and complex Bill and involves Government interference in a wide area of trade and commerce. 
In the time available to the Opposition it has not been practicable - in fact it has not been possible - to discuss the matters involved with representatives of industry, commerce and trade in order to find out the effect and the impact .the proposed clauses of the Bill will have on the economy of this country, lt has been impossible to assess what impact the proposals, if put into effect, will have upon employment prospects, the sound economic growth of the economy, inflationary pressures, the advantages and disadvantages to the consumer, and the effective allocation of resources within our community and the efficiency with which the production and distribution of goods and services are carried out. 
It will be obvious to the House that it would border on economic insanity to push a Bill of this kind through the House without adequate debate, without adequate consideration and without knowledge of the consequences. 
There should be no doubt about the attitude of the Liberal and Country Parties to restrictive trade practices and monopolies. Trade practices legislation was introduced into this House in 1961  -  that was the Garfield Barwick Bill - and again proposals were introduced in 1965, and as I have already mentioned 2 Trade Practices Acts of 1971 and 1972 are to be repealed if this Bill becomes law. In fact the Liberal-Country Party Government also introduced into the House the anti-monopoly legislation, the resale price maintenance legislation and the overseas cargo shipping legislation. Our bona fides and intentions relative to restrictive trade practices and monopolies should therefore be obvious. 
There can be no doubt whatsoever of the Liberal Party's philosophical approach to restrictive trade practices legislation. When such legislation has been necessary or desirable to achieve improved terms and conditions and full and effective employment, sound economic growth, restraint on inflationary pressures and the other objectives I have mentioned we have been prepared to take and have taken legislative action. 
This legislation must be looked at in perspective. The present Bill is not a reform measure; it is not part of an evolutionary process. It is a totally different concept with totally new ideas and a totally different approach to the means of preventing or minimising the impact of restrictive trade practices on the social and economic life of the community. It can affect the smallest and the largest, the most prosperous and powerful or the weaker and less financially powerful sections of industry. Few businessmen engaged in trade or commerce will be able effectively to carry on their business without the persistent assistance of members of the legal profession. The Bill seeks to impose United States practices, procedures and law without any clear recognition of the differences between the Australian environment and conditions and those in the United States. It is dogmatic and mechanical in approach in that it fails to distinguish between those measures which are in the public interest and those which are against that interest. It fails to recognise that we are dealing with human beings. To this extent it is in sharp contrast to the Liberal-Country Party legislation which is to be repealed. 
It seems wise at this stage to mention the essential differences of approach between the Liberal Party actions whilst in office and the Labor Party's approach to this Bill. The Liberal Party approach has been based on the desirability of preserving competition in trade and commerce and to do so consistent with the public interest. We also introduced the concept of prohibiting certain types of trade practices which were contrary to the public interest as, for example, in the Act relating to resale price maintenance. But our actions in general were guided by the then desirability of ensuring that a case by case examination of allegedly restrictive trade practices was made in the context of certain precise and clearly expressed criteria. 
The Labor Party's proposal is to adopt over practically the whole range of restrictive practices the concept that certain restrictive practices and forms of conduct are unlawful or are to be prohibited or both. I confess that there have been too many delays under the present procedures. I do not have a philosophical or practical objection to the proposals in the Bill. I do not have a fundamental objection to changing the existing concept of investigating restrictive trade practices agreements on a case by case basis. There is a proposal in the Bill to declare certain types of conduct to be unlawful or to prohibit those practices being engaged in. We have already accepted this principle of prohibition in the resale price maintenance legislation, and in the 1972 amendments we proposed that some horizontal arrangements, particularly those relating to prices and related matters such as discounts and concessions, should be more expeditiously handled by the Trade Practices Commission. It could well have occurred that prohibitions of specified types of conduct mentioned in the Bill might subsequently have been found to be justified. 
As I have already made clear in the House, I believe strongly in the system of private enterprise - a system that has been the foundation of our progress since mediaeval times. A system based on a clear and unmistakeable set of laws which define what restrictive practices are lawful and consequently not prohibited and those which are not lawful and are prohibited is more consistent with liberalism as such than a case by case approach. But I am not convinced - in fact I have the gravest doubts - that the concepts and methods now proposed by the Labor Party effectively meet the needs of this country at the present time. On the contrary I believe that, as understood at the moment and without real qualifications and amendments, the Bill will, if enacted, do great harm to those who really matter, that is, the people of this country - the consumer, the family, mum and dad and the kids. 
Let me be specific. The details of the Bill lack certainty. Far too many businessmen will be permanently injured in the carrying on of their normal and fair business operations. 
Yes, quite right. Shame! They are entitled to certainty, provided they carry on their business fairly and efficiently and without engaging in restrictive trade practices of an unacceptable kind. The language of the Bill is too general and does not clearly indicate beyond doubt what conduct is lawful and what is unlawful. The Bill gives scant regard to the needs of the environmental and industrial conditions in which producers, distributors, exporters, importers, proprietors and investors can effectively carry on trade and commerce on a viable and profitable basis. Nor does it adequately take into consideration the interests of employees. 
Incidentally, it should be mentioned that this Labor Party Bill is inconsistent with the Labor Party platform which states as a policy objective the Labor Party's approval of 'legislation against monopolies and to strengthen existing trade practice legislation'. The Bill does not strengthen the existing legislation. It repeals it and introduces new concepts into trade practice law. 
Let me now turn to the specifics. I would not want to divide on Parts I, II and III of the Bill - that is, in substance the provisions relating to the creation of the Commission and the Trade Practices Tribunal - nor would I want to divide on Part VIII relating to resale price maintenance, which reproduces with 4 amendments the provisions of the present Act. Three of the amendments clarify the meaning of certain sections and the other extends the provision of resale price maintenance to a manufacturer who induces a retailer to maintain the resale price of his goods that the retailer has obtained through a wholesaler. Nor would I want to divide on Part DC, which relates to the review by the Tribunal of determinations by the Commission, or on Part X, which relates to overseas cargo shipping. Both are, in substance, similar to the existing laws. 
I turn now to Part V, which relates to consumer protection. On the face of it and without advised consideration it should be said that several important provisions of this Part of the Bill which protect the consumer are unobjectionable. But there is no provision in the law for consultation with trade, commerce and industry leaders and it is not possible to identify and move amendments relating to some other features in view of the scanty knowledge that is at present available to us. I now come to those clauses which could well be seriously damaging to the Australian economy and society as a whole. I would reject completely clause 29, which provides that the Commission must comply with the directions of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  That would be the same AttorneyGeneral who, according to his Leader, was guilty of the greatest blunder ever committed by the Australian Labor Party, that is, the raiding of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation's headquarters in Canberra and Melbourne without good reason. Is he the type of man who should be given such power? 
There is another Part that I would reject unless it is substantially amended, that is, Part VI, which relates to enforcement and remedies. Clause 78 states that criminal proceedings do not lie against a person by reason only that the person contravenes Part IV, that is, the Part relating to restrictive trade practices. The penalties that can be imposed are of a criminal nature and can rise to as high as $25,000 for each offence. But the standard of proof required by the Crown is the standard in civil cases, that is, proof on the balance of the evidence - a comparatively easy proof by the Crown - and not the criminal standard of proof beyond a reasonable doubt. It is grossly unfair, primitive and archaic. It does not fit into modern thinking and concepts and will be strenuously opposed by the Opposition. 
We come now to the guts of the Bill so far as commerce and industry are concerned, that is, Part IV, which relates to restrictive trade practices and the provisions of the Bill relating to contracts, combinations and conspiracies in restraint of trade, monopolisation, exclusive dealings, resale price maintenance, pricing arrangements and mergers. Clause 45 provides that a contract in restraint of trade or commerce is unlawful insofar as it confers rights or benefits or imposes duties or obligations upon a corporation and that a corporation shall not make a contract or engage in or be a party to a combination or conspiracy in restraint of trade or commerce. The clause lacks precision and definition. We do not know precisely what it means. The definition will depend heavily upon the interpretation of the Tribunal. It has been taken from the United States experience and law and uses American words, such as 'combination', which are not appropriate to Australian conditions. It is altogether too general and too difficult to understand. 
Whilst provision is made for authorisation by the Commission of certain practices, including contracts in restraint of trade generally, and to exclusive dealings and mergers the authorisations do not relate to monopolisation and price arrangements or 'fixing. Why this distinction has been drawn is not clear; nor is there any recourse to justification procedures. Of this I am sure: There are some schemes of price discrimination, including confidential discounts, that are advantageous to consumers due, amongst other things, to reduction in price because of the size of the contract and the cost to manufacturers due to economies of scale and, in many cases, the reliability of purchasers. Price discrimination to retailers and manufacturers of this kind could well be anti-inflationary. 
The Bill does not prohibit monopolies. It does not attack monopoly powers but only the use of them. The Bill does not clearly define monopoly by clear criteria as, for example, a specified percentage of a specific market. That is the practice today. The Bill uses such phrases as 'a corporation which is in a position substantially to control a market shall not engage in conduct directed to doing certain things'. The word 'directed' is crucial. If action is directed to certain ends the action is prohibited. But there is no definition of 'directed' or 'substantial control' or of the meaning of the word 'market'. Those terms can vary from time to time and from place to place. Amendments are critically important to ensure the satisfactory conduct of business. 
I have already referred to resale price maintenance, which is dealt with separately in the Bill. It is in substance a reproduction of the existing Act with the 4 amendments I have already mentioned. But the Bill does not continue the exemption provisions if it appears that some resale price maintenance transactions arc justified in the public interest. This exemption should be restored by the Government, unless it can give satisfactory reasons for its withdrawal. 
I have also mentioned the reasons why the clause relating to pricing agreements needs much more careful study and how some types of price discrimination are of advantage to the consumer. The clause as presented will have the effect of reducing competition. In fact, it will reduce competition to the general level of the most inefficient. The Robinson/ 
Patman Act of the United States has been criticised on this ground. As I have said, the refusal of the Government to permit authorisation in the case of pricing arrangements is extremely harsh and unnecessary. This should be remedied. 
I turn now to the subject of mergers. Again the Bill does not define what is meant by mergers'. It is intended by inference to cover mergers and takeovers. The Bill prohibits the acquisition of shares in the capital or any assets of a body corporate. The acquisition is prohibited where its effect will be substantially to lessen competition or where it will tend to result in the corporation being in a position substantially to control a market. On the face of it this provision could well turn out to be inconsistent with decisions of the Tariff Board concerning change of the kind necessary to achieve greater rationalisation and a reduction in costs. In this area a clearance from the Commission may be obtained. Clearances are an advisory opinion by the Commission in what are doubtful areas of the Bill's applicability. However, doubts will remain and the final decision will be with the courts. Here again greater certainty - greater precision - is needed as to the meaning of the words 'substantially to control* and 'a market' and the authorities of the Trade Practices Commission and the Tariff Board should be cleared up. 
I sum up in this way: There are features of the Bill that should be approved, but in other respects it is too arbitrary in application and it lacks clarity. Altogether too much responsibility will be left to the Tribunal rather than this Parliament after consultation with all interested parties. I believe that in the interests of efficient Australian production and distribution and in the interests of the consumer much more time is necessary to prevent loss of production and efficiency with consequent price increases and damage to the economy. I can but hope that the Government - the Australian Labor Party - has taken notice of the various objections made by the Opposition. Once having taken notice of them, I hope the Government will realise that this Bill can have disastrous consequences and that it is not in the best interests of the Australian people. 
 I rise at this moment to discuss clause 49 of the Bill, relating to pricing arrangements or what is more familiarly called price discrimination. I do so because I believe this clause clearly illustrates one of the great difficulties we face in analysing the Bill and making up our minds as to whether or not it is in the best interests of the consumer and the Australian economy. I make the preliminary comment that it is extremely difficult to understand exactly what clause 49 means. It lacks precision. No Bill should be pushed into law unless it is clear to the average person what is meant by it and unless the business people who must carry on commerce and trade and matters of that kind know precisely what are their legal rights and obligations. I do not think there are many people on the opposite side of the House who would argue very effectively about that proposition. 
I made it clear when I spoke in this place yesterday that I did not like the provisions  of  sub-clause (4) which relates to restrictive practices - that is, contracts, combinations and conspiracies in restraint of trade, monopolisation, exclusive dealing, resale price maintenance, price discrimination, mergers and matters of a similar kind. As I have said, I believe clause 49 crystalises as perfectly as I can imagine all the difficulties that I want to put before the Committee today. This clause provides: 
A corporation shall not, in trade or commerce, directly or indirectly, discriminate between different purchasers of goods . . . 
I believe that summarises pretty effectively what sub-clause .(1) of clause 49 means. But it has been realised that some difficulties have been thrown up in the past relating to pricing arrangements that ought to be protected because they would be in the interests of the consumer. Proposed sub-section (2) therefore states: 
Sub-section (1) does not apply in relation to a discrimination in relation to prices if - 
the discrimination makes only reasonable allowance for differences in the cost of manufacture, sale or delivery resulting from the differing methods by which or quantities in which the goods are sold or delivered to the purchasers; 
Proposed sub-section (3) provides that the onus of proof in showing that sub-section (1) does not apply in relation to discrimination by reason of sub-section (2) is on the party asserting that sub-section (1) does not apply. I never like the onus of proof being on any party other than the Crown itself. The Crown has a responsibility of ensuring that the law is observed and if it has the courage and determination and the goodwill of the people at heart, it ought to act in the interests of society as a whole and should take the full responsibility for taking action that it regards as right and in the interests of the economy, society, the consumer and, for that matter, all people. 
I think it would be pretty well known by now that clause 49 is roughly based upon the Robinson-Patman Act of the United States. I believe it is regrettable that we have relied a little too heavily in this case on importing people from overseas to do a job that can be done far better by the members of the Attorney-General's Department of this country and the Parliamentary Counsel. They know the law as it exists here. They know the customs and practices and the environment in which changes to the law have to be and should be made. From my long experience with that Department, I would put them in the forefront of legal and intellectual quality. I would not want to be introducing Americans to do a job, particularly when they come here with little or no knowledge of Australian conditions. 
However, I return to the Robinson-Patman Act because I think it has been found that that Act, parts of which, as I have said, have been roughly incorporated in this Bill, has proved to be ineffective. It has clearly shown that it has the tendency to impair competition, to restrict technological change and also to restrict innovation. It has also been frequently said - and I believe commonly accepted - that in the United States itself it is believed that the Robinson-Patman Act is in need of major over haul. I therefore regret to a considerable extent the fact that this has not been treated in a way that I believe could be readily understood and readily accommodated by the business community. 
I believe that subclause 2 is deserving of very substantial amendment and very considerable change because there is no doubt whatsoever that in certain circumstances there can be great benefits to consumers who are able to purchase in quantities; in other words, if we are able to go to a manufacturer and say T will take 200 items.' when we purchase those 200 items we will get them at a cheaper price than if we ordered one or two items. Let me illustrate the position with regard to discount stores. Discount stores order in large quantities. Consequently they are able not only to get a more satisfactory and a lower price but also because of their merchandising methods they are able to pass on the advantages to the Australian consumer. In the case of discount houses, as you would well know,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  it means that mum, dad and the kids are the people who will benefit. It means that the person who wants to purchase one or two items wants to get the very best price that he is able to get. In other words, purchasing in bulk, as is done by discount stores, is anti-inflationary and the Australian people are the beneficiaries. The Australian people are the ones who will benefit. 
I believe that this applies equally in the case of many of the big retail stores that exist in capital and other cities because if they buy in bulk, because of the economies of scale in production resulting in a reduction both in overheads and probably through a more efficient use of resources and better techniques, they are able to sell at a better price. If we use this Bill in the way in which it is intended to be used - and the motivating force is trying to restrict these activities - I believe it will have an inflationary impact and it will do harm to the Australian community. In other words, I believe that the clause under discussion is capable of ever so much more precise definition. 
There is one other matter to which I wish to refer. For some reason, absolutely unknown and not capable of comprehension by me, the Bill itself specifically provides that in the case of price arrangements under clause 49 the corporation involved will not have the opportunity under the relevant part of the Bill - I believe it is clause 88 - to go to the Commission and ask for an authorisation in a particular case. Why were corporations discriminated against? In a situation in which great benefits could be given to producers why were not they given the opportunity to be able to get an authorisation as is provided in the main provisions under clause 45 in relation to a contract in restraint of trade or commerce whether the contract is made before or after the commencement of operation of the subclause? 
In summary, it is clearly indicative that this Bill has not been given enough attention. It can have disadvantages for the purchaser and it can therefore be inflationary if it is carried to any great length. It means that people cannot purchase in bulk and expect to get exactly the same advantages. In respect of authorisations, I believe they should be put in the same position as those other contracts, conspiracies or whatever else it might be in restraint of trade. They should be placed in exactly the same position. They should not be discriminated against. I believe this is a bad clause but I believe that there are other clauses that are equally as bad. 
After listening intently to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  I have to confess that I come back to the conclusion that I had formed before I came into the House. What we are supposed to be debating in this debate, which was opened up so well and so effectively by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  is the total incapacity of the Government to carry out the effective economic and financial management of this country. I go a stage further by saying that if honourable members believe what the Leader of the Government said yesterday that Parliament has enough power and what he has said before it is perfectly obvious that the Government does not need the powers for price and income controls that it intends to refer to the people by referenda during the course of the next few months. I have with me today a statement of his and I have another one made a few months ago from which I will quote. He said that the States have adequate powers. I add the words 'if only they had the guts and the will and the wish to implement those powers and to do so effectively'. 
Do keep quite. Go back and lecture in the schools. With great deference to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I do wish that  Mr Speaker  himself was now in the chair because I want to use a word that I think would be more easily understood by him than by you. He is a man, as it were, bred and reared in the same locality as I was - Redfern - and will understand what I mean. The proof of the pudding of the Government's failure to implement its policies and to manage the economy effectively is that the economy is now in an awful bloody mess. There is no more eloquent or easier way of putting it than that, and I think I will be able to prove it in a few moments. When we have a look at the conditions that exist today how many people do we find who are disenchanted with the activities of the Labor Government and the solo efforts of the 27 members of the Cabinet, each moving off in different directions at the same time? Yesterday we had the eloquence of the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  who disagreed with the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  I believe he was rebuked - I hope he was not, because I would never rebuke a man as kind as he is - by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for his statements in which I think he believed, although he was probably wrong. But who thinks badly of a person who believes something sincerely and who states his opinion? A clear illustration of the attitude of the Treasurer can be gained from the fact that he wanted to incorporate in Hansard a history of interest rates. We are not interested in the history of interest rates unless there are lessons that can be learned and put into practice for the future. This shows what is in the minds of people - regrettably, the Minister for Social Security, who is at the table, is getting to that stage too - who are living in the past and who are determined to stay there, feet, heart, soul and everything else associated with them. 
I come back to the substance of what I wanted to put to the House today. I said that the economy is in a mess. On this second occasion I leave out the great Australian adjective because of the sensitivity of your feelings,  Sir. I  put it to the House that it has been adequately proved by the consistent and well thought out policies that we had, largely as a result of the work done by my colleagues when we were in government, including the then Treasurer, and the then Minister for Labour and National Service, that we could achieve all the economic objectives that any country would want to achieve, and that we did even better. Strangely enough we have never been able to get across the message of our economic success to prove to the Australian people the degree of that success and what it meant to them. I think that in a few minutes I will be able to explain to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  exactly what is involved here. When we ceased to be the Government, according to the implicit price deflator inflation was running at an annual rate of 2.2 per cent in real terms. What other country could equal that record? Yet who says much about it, even on my own side? We had achieved a rate of growth in real terms of production in the non-farm sector of 8.5 per cent. If these are not good records I think all of us ought to go home and do something a little different. 
I want to point out how this was done. How did we achieve it? We did it because we adopted a consistent group of policies. We did not accept one, as the Treasurer is doing at the moment, for reasons that are beyond his own capacity to control because he is only one in a Cabinet. Regrettably he is not one in the top lot who can ensure that his voice is listened to. I doubt whether it is heard very much and to the extent that it is heard people do not take very much notice of it. 
Our policy was consistently to apply pressures at a selected number of areas and through that means be able to ensure that we achieved the objectives and the results that we did achieve. If it had been demand that was causing inflationary pressure we would achieve control of demand by budgetary or fiscal policy. If it was money supply we would take action in respect of the quantity of money, the velocity of circulation and interest rate policy. If it was, and at the time that we were in Government it was in fact, the predominant inflationary force of wages, we would intervene before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and advocate wage restraint. There are other policies, such as, for example, the policies relating to tariffs which have been proved ineffective in the Labor scheme of things because the international trade cycle is on the way up. When the Labor Party did act, it acted too late and under circumstances where it was obvious that its policies were inappropriate or ill timed and would not achieve their objective. 
What the Treasurer has forgotten, and what the Labor Party has never known, is that timing is particularly important. Whenever the Labor Party has introduced a policy it has been either too soon or too late, or done in an unco-ordinated fashion. I turn back to mention one or two of the policies that I think have been dangerous and then come to the question of whether or not prices and incomes powers should be given to the Commonwealth Government. 
Let me speak first of all of me money supply. We know very well that unless we get co-ordinated policies we cannot expect monetary and interest rate policies to be even remotely effective. But Labor abandoned the Budget as an instrument for the control of money supplies. The Treasurer said that he intended to wash it out of his hair. He washed it out of his mind and soul as well. Consequently the Budget increased expenditure by 29 per cent when on all the facts and figures, and in accordance with the pleading of the Treasury officials who ought to know a little better than the average member of the government, a rate of the order of 8 per cent would have been appropriate. Not only did this boost demand when there was no necessity to do so but also it had the effect of increasing the money supply. As the money supply increased through budgetary action it minimised the effect of other complementary action taken by the Government, such as the control of capital inflows and action taken in connection with the reduction of tariffs. So inevitably it happened that the Labor Party's policies were bound to fail. But with what effect? 
Let me give a couple of illustrations. The first relates to interest rate policy. If we get into a position where shortages of supplies in the community develop, that is when demand is too high and supplies are too low, then no matter what economy-even in a communist economy - the price of goods and services in real terms will inevitably rise. In those circumstances interest rate policy itself largely becomes ineffective. As an illustration because the interest rates on housing authority loans have been driven to a relatively low level it will mean that money will not be attracted into the permanent building societies or into the savings banks. It will go where the reward will be greatest. Demand under present conditions will remain high and increasing. That has meant, as my colleague the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  has said, that a man who borrowed $14,000 for a home in June 1973 will now have to pay 24.3 per cent or $26.22 a month more. Now I come to the final matter to which I want to refer, and that is whether or not this has a bearing on the prices and incomes referendums- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The right honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
It must now be obvious that the Australian Labor Party is suffering from an acute form of referendum diarrhoea. Referenda are the means by which alterations to the Constitution are made. That is, they ask you, the people of this country, in whom true sovereignty resides, to transfer from the States to the Commonwealth constitutional and legal power over a wide range of matters. They ask you to do so by your vote and to do so permanently. 
It will be a permanent and complete transfer of power. From 6 State parliaments, governments and bureaucracies spread throughout the length and breadth of the Commonwealth to one all-powerful parliament, one government and one bureaucracy, centralised in Canberra, isolated from the people and remote from their needs. 
You, the electors of this country, would be transferring power to a group in Canberra which, as a group, is apt to think that their interests and inclinations are paramount and dominant. You will not have a second opportunity. You will have, in fact, given away a bit more of the farm to the Commonwealth Government in Canberra, much more distant and less responsive to your wishes than the States. No matter how much you might subsequently regret the transfer of power, you will not be able to have another go - another chance - as a result of your experience and more considered opinion. You cannot recall a power once it is given to the Commonwealth. 
With one exception, none of the powers proposed to be transferred by the referendum will benefit the people of this country in a personal way, as was done in 1946 in the amendment, by referendum, to section 51 (XXIII  a)  of the Constitution which conferred power on the Australian Parliament to make provision for such benefits as child endowment, unemployment, sickness and hospital benefits and family allowances. 
I readily confess that my belief in federalism stems not only from the belief that a wide division of powers and the widest debate and discussion in and out of Parliament is in the interests of the people themselves. I also believe - and history confirms - that too great a concentration of power is apt to corrupt, and that corruption feeds on the inevitable failure of secular gospels based on the conviction that some in high office are all powerful and have a monopoly of wisdom. 
Proof is easy to come by, and events in the world of today are clear testimony to the fact that administering the government of each and every democratic country raises intractable problems and is better in the hands and minds of many representatives of the people than in the vanity of the few. 
As I have said, the Whitlam song and dance comedy soloists in his 27-member assortment - somewhat roughly called the Whitlam Cabinet - are suffering not only from an acute form of referendum diarrhoea but, as I shall show, interference in the affairs of others mania as well. 
Already we have debated in this House 2 referenda Bills relating to prices and incomes - both with scanty bikini-type presentation but precious little substance, justification or information. Neither Bills were wanted by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Only one, the prices referendum, was wanted by his bosom and loving but long-suffering pal,  Mr Bob  Hawke who, I understand, is now to be replaced in the pecking order in a $15,000 a year job on the Prime Minister's personal staff by  Mr Mick  Young who is later to be appointed to a permanent Cabinet post by the direct edict of  Mr Whitlam  himself. 
Now we have 3 more Bills and the forecast of a fourth - one relating to simultaneous elections for the Senate and House of Representatives; the second relating to the qualifications of electors at House of Representatives and State elections and the quotas for each Commonwealth and State electoral division; and the last relating to borrowing for and financial assistance to local government bodies. 
Before I turn to the Bills themselves, there is a threshold constitutional problem that should be considered. That is the question of whether or not the Commonwealth has legal and constitutional powers to introduce such referendum legislation which touch and concern powers and functions that are clearly within and remain within the jurisdiction of the States, and are related almost exclusively to electoral matters involving the States. This matter is discused fully in Quick and Garran's The Annotated Constitution of the Australian Commonwealth', chapter 481, pages 988 to 995. On page 989 this passage appears: 
Hence it may be concluded that there is no limit to the power to amend the constitution, but that it can only be brought into action according to certain modes prescribed. 
There is also the question of the need for and desirability of changes to the Constitution. Even the Prime Minister has on more than one occasion stated that amendments to the Constitution are not necessary. Last year, referring to Labor Party policy on democratic socialism, he said that it would be intolerable if a Labor Government were to use the alibi of the Constitution to excuse failure- to achieve its socialist objective. He added that it would be doubly intolerable because it is just not true that it need do so. On the 13th of this month the Prime Minister repeated what he had already said in different language. He said: 
A determined Federal Government could find ways of living with the existing Constitution. 
The Constitution imposes great limitations- and it should - but the Constitution is not an alibi. 
So in his view, and also in the view of the Minister for Overseas Trade (Dr J. F. Cairns) amendments are not needed. Why then the haste to make changes when there is so much to be done of a substantive kind which affects the livelihood and interests of all? In my view the Bills are a smokescreen to cover Labor's failure with its economic, industrial, defence and other policies and to confuse the issues at the next Senate election, and also the election in 1974. 
The Bill we are now discussing is deceptive, incomplete and incomprehensible. Although it has a persuasive title, which reads: 
A Bill to ensure that the Members of the Parliaments (Australian or the States) are chosen directly and democratically.' 
Before debating the 3 significant proposals in the Bill let me mention that clause 3 proposes to repeal section 25 of the Constitution. This section contains a provision relating to races disqualified from voting by the law of a State and provides that in reckoning the numbers of the people of the State or of the Commonwealth persons of that race shall not be counted. It is a sensible proposal. 
As to the 3 significant proposals, clause 4 proposes that the number of persons, in each electoral division, Commonwealth or State, and not the number of electors, that is, the people actually voting, should as near as practicable be the same. A proposal in clause 5 deals with the qualification of electors for both the Australian and State parliaments. Finally the Labor Government wants to add a new section to the Constitution to provide that the same provisions of the Australian Constitution, as set out in clauses 4 and 5 of the Bill, shall apply to the elections in the States with respect to both the qualification of electors and the numbers of persons in electoral divisions. 
Clause 6 of the Bill is designed to amend section 75 of the Constitution to confer original jurisdiction on the High Court in respect of certain matters affecting Commonwealth and State elections and electoral disputes. The proposal does not of itself take away jurisdiction in these cases from the State courts. However, the Australian Parliament can remove this jurisdiction from the State courts, for example, by inserting a new provision in the Judiciary Act to remove the jurisdiction. Already there are some provisions in the Judiciary Act which could, perhaps, enable cases that are commenced in a court of a State and which involve the exercise of such jurisdiction to be removed into the High Court. 
Let me now examine in detail the three substantial issues raised in the second Bill. Probably the most important clause is clause 4. It proposes to add a new paragraph to section 29 of the Constitution. Section 29 itself is irrelevant to this debate. In substance it says that until the Australian Parliament otherwise provides, the Parliament of any 
State may make laws for determining the electoral divisions in each State and the numbers of members to be chosen for each division. Already the Australian Parliament has otherwise provided. So this section is now inoperative. The proposal is that the following words be added to section 29 of the Constitution, and I ask honourable members to listen to them intently: 
The numbers ascertained in respect of the several divisions of a State by dividing the number of people in each division by the number of members to be chosen for the division shall be, as near as practicable, the same. 
The new sentence is incomprehensible unless the reader has already been told what it is all about and the way in which the Labor Party wants - to coin a phrase - to dilly dally Daly.mander the electorates. The change could, of course, be made by legislation of this Parliament without the need for a referendum. The reason for the proposed referendum is that the Labor Party wants to achieve its purposes for ulterior reasons contrary to the best interests of the democratic system of Government in this country. 
So far as I can ascertain, the new paragraph is local in origin but the words 'shall be as nearly as practicable the same' have been taken out of the Labor Party's platform, which in turn were taken from an interpretation of Article 1 section 2 paragraph (i) of the United States Constitution which, insofar as it is relevant, says: 
The House of Representatives shall be composed of members chosen by the people'. 
There is no reference anywhere in the United States Constitution itself to the words 'as nearly as practicable the same'. 
The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who preceded me in this debate, has informed us that in the United States case, Wesbury v. Sanders (1964) the then Chief Justice of that country, Earl Warren - a man more noted for his political judgments than his knowledge of jurisprudence, as will become obvious - ruled that the relevant part of this Article should be interpreted as meaning that in United States Congressional elections - to use his own words - one man's vote in a Congressional election (in the  United  States) is to be worth as much as anothers' 
This was pulling a rabbit out of the hat. As must be obvious, there was no justification for this interpretation. A margin of 15 per cent from the average has, until recently anyhow, normally been considered acceptable in the 
United States. But obviously the Supreme Court ruling has not had time to work through the United States and State courts and the trend is now to favour a strict and literal interpretation of the words themselves. It must be remembered too that whilst the High Court of Australia would undoubtedly consider the United States Constitutional and law, it would riot necessarily be found by it. In recent years 'the high' has been much more prone to adopt the literary and dictionary meaning of words than to use the precedents and interpretations of the past. Providentially so but the concrete pipes case is a precedent. 
In any event, I do not understand the infatuation with the United States system or the decisions of its Supreme Court - neither seem to be doing anywhere near well as our own - unless, of course, old Dilly Dally or the Prime Minister are aspirants for presidential honours. 
The next question is one of logic. As I have said, the Bill proposes that Commonwealth boundaries be drawn up in such a way as to reflect equally the number of persons living within an electoral division or electorate, not eligible electors, that is, the people who in fact elect the members for the electoral divisions of the parliament. Surely the appropriate way to determine the numbers of electors in each State division is by means of a quota of electors properly enrolled and legally entitled to vote, not the number of people including the very young - even .the one and 2-year- olders and up to the 17-year old group - and the migrants who have not become naturalised citizens of this country. The voters are the people who determine the results of the elections and they should be the people who count. 
Indeed the proposal must discriminate against those who have raised their families and whose children have moved to other electorates. I refer to the elderly, the young couples with few or no children and single people. It must also discriminate in favour of electorates with high migrant populations. 
Furthermore, the proposal cuts directly across the Labor Party principle of one vote one value, and is inconsistent with Labor's alleged fundamental philosophy. This raises the question of both ideology and political opportunism. Labor's proposal means that every vote is not equal in value. It can have one or more electoral values. One vote may represent one or even more than 1.5 people in the electorate, not one qualified elector, that is, an elector qualified to vote. As an example, in an area with 50,000 migrants, many of whom are not yet naturalised, with 25,000 of them voting and 25,000 Australians voting there would be an electorate with 75,000 people and 50,000 voters, a vote in which the actual voter would be worth 50 per cent more people than in an electorate with a predominantly Australian grouping. 
I repeat that this is a blatant attempt to gerrymander the electorate by a constitutional amendment. It would mean that the high density areas with a large percentage of people, not qualified to vote, could strongly influence the results of the elections. As Labor thinks these high density areas are red ribbon Labor electorates with much more than average numbers of non voting people it would obviously falsify the vote and any new electorates created by a spill-over would probably trend strongly towards Labor. 
More importantly, the essential test of the fairness of a voting system depends on whether or not it truly reflects the opinions and voices of the Australian electorate as a whole. In other words, does the vote at election time enable the party which polls the majority of votes to win the majority of seats? 
There is proof beyond any reasonable doubt that since 1949 the legal tolerances have invariably produced fair distributions. Only twice since 1949 has the party with the highest percentage of votes - or the votes of the parties which usually distribute their second preferences to another party or parties - failed to win a majority of seats. One of those occasions was in 1954, when the election was contested on boundaries drawn up under the supervision of the late  Mr Calwell  when the Labor Government was in power. 
The other occasion was the result in the 1972 election which is especially interesting. In this case the boundaries gave Labor an advantage. The figures are: 

<graphic href="086131197311154_61_0.jpg"></graphic>

Labor polled only 49.6 per cent of the vote but won 53.6 per cent of the seats. So on the evidence, the present system is somewhat biased towards Labor. 
I wonder whether Labor has thought its policies through thoroughly. Has it abandoned its zero population philosophy? Does it intend to advocate a baby boom? If so, to what extent? Will it increase child endowment in order to achieve these purposes? Taken to extremes, has the Labor Party taken to heart Neville Shute's views as expressed in his book 'In the Wet' that some people should have as many as 7 votes - a vote for himself, his marriage, his family, his property, his overseas travel, his war service, and his service to the Queen? 
Clause 5 of the Bill seeks to amend section 30 of the Constitution. I do not have the time to deal with this aspect in any detail. I point out also that under the Constitution the Commonwealth already has power to pass laws relating to such matters. Why then does the Labor Government seek to write specific laws of this kind for which it already has general power under the Constitution? I have already given some of the reasons and time alone precludes me from mentioning the balance. I conclude with this supplication: Save us this day, and on all other days and nights, from our Daly dread in this House - the Minister for Services and whatever else the other part of his portfolio description means. 
This is the sixth of a series of referendum Bills, with one more to come. It is another Bill in a long and continuing series to alter the Constitution by fraud and by deceit, and to do so without adequate thought and without adequate parliamentary discussion. Let us look first of all at clause 2 (c) of the Bill which proposes to alter section 128 of the Constitution to allow qualified electors in the Territories to vote. The words 'the Territories refer to electors in the Australian Capital Territory, including Jervis Bay, and the Northern Territory. There are 264,000 citizens in these territories, of which 130,700 are eligible to vote. The Opposition supports this proposal for the good and sufficient reason that all Australian citizens qualified under the laws of this country should be able to do so. I mention in passing that the 130,700 Territory votes will not be counted in the votes of the States in order to determine whether in a majority of the States a majority of the electors voting approve the proposed law. They will apply only to the total Australian vote. 
There is a second proposal in the Bill in clause 2 (b). It proposes that the following words in section 128 of the Constitution shall be omitted: 
But until the qualification of electors of members of the House of Representatives becomes uniform throughout the Commonwealth, only one-half of the electors voting for and against the proposed law shall be counted in any State in which adult suffrage prevails. 
These words have been overcome by events and are now superfluous. The Opposition pointed out that similar requirements in other referendum Bills should have been deleted. The Opposition is glad that the Government has accepted its advice - however grudging and tardy acceptance might have been. 
There can be little doubt that the Australian Constitution has proved difficult to amend. There have been 26 proposals for amendment since 1901, and only five have been passed. That is exactly how it should be, because sovereignty, or quasi-sovereignty, resides with the qualified electors of this country. It is for them to decide, subject to certain constitutional safeguards, whether they want any change. They have a right, even an obligation, to move with care because they are the people who must bear the burden of irresponsible government - government of the kind they are compelled to endure stoically today. 
The real problem we face is associated with the third proposal in clause 2 (c) of the Bill. The relevant part of the Constitution to which clause 2 (c) relates provides that: 
And if in a majority of the States a majority of the electors voting approve the proposed law, and if a majority of all the electors voting also approve the proposed law, it shall be presented to the Governor-General for the Queen's assent. 
Clause 2 (c) of the Bill proposes that the words in a majority of the States' be omitted and that the words 'in not less than one-half of the States' be substituted. The Constitution would then read: 
And if in not less than one-half of the States a majority of the electors voting approve the proposed law, and if a majority of the electors voting also approve the proposed law, it shall be presented to the Governor-General for the Queen's assent. 
The effect of such a proposed change would be that instead of the constitutional requirement that, before a referendum can be successful a majority of the electors in a majority of the States must vote in favour of the proposal - that is, that there must be a majority of electors in four out of the six States and also a majority of all electors - in its place there would be a requirement that there must be a majority of electors in only 3 States out of six and a majority of all electors before the proposed law can be presented to the Governor-General for assent. 
The requirement that there must be a majority of electors in a majority of the States was inserted in the Constitution to preserve the federal system of government - that is, the system of the Commonwealth and the 6 States - and to ensure maturity of thought in the consideration and settlement of the proposals relating to organic changes of the Constitution. These constitutional requirements both safeguard the Constitution itself and were designed to ensure that proper and mature consideration is given to the proposed changes and their effect on the people of this country. We reject this proposal and will move for the deletion of clause 2 (c) from the Bill. 
Let me argue somewhat more persuasively and with greater authority about the effect of this proposed change. I am indebted to Quick and Gamut's learned and elegant 'Annotated Constitution of the Australian Commonwealth' for most of the ideas relating to amendments to the Constitution by plebiscite or referendum. As a preface I want to state the Liberal view relating to written federal constitutions and proposals for their alteration. 
A constitution may be compared to a living organism. It is not in the nature of a living organism to remain monotonously the same from year to year and from age to age. As with individual units, so with nations, change is one of the laws of life. The constitution of a nation is the outward and visible manifestation of its national life, to the pulsations of which it necessarily responds. The energy within any healthy organic structure must find vent in change. Change assumes various external forms. The power in a progressive community is never quiescent or stationary. 
The safeguards that are contained in our Constitution have been provided not in order to prevent or indefinitely resist change in any direction but in order to prevent change being made in haste or by stealth, to encourage public discussion and to delay change until there is strong evidence that it is desirable, irresistible and inevitable. 
A constitution is, after all, a charter of government. It is a deed of trust containing covenants between the sovereign community - that is, the people themselves - and its individual units. Those covenants should not be lightly or inconsiderately altered. At the same time a constitution which did not contain provision for its amendment with the development, growth and expansion of the community which it is intended to govern would be a most inadequate and imperfect deed of partnership. It would be doomed to collapse ignominiously and without hope of reconstruction. It would be bound to break beneath the pressure of national forces which it could not control or resist. 
I believe that those 2 principles are incontrovertible. At the same time, the tendency to change must be scrutinised to ascertain whether it is proceeding in a safe direction and, if possible, to guide the tendency in that direction. The principal element in the process of a submission of proposals to the electors by way of a referendum is this: The process is a concrete illustration of the political expedient formerly known as the plebiscite and now better known as the referendum. It is an undoubted recognition that the qualified electors are the custodians of the delegated sovereignty of the Commonwealth. The qualified electors represent the people of the Commonwealth as a quasi-sovereign State in quasisovereign organisation. The requirement of the approval of a majority of the electors and a majority of the States is the method imposed by the Constitution for ascertaining the will of the people of the Federal Commonwealth. If a majority of the States had been ignored the federal element in the structure of the Commonwealth would have been impaired and whittled away. 
But that does not end the matter. The Constitution, as I have said, is a living organism and we in this House must move with the times. The time may come when the national element - the people - may become so strong as to disregard and overshadow the federal element - the States. An amendment of the Constitution may then be projected and carried abolishing the necessity of the second majority. 
When that is done the Commonwealth will probably cease to be a federation and will be converted into a state that is national in form and structure and national in organisation. The Constitution itself enables such a change to be made if the sovereign qualified voters, in their wisdom, consider that such a change is desirable and that the plebiscite is carried out in accordance with the Constitution and procedures of this Parliament. I do not believe that the Australian people want changes of the kind proposed in clause 2 (c) of this Bill. 
I return to the long title to the Bill. It states that it is a Bill for an Act to facilitate alterations to the Constitution and to allow electors in Territories, as well as electors in the States, to vote at referendums on proposed laws to alter the Constitution. The words 'to facilitate alterations to the Constitution' are a false description of the relevant part of the Bill and must be considered against the background that the long title will be the actual question submitted to qualified electors at the referendum. It is the long title to the Bill that they will read on their ballot paper. Consequently, if it is to be honest, it should accurately reflect the substance of the Bill. Clause 2 (c) is an attempt to whittle away the federal system and the powers of the States; to take away power from the sovereign people of this country; to do so without adequate consideration of the meaning of the words and the consequences of the proposed change; to do so in such a way as to prevent proper public discussion; to do so by stealth; and to prevent the referendum Bill from truly reflecting the will of the Australian people. Accordingly, we will move to amend the preamble in a way that will be made known when the Bill is being discussed at the Committee stage. 
During the second reading debate I and other honourable members on the Opposition said that the critically important factor for us when considering the first proposal in relation to paragraph (a) of clause 2 was to ensure that the residents of the Territories - that is the Australian Capital Territory, including Jervis Bay, and the Northern Territory - should have a vote if they are qualified under the law. We have no hesi tation in repeating now in emphatic words, that we want those people to get a vote. I pointed out that there are 264,000 citizens in the 2 Territories and of those 130,700 are entitled to vote. 
I have looked at the amendment that has been prepared and submitted by my colleague, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  during the time I have been sitting at the table waiting to commence the Committee discussions. I do not believe that in present circumstances it adds enough to the Bill to justify a change in the proposal and could, in fact, in the future create some difficulties. 
For that reason the Opposition does not press  Mr Wentworth's  amendment. Provided it is ensured that the 130,700 people qualified to vote will be entitled to vote, we as an official Opposition, will be prepared to support paragraph (a) of clause 2. 
The Opposition is also prepared to accept the proposal contained in clause 2(b) of this Bill which makes provision for omitting the words: 
But until the qualification of electors of members of the House of Representatives becomes uniform throughout the Commonwealth, only one-half the electors voting for and against the proposed law shall be counted in any State in which adult suffrage prevails. 
It will be remembered by honourable members that on at least 2 occasions in discussions of other Bills relating to referenda we have drawn attention to the fact that there are sentences in various sections of the Australian Constitution which provide that, until the Parliament or some other institution otherwise provides, there is a constitution requirement as to the law that shall prevail. I am glad that somewhat tardily the Government has accepted the recommendation of the Opposition. I believe it is a sensible proposal to delete this clause and consequently we have no objection to the deletion. 
I move now to what is now the critical sub-clause so far as the Opposition is concerned. That is clause 2 sub-clause (c) of the Bill which proposes to omit the words 'in a majority of the States' and to substitute the words 'in not less than one-half of the States'. This is an amendment that we reject. The Opposition will vote against it and will take it to a division. I admit that there is little doubt that the Australian Constitution has been found difficult to amend in practice and that since 1901 there have been something of the order of 26 proposals to amend the Constitution but only five of them have been approved by the people of this country. I have also pointed out that that is as it should be because the people of this country in whom sovereign power resides - at least the qualified electors of this country in whom sovereignty resides - should be the people who determine what changes should be made to the Australian Constitution, not only as a matter of logic but also to comply with the provisions of section 128 of the Constitution. 
What ' would happen if the proposed amendment were made? It would mean in effect that there would be an amendment to that section of the Constitution which requires that before a referendum can be successful it must be approved by a majority of all the electors and by a majority of electors in 4 States out of 6 States. To put it in inure simple language, there would be a different requirement in place of the provision  *b.%  presently exists in the Constitution. Tl- ;ie. result of that would be that instead of a majority of electors in 4 of the 6 States, and also a majority of all electors being required to vote for the proposal, the Government would need only a majority of electors in 3 of the 6 States and a majority of all electors before action could be taken by the GovernorGeneral. 
We have pointed out also that the reason this section was initially incorporated in the Constitution was, firstly, to sustain the Federal Constitution, and secondly, to ensure mature consideration of the proposal and settlement relating to organic changes of the Constitution. In other words, to put it shortly, the section was designed to sustain the Constitution and to give the people adequate time in which their mature consideration could be exercised so that they would be the ones who would have sovereignty and the right to determine the changes that were to be made. I have pointed out also that change is the law of life and of society. It is a law of persistent change in the environment and persistent social change as well. The Opposition does not object, and would never object, to cases where it is essential or desirable that changes should be made to the Constitution in order to meet changing circumstances and where the people themselves can be convinced or come to the conclusion beyond doubt that change is desirable. 
The Opposition believes also that when there is a compact, such as in the Australian Constitution, between the States, the Commonwealth and the people, the people should be given ample opportunity to make up their minds, and they should be thoroughly briefed not only as to the meaning of the changes, but also as to the consequences that might flow from those changes. Because we do not believe these conditions have been met we have come strongly to the conclusion that we will move for the deletion of clause 2 (c). I move: 
Omit paragraph (c). 
I think the Opposition has an overwhelmingly good case. The greatest students and the most competent people who have thought about the Constitution - and I include both Quick and Garran - have come to exactly the same conclusion as we, in the Opposition, have come to. In other words, if honourable members read Quick and Garran and understand the constitutional principles and the realities of a federal and democratic system that guided the fathers of the Constitution, they must come to the conclusion that before a referendum is put to the Australian people they must be informed of exactly what is involved in the proposed change. Do the people of Australia want to sustain federalism? 
I believe that certain other matters ought to be drawn immediately to the attention of honourable members. 
The Prime Minister on at least 2 occasions has stated that amendments to the Constitution are not necessary and that if the Government wants to carry out its objectives it cannot treat the Constitution as an alibi. Secondly, as I think my colleague the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  would point out, the representatives of the people in the Northern Territory, and particularly the representatives of the Labor Party in the Northern Territory, believe/ that this matter should be discussed by the Constitutional Convention. I believe that this is a matter which could easily be considered by the Constitutional Convention. It should at least be able to submit a report and recommendation which would give all of us the opportunity for more mature consideration and more mature thought before any further action is taken. What is proposed in the Bill would not be in the best interests of the Australian people. For that reason the Opposition decided to move the amendment, which I have already circulated, and we will divide on this amendment. 
Shortly before the suspension of the sitting I moved an amendment to clause 2 (c) of the Bill, the effect of which, if it had been agreed to by the Committee, would have been to retain in section 128 of the Constitution the wordsin a majority of the States' and to prevent the substitution of the words 'in not less than one-half of the States'. I pointed out how the proposed new paragraph (c) would completely change the tenor of section 128 of the Constitution, in the sense that it would be taking away some powers of the States relative to the Commonwealth and that adequate time was not being permitted in this Parliament to debate the measures proposed. I now come to the long title of the Bill which is in these words: 
A Bill for an Act to facilitate alterations to the Constitution and to allow Electors in Territories, as well as Electors in the States, to vote at Referendums on Proposed Laws to alter the Constitution. 

 Mr Chairman, may I ask for a little quietness? It seems as though my friends on the other side of the chamber are in somewhat the same position as they were last Wednesday night. 
The Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 5), which we are now considering, is an integral part of the 1973-74 Budget. Politically speaking, 1972 was the 'Age of Aquarius'. More reforms were carried out in that year than in any other comparable year I can remember. The 1972-73 Budget was hailed, even by the cranky commentators, as both humanitarian and economically sound. 
It lived up to the first principle of good budgeting - that is, that the Budget should reflect sound and progressive economic and financial policies and sound economic management. In fact the year 1973 was conceived under the most favourable conditions, as my colleague the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  has just pointed out. 
The inherited newborn economic and financial structure for 1973 was lusty and strong and - even according to Treasury, which is not usually given to compliments or adulation - with prospects for progress and development of an unprecedented kind. But, to use Treasury's own words relative to inflation, our expectations were rudely shattered early in 1973 - the time of the advent of Labor to effective power. 
By that time the parents and godparents had changed. The newcomers were inept and clumsy, without loyalty or semblance of unity, but with delusions of grandeur and with an incredible capacity to argue and to disagree publicly, in Parliament, in Cabinet and in Caucus. 
Politically speaking, 1973 ushered in the Age of Cancer' or the 'Age of the Crabs' as assuredly as 1974 will usher in the 'Age of Scorpio'. 
In the vernacular, as a whole 1973 has been a rotten year for the Australian people. 
I hear the words 'Hear, hear' from the other side of the fence. 
Nearly every section of the Australian community has been alienated from the Government. There is no longer a feeling that large numbers of voters can identify either with the Government, the Cabinet and its members or with its policies and administration. The feeling is abroad that policies have been hideously and hastily ill-conceived and administered with indifference and, what is worse, with incompetence. 
Why? Because basically the Government's economic and financial policies have been unsound. The Labor Government's credibility and reputation for political honesty are now below the Watergate level and the necessary and essential conditions in which John Citizen and the businessman can carry on their business and do their own thing with certainty and precision have been destroyed. 
Let me take 2 examples to illustrate the 3 failures I have mentioned. No one with any degree of competence and intellectual and personal honesty can doubt that the 1973-74 Budget - the context in which we must consider this Bill - was badly conceived. It was a document singularly lacking in courage, populist in outlook and conceived with the intention of pleasing the Labor Caucus and its supporters rather than seeking the best interests of the Australian people. It made no claim to economic sanity or responsibility. 
If ever there was a Budget that demanded restraint in government expenditure to prevent demand inflation superimposing itself on top of wage cost inflation, this was it. Even the critics of 1971 and 1972 are hesitantly and reluctantly now using this phrase. In the 1972- 73 Budget year some stimulus to demand was desirable, and it was given. In 1973 none was desirable or necessary. But expenditure was increased enormously - by something like 20 per cent over that of the previous year - and inflation was given a hefty shove. 
Just the opposite was needed because demand had grown to proportions in excess of available or potential supplies. Shortages and bottlenecks are growing strongly and the work force has moved to a position of virtual over-full employment. In fact, vacancies now considerably exceed registrants for employment, as we forecast when we were in Government. 
Perhaps the best illustration of where the Budget went wrong is in the figures relating to this year's estimated Budget deficit of $162m compared with the estimated deficit of $60m in the 1972-73 Budget. In fact, sound and responsible budgeting demanded that there should have been not a deficit or a balance but a substantial surplus of up to $500m in internal terms - a turnabout of up to $650m - with its consequent effect on the money supply. 
It could have been achieved easily by delaying the Walter Mitty dreams of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and his colleagues, as I shall remind them in a few minutes time when I refer to the Coombs task force. 
Let me refer to what the 'heroes' of the new reform movement said in Labor's review of expenditure policies. They were led by  Dr Coombs  and included  Mr J.  J. Spigelman, senior adviser to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  and  Mr Paddy  McGuiness, senior adviser to the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden). Dr Coombs  pointed out that the economic scene has changed rapidly. Some months ago he said: 
There are limits to the possible supply of goods and services and we are close to them. 
He went on: 
It would seem therefore that a prime objective of economic management . . . should be to prevent the demand for goods and services rising to levels which will intensify the growing shortages of labour and bring about inflationary rises in costs and prices. ... In these circumstances the scope for a Budget which would stimulate total spending is severely limited. 
Later he said: 
It can perhaps be questioned whether social welfare will be greatly reduced if we wait another year or two for some steps along the road. 
For example, according to  Dr Coombs,  proposed expenditure in relation to such matters as transport, communications, radio, television and health services could be delayed. It is clear that this is the story of a failure of abysmal proportions; of a failure of political courage; of a failure to understand the basic rules of finance and economics; and of a failure to govern in the public interest rather than in the interests of Caucus and the Australian Council of Trade Unions. This is why the taxpayer, personal and corporate, will have to pay about $648m in a full year in increased taxation. 
The second point is Labor's credibility and honesty which, as I have said, have sunk to below a 'Watergate' level. One of the proposals in the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 5) 1973 is contained in clause 8. It proposes to change the basis of end of the year valuations for taxation purposes of trading stock manufactured from grapes. The present basis is optional valuations above certain minimum levels. Clause 8 proposes that the maker shall have a choice between cost, market or replacement value. There is no doubt that this will have major unfortunate consequences for small and even moderately sized Australian wine makers, with the real prospect of driving them out of business after many years of discipline and effort to create a great industry. 

 Mr Dunstan, the South Australian Premier, has now revealed that at the request of  Mr Whitlam  before last December's Federal elections he had told the wine industry that no new imposts would be applied to it. He also said that a Labor Government would repeal the 50c a gallon excise imposed by the Liberal Government and would not replace it with another impost. Despite protests from  Mr Dunstan,  tax exemptions on wine and brandy will be abolished and a preferential differential on brandy will continue keeping the price about $1 above that of the pre-Budget figures.  Mr Dunstan  said: 'P.M. dishonoured me'. The Prime Minister had broken a promise, he said, and had caused him personal dishonour and grave embarrassment. 'All I can do now is state my shame and make public my bitter opposition to what has occurred'. So to use a cliche, there is no honour among thieves, particularly where  Mr Whitlam  is concerned. If a man like  Mr Dunstan  - a Labor Premier who made a promise on  Mr Whitlam's  behalf - can be dishonoured, what are the limits to political treachery and the lack of political integrity? 
Let me now turn to the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 5) itself. I do so with specific concern for those revenue measures which will over a time have a significant and restrictive impact on the growth and prosperity of this country because they touch and concern incentives given to industry -in the interests of growth and development. 
I base my statement on the incontrovertible fact that our future social welfare, health, environmental and cultural development depend on the extent to which our effective growth and development are expanded to meet the demands of an impatient society, a society entitled to expect to benefit from and to share in the good things of life. 
Let me examine 4 changes proposed in the Bill. Clauses 14 and 15 propose to abolish the present investment allowance which permits a deduction from assessable income of 20 per cent of capital expenditure on specified new plant. The loss to industry in a full year, according to statement No. 5 of the Budget, will be $60m. In other words, the gain to the Treasury will be $60m in a full year. 
I continue along this line because large scale capital investment in new and technologically advanced plant and equipment is vitally important if productivity is to be increased. This is an incentive which the Liberal-Country Party Government did provide. Inflation is certain if wage or income increases exceed productivity. So Labor is ensuring by this measure that a kick along is given to inflationary pressures by taking measures which will inevitably reduce productivity. Everyone will suffer because of the continued use of less efficient plant and the consequent increase in costs. 
I turn now to clause 25 of the Bill which proposes that the special deductions allowable to life assurance companies under section 115 of the principal Act will be reduced to 2 per cent of calculated liabilities. The great majority of the larger life offices are, of course, mutual. Being a mutual company means that profits are not paid to shareholders or, to put it in a different way, the profits accrue to and are paid to policy holders. In total 99 per cent of surplus funds of the mutual life offices are directly appropriated for bonuses to policy holders and the only people entitled to participate in the distribution of surpluses are policy holders themselves. In the case of non-mutual Australian companies, 97 per cent of surplus funds are appropriated for the benefit of policy holders. In the case of the MLC, for example, 97 per cent is distributed to policy holders. 
Clauses 10 and 26 propose that the amount of dividends in respect of which a life assurance company is allowed a rebate of tax under section 96 of the principal Act is to be reduced by an appropriate part of the deduction allowable for the general management in relation to calculated liabilities. 
These proposals must be considered in the context of the proposed increase in the taxation rate for life offices from 42.5 per cent to 47.5 per cent. 
The combined effects of the proposals in the Bill will result in the income tax payable by life offices being increased by about 250 per cent or 2.5 times the previous level, which will in turn result in a reduction of bonuses of between 20 per cent and 25 per cent - and this is the latest information given to me from one of the greatest of the life offices - to policy holders and will affect 7,500,000 holders of policies. 
The Australian life offices are efficiently managed by world standards. I have never heard that argued about; I have never heard it contradicted. In fact they are agencies and trustees for the investment of funds saved by their policy holders. Obviously 7,500,000 people or holders of 7,500,000 policies trust the life offices and are satisfied with their investments. In their turn the savings of the policy holders in the form of life office premiums are mobilised by the life offices and make a notable contribution to investment in this country. 
Investment, as I previously said, is the basis on which real assets can be mobilised for our own growth and development. We would all be much the poorer if this mobilisation of savings for investment in government works and services, private development, buildings, plant and equipment, housing and other avenues had not been made and were not still being made out of life office assets and property. 
There is one other threat hanging over the life offices. It has been stated by the Labor Government that what is called the 30/20 rule under which 30 per cent of the property or assets of the life offices must be invested in Commonwealth Government bonds or semi and local government securities in various proportions is to be increased to a 40/20 rule or some similar type of arrangement. The additional amount acquired, amounting to $700m in the first year and $l,600m during a period of 5 years, would be invested in the Australian Industry Development Association for the socialisation of Australian industry and other wildcat purposes. I have long thought that the 30/20 rule for life offices was a mistake and contrary to the interests of policy holders. Although I was not the Treasurer at the time, I know that the Treasury was opposed to the proposal when it was first considered. 
I have 3 reasons for scepticism. Firstly, I believe the compulsory acquisition of life office property and assets for investment in government and semi government securities distorts the money and interest rate structure of the Australian money market and works to Australia's long term disadvantage. Secondly, I doubt whether the acquisition of property on just terms under section 51 (xxxi) of the Australian Constitution permits the compulsory acquisition of the property of the life offices or of individuals held in trust for them by the life offices without just compensation. Thirdly, and more importantly, I object to the Government telling 7,500,000 policy holders how their savings must be invested, with a consequent loss of bonuses to the policy holders themselves. 
This then is the substance of my objections: The Budget was a bad one. 
With one or two exceptions its economic and financial policies have been destructive. 
This Bill is another reflection of Government policies gone astray and I have given a summary of the damage some of the changes proposed to be made in the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 5) will do to the Australian economy. The Labor Government must assume complete responsibility for its fiscal and budget policies, and their consequences, and for other policies of a kind which are continuously affecting the confidence of the Australian people. 
For all these reasons I support the amendment that was moved by my colleague, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition and I support also his arguments. Notwithstanding that, I am one who believes that a Budget, particularly its Bills such as taxation assessment Bills or appropriation Bills that are the basis of Budget considerations, should not be rejected without manifestly good reasons and in the interests of the nation. 
The Labor Government must accept complete responsibility for the change in the feelings of the Australian people and their decision when next an election is held, and I hope it is pretty soon. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I do. In today's Australian' there is an article headed: 
Whitlam hires TV man- 
Referring to a  Mr Colin  Bednall and, I add, as well as  Mr Mick  Young - to advise on media. 
He will be a media consultant to the Prime Minister's Department. The article goes on to state: 

 Mr Bednall will be employed on a similar basis to an adviser to the previous Government,  Mr K.  Sinclair, who is still under contract but has had little work since Labor came to power. 
The fact is that  Mr K.  Sinclair was not on my personal staff or on the staff of the previous Government. He was on the staff of the Department of the Prime Minister as a consultant to that Department but with no political commitment.  Mr Sinclair,  whom I greatly respect, was of course available to me, as were other officers of that Department, for discussions and for the drafting of speeches. He was not used by me as a media adviser in any capacity whatsoever. I make this explanation against the background that I had only 4 male advisers on my -personal staff employed under Public Service conditions. The remainder - mainly females - were on my personal staff in an administrative capacity. They included stenographer-typists and others employed on similar types of work. I did take  Dr Coombs  overseas with me on one occasion and used his services on an irregular basis on several other occasions particularly in relation to Aborigines. 
I have already explained that, thank you,  Sir. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and concerns the apparent and obvious inconsistency between his policies in opposition and in government. Does he realise that the answer he gave at his Press conference yesterday that Australian officials would not be allowed to visit Southern Rhodesia in a private capacity because you cannot divorce the private from the official life of an official directly contradicts the attitude he took last year when he argued that the then Minister for the Army should be permitted to visit the People's Republic of China in a private capacity without relinquishing his official position as Minister? 
 Mr Speaker,  1 wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, on 2 occasions, by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam). Mr Speaker,  the Prime Minister implied, in an answer that he gave to a question by me in the House this morning, that my Government was not prepared to permit Ministers to visit the People's Republic of China, prior to recognition of that country, on an official invitation from the Chinese Government itself. This is untrue. I had made it clear that I was prepared to permit the then Minister for Foreign Affairs and the then Minister for Labour and National Service to visit the People's Republic of China if an official invitation was received. 
No, never. They themselves did not, and neither did I. The second point is this: The Prime Minister must know, as he was Foreign Minister for a short period, that the advice tendered to me as the Prime Minister was that the then Minister for the Army could not visit the People's Republic of China in a private capacity- 
That is the first point in relation to which I was misrepresented,  Sir. The  second point relates to the fact that the Prime Minister, having 'been the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a short period of time, will know that the recommendation given to me by both the Department of Foreign Affairs and the then Minister for Foreign Affairs who is now a Justice of the New South Wales Court of Appeal was that a Minister would not be able to visit the People's Republic of China in a personal capacity. That vindicates completely the substance of the question I asked of the Prime Minister earlier this morning. 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa- Prime Minister) -  Mr Speaker  - 
Vernon is the royal commissioner who is inquiring into the Post Office.  Sir John  Crawford is on the Industries Assistance Commission. Professor Karmel and  Mr Kenneth  Meyer are the other members. I did not in any way intend to imply - I do not think anybody could have inferred that I did - that any of those honourable gentlemen was involved in the preparation or endorsement of the Winter report. The honourable gentleman, in referring to the Winter report, referred not only to  Mr Winter  himself but also to a person - without naming him - who had advised him. In my reply I listed the persons who are named in my letter to  Mr Winter.  Perhaps the people reading Hansard who do not have before them a copy of the Winter report would be helped if I were to read from it 3 further paragraphs of my letter to  Mr Winter.  They read: 
The Australian Government Departments which have particular responsibilities touching upon the area of your enquiry are the Attorney-General's Department, the Department of Labour and the Treasury. These Departments are available to assist you as you require. 
I have also arranged that you may call upon the services of the following people who have expertise or knowledge in matters relevant to your inquiry: 
The other point I wish to make is: Many of us who have listened to the debates in the House and to statements made outside the House should ask ourselves why the Labor Government wants to introduce any amendments at all, because it is well known that the Prime Minister has frequently said, 'We can never use the Constitution as an alibi for not taking action'. If he believes that that statement is generic in concept and applies everywhere, we should take him at his word and ask him: 'Why do you want a change?' We have no doubt at all that we will object to the proposals made on behalf of the Prime Minister and we will divide on them. 
Rightly, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has confined his remarks to one clause of the Bill, clause 2 (c), which proposes that section 128 of the Australian Constitution should be altered in order to make it easier for a constitutional change to be brought about in the manner set out in proposed new section 128 of the Constitution. Regrettably, the Prime Minister failed to mention the fact that, when the Bill was first debated here and later in the Senate, the Opposition requested that the title of the Bill should be amended in order to make clear the purpose of the legislation. 
Well, the title. The title, in fact, is very short. If the Prime Minister wishes to call it the 'long title', let him use that phrase. But title is good enough because it is the title of the Bill. I do not think that an adjective needs to be attached to it. In any event, the Prime Minister did not touch on the question of the title or the long title of the Bill. In a few moments I shall explain the reasons why the Opposition believes that the title does not accurately set out the thrust and tenor of the Bill itself, why it is capable of deceiving people - it is capable of deception - and why the amendment that the Opposition proposed here and which the Senate carried should be accepted. In other words, it is our strong belief, fortified by everything that we have heard since 21 November, that the 2 amendments proposed by the Opposition here and carried in the Senate should stand. Consequently, we should agree to the amendments that have been made, after most mature and careful consideration, by the Senate. 
The Prime Minister stated that one of the two critical changes that we seek to achieve relates to clause 2 (c) of the Bill which provides for an easier method of altering the Constitution. It proposes that the words 'in a majority of the States' be omitted and the words 'in not less than one-half of the States' be substituted. In section 128 of the Constitution, as it now exists, is a requirement that before the appropriate papers can be placed before the Governor-General for his signature assenting to a referendum proposal on behalf of the Queen, there should be a majority of electors in all the States as well as a majority of electors in a majority of the States in support of that referendum proposal. The Government wishes to omit the words 'in a majority of the States' and put in their place 'in not less than one-half of the States'. 
The sum total of these proposals is that as the Constitution stands a majority of 4 out of 6 States together with a majority of all the eligible electors will need to vote in favour of any proposed alteration to the Constitution. I have no doubt whatsover that if honourable members read the Constitution - particularly if they read the various debates that took place prior to the Constitution being accepted and, much more importantly, if they read Quick and Garran, the recognised authority on constitutional matters - they will find that there are various reasons why we should insist on the principle of a majority of people in a majority of States supporting a referendum. 
We must accept that the Constitution is a deed of trust, or a compact between the States and the Commonwealth and between the people, the Commonwealth and the States. As it is a compact between the States and the Commonwealth the strongest precautions should be taken to ensure that changes are not made to the Constitution without proper consideration and thought by the people. This compact should truly reflect the fact that we live in a federal system of government and consequently that changes should not be made which would deprive the States of power and give it to the Commonwealth. Without at least a majority of people and a majority of people in a majority of the States supporting the proposals. That is the first point I make. 
I believe there are good reasons for recommending that the Government should accept the amendments suggested by the Senate. While I believe that a Constitution such as ours must always be regarded as a document that is dynamic, alive and capable of being changed to meet the changing environment, changing economic and social circumstances, a changing culture, changes in our international status and relations and the growth of a greater national spirit, I do not believe that changes should be made to it unless such changes have received mature consideration by the Australian people. The people should not be rushed into making a hasty decision that they may regret when the consequences of their decision become apparent as a result of legislation that is passed by the Government that succeeds in getting a referendum passed. 
The Opposition takes the view that the Government's proposals should not be agreed to. Adequate time was not available to debate this matter when it was first before this House. There has been such a rush of legislation that I have previously called it in the House a diarrhoea of legislation'. Few of the measures that have been introduced to the House have been either adequately prepared and publicised or well thought out by the Government. The Prime Minister's own attitude during the Committee stage was a clear indication that he was ill prepared to debate the matter. He obviously does not know very much about it because he had to read nearly every word he said. 
It was rubbish. What we heard from him was rubbish. 
You talk about pomposity! That is all you have. In any event, that is the first point I make. My second point relates to the title - or, as the Prime Minister chooses to call it, the long title - of the Bill. I do not think either description matters very much but the shorter title of the Bill is the one that appeals to me. The long title to the Bill describes this legislation as 'A Bill for an Act to facilitate alterations to the Constitution and to allow Electors in Territories, as well as Electors in the States, to vote at Referendums on Proposed Laws to alter the Constitution'. I do not believe that the words 'to facilitate alterations to the Constitution' adequately reflect the thrust and the intent of clause 2&lt;c) of the Bill which was previously before us and which has now been brought hack as a result of recommendations made by the Senate. 1 could understand it if the title was 'to make it easy' or even 'much easier to amend the Constitution', because that is exactly what is intended. Instead of requiring a majority of the people in a majority of States, we could provide for a majority of the people in at least half of the States, therefore making it ever so much easier to get an amendment. As I said, the problem of federalism is involved and we should be ready to protect the Federal Constitution. 
There is one other critically important factor we must remember, namely, that the title of the Bill will, in fact, be put on the ballot papers or each section of the ballot paper, and it is that and that alone which the people will read. Therefore, if they read something that does not honestly reflect the thrust and substance of the referendum proposal, they could be misled, lt could be considered an act of deceit, and I do not believe that, willingly, the Prime Minister would want to be involved in an act of deceit of this kind when a matter as important as a referendum proposal is being considered. Therefore, we want acceptance of the original proposals made by the Opposition in this House. First, relating to the substance of the Bill, we want clause 2 (c) struck out and the words 'to facilitate alterations to the Constitution' removed from the title. 
I wish to make one other point which, admittedly, is not associated with the amendments before the Committee. I want to emphasise, because the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  is present, that there is one other part of the Bill of which we strongly approve and which we would like to see go through at a referendum. We want to give a vote to the people of the Northern Territory. 
It will be remembered that, when I was speaking, in Committee, to the motion that the amendments proposed by the Senate be disagreed to, I pointed out that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had neglected to look at what he chooses to call the long title of the Bill. I said then that I believed that, far from facilitating changes in the Constitution, the Bill made changes much easier to make or, if I may put it in different language - language used in the 'Reasons' which were prepared by the Prime Minister in the few seconds which were available to him - the Labor Party wants the change because the form in which section 128 of the Constitution is drafted has proved to be a stumbling block. In other words, the Government wants to remove any sort of a block to constitutional change. I believe that that applies right through the legislative process. The Government wants to get its way. It wants to get its way in the easiest possible manner and in the quickest possible time. 
This is one of the reasons why I pointed out to the House that when there is a proposal for a constitutional change we must be certain, first of all, that the federal relationship is being maintained - unless the people who, after all, are the sovereign people of this country agree to a change - and, secondly, that the people have adequate time in which to bring their thinking to bear on the proposal. We must ensure that only after the most careful and mature consideration are changes made. That is the first reason why we believe not only that section 128 should be amended in the manner recommended by the Senate but also that the proposal by the Prime Minister as to section 128 should be rejected. 
I also point out that we have to come back to fundamentals. In a Federal Constitution we must accept the fact that we are trustees for that Constitution and we should not lightly make changes to section 128 or, for that matter, to any other section of the Constitution, unless we find in that Constitution sections which have to be dealt with satis factorily in order to ensure that the federal system is maintained during the period the people want it maintained and we ensure that the people have the opportunity for consideration in the way I have mentioned. 
For those reasons we reject the reasons which have been presented setting out why the Government believes that the Senate amendments should be rejected or, as the Prime Minister said, are not acceptable to the Government. The Senate amendments are acceptable to us. We stated quite positively when the Bill first came into the House that we believed that our amendments were correct. The Senate, after more mature consideration, has come to exactly the same conclusion. It must be obvious to the Government that there is a very strong opinion in the whole of this Parliament - the Senate and House of Representatives combined - which does not want these proposals put to a plebiscite or referendum. I hope and trust that when the proposals are put they will be beaten decisively and that when the people of this country - I repeat that after all they are the sovereign people of this country - have an opportunity to express their view they will do so in an emphatic way; that is, that they will vote no at the referendum. 
 Mr Speaker,  I draw your attention to the number of honourable members sitting on the front bench on the Government side. I wonder whether the bells ought to be rung again. 
The Bill which we are now considering relates to the remuneration and allowances payable to certain statutory office holders. We in the Opposition have had a close look at the Bill. I remind the House that in 1971, at the request of the Senate, we gave an undertaking that in future we would ensure that the salary and remuneration of officers of the Crown would be fixed by legislation rather than by prescription. This Bill carries out that undertaking which since that time, has been accepted by the present Government. What happens in various cases is that when new offices are created - this Bill relates entirely to the creation of new offices - the Bill creating the office specifies the salary and allowance of the chief officers concerned. But there is a requirement that before the end of the year there will necessarily be introduced a complementary Act of Parliament which, in effect, will carry out the undertaking that was given. Clause 4 of the Bill which contains the Schedule of amendments to the principal Act, refers to the office concerned, the rate per annum of remuneration or salary and the rate per annum of annual allowance. It also sets out the actual designation of the office and the amounts of the remuneration or salary and the allowances to be paid. Unless this Bill is passed into law it will mean that these officers cannot and will not in fact be paid or allowed the remuneration and the allowance which they are properly entitled to receive. For that reason we approve of the Bill. There are certain other provisions in it relating to part-time members of the Grants Commission, members of the Prices Justification Tribunal and deputy members appointed under the Wool Industry Act which has special provisions to which I do not think it is necessary for me to refer. There is also one other valuable amendment relating to an officer who is given an appointment to another department or to another Public Service authority. This is done in order to ensure that there is no loss of pay - it is a no loss clause - and it also provides that until otherwise decided his remuneration shall be fixed by prescription. 
But there are 2 matters to which 1 specifically want to refer now. The first one relates to the fact that I believe the time has come when we need a greater degree of rationalisation or co-ordination of the remuneration of office bearers of all kinds. I say that because one can find authority for the payment of salaries and allowances set out in several measures and also one can find that the Public Service Arbitrator has the right in certain circumstances to determine salaries, not of the senior officers or heads of departments but of those closely associated with them. For example, I think it is unfortunate to find that relativities can be changed frequently by a determination of the Public Service arbitrator, and that a determination can have an unfair effect upon office bearers. For instance, because of a Public Service Arbitrator's determination the Principal Parliamentary Reporter now receives $1,317 per annum less than his  deputy  receives. 
The second point I want to make - I would emphasise it - is that I do believe that the officers of this Parliament have been left behind and have been largely forgotten. For that reason I put to the Minister - I know he will look sympathetically at this - that either we need a new method of approach to this problem or we need to get an assurance that the matter will be considered, say, once every half year. That does not seem to me to be the appropriate method of dealing with it because it is not necessary for this to go through the House in a formal way each 6 months. Nonetheless I would personally like to feel that this matter was receiving the closest attention so that we do not get these changes of relativities and we do not get occasions when salary ranges get out of step and people can be deprived of their just entitlements for a considerable period of time. 
I accept the statement made by the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  a few days ago when he mentioned that certain statutory officers as well as members of the judiciary and members of Parliament would have recommendations or determinations made by a tribunal as to their salary code and as to the allowances that would be granted. I understand - I hope it is true - that the Clerks of this House and the Principal Parliamentary Reporter also will be considered by that tribunal. Even though that might be the position, other officers - not permanent heads - will not be included within the ambit or power of this authority. It is for us to ensure that officers of this Parliament are fairly and justly treated. From a fairly long experience I think it is correct to say that one can find that they are apt to be forgotten by the other members of the Public Service and they are apt to be forgotten until the adjustment becomes so obvious that specific decisions have to be made. 
I at least had the very great pleasure of ensuring that the salaries of the Clerks of this House and of the Senate were considerably improved, and I would like to see even more done for them in the future. I think we have to recognise that this is the Parliament of the Commonwealth and that those officers are carrying out an important constitutional function. The advice they give is of critical importance to us and the effective operation of this House is largely contributed to by the ability, common sense and industry of the officers of this Parliament. I put those positions to the Minister knowing full well that he will look at them with the greatest degree of sympathy. Having said that I now say that the Opposition approves of the Bill as it is presented with the wish that the matters I have mentioned are properly considered by the Government. 
Never, in contemporary times, have so many of the social, political and philosophical aspirations of our people been mouthed in such preten tious and false language as by the present Labor Party. Never before have so many promises been dishonoured in so short a time. Never in so short a time have our people become so bewildered and disillusioned. 
It is time - time to think again; time to act; time - a little more than a year later - to give the Australian voter the opportunity to kick out this Labor Government; time to do so before irreparable damage is done to the fabric of the Australian economy and society. 
I conceded willingly that many of thi speeches by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and other Ministers are elegantly written. I state emphatically that many are a miserable concoction of empty promises and irrelevant flights of imagination. I state, too, that they are deliberately intended to deceive sections of the voting public and to confuse the real issues and problems that face this country today. 
The Australian voter is imaginative and wants to achieve the attainable values and highest quality of life of which this country is capable. But they want performance, not pieinthesky promises of a brand new but unattainable world of words and unrealizable dreams. They do not want to be swamped by legislation huge in quantity but - with some worthwhile and even very worthwhile exceptions - of doubtful quality. To put it in a nutshell, and in the somewhat picturesque language of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  the voting public, or some sections of it anyhow, have had a year long flirtation with the Labor Party, have been kicked in the shins, the pants and other parts of the body as well and now, obviously, want a legitimately consummated marriage with their long trusted friends in the Liberal and Country Parties. 
Let us take an objective look backwards, and let us begin with the GovernorGeneral'sSpeech at the opening of the First Session of the 28th Parliament. The four principal grounds of policy are stated in the opening phrases of that Speech. But what did the Prime Minister promise and what has Labor done? On foreign affairs he said: 
My Government supports the proposal by members of the Association of South East Asian Nations for a zone of peace, freedom and neutrality in South East Asia. 
The Labor Government did not achieve this objective and for understandable reasons. 
The Prime Minister conceived a different kind of association to the present Association of South East Asian Nations. His concept was based on the idea that the People's Republic of China should be included; the United States would be excluded. The South East Asia Treaty Organisation was to be demolished because in his opinion it was both moribund and unnecessary. 
Before he was able to present his views in Djakarta he was disowned at a meeting of ASEAN powers in Manila. The countries intimately involved want ASEAN to remain and clearly indicated that it would be better for  Mr Whitlam  to stop sticking his nose into their people's business - business which he obviously did not understand. And as should have been well known, Tun Razak, the Prime Minister of Malaysia, who so recently duchessed the Prime Minister in Kuala Lumpur, and not so long ago duchessed me as well, the author of the idea of a zone of peace, freedom and neutrality, has stated over and over again that his proposals are for the distant future and will require the guarantees of security, territorial integrity and independence by the super powers, the United States of America and the People's Republic of China. Later the Prime Minister was disowned by his alleged friend ChouEnLai who wants SEATO to remain and a United States presence on the mainland retained. 
The Prime Minister also went on to say that the Whitlam Government would honour the terms of the Five Power Arrangements with Malaysia, Singapore, the United Kingdom and New Zealand. Despite this promise, under the compulsion of the left wing of the Party and because of a series of ghastly errors of judgment by him personally, the integrity of the Five Power Arrangements has been undermined and will, if Labor remains in power, be destroyed. The Army component has been withdrawn and the signal interception station in Singapore will be run down and removed to Darwin. The Royal Australian Air Force component will be retained at Butterworth for the time being. In the same vein  Mr Whitlam  went on to say: 
The newly emerging situation in our region involves fundamental changes in the nature and purposes of the Australian defence force. 
Earlier both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  had specifically stated that they would retain defence spending at around 3.2 per cent to 3.3 per cent of our gross national product. What are the fundamental changes? Far from ensuring the promised successful restoration of strong highly professional all volunteer armed forces in fact the defence vote in the first Whitlam Budget has been reduced to 2.9 per cent of gross national product - not the 3.3 per cent or 3.2 per cent promised. Actual estimated defence outlays will be $ 1,266m or 2.7 per cent of gross national product. Service manpower has been reduced from 81,144 in mid 1972 to a permanent force today of about 69,000 of which 31,700 only are in the Army. In our view a minimum of 36,000 permanents are required under contemporary conditions to ensure a viable Army. Male officer resignations have grown alarmingly since Labor has been in power. In March this year there were 68, in June 55, in September 64 and in December 106. The Minister for Defence, with his wealth of experience and knowledge of the Navy, scrapped the plan to build 3 DDL combat ships and one support ship in Australia. He did this on his own initiative, not on the recommendation of the Defence Force Development Committee. 
By way of contrast all our neighbours, Indonesia, Malaysia, Burma, Laos and Cambodia have larger armies than we do. Singapore's is somewhat smaller but with 3 armoured regiments and 7 well equipped infantry battalions. In all Europe only the armies of Luxemburg, Norway and Denmark are smaller. Our well-disposed and reliable allies are well aware of the fact that we in this pretty well endowed, moderately sized, and wealthy country have only a 2-battalion field force, no operational tanks and no antiaircraft defences. So within a year the Whitlam Government has abandoned the combination of realism and idealism on which our defence program has been steadily developed since the middle 1960s. Labor has abandoned the principles of the Guam doctrine based on greater self sufficiency and regional security. The Minister for Defence was guilty of a miserable concoction of empty promises and irrelevant flights of imagination when in January 1974 he said in Washington: 
We are no longer able to behave as a junior partner . . . 
It is not the intention of the Australian people or Government to sit back and rely on a powerful friend to safeguard and protect us. 
There is a clear need for us to be more self reliant in defence. 
The supremely important defence commitment to Australia and the area in which we live has been dishonoured. To sum up the effect of Labor's policies I use the words of that distinguished writer Denis Warner. He said: 
Australia has never been less well defended at any time in its history. 
So much for Labor's new approach to foreign affairs and defence. 
Let me now turn to the economic problems facing this nation - problems, the severity of which could have been substantially reduced, problems which were in the main artificially created by sloppy economic management and lack of courage by the so-called intelligent and responsible members of the Labor Cabinet. The economy can now be best described as suffering from economic distemper. Demands for goods and services substantially exceed supply with the consequent effect on cost and prices. Shortages and bottlenecks are growing worse and those whom the Labor Party professes to want to assist most are most damaged. We in the Liberal and Country parties do care and it will be our policy to use all the means we can to reduce inflationary pressures, assist the less well off sections of the community and provide incentives to growth and development. 
Budget action to reduce the present level of demand was and is of fundamental importance. It is the main Government instrument for restraining demand in the public sector and through the money supply. Yet at a time when demand needed some restraining the first Labor Budget increased Budget outlay by $1938m or 19 per cent. A rise of 10 per cent would have been more than adequate. The increase in the size of government expenditure in 1974-75 should not nearly approach this level of 20 per cent yet we hear that so many are the begging bowls and so great is the clamour by Ministers for more that increased government expenditure is likely to exceed 25 per cent. So this crucially important means of reducing inflationary pressures will not be used. 
Perhaps the most significant indication of excess demand is found in the employment statistics for February. During that month the actual number of registered unemployed fell by 23,445 to 97,637 or 1.66 per cent of the estimated work force, and this at a time when under normal circumstances it would be inevitable that demand on the work force would be increased. On Christmas Day 1973 the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  warned of the imminence of widespread unemployment in the new year. He has cried wolf so often and has been wrong just as frequently that it would be impossible for any honest and sensible person to take any notice of him now. No one will deny that the Minister for Labour is intelligent and determined, but few will deny that foe uses all the techniques of the political commissar to achieve his purposes. Misrepresentation, intimidation and sheer muscle are part and parcel of his ingrained techniques, not for the purpose of achieving the public good nor in the best interests of the nation but to satisfy his own whims and misconceived ideas. 
I turn to a critical element in inflation, that is average weekly earnings. They have increased from $104.10 in the December quarter 1972 to $119.90 in the same quarter of 1973. It must be obvious that the rise of about 13 per cent to 14 per cent is vastly in excess of the potential increase in productivity and must therefore have a direct and strong influence on inflation. These increases must be considered against the background that the man on the minimum award wage knows that his take home pay despite increases in wages, is buying less and that his standards of living are now falling. I repeat that these are the kinds of people we in the Liberal Party do care about. 
These opinions are supported by the Australian Government Statistician's figures. During 1973 average seasonally adjusted weekly earnings kept slightly ahead of inflation. Average weekly earnings rose by 15.2 per cent whilst the rate of inflation was about 13 per cent to 14 per cent. But in the December quarter the average wage rose by 3.04 per cent. In the same period the consumer price index rose by 3.6 per cent. 
During the time the Labor regime has been in office the money supply has grown dangerously and the velocity of circulation has increased too. The volume of money including notes and coins increased by $4,5 10m or 22 per cent between December 1972 and January 1974. Growth in real terms, in material terms, increased by about 6 per cent. So this was fundamentally bad financial policy. 
During the last quarter of 1971 and throughout the whole of 1972 it was necessary to liberalise the supply of money in order to stimulate demand and as a stimulus to business activity. Whilst commerce responded quickly to the liberalisation of money supply, retail trade did not do so until the middle of the September quarter of 1972. Unless the steady movement throughout 1972 to increase employment and reduce unemployment was to be set back it would have been imprudent, even damaging, to have taken action to reduce the money supply by the end of the year. By the end of the year however the economy was in good shape and did not need any stimulus. 
Yet the Labor Government persisted in extravagantly increasing the money supply continuously throughout 1973. Belatedly Labor has turned to monetary and interest rate policy as a remedy for inflation. Growth in the money supply had by December shrunk to an increase of 2.87 per cent and official interest rates had moved from 6 per cent to an alltime high of 8.5 per cent. There can be little doubt that Labor is now using money and interest rate policy, revaluation and reduction in tariffs excessively. What are the likely effects of these policies and the Minister for Labour's attitude to wage demands and quarterly cost of living adjustments? 
According to the well regarded Syntec the Australian Government has written a 'Prescription for Disaster'. Those are the authors' words. The authors go on to say that in the face of world wide cost-push inflation we need some wage discipline. Instead we are going to get wage profligacy. I add that there will also be a substantial change in the international supply of goods which will deluge this market at a most unfortunate time for those who are likely to become unemployed. On the other hand local industry and employment - these again are the words of the authors - will increasingly be exposed to damaging subsidised competition from overseas through tariff cuts and a potentially overvalued currency. 
We must consider this problem against the background that during the period under review international demand has been high and it has not been possible to obtain the required quantities of goods for use in Australia as planned by Labor when it revalued and cut tariffs. This condition is now changing and imports are rising rapidly. They were valued in February 1973 at $356m. This year in the same month they were valued at $5 10m. On a seasonally adjusted basis exports in the 3 months to the end of February 1974 increased 7 per cent in value. By way of contrast, imports rose by 11.4 per cent in value. A year before exports grew by 10.6 per cent and imports by only 3.6 per cent. 
Secondly, we have not yet felt the impact of the oil crisis which will add at least $1, 250m a year to our international current account bill in 1974. We will have to earn overseas this much more money to break even in our international accounts. Thirdly, the Labor Party has not yet developed a resources policy or an effective policy to stimulate and encourage the production of oil. Modern incentives and subsidies to encourage the exploration and development of resources, particularly oil, and a modern industry investment allowance must be restored. 
To sum up and put my own views, there can be little doubt that inflation will go on rising, despite the forecasts of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  Some have estimated a rise to as high as 20 per cent. Extravagant government expenditure and the enormous increase in average earnings including wages will ensure that we are now seeing a repetition of Labor in office in the post-war years - pie-in-the-sky promises, astronomical inflation and the development of a milk bar economy and chronic balance of payment problems. 
What should be done? As I have pointed out in other speeches and in this one too, inflation can be kept within tolerable limits with the prudent and balanced use of all the economic and financial instruments I have mentioned. Inflation can be reined in and growth stimulated by proper and well thought out incentives by Budget policy, monetary and interest rates policies, restrained wage advocacy before the Arbitration Commission, the wise use of taxation and tariffs and the development of an anti-inflation psychology must all be used in the right proportion and in the right way. On the other side of the equation growth and development must be again stimulated by proper incentives and international co-operation. More importantly there is one imperative that must be hammered home to the Australian people - the Labor Party must be kicked out of office, and kicked out just as soon as it is practicable. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. He will remember that on 23 May 1973, speaking about permanent building societies, he said that Labor 'should guarantee their security - in return, they should pursue the public interest'. Will he assure the House that Cabinet will be given the opportunity to consider this promise with the intention of ensuring that the Financial Corporations Bill which covers permanent building societies is amended to provide a very proper and desirable safeguard of lender of last resort facilities by the Reserve Bank of Australia? Will he also ensure that careful consideration is given by Cabinet to the creation of a home mortgage corporation for the purpose of sale and purchase of mortgages, probably as part of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation as a desirable means of developing a market for home loan mortgages, assisting the mobility and effective use of funds, reducing interest rates and strengthening the housing industry? If the Treasury with its great but predictably persuasive powers resists these obviously desirable innovations, will the Prime Minister bear in mind that such action is not because of the lack of common sense behind the proposal but because Treasury just is not built that way? 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I do. An article in the 'National Times' of 8-13 April 1974 by Andrew Clark carried this statement:  . .  Mr Gair  was being subjected to strong pressure by politicians from the Liberal and Country Parties. Among them were . . . former Liberal Prime Minister  Mr Bill  McMahon. 
The article then states a reply which was alleged to have been made. I did not know that  Senator Gair  had been appointed to the Ambassadorship to Ireland until I heard a statement made in this House. I have not had any contacts with the former  Senator Gair  about this matter, either before or since. The article is totally false. It could easily have been corrected by an approach to me by Andrew Clark. 
A second misrepresentation is of a similar type. It appears in an article in the 'National Times'. I do not know the date but it is certainly in April. I believe it was the week before the previous article to which I referred. It is headed: 'Farmers don't like Labor - but Bill McMahon does'. The writer of that article goes on to make certain statements which are completely inaccurate, although others are accurate. I read in the 'Australian' an article - to which I replied on 28 March 1974  -  to which Don Aitkin refers in the 'National Times'. In a letter to the 'Australian' I said: 
I have read with interest your article . . . 
I am sorry to say that a wrong impression has been created 
In reply to an interjection, I said that my last comment about  Mr Whitlam  was on television when I said ':hat I felt that at the end of the last session he was in need of mild psychiatric attention. 
I went on to deny that I had referred to the Permanent Heads of the departments of state. I said: 
I pointed out, and I quote: 'Under the British system of cabinet government they have a Cabinet secretariat as well as a staff and a politically disposed and committed staff that is attached to the Prime Minister. With us we have normally had only a Prime Minister's Department and the Prime Minister has not had a politically committed staff.' 
I went on to say:  'Mr Whitlam  has adopted the British system. He has chosen men of outstanding ability,, men who are committed politically to the philosophy, the cause and the policies of the Labor Party. 
I went on to say: 
The implcation of this was that without  Mr Whitlam's  own self-appointed and politically committed staff he would by now be in a much worse predicament than he is. 
I have also corrected misinformation relating to a question I was asked about aid to independent schools. 1 said I thought that the Report of the Karmel Committee was correct and I believed that all children attending independent schools should be entitled to per capita grants. That was the substance of what I said. 
 My question is directed to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will remember with pleasure, I think, that on a David Frost show last year he said that the greatest disaster involving the Labor Government up to that time was the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation raids under the gallant leadership of the AttorneyGeneral. Will the Prime Minister, as a matter of fact, let the House know whether the Gair episode in which both the Prime Minister and the accident prone Attorney-General have been directly involved is the most contemptible exhibition of incompetent administration and thinking in the history of the Labor Government? If it is not, will he please let the House know what were the other incidents? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker.  In this morning's 'Sydney Morning Herald' under the title 'Must devalue says McMahon' there is this statement: 
The former Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  said yesterday Australia would have to devalue the dollar by at least 124 per cent to beat inflation. 
I made no such statement. On 2 occasions recently I have been speaking about inflation, about our overseas balances and what we should do in order to try to remedy some of the difficulties. I said that wage inflation is growing more serious. Some of the causes of demand inflation could well be at the decisive stage or turning point with demand pressure moderating at an accelerating pace due to the credit squeeze, upward revaluation and tariff changes. I went on to say that apart from the spectacular rises in prices and wages which dominate the economic scene today there are 2 other economic trends that must be the cause of concern. First there is the fact that we are now living well beyond our means internationally, and I gave figures relating to the fall in our overseas balances and what was happening to the balance of payments on current account. I then went on to deal with the oil crisis. I concluded with this statement: 
The conclusion can logically be drawn that we are now inevitably on a collision course with disaster unless policy changes are made by the Australian Government and even though demand inflation may be considerably reduced. 
I went on then to deal with the balance of payments, and I dealt also with the remedies. Turning to the question of variations in the exchange rates I said: 
It is too early yet to seriously consider devaluing the Australian dollar. Our overseas reserves are still high enough at $3, 340m. 
I went on later: 
As our foreign exchange approaches $2,500m next year, devaluation becomes a real possibility. Devaluation of less than  1 24  per cent would have little value - it needs to be sufficiently great to both improve the returns to Australian producers and to re-establish  confidence that the exchange rate will be used as an economic weapon. 
That was the statement I made with regard to devaluation. It had no relationship to the preliminary statement I made on inflation. 
The first question everyone must ask when considering this Bill is: Is it necessary or desirable? Before that, maybe it is prudent to state a case for the non-banking financial institutions. The somewhat changeable and notoriously wrong crystal ball gazer, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  - given, as he said tonight in the speech he made on the mini-Budget, to delusions - said in his second reading speech on the Financial Corporations Bill: 
There is no denying that these non-bank financial institutions operating in a competitive environment can increase the efficiency of the financial sector in attracting funds and channelling them into the areas they are needed most 
He cannot have it both ways and ought to be committed to protecting those financial institutions which have, according to him, done so much good. I challenge the Treasurer's inaccurate statement that there is no disagreement that such intermediaries have significant potential to undertake activities which are inimical to an effective monetary policy. There is considerable disagreement, as I will indicate, and the Treasurer ought to identify those who agree with direct controls and with him. The Reserve Bank, when left free from political pressure, does not think direct controls over the non-banking financial intermediaries are necessary. The Governor of the Reserve Bank,  Sir John  Phillips, has said: 
The use of direct controls usually hinders the process of having the community's financing done by the most efficient means. 
In its 1972 annual report at page 38 the Bank said: 
Experience has shown that direct controls, although perhaps useful tools of policy over short periods, can diminish in effectiveness when applied continuously over long periods. 
Recognition of this by the Bank of England led to a series of reforms in 1971. An English professor, R. R. Hirst, speaking about this matter in an address to the winter school of the New South Wales branch of the Economic Society in 1972 said: 
Less emphasis is to be given to restrictions on lending to the private sector whether they are liquidity or qualitative constraints. The emphasis of monetary policy is to shift towards the control of broad monetary aggregates and to the associated level of structure of interest rates. 
The British Radcliffe Commission had this to say about suggestions to substitute a complex of direct controls for the traditional controls over the money supply: 
Such a prospect would not be welcome except as a last resort - not mainly because of its administrative burdens but because the further growth of new financial institutions would allow the situation continually to slip from under the grip of the authorities. 
Speaking from long experience, I am sure that this view of direct controls is correct, and an understanding of its significance and importance is critically important when considering this Bill.  Dr Coombs,  the immediate past Governor of the Reserve Bank and now associated with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  shares these views. My own attitude is that we would not need this Bill to enable the Reserve Bank to supervise the non-banking financial intermediaries if we lived in a world in which market forces were permitted to work freely within the context of sound and responsible budget and monetary policies, effective changes in foreign exchange rates, and money wages more in line with productivity, with a reasonable allowance for inflation. This is a very big 'if. Political necessities and expediency, market imperfections and doctrinaire philosophies and attitudes can all too frequently prevent the use of appropriate policies or a proper mix of the appropriate policies being used at the appropriate time. 
In today's conditions such a policy of permanent direct control would be another clear admission by the Government and the Treasurer of their inability satisfactorily to manage the economy or understand the environment in which non-banking financial intermediaries work. I emphasise that neither the passage of this Bill nor any determination which the Reserve Bank might make could or would have more than a minimal impact on inflationary pressures or the general run of interest rates at this time or at any time in the foreseeable future. There must be no practised deceit or deliberately created misunderstanding about this. It will have minimal impact on interest rates and it will have minimal impast on inflation. Power should not be given to the Government to exercise these powers permanently, ruthlessly and maliciously or as an alternative to reckless and inadequate government policies as a whole. 
Labor has failed and loudly proclaimed its total lack of will or capacity to handle budget or fiscal policy or wages policies. The pulldevilpullbaker attitude of the various cliques and personalities - the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  the Treasurer, the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and the Labor Caucus - have ensured that sound economic and financial policies by the Labor Government are impossible. To put it in Rolf Boldrewood's language in 'Robbery Under Arms': 
It's all fair pulling 'pull devil pull baker'. Someone has to get the worst of it. Now it's us - now it's them - that gets rubbed out. 
Under Labor's policies 'them that gets rubbed out' are the consumers and the least well off section of the community. 
Voluntary arrangements - I want to emphasise this point, particularly as I can see sitting in the gallery a few people I have known in the past - between the Bank of England and the commercial banks and the non-banking intermediaries have worked and continue to work well in the United Kingdom. There is power under the United Kingdom Banking Act for the Bank of England with the consent of the Chancellor to exercise the appropriate banking controls. It has never been necessary to invoke this consent. In Australia, whilst there is power under section 50 of the Banking Act for the Reserve Bank to make regulations with the approval of the Treasurer for, amongst other things, provision for or in relation to the control of rates of interest payable to or by any banks or in the course of banking business, it has never been used. The Reserve Bank has not made regulations under the section because voluntary means have been successful. The trading banks have in fact played the game. 
Clearly  -  I repeat for emphasis - indirect mediation in the money markets through the traditional methods available to a government and the Reserve Bank through open market operations in the bond market, call-ups to statutory reserve deposits, limitation on increases of overdraft commitments by the trading banks, and budget surplus or deficits are infinitely to be preferred to direct controls. In more positive words, direct controls over the non-banking financial intermediaries may perhaps be useful tools of economic and financial management for short periods. They will, with the passage of time, become ineffective and, over long periods, positively harmful. 
As I have frequently pointed out, Labor has consistently refused to use fiscal or Budget policy and only lately, but too late, has all too savagely begun to use monetary and interest rate policy with, in all probability, growing overkill effects. Its use of the tariffs to reduce import prices may have been theoretically right but as the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  who preceded me in this debate, said, of small practical value. 
I turn to the specifics of the Bill itself. It is of a novel type for us. It is an enabling Bill - a Bill which will enable legislative powers to be conferred upon the Executive by regulation. As Erskine May in the 18th edition of Parliamentary Practice', chapter 22, says in relation to such types of legislation in the United Kingdom in the last half century: 
The justification and advantage of delegated legislation in normal times arise because of the need for speed, flexibility and adaptability. Once Parliament has by statute laid down the principles of a new law, the Executive may by means of delegated legislation 
Or here by regulations: . . . work out the application of the law in greater detail within these principles . . . 
Usually this is done by means of regulations. In my view, in all cases where Parliament has delegated legislative authority by Act of Parliament to the Executive, it - the Parliament - must retain parliamentary control of the regulation itself. 
Under the particular type of Bill and delegated legislation we are considering, I 'believe that the most effective and best means of ensuring control by Parliament described by May is for the relevant Act to provide by what is called an 'affirmative resolution' that the regulation 'has no effect or continuing effect, until Parliament has expressly approved of it* to use May's own words. 
Reserve Bank 'determinations' or 'declarations' relate to the actual day to day administration of the substantive provision of the legislation contained in the regulation. There are thus 3 steps or procedures necessary in the case of delegated legislation of this kind contemplated in the Bill and subsequent action by a Government agency such as the Reserve Bank. The first is an enabling Bill or Act - the present Bill - then, an executive regulation and, finally, a 'determination' or series of 'determinations' by the Reserve Bank. The Treasurer's rationalisation on pages 5 and 6 of the Explanatory Statement distributed immediately after his speech was made in the House in 1973 is absurdly wrong and as I will show clearly, insulting to all private members of this House and Parliament. The statement could not have been written by a member of Parliament and only incautiously used by a member of the Labor caucus. Let me quote what the Treasurer said. These are not the words of one well versed in the Banking Act or what was intended by the legislation. The Treasurer said: 
Such changes - that is prior debate of proposed laws by regulation - are essentially a matter for which the Government is responsible and equipped to deal and do not seem readily susceptible to detailed examination and review by Parliament 
Anyone who makes that statement has no respect for the parliamentary institution and should not be here. The statement deifies the Executive and implicitly says it is the repository of all knowledge in the field of nonbanking financial intermediaries. Such people have a hate of the Executive and many would like to destroy it. Prom what has been said it is obvious that either the Treasurer or his advisers do not understand the significance of enabling legislation and delegated or regulatory law. 
Contrary to what the Treasurer has said, adequate and prior debate will not be permitted before the contents of the regulations become law. The Treasurer's statement that 'a review procedure conducted in the context that a determination would not finally be effective until passed by Parliament and would increase uncertainty in the money and capital markets and could give rise to substantial problems if disallowed', has never been suggested. This statement either confuses resolution or regulation made by the Executive and determinations by the Reserve Bank or it is an obvious and cheap debating trick to confuse the issue. What has been suggested is that the intermediate process - that is, the regulations to be made by the Executive - should be the subject of affirmative resolution by the Parliament and not determinations of the Reserve Bank, and that determinations should be a Reserve Bank reserve power to be used as a last resort and as a strong psychological influence in precisely the same way as interest rates are used in banking. 
Before speaking about the amendments the Opposition proposes to seek to make to the Bill now before the House let me refer to certain amendments that have been made to the earlier Bill subsequent to discussion and consultation, between the Treasurer and various interested parties, between the Treasurer and myself and between Treasury officials and the Liberal Party economic committee with the approval of the Treasurer. The assistance was freely and generously given and was of great help in permitting us to understand the proposals contained in the first Bill. I am sure the Liberal Party committee would want me to thank the Treasurer for this assistance. I also want to thank the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  for making the setvices of a Parliamentary Counsel available to me in drafting the amending regulations. A perusal of the second Bill now before the House shows that at least 3 amendments recommended by the Opposition have already been made. They are important. Their acceptance is welcomed. There is much left to be done. Based on the logic of the arguments, the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch  and I, have presented, the Opposition will propose . 5 substantial amendments to the 1974 Bill now before the House to ensure certain things. As my time is limited, I will move on to deal with the amendments proposed to the various clauses. We wish to ensure, amongst other things, that clause 32 is amended to add a sub-clause to require the Executive to have an 'affirmative resolution' passed by the Senate and House of Representatives before any regulation takes effect and, that regulations shall cease to have effect at the expiration of the period of 12 months after the date on which they took effect unless each House of the Parliament passes a resolution approving the continuation of the regulations. This provision does not apply to determinations by the Reserve Bank. For the reasons I have given this is unmistakably the most important change in a constitutional sense not only to ensure control of the Executive by the Parliament as an essential ingredient of representative government but also to prevent abuse of Executive powers and to practise the policy of open and honest government with Parliament acting as the means by which the public is informed and protected. 
The second amendment proposes that clause 14 relating to lending policies be amended to make it clear, to use the Treasurer's own words in the Explanatory Notes, that the regulations under sub-clauses (2) to (6) inclusive are restricted to granting power to the Reserve Bank to make 'determinations': '. . . only with respect to the volume or direction of lending', and not further or otherwise. 
The third amendment seeks to amend clause 15 to permit the Reserve Bank to make different determinations relating to the receipt or payment of interest rates by a permanent building society that carries on business in one State or Territory only. Our fourth amendment has as its purpose to amend clause 18 of the Bill to enable the Reserve Bank and not the Treasurer to grant exemptions from the application of the Reserve Bank's determinations relating to asset ratios, lending policies and interest rates. 
The fifth amendment seeks to amend subclause (3) of clause 25 to honour the Prime Minister's promise made to the permanent building societies on 23 May 1973 that the Labor Government, to use the Prime Minister's words: '. . . should guarantee their security and in return they should pursue the public interest'. This will be done by specifically providing in the Bill for lender of last resort facilities under section 8 (c) of the Reserve Bank Act 1959-1973 to be made available to the permanent building societies which are covered by the proposed legislation. The Treasurer's statement in his speech of 1973 relating to this matter is sloppy and falsely argued. It fails to honour the Prime Minister's promise. It raises the following critically important political questions: Who runs the Government and is the Prime Minister to be humiliated and his promises dishonoured by the Treasurer whenever he or his advisers feel that their own hunches or inclinations are involved? 
There are two other amendments that I want to mention, however quickly. The first relates to clause 3, at page 2 of the Bill, and proposes that one of the objectives of the Act must be to provide an adequate level of finance for housing. The second relates to clause 31, at page 19 of the Bill which requires the Reserve Bank to have consultations. We propose that, in particular, consultations should take place before determinations are made. At page 8 of the speech to which I have referred the Treasurer said: 
The exclusion of any group would materially weaken the proposed legislation and could make the achievement of the broad objective of the legislation substantially more difficult to achieve. 
That ignores the fact that the inter-company market has been left out of the Bill, as the honourable member for Kingston so easily, but drawing improper conclusions, said. We know that this 'left out' part of the market is one which has been growing strongly and which is spreading its activities into many areas new to and presently connected with the non-banking financial institutions. (Extension of  time  granted.) 1 do not think that it would be known to those who drafted the Treasurer's speech or who prepared the Bill that the introduction of TCDs or NCDs and the freedom for the trading banks to determine interest rates on overdrafts in excess of $50,000, together with the process of disintermediation - a word I have captured from the honourable member for Kingston - will substantially  restrict the activities of the inter-company market. At least I hope it will. I hope that finally it will bring them under control. 
I turn now to the lender of last resort facilities that are available under section 8 (c) of the Reserve Bank Act. It is well known to  the  Liberal Party's economic committee that lender of last resort facilities are not made available automatically to a trading bank or other organisation as of right. It has never been suggested that those facilities should be made available automatically to the permanent building societies or other organisations covered by the Act, as has been suggested by the Treasurer in his speech. Obviously, whoever wrote that part of his speech must have wanted to be blatantly obstructive or was ignorant both of the provisions of the Banking Act and of the accepted practice relating to lender of last resort facilities. 
In the remaining minute or so that 1 have in which to speak, I would like to put a proposition to the Government on behalf of the Opposition. I have already prepared and had circulated a number of amendments. I ask the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  to agree to their incorporation in Hansard. If that were to happen, we would then agree not to pursue the matter any further and would let the Bill pass the Committee stage and the third reading stage without opposition. 
I think I can put my conclusions fairly accurately and my case as completely as I can by saying that I share the views of my colleague the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards),  but I press my arguments too, I believe, a more rational conclusion and in a more intense way. Also it is accurate to say that I have been associated with the proposals relating to the Australian Industry Development Corporation and its related organisation for a longer period and in a more intimate manner than any other honourable member in this House. Shortly after I became Treasurer in 1966 a file was deposited on my table without any introduction at all and without any advice given to me by departmental officials. The proposals related to the formation of the Australian Resources Development Bank and had been within Treasury for some considerable period before I became Treasurer but had not been pushed to finality. The function of that Bank was to mobilise funds in order to enable Australians and Australian business to develop large scale Australian natural resources and Australian industry. It was approved by me and came into operation in 1967. 
The Bank has been remarkably successful, but the one great pity I express about its achievements is that it seems to have completely lacked the ability to communicate with the Australian people in order to show them just how much it has achieved, how efficient it was and how competent was its management. I believe that this lack of communication and public relations activities was due to the fact that instead of appointing as  chairman  an independent individual from outside the banking system it insisted that the general manager of each of the banks have a period of one year in rotation, and I do not believe that they ever developed a public relations and communications approach to the problem. The bank operates in this way: It is funded to a large extent by the trading banks of Australia together with the Commonwealth Banking Corporation. It has contacts overseas and has raised roughly $75m overseas. It has the backing and support of those bodies in obtaining funds in order to carry out its functions. At the end of March 1974 the bank had loans outstanding of $344m with outstanding undrawn commitments of $170m, and during the period I have mentioned it has loaned $635m which has been directed towards the development of this country and towards ensuring major Australian ownership. It will be remembered too by many honourable members who have been here a long time that in the years 1966 onwards it was usual for there to be a sort of competitiveness between the department concerned with trade and the Treasury. Whatever one had the other one liked to have too. They liked to have something to play with and something with which to adorn their normal operations. Proposals were made for what became known as the 'McEwen bank', 
McEwen being the name of a very able and talented member of the Menzies and successive governments and a man who made immense contributions towards the development of this country. These proposals were made over some considerable time - sometimes they were rejected - but finally in 1970 they were accepted and the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill, as we now know it, was put into law and into the statute books. At that time the Reserve Bank of Australia, the Treasury and my successors all agreed that it would be imprudent to establish the AIDC in any form whatsoever. And I had one good and understandable reason why this should not be done. Ours is a great saving country. In fact, our rate of saving is well up by world standards; I do not think we can say very much more. Approximately 25 per cent of all we produce, converted into money terms, is saved and consequently invested in this country. It was not accepted by those who were putting forward the AIDC proposals that no new savings would be generated, and as a result the operations of the organisation would enable a diversion of funds from the private sector to the public sector and take the funds away from the people who were trusted by the savers. Consequently, the formation of the company would develop the national estate in the way claimed at the time the proposals were considered prior to 1970. Honourable members can take it that that view, whilst not accepted at that time by the department controlling trade, is now without qualification accepted by  Sir Alan  Westerman. I mention too, and I believe this to be a critically important consideration, that at the time we were considering the charter, the Bill relating to the Australian Industry Development Corporation, we were conscious of the fact that there was limited constitutional jurisdiction. I believe that the doubts we had then were well founded, but on the best advice we could get from both within and outside the Public Service it was decided to go ahead. Having looked at the changes that are now recommended in the Bill now before the House, the 1974 Bill, I believe that the same constitutional question will arise. I have my doubts whether all the provisions of the clauses will stand up to a constitutional examination and a test to determine whether they are legitimate or ultra vires the Constitution. 
However, the main reason I wanted to enter this debate today is to state my case against 3 aspects of the Bill and to examine a little more closely and in greater detail the problem I have referred to concerning the diversification of savings from the private sector of the economy into the public sector. There are 3 reasons why I fundamentally oppose this Bill. The first is that the introduction of these proposals is but another link in the chain of greater socialisation or nationalisation, whichever name one likes to use. Let us look at just a few of the Bills we have dealt with and give them titles. Others can think for themselves about what the contents of the Bill mean. Let us look at the National Pipeline Authority Bill, the Petroleum and Minerals Exploration Bill and this Bill which seek to give - and I have examined them closely - immense powers to nationalise, which I understand is the preferred word, very important sections of the Australian economy. I will refer to two clauses in detail. The second part I want to refer to relates to the national interest clause in relation to economic proposals which the Government considers to be in the national interest and should be administered and financed by the AIDC. As I have said before, I believe that whenever we want to finance an operation in the national interest the proposal should be brought before Parliament as the subject of a separate Bill to permit this House, which is after all the governing authority of this country, to examine the proposal and to enable it to say whether the risk should be taken and, if the risk is a big one, whether the national interest clause should be used. The confiscation or, to use the words of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  the hypothecation of the assets of the life offices and the superannuation funds of this country is critical. I repeat what I said about the probable testing of the power in section 51, placitum 31 of the Constitution. I believe that to a large extent these provisions will be found to be invalid. 
I took a prominent part in the debates in this House when the 1973 Bill was introduced and in particular I took a very detailed and probably the most prominent part on this side of the House in the Committee stage of its consideration. What I am saying now was then accepted by the Opposition. I said no to each one of the amendments as they were moved in the Committee stage and I have no reason whatsoever for changing my views as to why I took the action I did, and I will sustain that position today. 
Before discussing my 3 main objections to the Bill may I try to lay one ghost. Apart from political arguments, which I have always resented, I do not think that there is one member of this House - Labor, Liberal or Country Party - who does not want to ensure the maximum ownership of Australian resources and industry. That is why I was keen to promote the Australian Resources Development Bank. I had personal responsibility for bringing down a Bill in the concluding stages of the 1972 Parliament in order to prevent foreign takeovers of Australian assets. I believe that we all have the same deeply rooted feelings and instincts about Australia and Australian ownership and control. I believe we ought to have enormous pride in the achievements of Australia, particularly - if I may be a little political for the moment - in what we were able to achieve between 1949 and 1972. The only differences as I see it are the means and the timing within which we can achieve our goal. Labor proposals for socialism or nationalisation do not fit in with my philosophy. I believe that with the enormous potential we have it is the initiative of the private corporation and the individual in the market place that will be decisively important in determining how much we do, how quickly we do it and how well we are able to achieve any objective we set ourselves. 
I want to lay this ghost as much as I can here and now because our standards of living depend upon this matter. I refer to the problem associated with capital inflow into Australia. After considerable thought I believe that we will need about $ 1,600m to $2,000m a year of overseas capital in order to permit us to develop our potential to the full. We have enormous undeveloped resources and enormous areas where the potential is great but where as yet we have not carried out the exploratory work and the development in order to ascertain what can be done. I am confirmed in this view because recently I read a speech made by  Sir Alan  Westerman in Zurich, and I believe also in Bonn, in which he came to much the same conclusion as I did, although he developed a little more fully as between equity and loan capital. In his view we need $ 16000m over the course of the next 10 years. 
I hope that I have laid that ghost. I think it is now getting to be a rather mean and shabby political tactic.  Mr Speaker,  I think you represent the views of everyone in this Parliament. We want greater Australian ownership and control and we want to achieve it in the most efficient possible manner. I turn now to the provisions of the Bill itself and compare it with the 1970 Act, which had a more limited field of operations. Before I deal with that I should like to pay tribute to the concessions that have already been made by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  He has listened very cautiously and carefully to the proposals that we have made. To the extent to which I believe he felt it was practical he has been good enough and thoughtful enough to make changes. In particular, I should like to refer to the part of the Bill which gives the Australian Industry Development Corporation the power to carry on any business whatsoever. A change has been made to section 5 (4) of the previous Bill relating to the disposal of assets by the Corporation when it no longer has the need for them. There have also been changes to the clauses providing for the necessity for guarantees by the Government of the national interest matters to be approved by Parliament and one or two other changes of that kind. 
I come now to my arguments against the Bill itself, and they are these: The first one relates to the functions of the organisation. Up until the present there has been a very narrow context in which the Corporation may function. Under clause 6 of the present Act the functions of the Corporation are to assist in the provision of financial resources required by Australian companies concerned with the manufacture, processing or treatment of goods or with the recovery of minerals for the purposes of facilitating and encouraging the establishment and advancement of these industries. 
But let us turn to what is now provided. It is very clearly set out in the explanatory notes given and it shows the extent to which the powers have been increased. I mentioned the former functions but the present Bill provides for 2 primary functions, promoting industry development and promoting Australian ownership and control, with which I vitally agree. Let us look at the words themselves which set out dramatically the extent to which this power can be exercised and the extent to which the nationalisation program may be pushed. Under clause 4, amending section 6, the proposals are that the functions of the Corporation are: 
To facilitate and encourage the establishment, development and advancement of Australian industries concerned with the manufacture, processing, treatment, transportation or distribution of goods, or the development or use of natural resources . . . by - providing, or assisting in the provision of, the financial resources required by Australian companies engaging, or proposing to engage, in any such industries or in activities that are connected with, or incidental to, those industries; and engaging or participating in enterprises or developmental projects in relation to any such industries - 
Clause 8 of the Bill is a very similar national interest clause as that provided previously. I will not go into that in any great detail because I do not have time to do so. However, I believe that this clause gives the power that should not be reposed in an Executive even though a guarantee has to be approved by the Treasurer before certain activities can take place. I have already dealt with this in the debate on the 1973 Bill. I want to get as quickly as I can to the next point because it is tremendously important to me. Under the provisions of the National Investment Fund Bill clause 16 (3) provides: 
For the purpose of augmenting the moneys constituting the Fund, the Corporation may, in addition to issuing and selling investment bonds . . . establish and maintain superannuation or retirement schemes on such terms and conditions as the Corporation determines; and' establish and maintain savings schemes on such terms and conditions as the Corporation determines - 
I am led to believe that what is proposed is that what is called the 30/20 rule is to be amended to provide that there shall be a 40/30/20 rule and that instead of banks - we are coming now to the question of life offices as well - having to contribute 30 per cent of their assets in Government enterprises - not in enterprises that will belong to the people but that kind of enterprise - it can be compulsorily taken from the life offices contrary to the terms of the Constitution itself. 
Last October the Treasurer said that he had told the life offices that their assets would be sequestrated by means of the tax laws. A month later the Minister for Overseas Trade said that he was not interested in compulsion and in March of this year he made a speech in Melbourne in which he said that there would be co-ordination of investment between the AIDC, life offices and others without compulsion. That was the written comment but he added the words: 'preferably without compulsion' and therefore distorted the whole meaning. This has worried the life offices because they know they are trustees for the interests of the Australian people, their own policy holders. They believe that as trustees they should invest in their interests and not pass the money over to someone else to do so. If in every 10 years 10 per cent of their increase in assets as well as 10 per cent of their existing assets, were involved it would mean a loss of funds of Si, 800m to the life offices. For these reasons, together with the reason I have already mentioned related to savings, I believe that this Bill is contrary to the interests of the Australian people. I repeat what I have been saying since 1966-67: With the extension of the powers proposed, the confiscation of the life offices assets would deprive the private investors of funds and would work against the policy holders and the Commonwealth's interests as well. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. The Treasurer will know that in the debate in the House on 25 July on the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill the Minister for Overseas Trade answered no to a question whether compulsion in the taking of people's savings was involved. The Treasurer will know also that it is not those Bills which at present impose compulsion upon individuals or organisations to contribute to Commonwealth funds. He will know also that the compulsion provisions under what is called the 30/20 rule relating to the income of superannuation funds are contained in section 121c and, I think, sections 23 and 115 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. 
I will ask it in a moment, but I want to describe it in sufficient detail first. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker. 
-Sir Eric Harrison was a very great friend of mine. Our friendship commenced in about 1930, at a time when I was living with a relative who was then one of the senior vice-presidents of the Nationalist Party and subsequently became a junior vice-president of the United Australia Party. 
I well remember one of  Sir Eric's  campaigns. At the time I was an articled clerk to a solicitor who finally sought and contested the seat of Wentworth but was defeated for the election by 

 Sir Eric Harrison. That is one of the memories I shall always have because of my interest in that election and the fact that I knew 2 men who I believe were among the great Liberals I have known in my parliamentary life. He was a very great friend of mine in another sense. During the time I have been the member for Lowe and while he was in Parliament he opened every election campaign for me. We had many memorable meetings. I can remember one with Billy Hughes and Dick Casey, when we were elected with a very big majority and I increased my vote substantially for the first time. But my most pleasant memory of him is of an occasion when I was responding in the House to  Dr Evatt  on the Communist Party Dissolution BUI. I well remember Eric coming up and saying: ' Can I ha ve a squiz at your notes for a minute'? I said: 'Yes, you can,  Sir'. I  do not think I would have called him sir; I probably called him Eric. With that he tore them up and his comment was: 'You are no bloody good reading speeches. Make it up. Let it come from the heart and it will not be long before you are in Cabinet'. So it happened that that night  Sir Robert  called me out of the House and said: 'You are the next one in there,' pointing to the Cabinet Room. That is one of my memories of parliamentary life and Eric Harrison that I will never be able to and will never want to forget. 
I served with him for a little more than 5 years in the Cabinet itself. I well remember him as Minister for Defence Production. At that time I was one who thought we had to get the maximum efficiency with the lowest cost. The fights we had as to whether we would buy on the cheapest market or produce through Australian industry were arguments that had to be listened to. He never hesitated to disguise his feelings. He let you know what he thought with precise and more than adequate language. 
You know,  Sir, that  in debates in this House when he debated against the late Eddie Ward neither of them stayed within the bounds of relevance, and they were the only people I knew whom that very great  speaker,  Archie Cameron, ' tolerated in their defiance of the Standing Orders relating to relevance. He permitted them to get stuck into one another in as hard, as tough and as ruthless a fashion as they were capable of doing. 
As I said before, he was also a very great friend. Whenever you were in difficulty, having problems of a Cabinet kind or associated with the Party you could be absolutely certain you could go to Eric and present your point of view in order to ensure that in the upper reaches of the hierarchy your view would be known and would be listened to a little more attentively than your importance in the Cabinet system justified at that particular time. 
I think it is worth while remembering that he was probably the only member of Cabinet who was appointed on a year's sabbatical leave a resident Minister in London, accepting the responsibilities of the Australian High Commission in its relations with the United Kingdom Government. I learned then, as I learned subsequently during his tenure of the High Commissionership, that he had, and was probably the only person we had appointed who had, immediate access to Ministers of the United Kingdom Government. If you were in Great Britain, or even in Australia, and wanted advice, he would arrange immediate contact with the relevant British Minister and usually give you a reply immediately. I will always remember him, as I remember his first wife, with affection. I also remember Lyn and his 2 daughters. I shall always think of them with great affection too. They are people of charm and of good will, who are eternally friendly and anxious to help if they are given the opportunity to do so. 
I finish on this note: He was a very great friend of mine. I might not have been here without him, although I hope I did a little to ensure my own position. If you had a quarrel with him the quarrel was forgotten the next day. He was then happy, bright and discussed problems with you in a robust manner, told you where you were going wrong and told you where you were going right. I must confess that his death has been a blow to me. I sincerely hope that Lyn and his family will ease their burden by remembering him as a great man. They can have comfort from the part that he played not only in the Liberal Party and the United Australia Party but in the destiny of Australia as well. 
-The statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  of 17 September which we are debating in the House today is not a Budget. It is a fraudulent claim by those who presume to give it that title. It is, in fact, a prescription for disaster and is almost as bad, or probably just as bad, as the prescription for disaster that was brought down in this House by the Treasurer last year. There are more narcotic elements in the ingredients of this Budget, or this paper, than there were last year. It is not a Budget because it does not meet the fundamental requirements of any Budget in an English speaking community which believes in democracy and the Cabinet system of government. 
In the first place it does not map out the trend of events as foreseen by the Treasurer and the Treasury in the Budget year. It does not indicate the problems that are likely to be faced and the remedies and policies that are being adopted to overcome the problems that the Treasurer, the Treasury and the Cabinet of the country believe will emerge. It does not- this is of paramount importance- set out a strategy for sound economic and financial management of this country. Where can we find anywhere in this document at all a comprehensive, internally consistent and effective series of remedies which are likely over the whole field of activities- that is the Budget, exchange rates, monetary and interest rate policies, wages policy and a psychology that can be designed to ensure that all the ingredients are there and are brought together consistently- to ensure the better welfare of the people of this country? 
In addition we cannot find anywhere in the Budget at all policies that are directed towards the main elements that are essential to the growth and the progress of this country. Let me look first of all at growth and progress- 2 words that I like to use together. Where do we see in any part of the statement itself or the statements that are attached any forecast of the way in which the economy is to grow and grow in a way which will be productive and will be the sound foundations on which future developments and better opportunities and life style will be created? It does not indicate its attitude to progress in the real sense of the word. I refer to progress where more of our growing wealth- remembering there will not be any growing of wealth this year- will be distributed over the community. More will be diverted to the less wealthy sections of the community, to those who are suffering hardship and to those who are bordering on the poverty line in this country. Looking at the facts in the statement where can we find any reference to the remedies for the increasing unemployment, to increasing inflation and to the problems associated with our balance of payments? 
Where can we find in the statement in this Budget any analysis of problems associated with the credit squeeze, liquidity and the money supply? Ever since I have been in this Parliament, a period now of listening to 26 Budgets, statements of that sort have been included. In fact, I now have to say and have to confirm that one does not find them there. One does find a prescription for the difficulties I have mentioned. Where do we find in the statement or the statements attached anything relating to a balance between demand and supply in the economy or our international balance of payments or an understanding of those problems that are so critically important if we are to know where we are going and if business is to have confidence and the people are to know that they are being satisfactorily and reliably governed? 
The tragedy of it all is that this Labor Party, when it inherited the reins of office, had the whole world in its arms. It had the voters worshiping at its feet, but it no longer has them there. It had them there because we were not able- I do not know why- to press these arguments resolutely and in a determined and conniving way ourselves. Our growth record was something of the order, in real terms, of 714 per cent for non-farm production. Judged by the implicit price deflator index we had inflation down to 2.2 per cent. It is now running at 18.8 per cent and probably will run much in excess of 22te per cent this year. Even in terms of the consumer index we had inflation down as low as 4.6 per cent. We brought unemployment down in the month of October to 88,000. What is the figure today? Honourable members should remember that when we were in government we included school leavers in the raw numbers of unemployed. I am pretty reliably informed that the number of unemployed in September rose by 15,000, bringing the full crude figure up to about 123,000. 1 believe another 20,000 can be added because of school leavers. The seasonally adjusted figure would be something of the order of 150,000. 
I do not need much help, but I think it is at least 150,000. I now turn to inflation itself. I mentioned the figures which applied when we were in government. It has been made abundantly clear by the Treasury that it expects the process to worsen. I am pretty certain that conditions will quickly become of paralysing proportions, will cost us out of international markets and will, I believe, cause enormous hardship to those people who are not fleet of foot and fleet of mind and are unable to look after themselves. 
Let us look at what I think should have been done and what sort of Budget should have been brought down. First of all I say that when one looks at the increase in expenditure and in revenue one must be driven to the conclusion that it is wickedly bad. There was an increase in expenditure of $3,980m and an increase in receipts of $3,700m. If there was a figure of $1,000m two or three years ago there would have been outcries from every section of the community that this was too big. Last year the figure of$2,000m was bad; this year the figure of about $4,000m is infinitely worse. It must compound all the problems we have and make the difficulties even more intense than they are at the moment. My recommendation undoubtedly would have been that at least $2,000m should have been chopped off each figure. I shall outline how I would use that amount. 
First of all tax concessions of about $ 1,000m would have been provided over the whole scale of the tax range giving at the margins an inducement to work harder and to do better for every section of the community. Obviously we would concentrate the heaviest cuts to the people who are in the greatest need. Greater assistance would have been given to the States to prevent indirect tax and action would have been taken by the Commonwealth to cut down inflationary effects of indirect taxes. Then we would have given incentive both to savings and investment. Even  Dr Jim  has now recognised and agreed with this proposal in one ofhis recantations and changes of plumage and policy. No country, whether it be Liberal, socialist, authoritarian or whatever it might happen to be, can progress unless it invests and no country can invest unless it is prepared to save and to give incentive to savings and investment. 
I have no difficulty at all in prescribing therefore that we shouldhave restored the investment allowance for primary and secondary industry. We should give incentives to our mining industries to permit them to explore, develop and build up our export income. We should give greater incentives to savings through the assurance companies. These and other remedies are necessary if again we are to carry out the ideas of  Dr Jim  and if we wish to work our way and produce our way out of inflation and inflationary pressures. We can do that by the kind of incentives that we are now proposing. 
Turning then to monetary and financial policy, I want to make this point quite strongly: The money base today is being steadily reduced and that can only have disastrous results. I have heard it said by members on the Government benches that the money supply is being liberalised or being increased. But only in the last 2 days the figures have come out relating to the money base, as it is called. There are 3 different ways in which it can be interpreted, but there are only two that are strictly relevant- that is, the actual money or cash in the community together with current accounts, or cash in the community, current accounts, plus deposits in the savings banks. 
If one looks at the figures that have just been produced by the Reserve Bank, it is critical that one should look at the rate at which changes are occurring. 
There was a vast increase in the money supply in the early part of last year. It tapered off until about February and remained static for some time. Now, let us remember it is the rate that we are looking at. The rate of decrease in the money supply in either case in seasonally adjusted terms is between 12 per cent and 13 per cent per annum. This is a prescription for disaster and nothing can save us from the consequences while this economic stupidity goes on. So what would I do? I would have no hesitation in the monetary field in permitting the Reserve Bank to go on with its policy of open market operations by purchasing bonds in the money market. Recently it has carried its operation a little further than usual and in relation to commercial bills that are either accepted or endorsed by a bank it has now permitted them to be bought at a rate of about 1 1 per cent or 1 1 per cent. 
I would be absolutely certain that I would not be going into the money market to raise funds through Commonwealth bonds and securities. Nor would I try to convert maturing loans. It is of critical importance that we ease the money supply. The overkill has occurred. 
I believe we have to take one other measure that up to the moment I have heard nobody discuss because of the dislike for the banks. New and increased advances by the trading banks must be permitted to expand. The Labor Government permitted new and increased advances to run riot last year with all the damage it caused, particularly with regard to certificates of deposit. Such developments were permitted to go too far too rapidly, with all the difficulties these changes are causing today. I believe we must increase the new and increased advances, certainly by S50m or $60m a week, but preferably to somewhere close to $ 120m a week to permit this to be done. 
I have pressed for long that on the international exchanges there should be a devaluation or depreciation of the Australian currency by 12  Vi  per cent. I must admit that I did not think this should be done until about the middle of the March quarter of next year. But it has been done and whilst it has been done prematurely the main thing is that it has been done. 
In addition the residue of the special variable deposits- the deposits that have to be made on money borrowed overseas and brought into Australiamust be removed. I understand that the Reserve Bank wants to cling to the money, but that is a greedy outlook. As it costs more to borrow under this system I think that the residue ought to be removed immediately. 
The 2 year and a day rule relating to short term loans should also be taken off. If we want to encourage people to come here and invest- I think even  Dr Jim  has accepted the view that we need - 
-All right, the Acting Treasurer. 
My question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister. He will know that during the course of the last few days the Reserve Bank of Australia has issued a supplement to the monthly statistical bulletin in which it points out that, no matter what definition is used- the more restricted one relating to not only cash in hand but also current deposits with the banks, or the more generous one of the addition of deposits with the savings banks- the change in the money supply over the last - 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I do,  Sir. In  answer to the question that I directed to the Acting Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  he said that there had not been a fall in the money supply in the last few months. I would quote,  Sir - 
The misrepresentation centres on the fact that I stated that there had been a reduction in the money supply. The fact is that if one cares to look at the figures one will see that on a seasonally adjusted basis- and this is authoritative- on either the broad or restricted definition, the reduction in the money supply was 13.2 per cent or 12 per cent. Those are the exact figures on a seasonally adjusted basis. 
In a speech delivered on 14 October to the Federated Miscellaneous Workers Union the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  read an extract from a leader which had been published in the 'Financial Review' of 10 October. In that leader the editor, as he has on many occasions- and has always been contradictedstated: ... the McMahon Government ... for electoral reasons, promoted a rate of monetary expansion which was totally unjustifiable in its rapidity and which, with the accompanying rate of capital inflow, was mainly responsible for the demand inflation of 1972-73. . . . 
This is much the same as the contents of an article which was written in the 'Financial Review' of 24 May by the Economics Editor,  Mr P.  P. McGuinness. I took the opportunity to reply to that article on 3 June. My reply was published in full and no comment was subsequently made by the editor. Nevertheless on 10 October a leader was published to which I wrote a letter in reply on that same day. The editor did not have the courtesy to publish that letter. I said in that letter to the editor that I had just read another repeat  of his notion about the ethical and political standards behind the 1971-72 and 1973-74 McMahon Government budgets. 
Sorry, 1972-73 Budget. But when I am dealing with this matter I have to argue in respect of what was said about the 1973-74 Budget as well. If the honourable member listens patiently he will get the answer. I told the editor in my letter that I disagreed with him again. I wrote: 
You obviously do not understand the trends that were occurring in the economy or the action that should have been taken by the Labor Government in 1973. 
I was hoping the interjector would listen to that but obviously he is now engaged on something different. I continued: 
The facts and policy decisions that had to be made at the relevant times are set out in an article I wrote for the Review on 3 June 1974. 1 said: 'Labor can't have it both ways. We were determined to reduce unemployment and stimulate growth and were prepared to take a risk. ' 
In fact, we did. We had unemployment down to 88,000 and growth at a going rate of 7.5 per cent. My letter continued:  'Labor's argument that the Liberal-Country Party Government was responsible for the substantial growth in the money supply in 1 972 amounts to arguing that this risk should not have been taken and that a high level of unemployment was to be preferred. ' 
Later in that letter I said: 
Even  Mr P.  P. McGuinness ... in the article to which I replied (3 June), said that at the end of 1972 there was an unwantedly low level of domestic economic activity as evidenced by the high, for Australia, rate of unemployment. 
I am explaining where I have been misrepresented and am giving the answer to the misrepresentation. My letter continued: 
He clearly implies that at the end of 1972 demand needed a stimulus not a contraction and that it would have been dangerous to have taken action which would have reduced the money supply and increased the high, for Australia, level of unemployment. 
Therefore he was contradicting what was said by the editor in the editorial in the 'Financial Review'.  Mr Speaker,  I do not want to read out too much of this letter. I did ask the Leader of the House - 
-I have asked the Leader of the House to agree to the letter I wrote on 10 December 1974 being incorporated in Hansard. He has agreed. 

 Sir, 

I have just read another repeat (in the Leader of 10 October 1974) of your notion about the ethical and political standards behind the 1971-72 and 1973-74 McMahon Government Budgets which you allege caused large increases in the money supply and the existing credit squeeze. 
I disagree with you again. You obviously do not understand the trends that were occurring in the economy or the action that should have been taken by the Labor Government early in 1973. 
The facts and policy decisions that had to be made at the relevant times are set out in an article I wrote for the Review on 3 June 1974. 
I said: 'Labor can't have it both ways. We were determined to reduce unemployment and stimulate growth and were prepared to take a risk. Labor's argument that the LiberalCountry Party Government was responsible for the substantial growth in the money supply in 1972 amounts to arguing that this risk should not have been taken and that a high level of unemployment was to be preferred. 'Demand continued to rise strongly in the JanuaryMarch quarter of 1973 and Labor should have taken action to reduce the money supply then and not wait until six or seven months later. 'In fact the Liberal-Country Party imposed restraints on capital inflow in 1972 and the Cabinet had already considered imposing additional restraints on foreign capital inflow by special non-interest-bearing variable deposits. ' 
Even  Mr P.  P. McGuinness, your Economic Editor, in the article to which I replied (3 June), said that at the end of 1972 there was an unwantedly low level of domestic economic activity as evidenced by the high, for Australia, rate of unemployment. 
He clearly implies that at the end of 1972 demand needed a stimulus not a contraction and that it would have been dangerous to have taken action which would have reduced the money supply and increased the high, for Australia, level of unemployment. 
Labor can 't have it both ways, and neither can you. 
In any event McGuinness was wrong. The trends were very favourable in the December quarter of 1972 and the facts spoke for themselves in the March quarter of 1973. 
We were forecasting a minor boom by June 1973 and so was Treasury. But the forecasts relating to the probable trend did not become clear until the March quarter figures became available. 
I have incorporated this letter because the editor did not have the courtesy to publish it in his paper. 
Sitting suspended from 1.3 to 2.15 p.m. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and is asked against the background of the unprecedented increases in inflationary pressures and growing unemployment. Will the honourable gentleman ensure that a Treasury Green Paper is tabled in this House to permit effective debate on the indexation of wages and incomes which must, if accepted by the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, have a continuing and serious inflationary effect? Will he do so before consideration of the relevant log of claims before the Commission is concluded? I point out to the honourable gentleman that the convention of sub judice does not apply in this House to the conciliation and arbitration jurisdiction. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I do,  Sir. 
This morning,  Mr Speaker,  the Prime Minister said that a tape recording device in the Prime Minister's room had been used and that he gave instructions for it to be dismantled. I have spoken about this matter on so many occasions that it is almost dull and unworthy of comment except that it is wise to have the record put straight in this House. The simple fact is that when I became the Prime Minister there was such a tape recording device that went into the office of the Private Secretary to the Prime Minister. This device was not under the supervision or jurisdiction of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. It was for the use of the public relations officer if he thought it was desirable. It was never used by me. It was tested once and found to be completely ineffective. So I said: 'Do not bother about it any more '. 
I now want to say something about the timing of the dismantling. Some time before ceasing to be Prime Minister I gave instructions that the Prime Ministerial suit was to be reconstructed. I did not go into that suite during the election compaign as the office was being rebuilt and neither did  Mr Whitlam.  So I would say this injustice to him: He would not have been able to use it if he did so. Whether he said the recorder was not to be reconnected when he inherited the rather beautiful suite that I designed, in co-operation with others, is an entirely different matter. I think the House can rest assured of this. As one who detests listening devices of any kind- unless there is agreement between the parties that they ought to be used for temporary record purposesI must say that I would not use them, nor do I like them. I would not agree to them being used, and philosophically am opposed to them. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister who is just coming into the chamber. 
But he was talking to somebody at the door, which is outside the chamber. I accept- I say this with sincerity to the Prime Minister- and I recognise his anxiety to make a contribution to moderating the interrelated problems of inflation and unemployment but I suggest to him, in sincerity, that anxiety is not a substitute for a total and consistent economic and financial policy effectively administered. Will the Prime Minister now admit that because the estimated increase in Government revenue will rise not by the 3 1 per cent as estimated in the Budget but by 40 per cent and will bring in an extra $ 1,000m in taxes with personal income tax rising by 65 per cent, and in the light of the statement by the Treasurer yesterday that the internal deficit will be of the order of $ 1,300m - 
It is obvious that the big boy from Casey  (Mr Mathews)  has very little knowledge of economics and finance and certainty knows nothing at all about budgeting, fiscal policy or the administration of the economic policies of a government. The matter of public importance which he has proposed in the House is a complete contradiction in terms and a clear indication that he understands neither the historical background nor the consequences of what he is saying. Nor does he understand what has been said by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  or what was said by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  on the Australian Broadcasting Commission's television program 'Monday Conference' when he explained the Opposition's policy in considerable detail. 
I am glad I am able to refer to the 'Australian' of 1 1 November which refers to the unbelievable change that has occurred in the Australian economy since the Labor Party assumed power and what a muck up Labor has made of it all. For once I agree with that newspaper, and I want it to be understood that I do not think that the 'Australian' has ever been regarded as a very great friend of mine- certainly not in 1972. But in that editorial leader that newspaper claimed that whilst the Government came into power at a time of prosperity, a time when all things were imaginable, with every conceivable advantage that a government could want- the preceding Liberal-Country Party Government had left it that way- it has made an intolerable muck of the economy. I believe the conclusion can fairly be drawn that the Labor Party ought to get out now and give somebody else a chance to do a better job. 
Let me argue, first of all, as to the 'deprivation and dislocation arising from a proposed 8 per cent "across the board" reduction in government spending'. Nobody has ever argued that there should be an overall and immediate cut in government expenditure. The statement made by the Treasurer when he introduced his July mini-Budget made it clear that there ought to be phased withdrawals from the public to the private sector consistent with economic management whenever action was taken. That is crucial, but it is not understood by the honourable member for Casey who, I have to repeat, obviously is totally ignorant of financial and economic policies. Of course, what the Treasurer stated is exactly the policy that would be followed by the incoming government to be led by  Mr Snedden  in the not too distant future. 
Let me put this matter in historical sequence. I think even you,  Mr Speaker,  a colleague and friend of mine, born and reared in the same district as I was, have got to concede that nobody knows today what the Labor Party is up to. If we go back a little bit we can read the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at the 
Premiers Conference. The States were ordered to cut back on government expenditure and to increase indirect taxes, and therefore inflation. If he did not know what he was doing, it would not be unusual. I do not think he did know what he was doing but that somebody gave him a bum steer, and he is continuing to get bum steers given to him every time he gets on his feet to talk on economic and financial problems. 
The Treasurer himself came along with his mini-Budget and said exactly the same thing. So, too, did the Treasurer designate,  Dr Cairns,  who is to be appointed soon. In July he made the exactly identical statement- that Government expenditure had to come down. If it is to come down the honourable gentleman from Casey ought to be able to tell us in what areas the Government is going to reduce expenditure. If one can take any notice of what the Prime Minister has said in his recent speeches in Queensland- I understand they were not very favourably received but, nonetheless, he made them- he now wants further reductions in personal taxation. He wants to help the States cut down their indirect taxes. He has been heard to mumble, when he could be heard against the din that has occurred up there in Queensland, that he is also prepared to look at a reduction in government expenditure. So the honourable member for Casey should go back to school and learn his facts before he speaks. When he does it will be a happier day for the Labor Party arid I believe it will be a happier day for the honourable member, if he wants to retain the constituency of Casey. 
Let me come back, if I may, to the change that has occurred during the course of the last 2 years. I refer again to the 'Australian' newspaper. In accordance with the implicit price deflation index we had inflation down to 2.2 per cent and by the consumer index inflation of 4.6 per cent, the unemployment level at 88,000, and a growth rate of approximately 7 per cent. What has the Labor Party done now as a result of its many changes in policy, by its business bashing, by pushing back the private sector, and by trying to build up the public sector? The Labor Government has created unemployment which by the end of March will, unless it gerrymanders the figures again and excludes school leavers, be at least 250,000. According to the Treasury, there will be no growth whatsoever in productivity or in the economy other than as a result of the increase in the work force. I think even the Treasury will have to review its figures now because, far from there being a big increase in the work force, there will be a very big increase in unemployment. So if this is the kind of record that the Australian people want and of which the people in the Labor Party are proud, they can keep it. I do not like it; I never have liked it. I believe that each one of the new budget type actions of the Labor Government has turned out to be a little more disastrous than the one before. 
I cannot deal in detail with the first miniBudget, and then the statement of 17 September which cannot be dignified by being described as a budget or even a financial and economic statement. It was a collection of tripe, a collection of idiotic little dippings from newspapers which somebody gathered together but which were not put together as a totally consistent, comprehensive and understandable economic and financial policy for this country. The Treasurer himself, who did not have the good grace to come into the chamber and listen to his colleague this morning, has had to admit that he does not believe in the typical type of Budget, that he does not believe in a Budget setting out the program for the future and in giving the guidelines and the limits within which business, social welfare and other kinds of operations can work in the fiscal year. But he believes in ad hocery, in doing one sort of thing now and another a few day later when he feels that the chill winds are blowing from the Caucus or from the Cabinet and when he consequently experiences a compulsion to put up his hands when he sees which way the majority is going. That will not do. It is just not the kind of policy that we believe ought to be followed. 
Let me refer to what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said in answer to several questions put to him during his appearance on 'Monday Conference'. He did say- I admit this- that there would be an across the board cut but he went on to say as well- I believe that this must be stated as a matter of accuracy and truth- that priority would be given in the fields of education, social welfare and health. To those areas I would say, I hope very clearly, the area of defence, because I believe that the problems associated with Soviet operations in the Indian Ocean must compel us to build up our defence and we must give that a priority as well. But I want to emphasise that no absolute rule was laid down. 
Let me say what I would do and what I believe a Liberal-Country Party Government would do and what would be the proper course of action that ought to have been taken by the Labor Party. This is consistent with the policies that are adopted by democratic countries in every part of the world. I want to give this lesson- I do not mind doing this- to the young fellow from Casey. I do not mind doing this for him because I was a little sorry for the poor brute when he spoke. Let me tell him exactly what ought to be done. When a government is formulating its Budget strategy the Treasury supplies the background on which the Cabinet, the Caucus and the Government of the day can make up their mind. The Treasury, first produces a paper showing the demand and supply position within the economy whether there is excess or deficient demand. It says: 'Based on this, we do not think that government expenditure should increase beyond a certain amount'. It is done in the same way today. A limit is set. I used to put it at about 8 per cent. 
I well remember saying in one of my Budgets that in the previous 9 years we had an inflation rate of only 6 per cent. That is not a bad record, if one cares to think, which obviously the honourable gentleman from Casey has not done. Then a government has to establish certain priorities. One day it might be defence; the next day it might be something else. Certainly it might be education, which has received priority ever since the Liberal Party came into government in 1 949. Under  Sir Robert  Menzies we introduced the scheme relating to the subsidisation of universities throughout Australia. That is the sort of thing that will be done by the next Liberal-Country Party Government when it comes into power. Then cuts are made in other departments consistent with the strategy. 
But those basic principles have been forgotten. No one in the Government has the experience, the knowledge of economic and financial affairs- - with the possible exception of 2 people, and these days I even wonder whether they have the degree of authority and influence they had 6 months ago- to understand those principles. I repeat that no one in the Government, least of all the honourable member for Casey, understands those principles and the way in which they should be applied. I now come back to the words of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition when he stated what the Opposition would do. We would give priorities to certain areas and we would be able to reduce substantially Government expenditure consistent with the overall strategy. I believe that that is of critical importance. 
Let me refer back to the November miniBudget, if I may use that term. Firstly, there can be no doubt that the statement made on 17 September-the so-called Budget itself- was based upon the policy of business bashing, of crushing down the private enterprise sector of the economy and inevitably creating greater inflationary pressures and greater unemployment. The Whitlam Government learnt a lesson  from that and consequently the Prime Minister was compelled to bring in another Budget by means of which he intends to superimpose on the $2,000m increase in expenditure by the Government the year before and, in this Budget, the extra $3,900m, a deficit of $ 1,300m. There will not be a slight surplus of, say, $20m; there will be an additional deficit of $ 1,300m. Those 2 amounts, that is, the $3, 900m increase and the deficit of $ 1,300m, must inevitably create increased demand inflationary pressures. Those increased inflationary pressures must in their turn in time create increased unemployment. If honourable members want a total explanation of this position, I ask them to read an article written by  Mr Samuel  Brittan  which appears in today's 'Financial Review' newspaper. I ask the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  whether he will give me permission to have this article incorporated in Hansard. 
-It is an article by  Mr Samuel  Brittan on demand inflation superimposing itself on cost inflation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Will he distribute in this House the paper on indexation prepared by his Department in which it is argued that wage indexation in itself must be inflationary and the more rapid the indexation the more rapid the inflation? Now that the Miners Federation in the United Kingdom has destroyed the social compact there and the air pilots have done the same thing here and have both shown that the concept of a social compact is a farce against society, will the Minister, in all decency, ensure that the Government's proposal to urge the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to introduce indexation is reconsidered by the Government and an opportunity given to debate the concept in this House? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and is supplementary to a question directed by my colleague the Deputy Leader of the Opposition to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Speaking as a person with long experience of borrowing funds overseas, particularly during a time- 
Government supporters- Ha, ha. 
You are getting into this field now. You might have been critics once but now you are in the field of wanting to borrow. You can giggle your heads off, but you show how insincere you are. I want to ask a sensible question of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will remember that for many years I was the Treasurer and the Liberal-Country Party Government had a record of borrowing money overseas that was unequalled. At that time, in order to be successful, we took it as a golden rule that there should be open government and that as far as was practicable we would let the Australian public and, more importantly, the Australian Parliament know what the purpose of the borrowing was, the type of operation and certain other facts - 
I should make my position clear immediately. As part of the Opposition I oppose completely the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. I do not agree with some of the things that have been said in the debate in drawing conclusions from the arguments that were put either by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  or by my colleague who has just spoken, the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards).  I suppose it is accurate to say that no one has had a greater association with this Bill than I have. My first experience occurred shortly after I became the Treasurer. I found in my 'In' tray a document which had probablybeen in the gestation period for something like 18 months, and it related to the Australian Resources Development Bank. I was immediately fascinated by the novelty of the idea and by the fact that I thought it could do exactly what this present Bill says is its main objective, although I doubt whether this Bill means what it says 
The ARDB was established to mobilise funds in order to ensure that Australian development could take place by Australians. All the trading banks and the Commonwealth Bank of Australia joined together so that they could provide funds in order that that objective could be achieved. I speak now, of course, with some hesitation. Since the ARDB Bill was passed into law it has been magnificently successful and I have not heard any criticism of it, other than on ideological grounds. Shortly after the passage of that legislation I realised that the then Department of Trade and Industry, and particularly its head, would want some sort of an all day sucker to keep it quiet and to keep it from protesting too much about the private organisation bank. After several times being rejected by Cabinet, under the leadership of  Mr Gorton,  an ARDB Bill was formed. But it was done on the limited basis as set out in the Act. Above all, the AIDC had placed in its charter certain restrictive paragraphs with respect to such matters as borrowings in Australia. These were agreed to by the then Government. On listening to what the honourable member for Berowra has said, I believe that those borrowing powers ought to have been restricted in the way that they were. 
So I mention therefore my position in relation to the Bill.I do not like it. I do not think it is necessary. I believe, as the honourable member for Berowra said he believes, that it will divert financial resources, and therefore real resources, from the private sector of the economy to the public sector with probably greater harm than the good that it could potentially do. 
Before coming to the text of the Bill now before the House, I would like to make one or two preliminary remarks. First of all, I believe that some of the changes that have been made and agreed to by the present Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  have removed the grotesqueries that were in the old Bill, and I want to mention just a few of them. There was an odd clause in the old Bill which provided that the AIDC could carry out any sort of business whatsoever. That power has been cut down, but I do not think it will restrict to any substantial extent the operation of the AIDC, if the present Bill is passed, other than on a very limited scale. The national interest clause has been cleaned up to some extent because appropriation must be obtained or, if that is not done, there has to be a resolution of both Houses of the Parliament. Those are, I believe, restraints of a kind which are worth while. But they do not go far enough, because we all know what it is like and how little dialogue takes place when an appropriation Bill comes before the House. 
The matter of guarantees and the matter of assets are also dealt with. I will speak of those in a few moments, because I do not believe that the AIDC ought to retain the ownership of assets when there is no longer any necessity for a Government agency to own them if a private enterprise can effectively take over and probably do a better job. Also I would like to get rid of some of the old mythology, some of the old political propaganda of the most mean and miserable kind, associated with control and also with the ownership of Australian assets. We led the way so far as ownership and control were concerned. I introduced the ARDB Bill for the purposes that I mentioned. No one can therefore say that we did not take the leadership. We were the Party promoting Australian ownership. This is a Liberal conception. 
As regards control, I think that this much has to be said to remove the hypocrisy and the humbug: Australians can always control the assets in their country if they want to. It is within the control of government to do so and therefore, if it cares to exercise that power, it can effectively see that control is maintained either by means of ownership or by executive action under the law or the Parliament itself. I think therefore we have to dismiss this idea of control because it is not really relevant to the task that is in front of us. 
Our goal is to have optimum ownership. I have mentioned what was done by us and what is now being attempted by the Labor Party. But I believe it to be propaganda of an offensive kind to try to have people argue here or anywhere else that they are better Australians than their next door neighbour or their colleagues in this Parliament, whether in the House of Representatives or in the Senate. We are all pretty good Australians. But we do not have to come in here or go on the hustings to parade our interest, to try to show that somebody is better than us or to try to get a mean political advantage when the only difference between us can be the timing, the means by which an objective is achieved- and whether by the private or the public sector of the economy- and the conditions under which the change is to take place. We must always keep in mind that since the milling developments that took place during the regime of a Liberal government, the money flow taking place in this country is increasing so rapidly that we are now in a position entirely different from that in which we found ourselves 10 years ago. We are becoming increasingly capable of finding the cash flow in order to be able to carry on development programs by Australians, under Australian conditions. I state again that I am a Liberal and I believe in the private sector of the economy. 1 believe that it is just as capable, and perhaps more capable, of doing good for the country as is the public sector in relation to industrial, commercial and mining interests. 
I now want to deal with the 2 Bills themselves in detail. I reject the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill for the reasons I am about to give. The Labor Government, the Whitlam-Cairns Government-  Dr Cairns  was not necessarily a part of it for as long as othershas been in office for a short time, and in that very short time it has done more to muck up this country than any government in Australia's history. In those circumstances - 
The honourable member helped to muck it up. As entertaining as he is as a  speaker-  I always have to laugh even though it causes me pain to do so. But the Labor Government has mucked up this country completely and for the moment it shows very little signs of being able to recover the position. In those circumstances, why give the Labor Party the opportunity to do greater damage? I know that if you were in the back benches,  Mr Speaker,  you would not permit it to be done. For that reason alone I would give the Government no more power. 
Let me move on to some of the ways in which we can look at the damage which the Government has done. There was a credit squeeze, and the way in which it bumped up interest rates and slowed down business. There was the way in which it caused unemployment and the way in which it stimulated inflationary pressures. It has done considerable damage to Australia's great rural and extractive industries and has taken punitive measures on savings and investment, which are one of the mainstays on which this country must progress and which we must support by incentives and every other means at our disposal if the greatness of Australia is to be fully realised. That is the first point I should like to make so far as specifics are concerned. 
I turn now to clause 4 of the Bill which I do not like. This might be called the nationalisation clause. The functions of the Corporation are pretty big- to facilitate and encourage the establishment, development and advancement of any industry connected with manufacture, processing, treatment, transportation and distribution of goods. The provision virtually covers nearly every aspect of industrial and commercial life. That is only one area that we have to look at. But we must look at it in another context and that is the other Bills that have been introduced and passed in this House. I mention, for example, the Bills dealing with minerals and energy and the national airlines Bill. When one looks at these measures in combination one finds that slowly but surely power is being taken over a wide spectrum of Australian industry, including the extractive industries. On the first occasion this legislation was being debated in the House during the regime of the Labor Government when the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and I handled the Bill on behalf of the Opposition, I cross examined the present Treasurer about it. To his credit- I give him credit for this as I give him credit for a lot of good things- he deleted the most monstrous clauses of the Bill which would have brought it into ridicule. When I spoke about clause 4 of the Bill he said that he did not want it, but  Sir Alan  Westerman wanted it. That was the answer given to me. I can see no reason why that provision, together with the others, should be retained. I believe it gives the opportunity by stealth increasingly to socialise the Australian economy. I mention that because all these things were well thought out and debated in Cabinet, when we as a LiberalCountry Party Government introduced the original Bill. 
I turn now to the borrowing clause. In Cabinet I was able to obtain the approval of  Sir John  McEwen on this to ensure that borrowing for a government agency should be overseas and not internal. That was agreed to because the kind of savings in Australia and, therefore, investment funds were limited and the best one could hope to do would be to achieve a diversion out of the private sector and into the public sector. We have seen the result and the consequences of that happening in recent months and in recent years, so much so that I believe it was one of the causes of our present difficulties, although that is not completely understood today. But I take it a stage further. I take it now to the stage of asking not the general question of the reason for the total failure of Government economic management of the credit squeeze but in detail what has been the degree of success of the AIDC. Yesterday I heard an argument by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  It was the most devastating attack, not upon the new Bill, but upon the total concept of the AIDC. If the figures he quoted are accurate- I think they are- the areas in which it has chosen to invest are in companies like Escor Ltd; but I do not go along with the argument about M. B. Johns Ltd because I believe it will produce either today or tomorrow a pretty good balance sheet. 
Oh keep quiet. You are thinking of police court actions; I am thinking of the nation's interest. Therefore, looking at what the Leader of the Australian Country Party said, I defy any honourable member with common sense, any honourable member influenced by a national identity and with the interests of the nation at heart, either in logic, or in conscience to vote in favour of this Bill particularly if he believes in private enterprise. 
I come back to the actual borrowing programs. I have stated the question relating to the executive activities and the investments of the AIDC. I now turn to internal borrowing. Here is a very clear illustration of what the Australian people think about the AIDC trying to borrow $20m and, if practicable, $40m. No one can find out what has happened. This is not open government. This is secrecy because the AIDC has failed. The Australian people's understanding, its appreciation, its thinking about the AIDC is settled in that respect. But there is worse. I cannot understand a man like the present Treasurer, with his undoubted knowledge, permitting the Corporation to go ahead with the loan at a period when the Government was staying out of the market itself because it did not want to dry up further the money base- Ml or M3- in Australia and to make the type of credit squeeze that had been pushed upon the country even worse than it was. The Government got out of the market but it left this monstrous agency there to do something which it felt was contrary to the best interests of the country. 
I turn now to the important question of our overseas balances which are at this time falling at a rate, since about 12 December, of about $ 100m a month. By this time next year we will be below the level that can be regarded as satisfactory and moving well into the danger level. On that basis the Government would be wise, as the Australian Resources Development Bank has, to go overseas, to borrow money to be able to support the activities of this organisation. That is the position as I see it. 
I ^should like to mention the Senate report on the AIDC. I cannot understand why in the case of a man like the Treasurer, who likes facts to be known, he and his colleagues have ensured that the report of the Committee is not to be made available to the Australian people. Another important matter is the fact that the disinvestment clause is not satisfactory because it can be evaded as soon as one wants to evade it. The national investment of Government interest is so bad that no government which believes in the interests of the country and is not ideologically committed, would want to agree to it. 
I turn now to the National Investment Fund Bill which, I think rightly, my own Party has decided to reject completely. I reject it, firstly, because of its bonds. It is admitted that its bonds under this Bill will not have an earning capacity of their own, to provide an effective marketable yield, for reasons that were very well given by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  So the return must be subsidised by the Government. It can-subsidise it to any extent that it feels desirable. Of equal importance, the Government wants to get into the business of superannuation and savings in order to raid the savings of the Australian people and to put them into this objectionable fund which has not yet proved its ability to be both viable and profitable. 
In the Australian community we already have savings banks and even a Commonwealth savings bank. But the Government wants to duplicate those services. We have life offices of the finest quality and there is no reason in the world why we should establish other life offices through deceit or subterfuge to be able to work without the knowledge and without the necessity for disclosure of facts. They could work as they want and use the savings of the Australian people in a way that could be disadvantageous for them. 
I turn to another aspect which I believe to be totally wrong and one that should be rejected by every thinking and decent member of the Australian community; that is, the threat that has been made, not necessarily by the present Treasurer, but by the former one, that the 30/20 rule could be changed and compulsory methods could be used in order to divert savings from the areas chosen by the life offices- the custodians and the trustees on behalf of the savers themselvesto a government agency. I take this very seriously. I ask the present Treasurer to clear up whether he will use compulsion. I know that he intended not to use it but in a written speech which was delivered and handed out he added a word which created the impression that if he was placed under pressure he would use compulsion in the same way as the degraded former Treasurer saw fit. From all the arguments I have seen advanced, I believe that a royal commission ought to be conducted into the AIDC to see whether it should be sustained. I believe that by market methods- by giving incentives to save and incentives to invest- with.the new cash flows we can do without it. I would not necessarily say that it ought to go. But most emphatically, if I get the chance, I will reject this Bill. I will want to vote against it. If it is practicable, I would like to divide the House on it, even if I have to sit on this side of the House with only three of my colleagues. 
It is a pretty accurate comment, both in political life and in society in general, that we are all too prone to act in haste and repent at our leisure. This will undoubtedly be the consequence of this Bill if it is enacted without proper consideration and agreement to make crucially important amendments in this Parliament. In its present form the Bill will hurt us all, and Labor has been taught enough lessons now to prove this point. The latest example of Government idiocy and vanity prevailing over common sense is the report by the National Population Inquiry under the chairmanship of Professor Borrie based on the assumption of zero population growth- an assumption drooled and enthused over by the perpetually bewildered Minister for Urban and Regional Development,  Mr Uren.  The report says that based on this assumption redistribution of population becomes difficult and indeed unnecessary and that a population growth rate of 1.5 per cent during the next 20 years would not present unsuperable problems. The present national average growth rate is only 0.8 per cent per annum. 
It is difficult to find anywhere areas of real success during the Labor Party presence on the treasury bench in the economic and financial sphere- the place where as you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  know growth, strength and the vitality of a nation must be based. As witness, the economic debacle of 2 Budgets, some mini-Budgets and several random and uncoordinated economic policy decisions leading to deficits in expenditure over receipts and borrowings of a size never known before. These must soon damage the whole structure of industry, commerce, banking and finance and social welfare activities in this country. This financial year alone we will have a money shortfall in our accounts amounting to over $2,500m, and history throughout the world and the ages teaches us that the consequences are dangerous- in the end, inevitably disastrous. We will be smothered in dollar bills which will rapidly and continuously lose their value. In short, value will continuously be driven out of the dollar. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The right honourable gentleman has been speaking for several minutes. I suggest that he might get back to the Bill. He has not mentioned it yet. 
-No, I have not, but I am entitled to make some preliminary remarks as a background against which I can present my attitude to this Bill. 
-That is true, too. But one is entitled to say something to explain what one means. One of the faults of this House is that people never know what too many people are speaking about. Then there is the credit squeeze that Labor did not know about and could not understand, followed by a credit splurge which will worsen our present misfortunes. In deference to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I will not describe any other of the errors which have taken place other than to mention one matter relevant to conventions. I believe that the abuse of parliamentary conventions and the Standing Orders particularly by the Prime Minister, when it suits him, who preaches in the tongue of the clothe and uses the tactics of a loquacious, rude, unthinking and personally offensive demagogue - 
-I do not . believe that honourable members get enough opportunities to do so, and I have to say that to you in positive and clear language. But if you wish to deprive me of the opportunity of presenting - 
All so right,  Sir. I  have had ' enough. I have listened to you. I will now do what you ask. Regrettably, let me turn now to the Bill before the House, the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill 1975. The AttorneyGeneral in one of the shoddiest, scimpiest and poorly informed second reading speeches that I have ever read said that the objective of the Bill is to provide for the securities industry in Australia to operate on a sound basis with an effective system of controls administered nationally by a Corporations and Exchange Commission. He said more specifically that the Bill aims to maintain, facilitate and improve the performance of the capital market in the interests of development, efficiency and stability. Somewhere towards the end ofthe speech he perfunctorily mentioned the need to ensure that the investor has access to information which is both relevant and up to date. 
I believe we need in Australia an effective securities commission- not a companies and securities commission, but a commission independent in status, with adequate but no more than adequate functions and powers. I publicly advocated such a policy during the time I was the Treasurer. I believe these goals should be achieved by a step by step approach and, so far as Part V, Divisions III and IV, are concerned after hearings, reports and recommendations by a permanent second Eggleston type committee divorced from the Commission itself. 
I now turn to the Part II ofthe Bill. The Corporations and Exchange Commission is given extremely wide powers and functions including powers of an apparently judicial kind under proposed sub-clause (2) (c) of clause 20 to:  ..... take such action (including the making of rules under section 283) as is necessary to enforce or give effect to the provision of this Act. 
And under proposed sections 40, 41 and 43 it is given power to hold what seem to be judicial hearings and proceedings for any of the purposes of the Act, including to summon witnesses, to force them to answer questions, and adjudicate on matters involving contempt. This raises the most crucially important question and constitutional issue of the separation of powers between legislatures Executive and judiciary. 
Rightly the judicial power of the Commonwealth must be exercised under section 7 1 of the Commonwealth Constitution by the High Court of Australia and not by an administrative tribunal. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the Taxation Boards of Review are examples of administrative tribunals without judicial power, particularly power to fine. In my opinion a new Bill should be drafted to fit in with the constitutional trichotomy. As well there must be both an administrative and judicial appeal and this would be provided in the new legislation. 
I have said that I agree with the principles behind Part V, Divisions III and IV, ofthe Bill. But the Bill in its entirety is conceptually faulty because company and exchanges legislation should be separate. In my opinion the detailed attempt to control the exchanges will make it impossible for them to operate under normal market conditions. The Bill cannot be satisfactorily amended. Nor can I say that I approve in detail with each of the clauses of the Bill for these reasons. We in the House have not had the opportunity to debate the provisions of clauses 105 to 126 or any other clauses. Even today, the Attorney-General presented advance notice of 19 Committee stage amendments to the Bill. We have not been able to test the effectiveness or restrictive and damaging effect of the workings of the Bill in the market place. 
We have not had the opportunity fully to discuss the reactions with market interests which will be smothered by bureaucrats and bureaucratic actions. In particular I agree with the basic concepts behind Part V, Divisions III and IV, that is disclosure of personal interests of dealers and others hi certain types of written communication to clients; dealings by holders of a dealer license as a principal; the priority to be given by a dealer to clients' orders; dealers who carry on business of specified kinds not to be directors of listed corporations; dealers not to act as underwriters in certain cases; provision relating to employees of dealers or investment advisors; manipulation of markets; wash sales and matched orders; fraudulently inducing persons to deal in securities; dissemination of information about illegal transactions; and dealings in securities by insiders. I emphasise that I do not know how the Bill would work out in practice, even in the cases where I accept and endorse the principles. There is no one in this House with a detailed working knowledge and operational experience in the securities market; and we should be able to educate ourselves as to the dangers before this Bill is passed into law. 
Let me turn to some of the proposals about which doubts remain and about which I have personal reservations. I express these doubts and reservations because ofthe authoritarian tendencies in so much of the legislation introduced by the Government and the vanity and omniscient streak in the characters of so many Ministers. The stock exchanges are important, probably vital elements, of a free enterprise economy. They assist, greatly assist, in the mobility and marketing of securities, in the mobilisation of finance for business activities and are the medium for purchase and sale of assets and shares and consequently in the allocation of our economic resources. They advise their clients as to both sale and purchase of securities and other investments. They have been the backbone of investment banking in this country. They perform many other tasks on behalf of the public. 
As I have said, the ostensible objective of this legislation is to facilitate and improve the performance of the capital market not to obstruct or restrict it. The Terrigal Conference of the Labor Party accepted in a practical way that in a mixed economy the institutions of a free enterprise economy should be strengthened. The exchanges were not excluded. I repeat that the free, effective and proper functioning of the exchanges will be obstructed, not assisted, by the passage of this Bill. The exchanges will be immersed in red tape, hindered in their day to day operations and smothered by the bureaucrats- the very opposite of the proclaimed intention. 
Under clause 36 (2) ofthe Bill the AttorneyGeneral may give directions to the Commission on matters of general policy in connection with the performance of its functions or the exercise of its powers. But nothing in this provision entitles the Attorney-General to give a direction to the Commission in relation to the performance of its functions, or the exercise of its powers in a particular case. This power is not necessary because clause 284 confers on the Governor-General power to make regulations in general terms prescribing all matters that are required or permitted to be prescribed or necessary or convenient to the carrying out or giving effect to the Bill. With knowledge of the unlawful, intemperate and arbitrary acts of the former Attorney-General it would not be wise to confer powers on the incumbent uninformed and inexperienced AttorneyGeneral when there are more effective methods of achieving the same goals through regulations that may be disallowed by either House. 
On parity of thinking and with knowledge of the Prime Ministers' two intrusions into the day to day operation of the Prices Justification Tribunal, I much prefer such changes through Parliament as, for example, by affirmative regulation rather than by secret letters and midnight telephone calls. I turn to clause 61 which provides that the Governor-General may prohibit all trading of securities or all securities included in a class of securities. 
Debate interrupted. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I do. You will remember,  Sir, that  this morning the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  said that all his predecessors as Prime Minister had supported his attitude to the convention relating to the filling of casual Senate vacancies. That is totally untrue. I have made my position clear in this House. I do not think that any convention can override section 1 5 of the Constitution, which gives the States the right to determine who the replacement should be when a casual vacancy occurs. I made that clear in a letter I wrote to the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on 17 February 1975. I seek leave to incorporate that letter, which is a short one, in Hansard. 
May I read it, Sir? 
The letter reads - 
Yes,  Sir. 
I have been completely misrepresented. 

 - Sir, you have given me the privilege of - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, you will remember that shortly before the debate on this Bill was interrupted last night, I was dealing with this Bill in considerable detail. I had mentioned the fact that I believed that the old principle of acting in haste and repenting at leisure would be found to be accurate in regard to this Bill. I was able to give some background on why I believed that the Bill should be withdrawn and replaced by something different. Mainly because I felt that the Bill was too technical, was far too detailed and lacked flexibility, and because the Government had shown that it was completely incapable of managing the economy, I came to the conclusion that if the Government was so incompetent it should not be given any further powers. I went on to deal with the reasons why I felt that should not be done and this Bill not passed. I do not believe that one can mix up corporations and exchanges together. This Bill cannot be amended satisfactorily because at least 100 to 150 amendments would be necessary. Of critical importance is the fact that, although some of the concepts and principles of the Bill must be incorporated in the law at some stage, the law cannot be made so detailed and so difficult to administer that those who are attempting to run commercial activities will not be able to act unless they have a lawyer, an actuary and some other person beside them to tell them whether they may take action. In most cases the answer will be no. 
I went on to say that I would not be prepared to give the Attorney-General the powers that he proposes should be given under the Bill. I also dealt with the difficult position associated with divisions 3 and 4 in Part V of the Bill. I wanted it to be made absolutely clear that some of the concepts of the Bill, such as those relating to dealings as principal on the stock exchange, wash transactions and similar matters, were concepts which I approve but I do not believe that anyone in the House knows enough about it at the present time to be able to say; 'whilst we agree with the concept, we also agree with the manner and detail in which these concepts are being put on the statute book'. As I said, it would make the working of this Bill absolutely intolerable and impossible. 
I believe it is fair to comment here and now on the feelings and views of a man who was claimed to be the inspirational genius of the Bill before us. Not only the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  but also, if I remember accurately, the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  claimed that  Senator Rae  would fully endorse this Bill. They claimed that many of the changes to existing law and practices proposed by the Bill were recommended by him or based on his report and recommendations. Let us test that claim against what  Senator Rae  said yesterday, not in a debate but with reference to the Bill. He said that it is full of inconsistencies, illogicalities, impracticalities and potential injustices. There cannot be any more damning indictment of a proposal or a proposed Bill than that. Like every other  speaker  on this side of the House whom I have heard, I believe that the criticisms made here are so damning, as are some of the comments made by members of the Government, that the proper course of action is to withdraw this Bill, have another go, then let us on this side of the House examine the proposals and let democracy work in this country. 
I come now to clause 61 of the Bill. I had just about reached that point last night when the question for the adjournment of the House was proposed. There is provision under that clause for the Governor-General to prohibit all trading of securities or of securities included in a class of securities during such period as is specified. In other words, the operation of the exchanges may be suspended without notice and immediately and indefinitely. There are incalculable implications and great dangers in that power. I prefer that it be deleted. If that is not practicable, the purpose could be effected by affirmative resolution of both Houses of this Parliament. Can any democrat object to that kind of procedure? Do we believe in democracy or do we believe in an agency of government being able to run riot, to disturb the economy and to disturb the free workings of a market economy? 
The powers conferred are altogether too wide and could be subject to arbitrary or irrational decisions. Surely by now we have had enough of that under the Australian Labor Party Government. I mentioned earlier the actions of the former Attorney-General with regard to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and other similar types of activities. Opportunity should be given for public debate and parliamentary approval before action is finalised. It can be seen by parity of reasoning that much the same applies in the case of clause 283 which empowers the Commission to make statutory rules in relation to 'any matter in respect of which the Commission is permitted by subsection 59(3) to make rules'. That is in cases, where a stock exchange is required by a notice to implement a change in any of the constituent documents of the stock exchange. 
All honourable members will be aware how difficult it is to get action in the Parliament after the event in cases where regulations are made and there is an attempt either in the House or in the Senate to amend them. Therefore I strongly recommend that, so far as most of these problems are concerned, either the law should be made by affirmative resolution, or by a Bill, or in relevant cases a decision before becoming operative ought to be the subject of an appeal to administrative tribunals such as the Taxation Board of Review or the Industrial Court in the case of arbitration decisions. As I have said, I do not think that the Bill can be amended satisfactorily. I do not think that it can work in practice. I agree exactly with what  Senator Rae  has said. Consequently I believe that if the Attorney-General has the authority and the influence and the interests of the country at heart he will withdraw the Bill and put up something acceptable to us and, above all, something that will work in the interests of this country and particularly in the interests of the investor. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The right honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
I am not one of the trendies. I am not committed to the permissive society. I believe in the retention of the death penalty in certain cases. I do not believe in abortion on request. The New South Wales law, as set out in Smart's case, satisfies me both in its liberal approach to abortion and its procedures to safeguard the health of the women concerned. I do not believe in the legalisation of homosexuality practised by consenting adults, and I did not vote on the motion then before the House on this issue. I do strongly and deeply believe that every person has the right to live in freedom, with dignity and with opportunities to pursue his or her own objectives and to achieve personal happiness and true realisation; and that the State has the duty not to obstruct those activities within the law but to remove impediments to their realisation and to protect individual privacy. It is against this philosophy that I personally and independently judge the Bill. 
Automatically this immediately directs attention and debate to the paramount provisions of the Bill contained in clause 48. The grounds and terms on which a decree for dissolution of marriage will be granted will be, and only be, because the marriage has broken down irretrievably. Secondly, complementary to this, the proof and the only proof needed to establish irretrievable breakdown is to satisfy the court that the parties have separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 12 months before the filing of the application. This second proposition involves the abandonment of the long endured anachronism and social barbarism of the necessity to prove 'fault' or 'guilt' by one or other of the parties to dissolution of the marriage. 
I do not believe it has ever been practicable to prove 'fault' beyond any reasonable doubt in any real sense in matrimonial causes or proceedings for dissolution of marriage. Seldom is one party completely responsible for the irreparable breakdown of marriage and the proportions of blame and fault can never be mathematically or actuarilly apportioned. Worse, the degrading and humiliating necessity to fight marital issues publicly in an open court in an atmosphere of hostility and with tactics is more suited to a battlefield or criminal case against the Crown than to the solution of a delicate personal relationship, must be abandoned. The very word 'versus' in the name of the divorce case is itself emotive and introduces a battle concept. Too frequently contested divorce cases degenerate into contests or fights. Even though the couple may have entered the marriage agreement with the greatest goodwill. The conditions under which they have to fight their divorce can and do cause permanent traumatic psychological and emotional damage. 
Emotions are battered. Characters are assassinated and- worst of all- the children in the marriage suffer dreadfully as a result. A change had to be made and concepts and new institutional procedures introduced which are more harmonious with the contemporary attitudes of a liberal society and more in keeping with life as it is today. 
I would have turned clause 48 upside down, if I had been responsible for the Bill, so as to provide that the grounds and terms on which a decree for dissolution of marriage would be, and only be, that the parties have separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 12 months. I would have liked to overcome the need to introduce a legal fiction. The real grounds are in fact 12 months separation. But the fictional ground is contained in the emotive phrase that the marriage 'has broken down irretrievably'. It is unnecessary as well as a confusion between the grounds for divorce and proof or evidence of the act on which the divorce is based. I would have liked in order to avoid humbug and fiction, to state the real grounds for divorce in clear unmistakable language: 12 months separation stands on its own. I do not pursue this argument because it does not go to the substance of clause 48 or the Bill as a whole. 
It is true that, in historical times, in a civilised and Christian sense, and ignoring Old Testament dialogues, we have come down out of the trees for only a little more than 1 974 years. But I doubt whether the ideals of Christianity and the other great religions have yet truly reflected themselves in the law relating to marriage and divorce. 
In my view no 2 matrimonial causes are the same. We are dealing with people with different personalities, different problems and different emotional states and with a greater or lesser tolerance to the modes of and changing attitudes to life. Every marriage that breaks down does so for a different set of reasons. We cannot modify the divorce laws to meet the whole gamut and variety of conditions leading to the breakdown of a marriage. We must accept contemporary life, life as it is really lived, with all its variety and complexity with all its greatness and savagery and with all its charm and crudeness. If we care for humanity we must accept that disillusionment and heartbreak should not be made permanent and the opportunity to enjoy life made irretrievable or unnecessarily prolonged by the law. 
So I must ask: To what new concepts and institutions can we turn? The first reservation I had about the Bill was that the Bill should also provide for immediate access to the Family Court in the special cases of adultery and cruelty. I abandoned that idea because it contained the objectionable features of the necessity to prove fault or blame and because of the resultant psychological effects on the people involved. I thought of the desirability of adding a fifth principle to clause 43 or of amending clause 48 to make it necessary for the Family Court to have regard to the behaviour of the parties before a decree nisi is granted. I abandoned the idea involving the behaviour of the parties for the reasons I have already given relating to fault and also because it is not the law in Australia today and has not been since the case of Gardiner v Gardiner in 1925 that the divorce courts will punish a man by way of increased maintenance for lack of morality. 
I also gave careful consideration to the requirement that clause 48 ( 1 ) should be amended to provide that the period of separation should be 24 months and not 12 months. There is no basis for thinking that separation for 24 months is more likely to lead to reconciliation than separation for 12 months. The available evidence points the other way. Once separation actually occurs the prospects of reconciliation are probable only in a minority of cases. Once marriage has irretrievably broken down the legal ties should not be prolonged by an additional 12 months of bitterness, distress and humiliation. Let me put this in context. About 95 per cent of all divorce proceedings are not contested and, of the contested cases, 45 per cent are on the grounds of adultery or cruelty. We are basically concerned in this House with that 5 per cent of contested cases. 
I turn now to the principles to be applied by the Family Court in the exercise of its jurisdiction under clause 43 of the Bill. The first principle to which the Court must have regard is contained in sub-clause (a) of clause 43. The first sentence of that principle establishes 'the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage as the union of a man and a woman to the exclusion of all others'. I believe in that principle, but I think that, to make it accurate, the word 'voluntary' should be inserted before the word 'union' and that the words 'voluntarily entered into for life', which are also contained in the sub-clause, should be omitted. The very purpose of the Bill is to enable the dissolution of a marriage and the use of the words 'entered into for life ' is a contradiction of the purpose of the Bill. Those 4 words are humbug and have been given an odious title by the legal profession in two crude 4-letter words. In my opinion the dissolution of a marriage is too important a matter to permit humbug in the declaration of fundamental principles. 
The only other principles to which I wish to . refer and which are also of equal paramount importance are contained in sub-clauses (b) and (c) of clause 43. Sub-clause (b) provides for the need to give the widest possible protection and assistance to the family as the natural and fundamental group unit of society, particularly while it is responsible for the care and education of dependent children. Sub-clause (c) provides for the need to protect the rights of children and to promote their welfare. I am satisfied that, providing those supplementary principles are effectively administered in spirit and substance by the Family Court, the proposal deserves support. They are enlightened and overdue, and enshrine an ethical approach that will effectively protect both parties and children of the marriage. 
This brings me to the next 2 fundamental provisions of the proposed legislation- Parts VII and VIII relating to the welfare and custody of children and to maintenance and property, which are the 2 areas where so much litigation now takes place and Part IV relating to family courts. The passage of time and the Standing Orders for debate prevent me from expressing my opinions on each of these matters, but I do want to say something about the welfare and custody of children, the family court and the proposed amendment to Parts VII and VIII of the Bill which should be made. 
Clause 72 states that a party to a marriage is liable to maintain the other party to the extent that the first-mentioned party is able to do so. In proceedings with respect to the custody or guardianship or access to a child of a marriage the Family Court shall, under clause 64, have regard to the welfare of the child as of paramount importance. Under clause 73, the parties to a marriage are liable, according to their respective financial resources, to maintain the children of the marriage who have not attained the age of 18 years. Under clause 74 the court may make such orders as it thinks proper for the provision of maintenance of both a child and either party of the marriage. 
Liberal guidelines have been proposed in clause 75 to ensure that the Family Court has regard to those matters which must be taken into consideration in respect of maintenance of the parties. In addition, clause 76 has provision for determining the nature, duration and amount of payment under such orders for the maintenance of children. In such cases, both as to custody and maintenance, the Family Courts will examine relevant matrimonial conduct but not the fault or degree of blame of either party. In custody cases what is vital is the behaviour of the parties having regard to fitness, and in maintenance cases, the ability to pay, against the background of the responsibilites and incomes of the parties. The court will take a more active part than under the present law in supervising arrangements for the custody and welfare of a child, and a support staff of welfare workers will be provided and will be available to the court to assist both the court and the children who are subject to custody orders. 
Finally, 1 want to touch upon the concept of a separate Australian Family Court with supplementary services, which it is proposed will be established. Clause 21 is a most significant new institutional concept and will deal solely with family matters. The court will be a superior court of record with power to punish for contempt, and will have jurisdiction under clause 31, in all matrimonial causes instituted or continued under the provisions of the Bill. It is provided by clause 97 which relates to procedings and evidence, that all proceedings shall be conducted in closed court and without undue formality, and shall endeavour to ensure that the proceedings are not protracted. Under clause.101 the court shall forbid the asking of or excuse a witness from answering a question that it regards as offensive, scandalous, insulting or humiliating unless the court is satisfied that it is essential in the interests of justice. I particularly welcome the proposal providing for the proceedings to take place in closed courts. 
The Family Court has the power under Part XIII of the Bill to enforce all decrees made under the proposed law. Under clause 108, it has power to punish persons for wilful disobedience of any decree. Under proposed section 1 14, the court may make such an order or grant such an injunction as it thinks proper, including an injunction for the personal protection of a party to the marriage or a child of the marriage; for the protection of the marital relationship; in relation to the property of a party to the marriage, or in relation to the use or occupancy of the matrimonial home; and to make an order relieving a party to a marriage from any obligation to perform marital services or render conjugal rights. My continuing worry in relation to the power and operation of the Family Court is to ensure that its decrees and orders, particularly with regard to welfare and custody of children and maintenance of property, are observed and that responsibility for compliance with and observation of the court's decrees remain a function of the court itself, or one of its agencies. I believe the law should make it clear that the Family Court or its agencies should have the direct and primary responsibility for payment of maintenance and, where practicable, compliance with other court orders, with the complementary responsibility to ensure that the party responsible for compliance with maintenance and  other court  orders pays the corresponding amount of maintenance, with costs, to the agency. This should be a separate function of the Court and not of the Department of Social Security. 
I have tried to state my case as best I can. We want to remove the anguish and fear associated with divorce proceedings. I want to do the same with regard to responsibility for compliance with the order of the court with the maximum of fairness and the minimum of bitterness, distress and humiliation. That can best be achieved by an agency of a Family Court rather than by an individual. Marriage can be a many-splendoured thing and a family a source of fulfilment, happiness, joy and laughter. No man in his right senses would want to prejudice these ideals. But far from undermining one of the essential foundations of the family as the basic unit of society, I believe that these reforms can prevent its further decay, perhaps even strengthen the basic conditions in. which both parties think about and understand the marriage vows. 
Whilst the very words of the song 'The Second Time Around' sound morbid to me, the second marriage, even when both parties have been married before and both parties have children, is often more contented and physically and spiritually more satisfying than past experience would lead the observers to expect. In any event the opportunity for future happiness should not be foreclosed when marriage has irreparably broken down. I commend the Bill to the House, but I do so with the hope that I may be able to make some proposals for amendments in the Committee stage. 
-Naturally enough, when I had the opportunity to speak on these 2 Bills I asked myself the initial question: 
Are these 2 Bills necessary or are they good, bad or indifferent? I had to come to the conclusion, after considerable thought, that they are bad. In other words, they truly reflect the fact that Labor has made a mess ofthe management of the Australian economy and now has- to use the language that members of the Australian Labor Party would use- to try to indulge in a repair job. But this is not the occasion for a repair job; this is the occasion for a totally new look at the Australian economy to be able to get an all embracing scheme, internally consistent and adapted to meet the need of the times. We do not find that in these 2 Appropriation Bills. In fact, we have been given no explanation about the various measures that the Government intends to take in order to correct the defects in the economy and to get the economy moving along as we of the Opposition would get it moving along, that is, at a very fast pace although not in the immediate future. 
Let us look at the history of this matter. It goes back to the mini Budget the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  wanted to introduce. Rightly, I believe, the Caucus turned him sideways or, to use perhaps a better expression, stood him on his head. That is not a very elegant way in which to stand up any Prime Minister or to stand down any Prime Minister. Since then we have had the introduction of the last Budget. If ever there was a Budget which should have exercised moderation it was the last Budget, but it provided for an increase in expenditure of close to $3, 000m or 32 per cent. Following the introduction of that Budget which went the wrong way we now find that 2 Appropriation Bills which provide for an expenditure of about $60 lm have been introduced before their time, that 2 more Appropriation Bills will be introduced next month and 2 Supply Bills before the end of the financial year and that later still we will see the introduction of' a Budget which will of necessity have to provide about $2 10m for the Medibank scheme. If ever there has been an indication of a mess and if ever there has been an indication of an inability to control not only a Cabinet of 27 potential Prime Ministers but also a Caucus of 40 or 50 budding Prime Ministers we have it here. This is a clear indication that the Government does not know where it is going. I do not believe that on past experience one could ever come to the conclusion that the Government will get on to the right track. It is certain from all the historical facts that we have before us that if the Government ever does get on the right track there will then be a reversal here and a reversal there- one step forward and 2 steps backwards. That is the background against which we have to look at these 2 Bills. 
I would like, if I can, to try to put this matter into perspective economically. I would like to consider the 4 different major problems that this country faces. We should never evade those problems. We must not be diverted by any ofthe emotion that is generated in the Parliament or the statements that are made by the Prime Minister or other Ministers that seek to divert attention from what is crucial to the success of our economy and to the life style and ability to live well of all Australians. Firstly, I want to look at our growth rate. It presents a miserable picture. This year we will have a failure of growth- a fall in growth- of 3 per cent. Of what consequence will that be? I believe that in terms of lost value of production due to the fall, we will lose opportunities for employment for 150 000 people and that there will be a loss in the real value of production of $ 1 ,500m in the year. That does paint a nasty picture and must make people think that the Labor Government has failed and ought to get out of office if it has any concept of integrity or decency. If that does not, nothing will. 
But that is only part ofthe picture because normally we would expect to have a growth rate running at the level of an increase of perhaps 5 per cent per annum- 2.5 per cent due to population and 2.5 per cent due to productivity. If one takes into account the total picture- the failures- of the Australian Labor Party to ensure growth of 5 per cent per annum. In stopping the employment from growing and making the unemployment level rise together with the avoidable loss in production because of the failure of growth at the rate, one will find that the total loss in value of production of $4,000m for the year. I believe that the clearest evidence of failure is to be found in these money Bills themselves. 
I wish to turn, if I may, to some of the problems that I believe are facing this country and to what ought to be done about them. There can be no doubt that anyone who looks at the figures concerning the way in which the Australian Labor Party is recklessly spending money today is inevitably driven to the conclusion that we will have a deficit of at least $2, 720m on the figures as we know them today. I have made that estimate and I believe that I will be shown to be right. I believe that that will be the total deficit and that there will be an internal deficit of probably $2,250m. But that is only as at today I have already mentioned that the Government will need $2 10m for the Medibank scheme. When one starts to add up the additional figures one finds that an even greater general deficit of $3,000m is not so much a possibility but, I believe, something that we can consider a reality. 
I have no doubt that the Government has been justified in presenting these Appropriation Bills because of its past mistakes in trying to get the economy moving along again at a fast bat by giving incentives for production, and to get people back to work. I agree with that. But no one can deny that a government which runs into chronic deficits in its budgeting and fiscal policy and which continues them for long is creating the atmosphere and the environment in which inflation will run riot and which will take several years to correct. Only today I read an article by Professor Sherfield- perhaps it was taken from a speech he had made- in which he was critical of the Labor Government. He pointed out the great need to ensure that over the course of the next 3 years the government of the day- it is probable that a Liberal-Countrty Party Government will have to accept this responsibility- must move to a balanced Budget. A deficit of the kind we have at present and the extravagant expenditure of money that is going on at present pose a task that I believe only the Liberal and Country Parties can handle because they alone are capable of producing the kind of Budget I have mentioned. They alone are disciplined enough to ensure that once a decision has been made, the policies will be put into effect. Unless, of course, there are differences that are really substantial a LiberalCountry Party government would ensure the kind of action is taken that would result in movement along the lines recommended by Professor Sherfield. Unless we can get a commonsense and rational approach to the Budget there is no doubt that inflation will remain the area in which our greatest source of concern will arise. 
I turn now to the second important problem facing us, that is, the monetary policy of the government in this country. Whenever there is a growth in money supply of the kind we are having, there is necessarily a sowing of the seeds of inflation. The Labor Government has made an enormous mess of the overall fiscal and monetary management of this country. I do not entirely blame it because I think- this is one of the subjects about which I feel very deeply- that neither the Treasury nor the Reserve Bank has been able to present to the Houses of the Parliament, to the Government and to the people of this country consistently worked out policies relating to the money supply and an explanation of what they mean- or, if you like, the impact of change in M 1 or M3 according to the definitions they have. 
There is a pretty good rule that one should not increase the money supply by more than the growth in the gross national product in real terms with some additional amount relating to potential inflationary forces. Nor should we reduce the money supply below the established base. But what have we found in this respect? We have again seen the misapplication of policies. We have seen one step taken backwards, 2 steps taken forwards and several steps taken all over the place until no one quite knows where the Government is going. We struck the extraordinary position in the September quarter of last year- according to the M3 definition, which takes into account savings bank deposits- that there was a fall in the money base of something of the order of 8 per cent in seasonally adjusted terms. I do not know of any other country that has made a blunder of this kind in the application of general principles relating to the money supply. But the Government was not satisfied with that. It changed direction and went on a spending binge or a spending spree. It had to remove most of the influences that control the money base. We found in December that the money base had increased by something like 22 percent. 
That is the very environment in which a growth in inflationary pressures will flourish. It is the very environment in which the trade unions, which have been a little but only a little reserved in recent days, will see the opportunity to push further their wage claims. They will take no notice of the requests of the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  or the Prime Minister to show caution and restraint and not to put in exaggerated wage claims in excess of the capacity of the community to pay. We now know that their idea relating to indexation has been an abysmal failure because the trade unions will not play the game, as has been made clear by the new general secretary of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union today, and as well by various other union officials. 
What puzzles me in regard to the money supply- it may be because of its present attachment to interest rate policy- is that yesterday the Reserve Bank was actually in the market buying back bonds and pumping more money into circulation, which is quite contrary to what you would do if you felt that there must be some restraint, some change of policy relating to excess money supply. The means of controlling money supply must cover the whole waterfront, not only by means of statutory reserve deposits, new and increased advances but also government expenditure. You must also keep a careful watch over what is happening in the international markets, . the inflow or outflow of money and the build-up  or fall in our overseas reserves. 
I now turn to what I regard as the paramount problem that faces Australia. I think that Professor Sherfield would agree with the policies of my party. Inflation now is running at a rate of 16 per cent, and it is highly improbable that it will remain at that figure for very long, particularly as the Government is adopting policies which, although they might have some influence on unemployment for the time being, must have a serious impact on inflation as the days flow into months and as the months flow into years. According to the most recent figures that have been made available to us there has been an increase to $ 1 54 in average male weekly earnings. That is an increase of 28 per cent compared with the figure for this time last year. By now it ought to be more than clear that if there is an increase in average weekly earnings very much in excess of productivity, making some allowance for inflationary pressures, then necessarily there is an inbuilt cost increase which in time will reflect itself in prices, although to a greater degree. 
When one looks at the figures one realises that there has been a 28 per cent increase in average male weekly earnings but that the increase in productivity so far this year has been nil. Therefore, one must open up one's mind to the idea that instead of the inflation rate remaining at 16.1 per cent, in all probability it will rise to more than 20 per cent, to 25 per cent or even higher. In order to support that argument I mention to the House one of the other great dangers that we face. In the past year labour costs per unit of production have risen by 35 per cent but non-food consumer production has risen by only 19 per cent. From this cause alone one will find that inevitably there will be another inbuilt pressure stimulating inflation. I think it is generally agreed that with inflation running at the rate to which I have referred there can be no doubt that it will have an unfortunate impact on our production and also on the growth of our unemployment. There will be a failure of employment itself to grow. We all know that employment as such fell substantially in December to an extent that I cannot remember happening previously. 
Now I turn to the question of confidence. You cannot get confidence in a community- confidence is one of the basic ingredients of successwhen there is a government that does not know where it is going and is not capable of developing a consistent, comprehensive and predictable economic policy. This leaves the business world in a state of uncertainty and indecision about what it should do. The fact that the business community lacks confidence is clearly shown in the statistics which were issued today. There might have been a very small rise in retail sales, although that is dubious, but when you look at the failure that has occurred in private capital investment and at the fall that has occurred in building commencements- probably a small fall in private housing construction, but a fall of 30 per cent in government construction- you are driven relentlessly and remorselessly to the conclusion that we are not over our problems, and we never will get over our problems while the Labor Party is in government. 
I conclude by referring to 2 statements that were made by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  Firstly, he referred to the problem of unemployment. When we went out of office the recorded unemployment figure was 88 000 for October, and we were still worried. It had taken us a long time to get the unemployment figures for October down to that level. Now we find an unemployment level of 320 000 and the honourable member for Gellibrand does not express any great dissatisfaction about that figure- none at all. Yet he stood in this chamber and said: 'We have to make international comparisons'. I do not believe that we have to make international comparisons. We have escaped the fury of the oil crisis. We are a country that can largely live unto ourselves.There is no other country in a better position economically and socially to insulate itself from the effects of overseas influences. We can take action domestically and within our own power to ensure that we, more than any other country, with the possible exception of Germany- it seems to be able to perform miracles- are able to ensure that our own people are not unemployed and do not have their standard of living consistently eroded. 
Secondly, the honourable member for Gellibrand referred to the question of inflation. Of course it is high time to say that we had a few ups and downs between 1969 and 1972, but the policy actions that we took clearly indicated that we knew how to manage the economy. If one looks at the inflationary figures based on the consumer price index one sees that we had inflation down to 4.5 per cent or 4.6 per cent. If one looks at the implicit price deflator in connection with the national income statements, one sees that we had inflation down to 2.2 per cent. We showed that we could do the job. We showed that we were able to provide the effective type of government that is so desperately needed in this country today. I believe that if we were in government we would most certainly have ensured that unemployment was down to a reasonable level and that inflation was under control. I believe that if the Government were to take some noticealready it has taken a great deal of notice of what we have said- of a few of the things that I have said today, for example, about budgetary control, the credit squeeze and the necessity to give pretty substantial and long term incentives to the manufacturing, producing and commercial interests in Australia, the country would do well. I hope that the Government will be able to do what I have suggested; I fear it will not. The Government has made too big a mess of this matter to think that it could ever justify itself in the eyes of the Australian people again. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and relates to a question he has just answered- I say incorrectly answered. Will the Prime Minister confirm that the proper ways in which the problems of Vietnam as a whole and of Cambodia and Laos should have been handled were, firstly, under the Geneva Protocols and, secondly, in accordance with the Paris Accords which both relate to these problems. In the light of these facts does the Prime Minister think it would have been totally inappropriate to go to the United Nations, a view taken by most countries which were intimately involved in attempting a peaceful solution of the Vietnam problems? Does he realise that if these problems had gone to the United Nations there would have been obstruction not from the Australian Government of 1972 and preceding years but from the Soviet Union? 
-Like the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who has just spoken, I want to express my complete disgust with the way in which this Bill has been processed through the House. I do not believe that by an Act of Parliament one can carry out basic reforms relating to individual attitudes or reforms of a moral or sociological nature. That can be done only if the population is educated to recognise that all people are born equal and that all people should have equal opportunities to be treated in exactly the same way. I do not think that the Government can do anything but create greater difficulties than those attempting to be cured by introducing a Bill of this kind. I would have spoken on this matter at greater length and with greater emotion than I am doing at the moment if I had had the opportunity to speak to the motion for the second reading of the Bill, but I was not able to do so. 
I have looked through the Bill itself and found that there are so many clauses of it that are distasteful to me and that would be distasteful to anyone who believes in a democratic system of government that I must express to the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  my displeasure with it and my disbelief that a man who parades as one who likes a democratic system of government and who believes in people themselves would want to introduce a measure of this kind. I will do all I can in the ensuing days to speak about the principles of the Bill whenever I get an opportunity to do so. I have in front of me a list of objections that I have to particular clauses of the Bill, but I cannot deal with them seriatum or in any great detail here today. But I do think that it is proper that in the debate on the motion for the third reading of the Bill I should, in a very generalised way, express my displeasure with this Bill and my view that anyone who believes in democracy ought to be ashamed of introducing this Bill in this House. 
I would not have come into the House and spoken on the National Gallery Bill except that I heard the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  refute some statements made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  this morning. The Prime Minister's statements were totally and completely inaccurate. I appointed the Director of the National Gallery,  Mr James  Mollison. I had several people to choose from and I chose him. I asked  Mr Sweeney  to come out from the United States to talk over the matter with me. He agreed that the most appropriate appointment was  Mr Mollison  and he said that he would be prepared to give  Mr Mollison  assistance whenever it was necessary. I, with  Mr Hunt,  and I believe, with  Mr Howson,  approved all of the plans for the construction, for the architectural developments and the estimates which were to be made. Approval was given to those estimates for the National Art Gallery. This is all set out in the records of this House, in Hansard and, if we care to look, in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 17 August which reports: 
Gallery tenders 'before Christmas'. Tenders for the Australian National Gallery in Canberra are expected to be called before Christmas. 
They were, and we approved the finance. There was an initial appropriation of something like $ 11.3m. Those are the facts. I regret that the Prime Minister always wants to get the credit for what has been done by other governments and not by himself. It is deplorable. It is a disgraceful performance. I set the record straight. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-The Labor Government's printing presses continue to turn out its spurious dollar bills at an increasingly headlong pace, careless of the impact on national economic management, careless of its effect on the taxpayers of this country, careless of its inflationary effects and careless of its effect on employment, industrial relations, business efficiency- even business survival- and on confidence. In many cases it does so with a degree of gloating because private enterprise and business is getting a bashing, profits are falling and management, particularly of small and medium sized businesses, cannot take the risk of investing in expansion projects. The April round-up of economic statistics indicates that private gross capital expenditure fell by 7.7 per cent in the December quarter. The fall over the year was 13 per cent or a little more. 
We are now considering, amongst others, Supply Bill (No. 1) and Supply Bill (No. 2) which the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  told us, almost with indifference bordering on licentiousness, seek approval for interim appropriations for 5 months from 1 July 1975-$2,692m for the ordinary annual services of government and $ 1,082m for capital works and services and payments to or for the States. I want to concentrate on them. That is all we seem to be told about what the Bills contain and what they are supposed to do. We are lucky to get that amount of information- a few desultory comments about which departments are to spend the money, and absolutely no more. There is not one word about the impact of these vast increases on the destruction of the value of the Australian dollar, its effect on the cost structure of Australian industry and commerce or its effect through inflation on unemployment or on the money supply. 
There can be no doubt in anyone's mind that the growth in the money supply under the Australian Labor Party Government is one of the three major smothering influences on the sources or causes of our national economic growth and development, inflation and unemployment, business bankruptcies, the loss of confidence by the business community and the general disenchantment with Labor's policies and actions. 
Before analysing these two huge amounts totalling $3774m for 1975-76 let me say something about Government deficits- that is, the deficiency between Government revenues and taxation, and expenditure. There are three main causes of the changes in the money supply: The rise or fall in our overseas money balances and international credits, the extent to which the trading banks create money, and Government deficits or surpluses in taxation receipts and expenditure such as those covered by the 2 Bills we are now debating. Neither the rises nor falls of our overseas balances or trading bank lending are significant today. It is the Government's operations through deficit financing in Supply Bills Nos. 1 and 2 that are significant. 
The Treasurer wanted us to believe that the present deficit in our money accounts this year is now $3,300m and that by the end of this financial year, because of taxation payments from now on, we will have a total deficit of about $2,300m. 
I do not know any person of authority with a glimmering of responsibility and honesty who argues that this level is tolerable for long. It must inevitably be damaging and within the next financial year, 1975-76, must cause worse inflation and higher unemployment. It must hurt all of us except the quick of mind, the money brokers and the other odds and ends in the nonproductive section of the community. 
In the Supply Bills introduced in 1974 to cover the first 5 months of 1974-75 it was estimated that the equivalent deficits for the first 5 months of that financial year would be $ 1,804m for ordinary expenses and $535m for capital expenditure, making a total of $2,339m. Next year, as I have said, for the same 5 months of 1975-76 they are estimated to be $2,692m for ordinary expenditurean increase of 50 per cent or $888m- and $ 1,082m for capital expenditure- an increase of about 1 1 1 per cent or $547m. This will not help John Citizen, his wife and family. It will not help the small entrepreneur or businessman. It will not help the saver who invests in government bonds, life assurance or superannuation or who invests in our development. It will hurt all of them. That is saying enough. Maybe, as some commentators suggest, we will be able to put up with the sort of deficit I first mentioned for one year, with difficulty. No one suggests that even we in this incredibly lucky country can succeed twice. No other country ever has. Yet the Treasurer obviously thinks we can. 
Even taking  Dr Jim's  prescription of a deficiency of 2300 gallons of counterfeit dollars this year we can expect a deficit of at least 55 per cent to 60 per cent greater next year. That is a deficit of about $3,500m to $3,600m in 1975-76 as a whole. What else can we say about these Bills other than that they have been presented in a haphazard and slovenly way? I think that there are more than two conflicting theories in the Government about the effects of rises or falls in the money supply. Let us analyse the details of the Bills a bit more carefully in order to ascertain their effect and incidence. First of all, let us take the inevitable consequence of the vast increases in the money supply for this financial year and next. It is inevitable that large increases in the money supply not balanced by increased production or productivity or improved standards of service must increase inflationary pressures because in these circumstances the increased amount of money, except to the extent that it is saved, must push up the cost of goods and their prices in the market place. It is the old adage come true of too much money chasing too few goods, together equalling more inflation and unemployment. 
Let us go a bit deeper with the analysis. If one looks at the details of Supply Bill (No. 1 ) one will see that amounts spent by the Labor Government will be mainly for increased payments for salaries and administrative expenses. Very little, if any, is directed towards increasing production or productivity. It is a net addition to spending potential without equivalent production or productivity. It must be inflationary. Supply Bill (No. 2) provides $ 1,082m for capital worksthat is, for buildings and equipment. Except for such matters as buildings for educational purposes it is largely for Government purposes. A great deal of it is for the growing bureaucracy and the non-productive section of the community. This also is inflationary. Under these circumstances increased inflation is not so much a possibility as a certainty. Inflation of massive proportions must lead to substantially increased unemployment and business failures. 
The money supply should increase at about the same rate as gross national product in real terms plus a partial allowance for inflation. A 10 per cent per annum increase in the money supply is as far as we should go unless there are exceptional circumstances and the economy is slow in reacting to budget and monetary stimuli, as happened in late 1971 and early 1972. Increases of as high as 10 per cent should be temporary. I should also point out that the circumstances of 1974 and 1975 are totally different from what we have ever known before. 
The Treasurer argued in one breath on Tuesday that the growth in the money supply in 1 972, when we were in Government, was the cause of the level of unemployment at 27 1 000 2 years later. In the next gasp he said that Labor continued increasing the money supply throughout the July quarter of 1973, after we went out of Government, with an increase of 27 per cent, in the September quarter with an increase of 23 per cent, in the December quarter with an increase of 12 per cent, in the March 1974 quarter with an increase of 12 per cent, and in the June quarter with an increase of 9 per cent. There were 18 months of excesses since we were in Government and when the economy was healthy and growing at a rapid rate, and the so-called Treasurer of this country still wants to blame someone else. Come off it, Jim. The public are not so gullible. Stop being infatuated with your own propaganda and come up with the truth and the right explanation of causes and cures. Unless you do this, unless it is done, you will make the future even worse than it will inevitably be with your present policies. 
Let us get to the truth. Labor inherited a prosperous and fully employed economy on 2 December 1972. The facts are clear and indisputable: In December 1972 national growth was good, inflation was down to 4.6 per cent and trending lower, unemployment was low in seasonal terms and getting progressively better, and the economy was healthy. The Treasury Round-up of Economic Statisitics for the December 1972 quarter showed: 'The available indicators point to strengthening in demand in major areas of demand in the economy over recent months. ' 
The March 1973 quarter was the time for restraint, but not before. But what happened? As Treasury Bulletin No. 69 of 1 973 pointed out, the economy became swamped with money early in 1973. Labor Government expenditure ran riot under the blurred vision of  Mr Crean  and his desire to divert resources from the private to the public sector on a major scale. Business bashing became the order of the day. As early as January 1973 the Treasury Bulletin, commenting on Labor extravagance, stated: 
As stated earlier, the net result of these revisions (of Labor policy) is that the 1972-73 Budget is estimated to result in an overall deficit of $958m or $328m above the estimate in the Budget ofl972-73. 
That was the beginning and was the first cause of our present predicament. Labor has continued its policy of deficit financing, with one break, and will continue it under these two Bills. The Treasurer's arguments are based on a falsification of known facts.  His  Government's actions are the reasons for our present problems, and he is incapable of solving them because of the idiosyncracies of the Labor Party Cabinet and Caucus. Labor must take the blame. The Treasurer's credibility has been tested.  His  integrity on economic and financial matters is under scrutiny and, on the evidence to date, he has been found to be wanting. Incidentally, he forgot the truth when he said on Tuesday that no action was taken by the McMahon Government in 1972 to regulate overseas capital inflow. In fact, action was taken in 1972 to impose the 2- years-and-a-day rule to exclude short term borrowing overseas and preparatory action had been taken to impose a special variable deposit of 25 per cent on overseas borrowings- a policy, by the way, adopted by the Labor Party. I personally brought down a foreign takeovers Bill to control the activities of foreign corporations with ambitions to expand here. 
As I have said,  Dr Jim,  who wants to be liked by everyone, is on the same track as his predecessor, the unfortunate  Mr Crean.  Those of us who carefully watched the disgusted, even anguished expression on the face of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on Tuesday when  Dr Cairns  answered a question put by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  relating to the money supply, sensed that  Dr Jim  is following the same road to the political slaughterhouse as Messrs Crean and Murphy and my good friend  Mr Cope. 
Let us put the problem in a wider national context. The Government has not developed an effective, coherent and comprehensive fiscal monetary and wages policy in order to overcome our present dilemmas, let alone the inevitable worsening trends towards depression after the March quarter of 1975-76. But it can be said of the Prime Minister and some of his special advisers that they are thinking about the three other major related economic and industrial problems. We must try to find answers to them, along with controlling the money supply. The first problem is wages.  Dr Jim  admits- for once agreeing with the Prime Minister, Frank Crean and two of the gurus on the Prime Minister's staff, Brian Brogan and Professor Gruen- that one of our most difficult problems and one of the primary causes of inflation and unemployment is that, to quote him, 'throughout 1973 and 1974 wage rates increased at a much faster rate than the cost of living'. He went on: 
Wage and salary earners do not need wage increases in 1975 to catch up with increases in the cost of living that occurred in 1973-74. 
I add that wages rose by 26 per cent and prices by 16 per cent in the last year. In other words, inflationary expectations and the flow on of those expectations into the wage system actually resulted in a 10 per cent greater wage increase than the actual inflationary figure justified; and that was at a time when we had no increase in productivity and probably a negative production rate. Now, what does all this mean in dollars and cents? The authoritative 'Syntec' suggests: 
It is in this period, moving well into 1 976, that the fruits of what does or does not happen in wages in the months immediately ahead will finally be full blown and harvested. If a continued 'double counting' process does emerge out of Australia's 'autumn wage offensive ', then 1976 is going to be the opening for a period of disaster for the private sector of this economy- worse than anything we have come through yet. 
If we continue to get double counting in wages, inflation will go above 30 per cent and the structure of capital markets in this country- indeed the market place generally- will change fundamentally. Capital raising will have to be on an indexed basis: Share values, bond values, fixed-interest debenture values will collapse. 
That is of course a real probability. It is critically important, therefore, that the Arbitration Commission should recognise the existing gap between wage and price increases and should remember the words of  Dr Cairns,  just quoted, when it makes its 1975 wage decision in the next few weeks. 
The second problem is the desperate need for changes in the taxation laws to provide and permit increased depreciation allowances to enable new purchases of capital plant and equipment to take place out of earned money flows at replacement costs and not historical costs; and a tax system to permit replacement of stock at the then market value out of untaxed retained profits in order to assimilate the increases in prices between opening and closing stocks and replacement stocks. Both of these courses are obviously favoured by the Prime Minister, and I hope that the Matthews Committee will submit shortly an interim report in order to permit the necessary taxation changes to take place in the next Budget, not so much as a stimulus to production and investment but as an essential ingredient in business survival and in reductions of unemployment. 
Finally, in this context of overall Government economic and industrial policy, we must face sooner or later the problem that is critically important to the survival of representative government. This is the growing authoritarian attitude of some socialist left and autocratic trade unions and the resort to violence and strikes to achieve their industrial purposes. At the time of the Tolpuddle prosecutions and the Taff Vale disorders there was good reason to take legislative action to strengthen the trade union movement against the oppression and exploitation of labour by management and the law. But that's more than a century ago. You can't live on past memories, attitudes, and hang ups and with all the propaganda associated with environmental and industrial conditions that have long ceased to exist. Power then resided with the employers and management and it was ruthlessly used. The world has changed; and men are now much more equal. I do not believe that the average trade unionist wants this malaise to continue. After all, trade unionists are the same as most of us in this House. They want a fair go; they want decent pay; they want decent working conditions; they want a prosperous Australia, able to play its pan in world affairs and able to defend itself. I hope that we Liberals and our coalition partners, as soon as we return to the Treasury Benches, will make it our first concern to ensure democratic control through the Arbitration Commission and the Commonwealth Electoral Office of all trade union elections and major administrative decisions before strikes occur or serious restrictive action is taken against the national interest. This would be the first step to genuinely assimilate the trade unions into the mainstream of Australian political, economic, social and industrial life. It may be ambitious but at least it is a worthwhile objective and, to use the phrase of the late  Mr Chifley,  a revered Prime Minister of this country, it is 'worth while fighting for'. 
I am one of those people who believes that, as we have, under section 10 1 of the Australian Constitution, an actual responsibility to establish an InterState Commission with some or all of the powers that are mentioned in sections 101 and 51 (i) of the Constitution. A Bill of this sort ought to be brought down, provided I am convinced that there is solid ground on which any commission that is established can in fact ensure efficiency in our transport system and in our trade and commerce within the States and overseas. There we have the constitutional provisions. 
I refer to Quick and Garran. I believe that initially when the Constitution was agreed to it was thought that when such powers of adjudication and administration were given they were judicial powers. If one looks at the 'Oxford English Dictionary' one sees that 'adjudication' has that meaning; it is to award judicially or to decide judicially. As complementary to this, when a person such as myself looks at section 5 1 (i) of the 
Constitution, which states that the Commonwealth shall have power with regard to trade and commerce with other countries and among the States, I see the overall perspective in which we have to look at this legislation. Then I have to ask myself whether or not such a Bill is necessary. 
One must remember that very nearly $5,000m last year was expended in capital and current expenditure for the transport industries of this country, let alone all the other ramifications relating to trade and commerce. Again, therefore, I have a predisposition to say that in a country with 6 States where, from the very beginning, there have been inefficiencies and a strange disposition to want to be different, even though it might cause costs to rise and transport and other facilities between the States to be obstructed in some way, there should be an interstate commission to ensure justice and reason. I also believe that the Bill is thoroughly consistent with the idea of federalism and a Commonwealth system of government. If one looks at Quick and Garran and reads that part of the 'Law of the Constitution' which relates to this clause, one sees that every State wanted an interstate commission. It was  Mr Kingston,  from one of the States, who moved the relevant part of this clause and ensured that the words 'shall' and ' goods ' came into it. 
But the reason why I come to a different conclusion than the Constitution justifies as to the passage of this Government's Bill is that I do not believe enough thought has been given to clauses 3 and 1 3 and the definition of the word 'goods '. I do not believe that enough consideration has been given to the whole Bill. In the case like this, where a word like 'goods' is being defined- and for a long time it is difficult to find out in the Bill itself just where the word 'goods' in fact is used other than in the definition clause of interstate transport and clause 12- one knows it has been trumped up in order to divert power surreptitiously from the States to the Commonwealth Government if it can be done within the terms of sections 101 and 51 (i) of the Constitution. We do not want this kind of deception. 
The Government has not consulted with the States and it has not consulted thoroughly with the business interests involved who have to run the transport industries unless, of course, those are to be taken over by a socialised government. I do not know if the Labor Party thinks that, but it should come out openly and honestly and state what its objectives are. But from my point of view, as I think there are acts of deceit involved here, the proposed powers are far too wide and we have not had the opportunity to research the matter in detail. So I have to reject, or do all I can to reject, the definition in clause 3(1) relating to goods. I shall also want to take similar action with regard to clause 13 and other clauses of both Parts III and IV relating to investigations and commissions. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, twice. The first misrepresentation occurred in a statement made in this House last night relating to the agreement made in 1 972 between the then Government and Ansett Airlines of Australia. The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  alleged that I was being very kind to  Sir Reginald  Ansett who he said was a friend of mine and also that I was the one who determined the contents of the agreement that was finally concluded between the company and the Government. I say without any feeling of goodwill or without any goodwill at all that  Sir Reginald  is not a friend of mine. I have not spoken to him for many months. I stress that he is a very able man. He is a man of whom the community should be proud because of the efforts he made to keep a competitive airline system in existence when the British interests and the Holyman interests decided to go out of Australia. It was the then government, the Menzies Government, which persuaded him to stay - 
-No, I am not. 
I am giving the answer as to why  Sir Reginald  came into the airline industry. 
The honourable member for Kingston said that I requested and insisted that the agreement contain certain clauses which I wanted incorporated. I had nothing whatever to do with the actual completion of that agreement. It was done by the Ministers for Civil Aviation although I had one meeting with  Sir Reginald  who asked me to ensure that certain provisions went into the Bill. I passed this request on to the Minister for Civil Aviation and it was agreed to by the Australian National Airlines Commission. 
The other matter relates to a statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  this morning. He said that my Government had obstructed the reference of the Vietnam conflict to the United Nations. The truth of the matter is set out in Hansard of 8 April 1975 where I asked the Prime Minister whether the proper forum for this matter to be debated and finalised, if practicable, was under the Geneva Agreement of 1954 or the Paris Accords of 1973. The Prime Minister gave this answer: 
I agree completely with the right honourable gentleman that there should have been action within the context of the Geneva Agreement of 1 954 and the Paris Accords of 1 973. 
That explains my position, which is well known to the Prime Minister. He agreed with what I had said, that there was no obstruction from my Government. 
-Naturally enough, with some legal qualifications, but with not a great deal of qualification in the law, I have long been interested in the Constitution and, amongst other things, in section 44. 1 believe that when every person enters the Parliament he should be advised of that section and should be clearly informed of the disqualifications on his membership should he unfortunately, without knowledge or without real intent, commit a breach of the Constitution. I think that section 44 (v) establishes a necessary degree of integrity in connection with dealings with the Crown that is far above the level of commercial ethics required in any ordinary business transaction. I believe that members of Parliament should observe the highest standards, whether they hold an office of profit under the Crown, receive any pension payable other than as mentioned in the concluding placitum of section 44, or have any direct or indirect pecuniary interest in an agreement with the Public Service of the Commonwealth. I agree with that and I have no doubts about it whatever. I want to make it clear immediately that in the case that has precipitated the action now being taken by the Government it is absolutely clear beyond doubt that the senator involved has not committed a breach of the ethical standards of trade or commerce and, in any other circumstances, would not be subject to any penalty - 
-I will go no further than that. What I believe should then happen in a case such as this is that the moment there is any suspicion and the House feels that that suspicion is probably justified, even though it is not convinced on the evidence, the matter ought to go to the High Court for decision and ought to be left there until the High Court has made its decision and appropriate action has been taken on it. I do not believe that anything should be done that could compromise the position of the High Court or create any suspicion that the Parliament itself has doubts about the matter until the High Court itself- the highest court, the highest judiciary, in the land- has had an opportunity to express its views. 
I then turn to section 46 of the Constitution which states that until the Parliament otherwise provides, any person declared by the Constitution to be incapable of sitting as a senator or as a member of the House of Representatives shall, for every day on which he so sits, be liable to a certain penalty. I would not have touched that matter until the High Court had made its decision. To bring down a Bill such as this, which has the very odious title of the Common Informers (Parliamentary Disqualifications) Bill and which immediately creates doubts about a man who is likely to appear before the High Court so that it can determine whether he is disqualified from being a member of Parliament- I say this honestly and with very deep feelings- I believe is improper and is against the interest of the person involved, I would not have been agreeable to its being introduced. 
I go just one stage further and say that I do not believe in the payment of any sum to a common informer. I believe that anyone who is a common informer can hardly be an appropriate type of person to be favoured by any legislation of the Parliament. If there is any evidence at all of a breach of the Constitution or of something that the Constitution forbids then, by all means, I believe it can be referred to the Senate or to the House of Representatives. Those Houses, in their wisdom are capable of understanding the matter and of looking at whether there is a prima facie case. If they believe that there is a prima facie case the matter can go to the Court of Disputed Returns, which is the High Court. 
Having come in to this matter at a late stagebefore I walked into the House I did not know that the Bill had been put down- I ask the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  whether he remembers the case relating to the first Commonwealth meat board- that was not its name. The question was raised in this House whether 2 members of this House who were given an opportunity to sign cheques for subsidies given under that meat Act had committed a breach of section 44 (v.) of the Commonwealth Constitution. The House, in its wisdom, decided the question. The case was argued for the Australian Labor Party by a  Mr West  who was then the honourable member for East Sydney- a somewhat peculiar association. I am sorry that I have no notes on this matter. I am relying on my memory. At that time  Sir Littleton  Groom was the Attorney-General. Everyone who wishes to suggest what ought to be done and what procedures ought to be followed should look at the comments made by  Sir Littleton  Groom when he held that no prima facie case was established in relation to the idea that those 2 men had committed a breach. Subsequently, in the first speech that he made from the other side of the House, one of the greatest lawyers of all time,  Sir John  Latham, also spoke against the motion moved by  Mr West  from East Sydney. I like to remember that because it brings a sense of ridicule into the whole matter which is now before the House. 
It was then decided that a prima facie case had to be made out. No prima facie case was made out. Consequently the matter did not go to the jurisdiction of the High Court. I am prepared to say that we should do nothing in the interim period, because I do not believe that the gentleman involved has committed any grievous offence; he has committed only a constitutional offence. I believe we would find in a case like this that the High Court- particularly the Chief Justicewould be anxious to have the matter heard. I would not be surprised if, in the course of making a decision in this case, certain obiter dicta were made by the Chief Justice or by other members of the High Court which would give to present members of this House and to future members of this House some guidance as to what they should do. But I would not do anything now. I would not give any assistance to a common informer or whatever name we care to give him. I would subsequently- only after the decision has been given- try to establish some sort of an inquiry. It should not be a judicial inquiry because this is not a judicial matter. In all these cases this question has to be decided by the High Court. Nothing that we, or any administrative body, or a member of the judiciary might decide can affect the case going to the High Court if one or other of the Houses in its wisdom decides that the case should go to the High Court. 
I believe that we should be getting some guidance. Every member of Parliament should have some guidance as to what he can or cannot do in order to prevent an infringement of section 44 of the Constitution. I know I have the good fortune to be a lawyer. But how many other honourable members in the House would have known what this legislation was about or would even have heard of it? Therefore, to have a man punished, and to have this sort of odium created at the same time, I think is wretched. I could not approve of the Bill. I could not vote with my Party if it supported the Bill. I would have to abstain from voting if the matter were pushed to a vote in this House. 
It might be remembered by honourable members that during the debate on the second reading I gave good reasons why I believed that it would not be proper or appropriate, and was certainly contrary to the best interests of the Australian people and of Australian industry, that we should not establish an Australian Government insurance office. It did not matter what its name might be. Even if the Government gives it the grandiose title of 'Australian Government Insurance Corporation' it will not help me to change my mind about the establishment of such an office. In fact, it makes me more determined than ever to give good reasons why this office should not be established. 
During my speech on the second reading I pointed out some of the reasons.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  you were in the Chair at the time and were good enough to show a little generosity in delaying the suspension of the sitting for dinner. After the House resumed I did not speak for the minute and a half that I might have done, but I thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  for your generosity. Nonetheless, I gave good reasons why I felt the office should not be established. First of all, the people do not want it. That reason on its own ought to be - 
Oh, look, please son; I have been generous with you. I do not want you to sound like you look. 
This Act shall come into operation on a date to be fixed by Proclamation. 
I submit that the matters being canvassed by the right honourable member for Lowe were matters for debate on the second reading and they are not pertinent to this clause. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! I uphold the point of order to the extent that the debate is limited to the date to be fixed by Proclamation or matters pertaining thereto. The right honourable member for Lowe is straying from that clause slightly. I realise I have been very tolerant 
Frankly, I never liked disagreeing with either the Chairmen or, for that matter, the  Speaker  of the House. I do not believe that you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  have been properly advised on this matter. I will adhere to your ruling if you insist on it. A Bill of this sort should not be introduced at any time- whether immediately or at a time to be prescribed by regulation. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- You would be in order on that basis. 
-There are 5 reasons why this Bill should not be agreed to. I believe that the Australian people support those views in every single respect. For that reason, I will vote against the clause. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 3 to 7-by leave- taken together. 
-As one who has been interested in the whole business of insurance- both general insurance and life insurance- for most of the time I have been in political life, I would like to make some fairly strong comments about the Bill now before the House. I first ask: 'Is there a need for a Bill of this kind- a Bill to establish an Australian Government Insurance Corporation?' I mention to the House that there are 45 life assurance companies in Australia and probably a few more than 260 general insurance companies. I have long taken the view, which I shall elaborate on in a few moments, that it seemed to me that 260 general insurance companies was far too many for this country, but the Treasury did not agree with me. 
Let us look at this problem from several points of view. One aspect relates to the degree of Australian ownership and control, or foreign ownership and control of these 2 sections of the industry. I take the more important of them, life assurance. As ought to be known by honourable members there are 5 major life assurance offices, or  4Vi  if one likes to put it that way. Australian life offices have control of 72 per cent of the assets. One of the offices is partially controlled with Australian assets of 8 per cent, and the other 4 are mutually controlled. This brings total Australian ownership and control to 80 per cent. No one can complain on that ground that anything ought to be done about life assurance offices. Let us look at general insurance. Australian ownership is 55 per cent and direct foreign ownership is 41.4 per cent or 45.7 per cent of both direct and indirect ownership. No one can say that this means there is a monopoly of ownership and control by foreign corporations in this area of activities. In other words, with regard to this aspect of foreign ownership and control there is no ground for bringing down this Bill. 
Let us look at another matter on which there has been more confusion than I could ever have believed possible in a House as well informed as this one normally is. Let us look at where the insurance gaps are. With regard to the problem of national disasters where it is alleged there is a gap, I believe there is an answer which everyone ought to know about. I well remember- I hope there arc one or two honourable members from Tasmania in the chamber who will remember also- bringing down a Bill in this House on 20 April 1967, in which we took a totally different approach to damage on a national scale caused by fire to that taken before. It was a totally different approach before. It related to the problem that occurred when there was a devastating fire in Tasmania. The Liberal-Country Party Government at that time passed a Bill appropriating $ 14.5m- very nearly the whole of the cost of the damage that was caused. 
I also well remember making a speech in this House on 27 November 1968 in which I said that the Government at that time had decided to take a totally different approach to the damage caused by natural disasters. I said: 
From a minimum amount the Government has now provided substantial sums in order to permit the States to get on with the job of combating national disasters. In the last 3 years we have supplied about $70m . . . 
I went on to say- I believe this to be tremendously important: 
We have no fixed rules to determine the way in which we will give assistance. 
I believe that was the right approach because the geographical spread of Australia is so great, the climatic conditions can be so different and the circumstances in which a disaster occurs and the amount of the damage can be so different. 
Therefore at that time we decided that it would be far better to handle this matter not through funding but on prescribed rule through direct government subventions tailored to meet the specific need in order to take the main burden of the responsibilities off the people and the corporations involved. I then said:  . A new approach permeates the thinking of the Commonwealth today. It must be obvious to the House that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has taken a personal interest in fire relief in New South Wales. 
I then discussed the question of organisational problems and came down more heavily in favour of handling the matter on the basis that one should know the facts and then decide policy on each specific set of facts. 
I give an illustration of some of the foolish arguments that have been put to us about whether or not there has been any failure by the private companies in regard to natural disasters. We are told that damage in the Darwin disaster amounted to $500m, of which $270m would be taken up by the private insurance organisations. I know that supporters of the Labor Party could say: 'Ah, why has not the other $230m been covered?' A simple reason is that government property was involved and the Government likes to look after this property itself. It does not want the private insurance companies to take from it the money that would be paid in premiums. That is the complete explanation in respect of Darwin. 
Honourable members opposite talked of what happened in Brisbane. Anyone who knows anything about the general insurance business knows that there were flood prone areas in Brisbane which could not be covered by normal insurance unless high premiums were paid. I believe that the Government again could have easily stepped in in an area like this. I understand that even today local councils in these flood prone areas are not prepared to take appropriate action to prevent or discourage building in flood prone areas. 
I move to another area in which the Government believes that something should be done, namely, the insurance of livestock and crops. I must admit immediately that I have an indirect personal interest here. I can get insurance but the regrettable fact is that one must pay a lot for it. If the Government likes to introduce a subsidy scheme for insurance of livestock and crops- and bless its heart and soul if it does- let it do so. 
I believe that the national interest insurance should be handled in the way that we handled it with tremendous success; so much so that at the end of 1972 and for the previous couple of years we did not hear very much about who would pay for fire, flood, storm and other acts of God. It was known that the Liberal-Country Party Government would pay and that the responsibility would be taken off the shoulders of other people. 
That was not an act of God; it was an act of the devil. Let us now consider the enormously important question of losses made by insurance companies. It is true that one or two small insurance corporations have gone bung. But let us have a look at the losses that have been made by the State government insurance offices in the last couple of years. Someone in his wisdom today got in touch with me and asked whether I had the latest figures concerning those losses. I was not certain whether he was a friend or foe but I took him at word value. He gave me figures for the losses made by the Government insurance offices for the last year. The Government Insurance Office in New South Wales lost $29m. In Victoria the loss was $10m on workers compensation and motor vehicle insurance alone, In the case of Queensland- and this is understandable because of exceptional circumstances - 
Oh, do keep quiet and be a good boy. Queensland lost $25. 3m. As I said, this loss was due to very exceptional circumstances. If we had been in Government we would have taken the responsibility there as I believe would have any sane, sensible and humanitarian government. Tasmania, as one would expect, had a loss of only $293,000. The third point I raise concerns the continued building up of a massive and powerful bureaucracy in Australia that one day or other will dominate the community. Do not take these words of mine and mine alone. I quote what was said by  Dr Cairns,  the present Treasurer, when he spoke at the International Socialist Conference in Adelaide on either Sunday- it might not be Sunday to him but to those of us of some religious persuasion it was Sunday - 
-Well, it is never on Monday for me, as it is most days of the week.  Dr Cairns  talked about the dangers of a bureaucratic society. Yet, as I shall mention in a few moments, he was the main architect of the so-called 'Terrigal Escapades' or series of escapades relating to the new policy. However, before speaking on that, I refer to the interdepartmental committee that was set up by the Labor Party. Bearing in mind that there will be health insurance and national compensation, the Committee recommended that: 
It would seem advisable for the AGIO - 
Or now the AGIC-  to avoid personal injury and sickness insurance and life insurance until it is clear what gaps are left to be covered by insurance. 
Last gallup polls show that only 17 per cent of the Australian people thought that the establishment of such body as the AIGC was desirable and that only 6 per cent knew that the Government had any intention of entering into the industry. 
If this is not total proof that such a body is not necessary, I do not know what more honourable members opposite can expect. Every intelligent supporter of the Government- there are many intelligent honourable members on the other side- who thinks clearly, sensibly and decently will join us and vote with this side of the House on this matter. 
One has to look for some other reason and what the motivation was behind the support of honourable members opposite for this measure. It is true that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  in his 1974 policy speech stated that his Government would introduce an Australian Government insurance office. But that is not the point. You,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  would know better than I that this matter is contained in a report of the thirty-first meeting of the Australian Labor Party which took place in that entrancing, indulgent fleshpot of Terrigal. A move was made to have item 24, which dealt with national insurance, deleted from the platform. It was successful. This is the item which provided for safeguards when any insurance office was to be established. The item states: 
The establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office actively competing with private companies in all States in the Held of life assurance . . . 
It was decided to emphasise clause 4 to what is now clause 5 which provides: 
With the objective of achieving Labor's objectives, establish or extend public enterprise, where appropriate by nationalism - 
An ism reminiscent of fascism and communism-  particularly in the fields . . . of . . . insurance. 
Who moved that motion? It was no one else but  Dr Jim  Cairns himself, the author of 'The Quiet Revolution' and the man who undoubtedly is pledged to the maximum of his capacity while he is in his present position to socialise Australian industry. 
If we want to know to what purpose the funds to be diverted from the private sector are to be put we have to turn back to what was said by the celebrated Treasurer. I do not want to know the man. He has had to put up with so much criticism because as the scribe said they did not understand what he was saying. Nonetheless, I think I was able to understand when he was asked the question: 'Do you envisage the money that would have to be diverted from  Mr Connor's  projects to go to the minerals authority?' Without any reservations at all the Treasurer replied: 'Yes. It is going to get the priorities'. This is despite the fact that  Mr Hurford,  the  Chairman  of the Economics Committee, said that this was a lot of nonsense and that they ought not to get the money. Those honourable members can argue it out among themselves. All I am doing is pointing out the facts and indicating what the motivation was. 
There is another point I want to speak about here because I think it is so critically important. At this moment in the history of this country the Australian Labor Party is positively acknowledging the point of view that the percentage increase of the gross national product taken by wages is moving from somewhere about 6 1 per cent or 62 per cent to 70 per cent, with profits falling from about 16.5 per cent to, I believe close to 7 per cent. Something must be done to permit funds to be diverted back to the private sector of the economy and away from the public sector of the economy. This would be known by those who have a brain in their head, although I cannot see many honourable members on the other side of the House whom I can put in that category, with the possible exception of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bo wen)  who is sitting at the table. Having looked at the diversion of resources we must know that in the 1 972-73 Budget the Government diverted resources from the private sector to the public sector of about $2, 800m. In the last Budget the Government ran that figure to nearly $4,000m. 
What does this mean? What is the Government doing now? It created a depression in this country. It created unemployment of a kind which we would never have believed to be possible when we were in Government for a period of a little more than 21 or 22 years. The Labor Party created inflation of a kind which was intolerable. If Treasury had advised that inflation was going up by 9 per cent it would have frightened the daylights out of us. Now we have to sit and look in anguish while the men opposite get it as high as 16 per cent and, next year, it will probably move to 20 per cent or 25 per cent. 
But,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  let me put this to you: It is true that the diversion of the resources from the private sector to the public sector has been one of the great causes of our misadventures. It has been one of the biggest blunders in economic policy that I have ever known. Now by the operations of this Government in introducing 4 Bills- I mention only the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill but there is also the Health Insurance Bill, the National Compensation Bill and the National Superannuation Bill, if they go through- an enormous amount of money in addition will be diverted from the private sector to the public sector. I want to give the House some figures. They are my own. I take full responsibility for them, although I have had some guidance. I believe that we have to look at these figures in 2 ways. Consider the first three Bills, the one relating to workers compensation and the ancillary measures relating to the national health scheme and also the national superannuation scheme. 
Professor Downing, known for his attachment to the Labor Party, although lately he has been rather muted and a little cautious about the way in which he has expressed himself, said that the costs of those schemes would be $2,800m. The cost will have to come from the assets of the life and general insurance offices and superannuation funds and from other sources within the private sector. The life offices have assets valued at $8,400m, superannuation funds have assets of $2, 500m and the general insurance industry has assets of $3,100m. This is a total of $14,000m. If we take only 10 per cent of that total- and that must be the basic minimum- then we see a diversion of resources of $ 1,400m. 
The Labor Party caused our present discomfiture by adopting budgetary and financial methods which it did not understand. Honourable members opposite brought down the credit squeeze because they did not know how to read the bulletins of the Reserve Bank of Australia relating to the money supply. Even if somebody told honourable members about the money supply and the various definitions of Ml, M2 and M3, there was not a bloke on the other side of the House who would do anything but look, not like a stunned mullet, but like a cow on its death visit to the abattoir. 
So,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  do not think that I have any compassion for the actions of the Government and for what its members have done to the Australian people. If the Government diverts these assets away from the private sector to the public sector, what will the consequences be? 
Without any doubt this will deprive private enterprise of the ability to borrow money for any debentures, for shares, for mortgages, to contribute money to Australian Government securities and in local government securities. I believe that the Government has created enough disasters. But I impress upon the House that if we want to see disaster compounded by disaster- conditions growing worse and worse while the Labor Party remains in office- then let us pass this Bill. 
I will not vote for it. I will vote against it because I believe confidence has to be restored, and the sooner the business community knows that this Bill will be chucked out and that the community will not be deprived of access to the money markets for its development programs the better. 
I mention one other fact to support my argument. We find that new buildings and construction are down at an annual rate of 8.4 per cent this year and that new plant and equipment will be down 5.2 per cent. This is a positive indication of the fact that if we want technological investment and investment in capital plant and equipment to go on to ensure the growth of the economy and the diversion of the resources to the private sector we must reject this Bill. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The right honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 6.2 to 8 p.m. 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister, particularly in the light of the interest he has shown in indexation and the desirability of reducing the money supply. The Prime Minister, of course, will be well aware of the latest edition of the statistical bulletin of the Reserve Bank of Australia which shows that the net change in the Treasury note issue has risen from $162m in 1973-74 to $l,681m in the comparable 9-month period of this financial year. He will be aware that cash balances also have risen by $ 1,107m. Therefore one finds that there has been an extraordinary increase in the money base and consequently in the money supply. Does he realise how dangerous this will be - 

 -Mr Chairman, you have ruled that it is not necessary for me to read out the sub-clause which I wish to substitute by way of an amendment to the clause which is now before the attention of the Committee. I would like to explain my philosophy to this Bill and, consequently, to the most important clause of the Bill. I repeat what I said in my speech during the second reading debate on the Bill, namely, that I believe that everyone has the right to happiness and the right to enjoy his life. If that involves the necessary termination of his marriage and the ability to marry someone else who will give him or her the prospects of a better life then, as long as it does not result in the sacrifice of the interests of any other persons, I believe that not only the Government but also the Church authorities should not obstruct or stand in the way of that fulfilment of a happy, successful and, I hope, an enjoyable life in cases where the marriage has broken down irretrievably. 
I point out to the Committee one or two basic provisions of the Bill or the philosophy behind the Bill. The first philosophy behind the Bill is that under certain circumstances you should be able to prove that a marriage had irretrievably broken down and that the proof of that should be 12 months separation. It so happens that from the point of view of the churches, the Archbishop of Canterbury's Commission- that is, the Archbishop of the Church of England in the United Kingdom- said in 1966 that marriage should be dissolved if it has irretrievably broken down. It went further and recommended that in such cases the court should sit like a coroner's court. That proposition was rejected by the Law Commission in the United Kingdom and it introduced 4 grounds of proof or 4 causes, providing that if they were effectively proved, they would be sufficient grounds on which a divorce decree should be made- adultery, intolerable conduct, desertion for 2 years or separation for 2 years with consent, and irretrievable breakdown. 
The clause now before the Committee attempts to say that irretrievable breakdown should be proved if the parties have in fact separated for a period of 12 months and providing the other conditions of clause 48 are proved. I agree with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that we are looking at a very small percentage of cases. Of the cases that go before the courts, 95 per cent now are not contested. We are therefore looking, at the most, at 5 per cent of the cases. Of that 5 per cent, 60 per cent are on the ground of adultery or of intolerable conduct. Of the various cases of intolerable conduct that now come before the court, most are concerned with adultery or other types of intolerable conduct such as violence. Therefore we are looking at only 40 per cent of 5 per cent. I cannot believe that we would want to reject the most important clause in the Bill because of that very small number of cases. And once separated they seldom return. The other philosophical base of the Bill is to eliminate the concept of fault. 
I go a stage further. The point that I intend to convey here is this: We have had the bad practice, I believe, of introducing fictions into British and Australian law to the extent that we follow British law. We say in this clause that the irretrievable breakdown of marriage can be proved by separation for a period of 12 months immediately preceding the date of the application. Irretrievable breakdown is a fiction. The real ground is 12 months separation. I believe that all we ought to prove-give away the fiction- is that there has been 12 months separation. I believe in honesty in the presentation of our case. I believe that we should present the real cause in proper and clear language. Therefore I hope that the Committee, in its wisdom, will ensure that the sole ground should be that the parties have separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application. And not continue to live with the fiction of irretrievable breakdown in an Act of Parliament. 
I move circulated amendment No. (78a) clause 43 relates to the Family Court and to the matters to which it must have regard when exercising jurisdiction. I am mainly concerned here with paragraph (a) which refers to the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage. Everyone of us wants to do his best to protect that institution to the maximum extent possible. But I think that when guidelines of this kind are being introduced it is of vital importance to reflect contemporary mores and accepted contemporary attitudes. The existing clause does not. The proposed change does. I do not believe that the clause should be used as propaganda in order to bemuse the people or to create the impression that the law is' different from what it will be now that clause 48 has been agreed to. 
As my colleague has just said, my amendment is an attempt to strip away some of the deception and for that reason I believe that it ought to be passed. The origin of the words marriage is a union of a man and a woman voluntarily entered into  for  life and can be found in an interpretation of the Divorce Act 1865 of the United Kingdom. The presiding judge then decided that the word 'marriage' in a Christian sense meant a 'voluntary union entered into for life'. We all know that that no longer represents contemporary mores and accepted contempor  ary  attitudes. The fact is that the Committee has now agreed to clause 48 which states that the marriage may be dissolved if it has irretrievably broken down. Therefore, we find a complete inconsistency between this sub-clause and clause 48 if this sub-clause is passed in its present form. I have discussed this matter with the Crown Law authorities, the advisers to the Government, and also with the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  himself. With their assistance I have worked out a phraseology that truly and accurately reflects the mores and the attitudes of today. 
Under today's law there can be no doubt that the proper definition of the word 'marriage' is that it is a union intended to be permanent and should not be dissolved by law unless the marriagehere I use the phraseology of clause 48- 'has irretrievably broken down'. That reflects the idea and the concepts that I have mentioned. I believe that this is an amendment which strips the words used in the clause of deceit and propaganda. The amendment gives the clause the meaning that it ought to have. I believe that the amendment will be welcomed by most members of the Australian community. I therefore strongly support it. As I have said, I have had discussions on it with the relevant authorities and I have been assured of their support. I hope that the amendment will be carried into law. 
I think that if we look at the literal meaning of the words contained in clause 75 we must come to one very precise conclusion. The wish of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Fraser)  was to insert in that clause a paragraph (k) (a) to include those women who wish only to continue their role as wife or. mother. The terms of paragraph (c) of sub-clause (2) are very clear. It applies to either party to a marriage who has the care or control of a child of the marriage who has not attained the age of 18 years. Clearly, therefore, it relates to a mother and wife who has the care and control of a child who has not attained the age of 18 years. To that extent I believe that the amendment is not necessary. But if it were, I think we should look at the precise wording of paragraph (n). The widest jurisdiction is given there; any single factor can be brought into consideration. Paragraph (n) states:  any fact or circumstance which, in the opinion of the court, the justice of the case requires to be taken into account. 
This, of course, appears on another page of the Bill and does not follow directly on proposed paragraph (k) (a). Paragraph (n) therefore, provides the widest power that would be needed- it gives a clear instruction to the court. It is an instruction; there is no beg-pardon, no possibility at all of misconception. The court itself must follow the instruction or it will be failing under the provisions of the Bill. I believe this is pretty clear. As we have discussed the other clause before, I think this is enough and leave it that way. 
-Clause 106 is contained in Part XIII of the Bill: That Part relates to the enforcement of decrees. It must be considered against the background of Part VIII which relates to maintenance and property. Both must be considered together. Under clause 72 in Part VIII of the Bill, a liability is imposed on a party to maintain the other party, to provide financial assistance or other kinds of assistance to the extent that the first mentioned party is reasonably able to do so, but if, and only if, the other party is unable to support himself or herself adequately, whether by reason of having the care or control of a child of the marriage or for any other purpose whatsoever- this is the wording of the actual clause. Similarly, in clause 73 of the Bill, the parties to a marriage are liable, according to their respective financial resources, to maintain the children of the marriage who have not attained the age of 1 8 years. 
In the provisions of clause 105 of Part XIII of the Bill we read that:  all decrees made under this Act may be enforced by any court having jurisdiction under this Act. 
This question immediately arises: Who will have the responsibility of enforcing the decree or order of the Family Court? I do not think that it should be left to one or other of the parties to do so. Let me give the Committee the kind of example that is uppermost in my mind and that leads me to ask that the amendment which I will shortly move be agreed to. I instance the case of a mother with children in whose favour a decree for maintenance or property rights has been made; in other words; for example, an order for the payment of alimony or a payment in respect of the upkeep of the children and of their education. If the amounts payable under the order or decree are not made, the wife is in the deplorable position of having to go to the court to ensure that action can be taken against the husband. There can be nothing more unpleasant or more undesirable than to put a wife into the unfortunate position of having to take action against her former husband and of having to appear before a court to substantiate her claim. This is a traumatic experience, I am sure. From my knowledge of people who come to me with their problems, I am certain that it is one kind of experience which every civilised person would wish to have removed. 
Therefore, I move amendment No. 134 circulated in my name. 
The purpose of the amendment that I have just moved is to give jurisdiction by regulation to an officer of the court, or an authority or a person specified in the regulation to take proceedings to ensure the payment of those moneys on behalf of the person entitled to the moneys payable under the order; in other words, to relieve the person entitled to maintenance, under an order of the Family Court, of the obligation himself or herself to institute and to pursue to finality Family Court orders. 
I hope that, when considering the relevant regulations, care will be taken to see that they are drafted in such a way as to ensure that the amount of maintenance is automatically paid to the party entitled, with recourse by the Family Court or its agency to the party actually responsible for payment. 
The objective of my amendment, I repeat, is to relieve the person who has had the benefit of the Family Court order of the obligation to take the initiating action before the court or other agency. Divorce, as I said in my second reading speech, is always an unfortunate and unpleasant experience for all parties involved. I want to reduce the tensions, frustrations and bitterness associated with initiating proceedings before a court to ensure a compliance with an order of a court, properly given. 
I have looked very carefully at clause 1 14 and I support it in its entirety. I regret, because I do not like doing this, that I have to disagree with the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  who has asked that the words 'or for the protection of the marital relationship' in line 33 on page 47 be omitted. I do so for a positive reason. The point is that clause 114 is directed and devised in order to protect particular types of people from action which can be embarrassing to them or which can be considered as infringing their rights. There is another clause in the Bill that prevents questions being asked which are of an embarrassing or disconcerting kind. The Court can protect the individual in such case. I believe that the words express clearly the intention of the Government and the way in which its intentions should operate. It can order such injunctions as it thinks proper in respect of the matter to which the proceedings relate, including an injunction for the protection of the marital relationships. As this is of benefit to one or other of the parties involved- it could be of benefit to both- I would not want those words to be omitted from the clause. 
I must confess that on my initial reading of clause 12 1 (4) I did not like it at all. On subsequent readings my dislike grew even worse. Having listened to what has been said by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  I am now convinced that it would be wise to take the sub-clause out of the Bill. Attorneys-General are not all saints. So far we have been extremely lucky and many Attorneys-General have probably been entitled to deification. But I do not think that necessarily applies to every Attorney-General of the future. The sub-clause contains a power that could be exercised capriciously, wilfully or even for political purposes. 
We know of actions over the last 3 years taken by former legal people associated with the Commonwealth Parliament which would never have been possible if there had been an ability to restrain the particular kind of activity which was unlawful. For that reason I would like one or two things to be done. I would like either the clause to be removed from the Bill or the AttorneyGeneral to give an assurance that, before producing a Bill to amend the Family Law Act- I believe that will be in the not too distant future- he will have a good look at this clause in order to ensure that some restraint is placed upon the capacity of the Attorney-General and that in all reasonable cases proceedings shall not be commenced without the approval of the Attorney-General himself. 
-I rise on this occasion to do what I believe was done when the Divorce Bill was first introduced in this House some years ago. I think the Family Law Bill - which has just been agreed to by the Committee and in the second reading stages in this House- is a memorable Bill. It is path-breaking in the sense that it introduces liberal principles into family law. My intention is to compliment and to thank those people who have been associated with the inspiration, the initiation and the draftsmanship of the Bill and those who gave assistance to honourable members to ensure that the Bill was understood and effectively piloted through the House. I refer to the paternal great-grandfather of the Bill who is one of the 3 authors of the recognised Australian Divorce Law and Practice manual. Not only is he one of the 3 authors. I believe he was the main author. Certainly he did most of the work associated with the production of the book. I call him the paternal greatgrandfather because I know he was the one who took the initiative part in persuading the former Attorney-General to have a Bill put into draft form. 
I also express my thanks to  Mr Gordon  Yuill, First Assistant-Secretary of the Family Law Division of the Attorney-General's Department. He has been a consistent advise and aid to members of the Parliament who have sought his help in drafting amendments. He has ensured that they have understood what the provisions of the Bill were about and the way in which proposed amendments could best be handled. I thank Professor Finlay, the Assistant Professor of Family Law at Monash University too, for the help he has given. 
I think it is right that I should thank the grandfather, the former Attorney-General, who was then  Senator Murphy,  and the father, the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  who is sitting in the House today, because of the careful, understanding and tolerant way in which they have handled and explained the various clauses of the Bill. 

 Mr Speaker, I thank you and the  Chairman  of Committees  (Mr Berinson)  for your patience, efficiency and the way in which you have handled all stages of the Bill. It is an achievement of which you should both be proud. 
I have been reminded- I should have known this-that when I talked about the author of the book 'The Australian Divorce Law and Practice' I did not mention his name. I thought everyone would know. Perhaps everyone does not so I should say that it is Ray Watson, Q.C., who is with us in the House today. Finally, I think it proper that I should say something about the members of the House. This must have been a trying occasion for many honourable members because they had philosophical, professional and party approaches as well as religious commitments. Except for one or two occasions which should be quickly forgotten and which ought to be forgiven because of what in an overall sense we have been able to achieve. I should express, not on behalf of the House, but on my own my approval of the liberal and sensible way in which very nearly all members have conducted the debate. The devotion which they have paid to the effectiveness of the representative parliamentary government is obvious. They have ensured that there has been a relevant and effective system of debate. They should go home tonight pleased with what they have done and the achievements of this House of the Parliament as a whole in getting this memorable Bill through the House. My only wish is that when such momentous and liberal social changes are before the House again we will be able to act in a similarly liberal and bipartisan way. 
-I rise to speak in the debate because in truth I have had a longer association with the national disaster clauses of any Bill or related administrative procedures than any other member in the House. I do not like to use the words 'a longer experience' because they identify and at this stage of my parliamentary life I have no wish to be specifically identified. Nonetheless, I do remember the history of procedures and policies associated with natural disasters. I well remember when we came into office as a Liberal government and took over from the then somewhat discredited Labor Government. I speak now in a very kind way about our predecessors. When we came into office, so far as natural disasters were concerned our predecessors had done nothing. We started off with a policy first of all of giving assistance on the ground of personal hardship and distress. Later on, we decided to take the full responsibility for any acts of God- storm, tempest, floods, droughts or whatever else it might have been- so far as governments were concerned. 
I believe that I had one of the more important responsibilities when, as the then Treasurer, I had to consider first of all in about April 1 957 the devastating fires that had occurred in Tasmania. We took over nearly the whole of the responsibility in regard to the considerable damage that had been caused in Tasmania. It did not matter whether the property damage was government owned or privately owned; it did not matter whether it was business damage, commercial damage or whatever else it might have been. We provided a sum of the order of $ 14m and left the balance of the responsibility to the State Government. I am surprised to read what I said then. I must have been liberal even in those days, despite what might have been said by  Mr Maximillian  Walsh in this morning's 'Australian Financial Review'. We provided financial relief in respect of government losses and also housing, business and industries, primary producers, public assets and other emergency expenditure. I could go on in this way but it would become a little boring if I were to state every way in which we assisted. 
Later, on 27 November 1968 in the days of my glory as the Treasurer I brought forward a totally new policy relating to assistance when problems arose due to factors outside the control of the individuals themselves, we then adopted the policy, on my personal initiative, that if we were able to get people back into employment we should provide the funds to enable that to be done. In other words, we were to give them the opportunity to get back into production. We believed that we would be able to earn more productivity in the future than it would cost to put those people back into production at the time of the drought, fire or other devastation that might occur. I made a speech in the Parliament on this subject on 27 November 1968. On that occasion, I pointed to the fact that not only was this something totally novel and comprehensive covering every single section of the community but also that we believed this to be a positive government responsibility. 
I do not know whether there are any Treasury officials present in the chamber tonight. I hope there are, and I hope they recognise what happened in November 1968 when they were advising me. At that time it was  Mr Steele  Craik who I thought might have been a suitable person to become the permanent head of the Department of the Treasury. I thought that either that gentleman or  Mr John  Garrett could fill the position, but neither of them liked the idea. I do not know whether the Treasury people are here and, if they are, whether they care to remember, whether they thought that the kind of disaster could only be handled on an ad hoc basis. Consequently I do not try to understand why they want to introduce a Bill of this kind. At that time, we of the previous Government who were conscientious and those in the Treasury who had the capacity to think were of the belief that it was imprudent to introduce any kind of provision which meant that we institutionalised such aid. We believed that circumstances- geographical, climatic and personal- were so varied and so different that we had to handle the matter on an ad hoc basis and with enormous sympathy and care for those to whom damage had been done, and those whose livelihoods and families might have been affected in a traumatic and difficult way. 
We decided then- I cannot understand why the Treasury officials would be giving advice in an entirely different way today- that when the disaster occurred we would handle it in that way: We should let the House know and, through the House, the public know what we were doing and that the Liberal Party then and now would take the major share of responsibility in natural disasters. We drew up guidelines to do that. 
Sometimes we would say that the State should take responsibility to a limited extent which was minimal but nonetheless essential in the interests of trying to have a better form of accountancy and a stronger sense of responsibility. But we took the absolute responsibility for the balance. I say this in the presence of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who has special responsibilities. The Minister is a man for whom I have considerable respect not only because of his common sense and ability but also because of his desire to ensure that Parliament operates in an effective way. 
The honourable member need not say 'hear, hear', because the Committee does not take any notice of him. If he had any common sense he would let those who believe in what they say put their point. 
Let me go a stage further. I put to the Minister that clause 14 cannot be implemented. There is no way in which one can institutionalise the kind of disasters envisaged in the clause. Action taken in such disasters has to be left to the judgment of the department but more importantly of the Minister responsible. If we have the right sort of Minister, and we have such a person in the Special Minister of State, he will do- forgive me for saying this- exactly as I did when I had the good fortune to be the Treasurer. I would rather leave the decision to him or myself than to the responsibility of the Government or any agency of the Government with all the bureaucratic controls ideas and restrictions involved and imposed by law. Those who saw the television program This Day Tonight' this evening will know what Darwin has suffered because of the bureaucratic restrictions and controls which have been imposed on the people who want to return and make a happy life there. 
I do not like the provision. I hope that I have made my position clear. I have done this as a result- I cannot remember precisely how many years- of some 20 years experience in Government. If the Special Minister of State, who is in charge of this legislation, wants my advice I suggest that he have another look at the clause under debate. If I were in his position I would cut it out and adopt the procedures of this Government's predecessors who took the kind of action I have outlined and who were remarkably successful. I cannot understand why we on this side of the chamber have not proclaimed our virtues and successes whilst in Government. They were path breaking and successful. I am also arguing that the Government's position is untenable and ineffective and will lead to disastrous results. 
All the clauses with which we are now dealing- I take it that we are now dealing with clauses 34 to 38 inclusive- relate to matters that will have an important bearing upon the total economic and financial management of this country. Unless we understand what is involved in these clauses we will not understand what is the likely trend of events in this country. In other words, we will not understand the extent to which, after the March quarter of next year, we are going to have increasing inflation and, I believe, increasing unemployment. I have taken a tremendous amount of notice of what has been said by my colleague the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee),  who came to this Parliament with a pretty good reputation and who has more than lived up to it, and also by my colleague the honourable member for Bradfield,  Mr David  Connolly, who comes from my home State of New South Wales. 
Clause 34 relates to the financial policy of the Corporation, clause 35 relates to the capital of the office, clause 36 relates to the repayments of capital, and clause 37 relates to the borrowing by the office. Then we come to a very strange clause, clause 38. 1 doubt whether anyone can sensibly interpret it. It appears to me to be dishonest. After looking at all of those clauses one has then to come to certain very definite conclusions. I wonder whether the Government realised when it was drafting these clauses and when it was drafting the whole of the Bill itself the extent to which it was diverting funds from the private sector of the economy to the public sector and, if so, whether it recognised that that was totally inconsistent with its overall policy. I also wonder whether it now realises that unemployment in the private sector has fallen by 3 per cent but overall employment in the public sector has increased by 6 per cent. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has stated that he wants to divert resources and activity from the public sector to the private sector. Those 2 concepts are totally inconsistent and if we bring down these 5 clauses then, I believe, we do irreparable damage to the Australian economy and to the concept behind the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill. 
If there are any members of the Treasury here tonight, particularly, as I said earlier, those who are interested in economic affairs, they would know of the report that was released yesterday by the Australian Institute of Applied Economics and Social Welfare, located in Melbourne. I frequently think that Institute is a little out of touch with world affairs, and Australian affairs in particular. But the Institute has said that, if we are sincere in this Parliament about inflation and unemployment, then for the time being we should suspend any idea of bringing into force the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill, the Superannuation Bill, the Bill relating to the abolition of the means test in respect of pensions and one other Bill, the name of which for the moment escapes me. The Institute said that if we are sincere we should not, for heaven's sake, introduce clauses 34 to 38 of this Bill. I believe that the Institute is right. If the Government is sincere and understands the causes of inflation and indirectly, therefore, the causes of unemployment, it will not proceed with sections 34 to 38 of this Bill. 
I had hoped today that I would have been able to ask the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  how he could explain the inconsistency between the answer the Prime Minister gave to me in answer to a question I asked in the House on Monday and the report today of the Australian Institute of Applied Economics and Social Welfare in Melbourne. Previously- until yesterday at least- this Institute was admired by the Prime Minister and his immediate advisers. But if we look at this legislation against the total concept of the Australian economy, no one could ever support it; and above all, no one could support clauses 34 to 38 inclusive. I hope that what I say tonight will have some influence upon the Government. I am glad to see the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  in the chamber as I know him to be a sincere man who can be impressed by facts and by an argument that, beyond bounds, is not only persuasive but is also conclusive in terms of real proof. I think we should look at these clauses again. It is a damaging Bill. I condemned it before; I do not believe it should be passed and I hope I get the opportunity to vote against it, not only because of the Bill itself but also because of the impact it has on the Australian economy. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 42. 
The provision to be made by the Board for depreciation shall be as approved by the Treasurer. 
The Board shall keep separate accounts (including a revenue account) in respect of life insurance business carried on by the Office. 
-For 18 months during my tenure of the Prime Ministership I tried unsuccessfully to introduce a national superannuation scheme that would cover not only the public sector of the Australian society but also the private sector. As I said, I was unsuccessful because the technical experts, or some unidentified persons, were not able to produce the goods and I was not able to introduce a Bill in this House. During the last few days I have got my file from the National Library. It is about 18 inches high and is crammed with documents of a very interesting type. I can assure honourable members that the philosophy of the LiberalCountry Party Government was at that time that there was a natural right of every person- and a proper expectation- to be able to enjoy an effective and fairly generous superannuation scheme after he retired from his occupation in the civil service or in private enterprise. We wanted to be generous. We felt that a superannuation scheme should be on a contributory basis. We did not want it to distinguish between the various sections of Australian industry and society. 
We wanted to be certain that if we introduced a Bill that was not, in effect, a privileged type of a Bill- a Bill that granted benefits to one section of the community and not another- then we had to be cautious that we did not permit the public sector to get too much out of step with the private sector. We also would have drawn it up in such a way that we could be able to join the 2 sectors together when a Government finally introduces a national superannuation scheme for all. 
I hope we will do that as a result of the final report of the Hancock Committee. It was stressed by senior civil servants- mainly permanent heads of departments- in arguments they put to me that 2 difficulties had to be overcome. The first was that they wanted to ensure that their take-home pay was not decreased or did not fall significantly when they had the right to increase their pension units, whether by contributory or non-contributory means. 
As was stated by my colleague, the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  who opened this debate for the Opposition, Commonwealth civil servants can find that their contributions were increased by between 14 per cent and 53 per cent of their salary in the latter stages of their employment. The second point that senior civil servants were worried about was that they were not entitled to receive lump sum payments. I like both of those ideas. I believe that those difficulties should be removed. I think they will be removed if our amendments to the Bill are accepted. 
What features do I like about the Bill? I do not like the idea of buying units, contributory or not. I believe that the concept of a 5 per cent compulsory contribution of salary with 50 per cent of the final year's salary indexed at 1 per cent of the consumer price index is a sensible basis on which we can approach the new measure, particularly when we are considering whether the community can pay the full amount as proposed by the Government. I agree with that proposition. I agree with the transfer of the Provident Fund to the main fund at a cost of about $534m. I believe that those who are invalided, belong to the agencies or who have been in temporary employment, ought to be able to receive benefits on the same scale as others. I believe these are worthwhile changes. I believe also we should increase the widows' pensions, widen the eligibility for spouses and increase children's pensions. I believe all these gaps have to be filled. They will be filled when this Bill becomes law. I agree, similarly, to the option of guaranteed pension for widows and children in the case of death in service and a guaranteed pension on invalidity retirement during service. 
But there are many features of the scheme with which I do not agree. I do not believe that full benefits at the age of 60 at an extra cost of $45 9m should be paid. I do not believe in the introduction of a 5 per cent supplement, which was criticised by the Pollard-Melville Committee. I would not eliminate tapering. I do not believe that we should update pensions purchased with accumulated contributions over and above the basic contributions of 5 per cent and a pension of 50 per cent of final salary indexed in accordance with the Consumer Price Index. I do not agree with the idea that a member should be able to increase the reversionary pension the higher the income. In other words, I do not think a person on $4,200 should have his income increased by 2 per cent, but on $17,500 by 19.6 per cent. Those percentages appear to be wrong. The Pollard-Melville Committee pointed out that it ought to be looked at again. I would do so. Let me analyse some of the benefits, particularly full benefit at the age of 60 years. I ask whether it is right and proper that a person should get a pension at the age of 60 years, retire with that pension and take other employment, still holding on to the pension to which one is entitled under the proposals now before us. Is 60 years a proper age? You will probably know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the Hancock Committee, in its report said this: 
Firstly, a lowering of pensionable age would not appear to be an appropriate step in the face of trends towards lower mortality and extended longevity which have been observed over the last generation and which appear to be continuing. 
That view is also held, in a very muted sort of way but nonetheless clearly, by the other 2 gentlemen whose names I mentioned earlier. 
I would like now to have a look at the costs involved and the benefits. I do not want it to be thought that these costs will represent the final cost to the Government and, through the Government, the amount that will have to be paid by the Australian taxpayer. I shall quote from the Pollard-Melville report. I want honourable members to remember that that report is based on 30 June 1972 figures, and much has happened between 1972 and today. The assumptions on which the report is based are these. There is an interest discount factor of 5'/i per cent. Yet we know that the recent Government loan- the May loan- failed and the Government could not collect enough money to pay for redemptions, let alone get anything for itself. In fact, the Government has a deficiency of $50m because of redemptions which it will have to pay out of deficit financing. 
There is no doubt that interest rates are going up and certainly not coming down to the rather miniscule level of 5'^ per cent. The consumer index increases are assumed at 3.9 per cent as a basis of indexation. There is not a Labor member who does not know that inflation is running at 1 6 per cent per annum and probably will go to 25 per cent next financial year. I mention those figures because it is against this background that the problems have to be considered. 
I want to illustrate what can happen. I am indebted to Alan Robson, a very well known actuary, for giving me figures. I want to prove by these figures that the present proposals by the Labor Government are beyond capacity of the nation and the taxpayers to pay. When I give these figures most honourable members will be a little hesitant to agree to the Bill except in a changed form based on the amendments which we on this side of the House favour and are prepared to vote for. 
I take the case of a bloke who enters the Public Service at age 25 years on a salary of $7,500 a year and retires after 35 years with his full pension of 50 per cent of his final rate of salary. He would have a life expectancy of 17 years. It is an historical fact that over the 21 years that we in the Liberal Party were in Government, his salary would rise by 9 per cent. I add here that I have assumed the cost of living would rise at a rate- I do not believe it could be anywhere near as low as this while the Labor Party is in Government -of, say, 10 per cent. This contributor would leave the Public Service with a final salary ofwhat do honourable members think? Not just $14,000, not $28,000, but $153,066. That is the actuarial amount and a pension of half that amount would be $76,533. He would also receive a refund of contributions with interest if he wanted it. If we capitalise the total amount over the whole period, he would receive over $3.4m. But that is not the end of the story. 
I gave honourable members the figures on which I based this assessment. They were the figures, or somewhere about the figures, for increases in the consumer index while we were in power and were associated with a 9 per cent increase in salary. But if one looks at it on the basis of the later figures, that is, the increases taking place today under the Labor Government, it will be found that the final salary will be- sit in your seats and hold tight to your hats- $6,096,000. Average weekly earnings are now rising at the rate of something like 27.7 per cent per annum. 
No. He is one of the great actuaries and you have not contradicted the statements when they have been made. Either you do not read, you do not understand, you do not care, or you just want to blab out, not knowing what you are talking about. 
-We have heard the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  who led for the Opposition in this debate, say that this Bill is connected with the desire of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and a few other people to ensure that whenever there is an election for the House of Representatives there will be simultaneously an election for part or the whole of the Senate. We have looked at this proposal on many occasions and the people of this country have knocked it back at a referendum. I cannot understand the political common sense of the Prime Minister in again bringing forward such a proposal; because without doubt he will be disappointed a second time. The people just will not vote for constitutional changes that will have the effect of reducing the power of the Senate which will be to the Senate's disadvantage and to the disadvantage of this country insofar as its administration and law are concerned. 
As I looked at this proposal I had to ask myself, first of all, what explanation has the Prime Minister given when he has come to this House on 3 occasions and tried to persuade us and the people of the country to vote for this kind of constitutional change. It is with regret that I have to say that he has told us the minimum possible. In fact, he seems to be under the impression that it is best to leave us in the dark. In other words, he probably thinks that when ignorance is bliss 'tis folly to tell this House of the Parliament or the people anything. He hopes that in our lack of knowledge, in our ignorance, we might believe in him. 
Very few people will believe in the Prime Minister after his escapades relating to the cables that were sent to our embassies or officials in North and South Vietnam, which were shown to be totally different in substance and tone from the impression he tried to convey to the Australian people and to us. 
The next point that I want to make clear is this: I do not believe in giving increased power to any government that has already indicated beyond any shadow of a doubt that it cannot effectively manage or adminster the government of this country. Most of the Government's actions from the time it came to power shortly after 2 December 1972 have had unfortunate repercussions upon the people of this country and are working against their interests. Anyone who looks at any of the Government's activitieswhether they be in the field of employment, the control of inflation, defence, the effective management of our economy, open government, our international relations or a dozen and one other bills or administrative actions- is forced to come to the conclusion that the Government does not know how to administer the country; that it does not know the kind of laws that the people of this country want and need; and that it does not know of the aspiration of the people of this country and their desire to be left alone. For that reason, if for no other, I would not give the Government any more power. In fact, it would be my intention to restrict its power by kicking it out as soon as I possibly could. 
The Prime Minister himself has in truth implied that it is not necessary to have simultaneous elections because only on 3 occasions have there been separate elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives. He had to go back 20 years before we started a process in 1 953 and 1954 in order to find another example of simultaneous elections not having occurred. Those are the only occasions on which there have not been sychronous elections. I do not think the time has now arisen when we ought to have simultaneous elections. I must say that  Sir Robert  Menzies, one of the great politicians of our age or, for that matter, since the days of Federation, even with all his wisdom, skill and powers of persuasion did not try to bring together the elections for the Senate and the House after 1954. When we have the precedents of a man with the ability, the intellect and the political persuasion that he had, why should Whitlam, who is still learning, still trying to ape the great man and still trying to make an impression, try again and show how faulty his judgment is likely to be? 
As you well know,  Mr Speaker,  there is one other point I should make. It is not necessary to hold simultaneous elections. The Prime Minister has 3 options open to him at the moment. He must hold a Senate election before 30 June next year; it will have to be held well before that date if the people elected are to be ready to take their place in the Senate on 1 July. If he chooses, he can take out when he holds an election, the whole of the House and part of the Senate at the same time, but he will not do that because he knows very well that he is likely to lose government, and I think he likes the joys of office, being duchessed, and being able to enjoy the fleshpots if one happens to be an active Prime Minister and likes the entitlement of going overseas. I wish that I had been able to enjoy some of those pleasures. But I was never able to do so during the time that I was Prime Minister. 
He can dissolve the House alone. The other alternative he has available to him, if he wants to take it, is to have a double dissolution. He has got all the options open. He can achieve his objectives, if he wants to, simply and easily. We must probe a little deeper into his thinking and ask why he wants to go on in this way. 
I think the first reason is that he believes that if the people are confused at the time an election for the House is held, he is more likely to get his way than he would be if they were properly informed. He now knows that he is on a losing streak. He is betting badly, his horses are running badly, he is running very badly and so are the Labor members of Parliament. So, if he can, he has got to create confusion, because the more the facts are known, the more the tide will swing against him, the fewer votes he will get, the quicker he will go out of office and the longer he will stay out. I should say that not  Mr Whitlam  but his successor will stay out of office because he would not be able to hold tight after defeat. 
His philosophy was introduced by his own Press officer. It was referred to by Oakes and Solomon in their book 'The Making of a Prime Minister', published shortly after the 1972 election and in which they coined the philosophical approach that an all day sucker a day will keep the mug electors at bay. That is the Whitlam philosophy. 
Another way is to distract attention from the vital issues with which we are faced today and it is another means by which he hopes he can sustain himself in power for a greater length of time. 
What he is doing is introducing a constitutional trick. It is a trick to employ constitutional practices and procedures and an attempted alteration to the Constitution in order to persuade the people that he is a technical expert on the Constitution and is worthy of governing this country. I do not believe that he has shown the capability. If he had shown himself to be capable he would have had the guts and the courage to pull on an election of the House of Representatives and, at first chance, an election of the Senate before 1 July next year. 
We will see whether this man is worthy of the reputation for political courage that he earned when he was in opposition but which he has never shown since he has been in government. We will see whether he does it. I know that he has the capacity for crashing through when he does not quite understand party or public opinion but I do not believe that his commonsense will permit him to continue these crash tactics any longer. 
I turn to the Constitution itself. I must confess that I am a devout admirer of those who drafted the Constitution- the fathers of our Constitutionand gave us a legal framework that has been a confirmed source of protection in times of trouble and need. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, you know, as I know and as every other honourable member knows, that we profess to live in a liberal democracy. The essential constituents, ingredients and characteristics of a liberal democracy are certainty, continuity, a sense of responsibility not in the singular interests of a political party, not in the interests of the Parliament itself, but in the long term national interests of the Australian people. 
I do not think the Labor Government today represents the long term interests of the Australian people, and I deny that it is operating and acting administratively or legally in their long term interests. 
The relevant section of our Constitution that deals with the Senate is section 7. It states: 
The Senate shall be composed of senators for each State, directly chosen by the people of the State, voting, until the Parliament otherwise provides, as one electorate. , 
It goes on to state in the fourth paragraph: 
The senators shall be chosen for a term of six years, and the names of the senators chosen for each State shall be certified by the Governor to the Governor-General. 
What does the Prime Minister intend by trying to amend those 2 paragraphs of section 7 of the Constitution? 
The first part of that section says that the Senate is to be composed of senators for each State. That expresses a constitutional concept in the clearest of language and means that the Senate is a State's House and is intended to represent the States' views, Changing this section necessarily means that the Prime Minister wants to whittle away the power of the Senate to reflect the views of the States. In its place he wants a trend more and more towards centralisation, more and more towards an autocratic system of government, and more and more towards the destruction of a liberal democracy, which is the very heart and soul of the Australian political system today. 
The Prime Minister also wishes to turn away from what I regard as two of the essential features of democracy. The first one is the separation of the powers of the legislature, the Executive and the judiciary. Bit by bit it is the Executive of the Government, rather than the Parliament, that is attempting to dominate this country. Fortunately, on several occasions the Caucus of the Australian Labor Party has overruled the Prime Minister, giving him a good solid prod in the part where it hurts most and depriving him of the opportunity to display his vocal powers in Caucus. The most recent example was in regard to the wool stabilisation proposals. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! I remind the right honourable gentleman that this is a very fairly narrow Bill. He seems to be traversing a fair amount of ground going away from the Bill. 


 -Sir, we have a slight difference of opinion about that, but I accept your ruling. 
Senators are at present chosen for a term of 6 years. What does the Prime Minister want to do? Why does he want to alter the Constitution so that senators must submit themselves for an election whenever there is a House of Representatives election? I know that superficially there are some attractions in such an approach. But on deep analysis and with a knowledge of parliamentary life in this country gained over a long period and with a knowledge of what my predecessors in the office of Prime Minister have said, I have to say that we should not change that provision, because it can be contrary to be best interests of the people. These proposed changes would remove an essential safeguard. 
There are two other points I want to deal with in relation to the question of parliamentary responsibility. Not only is the Senate a States' House, it is also a House of review. And according to those who wrote 'The Annotated Constitution of the Australian Commonwealth', Quick and Garran, there is a necessity to ensure that the Parliament itself, whether in the House of Representatives or in the Senate, reflects the mature and long term views of the Australian people. Let us look first of all at the Senate as a House of review. Nobody who thinks or cares about the Australian people can doubt that the Senate, particularly since 1972, has acted with the highest sense or responsibility when dealing with the many measures that have come before it. The amendments it has made to so many draft laws have meant that the draft laws have come back here to the House of Representatives as better law and better representing Australian national views than they did when they were sent up from this House. 
Do be a good boy. You will not be here long. The Government parties have lost Lance Barnard and the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  will be with him soon. 
All right, but please do not interject. 
I refer to such matters as the Racial Discrimination Bill, the attempts to gerrymander the electorate in order to sustain an authoritarian system of democracy; and various Constitution Bills that were knocked back by the Senate and the people. I now want to refer to 'The Annotated Constitution of the Australian Commonwealth' by Quick and Garran in relation to mature judgment of the people and the obligation to sustain the long term interests of the Australian electorate. 
At page 988 we find this statement: 
A Constitution is a charter of government; it is a deed of trust, containing covenants between the sovereign community - 
I emphasise those words because sovereignty truly resides with the people, or should-  and its individual units. Those covenants should not be lightly or inconsiderately altered. At the same time a Constitution which did not contain provision for its amendment with the development, growth, and expansion of the community which it is intended to govern, would be a most inadequate and imperfect deed of partnership. It would be doomed to collapse ignominiously, and without hope of reconstruction. 
The authors go on to say that those 2 ingredients must be combined and that the Constitution should be a living organism changing as necessary to meet environmental changes. Above all there is a necessity to ensure that when considering changes you must always ask yourself the basic question: Is the change in the interests of the Australian people or not? 1 have no doubt that on a mature view this proposed change we are considering would be contrary to the interests of the Australian people. I ask one other question: Why did the fathers of the Constitution provided that there should be a 6-year term for the members of the Senate? It was to ensure that the Prime Minister or the Government of the day could not intimidate or blackmail members of the Senate by threat of a double dissolution or by any other means when exercising their constitutional powers, to ensure that the Senate is a States' House reflecting the views of the States and a House of review having all the qualities and power that a House of review needs to express the mature view and the long term attitude of the Australian people to constitutional change and the business of government. 
I finish on this note: I would not give the Government any more power and neither would the greatest politicians of our time extend power in the way envisaged in this Bill. I want to ensure that the Senate can act independently and in the best interests of the Australian people. For those reasons I will do what I can to sustain the Senate's prestige and power and to prevail upon the Australian people to support our action against this Bill. And to repeal an Act of Parliament should it be passed, when they have, the chance to vote on it at a referendum. I will do all I can to prevail upon the people to continue to do what they have done so frequently, that is, not to change the Constitution in a way that will react against their interests. The people are much too wise to do that. It is high time the Prime Minister understood that the people of this country have the wisdom and the will to knock back legislation they do not like. 
I am sorry but I sat down when you did not refer to me as 'right honourable member'. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. In the aftermath of the rather sordid Khemlani affair and now the operations associated with the Ranger project, will the Prime Minister establish a school of political morality and ethics at which the first students will be the Minister for Minerals and Energy and one of the senior officers of his Department? Will he now ensure that his own Department takes responsibility for this second sordid affair so that an honourable settlement can be achieved? I might say that he would be helped in making up his mind if he read Bryan Frith 's article in today's 'Australian' which tells the truth and not the mythology of the Department of Minerals and Energy. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I am not a noted authority on Shakespeare, but occasionally I remember some ' of the speeches from plays which I have read and in which I even played a part during the time that I was at school and university. Consequently, you will forgive me for commencing my speech with some lines from 'Henry V in which the King said: 
Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more. 
My interpretation of what King Henry would have said if he had been in this House is: 'And fill these walls up with Labor's misleading Heads'. That is the substance of what I want to put to the House today. 
I believe that every member of this House wants the parliamentary system to survive. We want parliamentary democracy. We want the elected representatives of this country to be able to present their views and to act in the best interests of the Australian people. I think you can take it,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that that would be the personal wish of every member. But that is not necessarily borne out by political performance. I express the greatest regret that this should be so. 
I would like to point out 3 grounds on which we can take exception to Labor Party actions in recent years. The first concerns the question of misconduct, that is occasions on which members of either House have misled the Houses. At page 135 of May's 'Parliamentary Practice' it is stated: 
The House may treat the making of a deliberately misleading statement as a contempt. 
I now turn to one of the other 2 most important questions, that of intimidation. Under the heading 'Attempted Intimidation of Members', at page 146 May said: 
To attempt to influence Members in their conduct by threats is also a breach of privilege. 
And I refer to the necessity for this House to maintain the Rule of Law and the Australian Constitution. Let me get back to some of the incidents to which I think it is desirable that attention be drawn. I believe that they show a tendency and a trend that we have never known in the history of this Parliament since its opening in 1901 with deception becoming under Labor the syndrome and the practice of the day, where intimidation is possible and has been practised in the last few months and where the law and the Constitution have been undermined. I go right back to the beginnings of the Australian Labor Party transfer from Opposition to Government and the Treasury bench. If we believe in the Constitution we ought to think always of what it &gt; means. And we should do our best to uphold that Constitution and the Rule of Law. 
When did this happen? We will remember the former Leader of the Government in the Senate, the then  Senator Murphy,  who carried out an illegal raid on the headquarters of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation without a warrant, just cause or the approval of his Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  That was contrary to the law of this land. If any private citizen or even a police officer had carried out such a raid, the person concerned would have been punished at law. But that was not done under a Labor regime. The then  Senator Murphy,  the Attorney-General and highest law officer of the land, the man who, with the Prime Minister, should most protect the Constitution, carried out this raid himself. 
Then there was the Gair Affair. The Government was forgetful of section 44 of the Constitution. Knowing that  Senator Gair  was no longer eligible to be a member of the Senate, the Government permitted  Senator Gair  to vote in the Senate and took no action until it had to make a statement about his appointment as Ambassador to Ireland. During this period the Government knew that the deception was being practised on the Australian people. I turn from the question of deception to matters of greater immediate concern. The first is associated with the deposition of my friend the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  the former  Speaker  of this House. No one could doubt that there has seldom, if ever, been a member of this House as respected, who has attracted such affection to himself, who is of impeccable character and who would never display; nor show anything but goodwill towards his fellow citizens. 
In his case we saw intimidation by the Prime Minister. We remember the occasion when the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  a man given to dictatorial or commissar-like habits, defied the Chair. The  Speaker  named him and the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  on behalf of the Government moved to suspend the Minister from the services of the House. The Prime Minister himself said 'no' and threatened the then  Speaker  of the House saying in pretty foul language that he had to take the consequences of his action. In other words, the  Speaker  was right but he was intimidated in an effort to get him to admit that he was wrong. When that did not happen, it led to the unfortunate departure of the honourable member for Sydney from the Speakership of the House. He deserved more of the country and he deserved more of his own former friend the Prime Minister. 
Let me turn to a few events of recent days which ought to be mentioned to show the way in which this House is gradually going through a process of desecration and how its integrity is being undermined. I refer to the 2 cables that were sent relating to the attitude of the Australian Government to North and South Vietnam. The Prime Minister protested that it was part of the same even-handed policy that he applied to the Middle East. But he never showed any even-handedness in relation to Israel or the cause of zionism. In this case, despite what he said and the fact that he protested his innocence or even-handedness, he sent or caused to be sent 2 cables, one to our representative in North Vietnam and one to our representative in South Vietnam. Anyone looking at those cables must admit that they represented an entirely different approach as between the North and the South. I can see another honourable gentleman opposite whom I admire and respect who is nodding enthusiastically about what I intend to say. The cables represent another example of the syndrome of lack of accuracy, the tendency to misrepresentation and deceit when it serves the political purpose of the Labor Minister concerned. 
I must state that I divide our Prime Minister into 2 people. I think that the Prime Minister personally is a man of complete integrity. But in political life there is no doubt that he will use information and guile in whatever way he wishes to achieve his own political purposes. I come to a recent episode not so much concerned with the misrepresentation syndrome, but with the ethical standard of the Wollongong strangler, the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  I refer to the Ranger mining problem that has been raised in recent days. Honourable members will know that the Minister for Minerals and Energy rises in the Parliament and speaks with an apparent knowledge of what he is talking about. If honourable members do not agree with him, he attempts intimidation and threats. If honourable members do not agree with him then, he battles on in language impossible for any honourable member to understand. In the whole of the time that he has been Minister for Minerals and Energy he has not explained a consistent and complete minerals or energy policy. If ever there were a cast-iron case proved beyond any reasonable doubt, a case that could be proved in a criminal court in Australia - 
I came into this House today, as I think most honourable members did, to hear the explanations of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  not only about the Cairns affair but of the Khemlani affair as well. We felt, then, that the Prime Minister would give us some explanations and state the common sense of the actions taken by the Labor Government. 
But if honourable members care to analyse the statements that the Prime Minister has made, they will see that very nearly every statement is either a misunderstanding of administrative procedures, a misunderstanding of what is contained in the Constitution itself, or a failure to understand the proper and most effective means of raising loans overseas. 
I refer first to the first statement that the Prime Minister made, that is the one relating to open government. He said that there are 2 areas where secrecy is necessary. One was with regard to borrowings overseas by the Government and the other related to changes in the value of the currency. I agree with the second one, but I state that the first one is total nonsense and it ought to be known as nonsense by the Prime Minister because I have stated publicly in this House on at least 2 occasions what the true position is. The Prime Minister is not listening. What a pity, because he could get a lesson on economics and administration on this occasion. 
Today the Treasury was good enough to send to me a number of articles which I contributed to newspapers during the time that I was the Treasurer. They disclose, in a completely adequate way, that one can disclose everything that you want to with the exception of the range of interest rates within which negotiations will take place. These documents show that I made statements before the commencement of negotiations for loans, during the commencement of negotiations and when all the arrangements associated with the loans were completed. I have asked the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  if I may table these documents so that the Labor Party can be informed of the proper procedure. I now ask that that leave be approved officially. 
-What a mess the Australian Labor Party has made of this country and of its economics and finance, and what an unbelievable mess both the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Treasurer  (Mr 
Hayden) have made in their analysis of the speech on the Budget made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in this House on Tuesday. I believe that the first things that have to be looked at are the mistakes that have been made by the Government both as to fact and as to the estimates of practicable savings made by the Leader of the Opposition, supported by the shadow Treasurer,  Mr Lynch.  There are some grotesque errors. 
The Opposition produced a figure of $984m as the cost of our proposed additional financial commitments. The Treasurer's version is contained in a statement which he has issued of which I have a copy. First as to facts. In that statement there is one item- indirect taxes and coal exports levy- which we have not costed. The Treasurer's costing is $720m. The simple fact is that we never said that we would make these additional expenditures. It is true that the coal levy was criticised, and it deserved to be criticised, firstly, because it is an unnecessary and wrong tax and, secondly, because it will create a lot of unemployment and will destroy many of the coal industry producers in New South Wales and other States. Obviously whoever compiled the Treasury figures did not know what he was doing and did not know the facts when he was making recommendations on the tax itself. So there we save $720m. 
The next item in the Opposition's proposed additional financial commitments relates to the Mathews' stock valuation. I do not want to pursue that because my colleague, the shadow Treasurer, has already done so. On this item there is a difference of $400m between our proposal and the Treasurer's version. There is no doubt on our proposed policy we are right. 
The next item is the investment allowance. If ever there was an illustration that the present Treasurer does not understand public accounts and public financing here is that illustration. Who pushed him on the wrong track I do not know, but I have been expecting something like this ever since I heard he was to be the new Treasurer in a long succession of failures, including the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean),  who has just sat down. On the Treasurer's figures there is a miscalculation which the Treasury must admit now. There could not be any appropriation for an investment allowance because it affects only future investments and not investment which has already taken place. They should go back to school again and also read the Mathews report. They would be enlightened by both the elegant nature of the presentation of the case and also the persuasive nature of the arguments. The difference between our proposal and the Treasurer's version on this item is $300m, so already on the 3 items I have mentioned we can take $ 1,420m off the estimate made by the dear Treasurer and dear  Mr Whitlam  of our proposed additional financial commitments, which the Treasurer and Prime Minister estimated as $2,350m. What a mess. What an unbelievable mess. You could not believe it. If you lived in a world of fiction permanently you could not believe it unless you lived in this House under a Labor Government. This is the delusion we all have to put up with. 
I now come to the reduced financial commitments as proposed by the Leader of the Opposition. I must emphasise the items under this heading, even though my colleague and friend, the shadow Treasurer, has already done so. I would like to amplify. The first item is zero Public Service growth. I well remember that early on when the Liberal Party was in government we reduced the Public Service by 10 000 and got greater productivity- a considerable increase. If the Government is sincere and believes in helping this country I do not believe it can object to our proposal for zero Public Service growth under conditions such as exist today. In any case, its estimate of the saving that would be brought about by implementing this proposal is wrong. We say that it would save $150m, and we know what we are doing. The Government does not. 
The next proposed reduction relates to the sale of Pipeline Authority works. I have been advocating this for a long time. Honourable members opposite agree with us for once in their calculations of the saving that would result. What a wonderful thing it is when they can agree with us even when they are sitting temporarily on the Treasury benches. In relation to two other items we find a difference of opinion. The Government differs with us as to the savings to be gained from other expenditure economies. The Government puts on it a figure of $1 15m, and we put on it a figure of $480m. Why did we do that? We say that we will cut out uranium exploration, cut back urban and regional development, wind back national capital expenditure and abolish the Australian Government Insurance Corporation, which if it ever comes to life will destroy this economy and will open up the way for an authoritarian form of government. Other economies we propose amount to less than 2.2 per cent of total Government outlays after the specific economies we have mentioned are taken into account. Again the Government has made an error as to facts. 
I come to an analysis of the Estimates. I have a fairly good knowledge of public account estimating and looking at estimates that have been prepared by the Treasury and by other departments. At least few can deny the number of times I have looked at them in succeeding Budgets. Of course, people can argue a little bit about their qualifications as compared with those of other people. I do not want to go into that and I do not want to be personal. I have in front of me the latest quarterly estimates of national income and expenditure. They are for the June quarter. The percentage change in the main aggregates is shown on the last page, in seasonally adjusted terms. They contradict everything that was said by the unfortunate Treasurer when he answered a question in this House on Tuesday. I will not go through all of his statements. But I shall mention a few items. 
First look at gross national product. The tables do not show the grandiose figure the Treasurer mentioned but show only an increase of 2.9 per cent for the whole year. As I said, that is the percentage change in main aggregates at 1966 prices. It is there for everyone to see.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you can have a copy if you would like to look at it, and so can the Treasurer when he returns from his binge overseas. This is a disgraceful performance. With no increase in productivity, and in seasonally adjusted terms a 2.1 per cent increase in GNP, how can we afford wage increases that run at well over 20 per cent and provide a built-in inflationary pressure which the Government has not tried to explain? 
The position with wages and salaries is similar, but I have not got the time to amplify that. 
I shall refer, however, to gross operating profits, because here I believe an explanation is necessary. Gross operating surpluses of trading enterprises fell 20 per cent in the September quarter, rose 24 per cent in the December quarter, fell again 14.06 per cent in the March quarter and then rose again in the June quarter. If one analyses all the figures one will see that the Government has left out of consideration - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! As it is now 2 hours after the time fixed for the meeting of the House, the debate on the motion is interrupted. 
Motion ( by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the time for discussion of general business be extended until 12.45 p.m. 
Now let me turn to one of the areas that is of enormous importance. We have said that we agree with the fundamental analysis of the basic economy by the Government. There ought to be a slowing up in government expenditure to permit the private sector and the producing sector to expand and by that means to reduce unemployment and inflation and to get on with the job of increasing production at least to the extent of 5  Vi  per cent per annum. 
No second business can cope with severe inflation if it can be proved that the amount of profits will not permit business to invest or makes continuing in business worth while. Failure to observe these rules is the complete explanation for so many business failures today. The Government's statistics I have mentioned show that the net income of corporations was $4,755m in the relevant period. Tax on this was approximately $2,000m and stock valuation adjustments represented $ 1,820m, thus bringing real profits down from $4,755m to $935m. There is not much left out of the $4,75 5m 
Going further into the Budget papers there is revealed a deficiency of $ 157m in respect of undistributed profits. This shows that corporations after divided payments were in fact operating at a loss. The most recent accounts of Australian Consolidated Industries Ltd show that on the basis of current value accountancy indexation, it is living on capital and disposing of so-called profits out of the capital of the company. 
This shows the import of Labor Party policy and why investment was 0.1 per cent in a full year, as shown by the documents produced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Is that a record of which any government ought to be proud? It is a record of failure. The Government ought to be ashamed and ought to get out. 
I warn the Treasurer that the bells are tolling. The bells already have tolled for 2 former Treasurers, and others including the former Minister for Labor and Immigration. The bells will toll for the present Treasurer if he does not realise that it is wise to be exact in what he says as the Treasurer because there is no single position where truth, accuracy and certainty are needed more than they are in his position. He will be the next one, the poor unfortunate brute. He put the Prime Minister in an unfortunate position when the Prime Minister read out the statement which the Treasurer gave him. None the less the bells will toll for him. He has seen his predecessors rumbling on the tumbrils towards political execution and believe you me, he is on that path now. However, the bells toll for another man, the Prime Minister, and if he were a man of conscience he would get up and get out now. 
I now want to look at the 2 sets of proposals, the proposals of the Government and the proposals put forward by the Leader of the Opposition with the incredibly accurate assistance of my colleague the shadow Treasurer. I said initially that we agreed with the Government's philosophy. The Government wanted to transfer assets to the private sector. This is the essential condition of success. The rewards that go to capital have to be readjusted in its favour and the rewards that go to labour have to be slightly cut down to permit the achievement of the golden objectives of prosperity for all that all of us say we believe in. 
The Labor Party's proposals do not give any incentive to the private sector of the economy, which includes producers and commerce generally. In fact Government expenditure increased. 
Now look at the Fraser-Lynch proposals. Every single one of them is designed to help industry and provide incentive. There is personal income tax reductions which is an incentive to those who work hard and succeed. Then there is the Mathews' stock valuation. I established an institute at the Australian National University in public accountancy and similar matters and I am glad that  Mr Mathews  was appointed. This report is one of the best reports I have seen. 
Our proposals include an investment allowance and for the farmer we propose superphosphate and beef industry levies. Private companies are to be given assistance and beef producers are to be given increased eligibility for welfare payments. Every one of these proposals is designed to ensure that we get on the road to progress again. 
Can the 2 sets of proposals therefore be compared for performance rather than for the actual promises they contain? No, they cannot. We all know the present Government's performance is disgraceful. The longer it stays the worse it gets and it is incapable of reforming. Ours are practicable and would be the basis of success. We will see in the course of the next few weeks how confidence has gone, and how it would be restored by the proposals of the Leader of the Opposition. 
The business community will not react favourably to the Budget of the Labor Party. Confidence cannot be restored by this Budget without immaculate, perfect and intensive effortsheroic effort- by the private sector. Unless that is done Labor will lead us into more unemployment, ever so much greater inflation as days go by with productivity falling and the take-home incomes of the average Australian not rising as we all want, but falling to levels which could be regarded as totally unacceptable, even disastrous. 
-Last Thursday, in the debate on a motion moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  we debated the Liberal and National Country Parties alternative Budget for 1975-76. I said then that Labor's criticism of those proposals contained large and avoidable errors of both fact and estimating and showed little or no knowledge of how a Budget is drawn up or how it should be administered. Obviously the mistakes made by whoever wrote the document from which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  read his criticism could not have been made by anyone listening to or reading the speech made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  anyone with a knowledge of public accountancy and anxious to tell the truth; or, anyone with a capacity to understand elementary arithmetic. 
Let me give just one example:  Mr Fraser  estimated additional expenditure at $984m.  Mr Whitlam  estimated additional expenditure at $2,3 50m. Unfortunately for the poor guy and for his credibility,  Mr Whitlam  made 3 palpable blunders in estimating the Opposition's costings and additional financial commitments. We did not mention abolishing the recent indirect tax increases and coal exports levy. So, there is a saving of $720m; that is $720m too much in  Mr Whitlam  's estimating. A public accounting blunder obviously was made with reference to the investment allowance, which would not be payable for at least 16 months after the date of introduction of the necessary Bill and certainly not under this Budget. That is another saving of $300m. A mistake as to the nature of the Mathews' stock valuation and the reduction in company tax of 2Vi per cent results in another saving of $400m. That is a saving, all told, of $ 1,420m. 
It is incredible. The honourable gentleman is right. But I wonder whether anyone other than  Mr Whitlam  and now  Mr Hayden  could have made such ghastly errors without first of all trying to find out the facts. It again illustrates what  Dr Cairns  and others of his Party have said about the Prime Minister. They have said that he is as barren of economic and financial knowledge as a frog is of feathers. That is not my remark, but theirs. I sat near one of them in an aircraft going from Canberra to Sydney, and that is what he said of the Prime Minister. I thought he was being particularly generous. 
-I was there for a long time. If you stick in Parliament as long as I have, my son, you will stay a very capable and able man and ambitious man. But you will never make the Ministry, believe you me. 
As to savings and reduced commitments, obviously whoever wrote the Prime Minister's speech did not know what  Mr Fraser  said on so miscalculated by $440m. Poor brute! But he should have learnt by now, after  2Vt  years, to check all statements submitted to him. At least he ought to have consulted his own Department before getting up, being ultra-slick, and reading out thoughtlessly what had just been given to him by the Treasurer,  Mr Hayden. 
Let me come back to the national issues. We are now debating the Budget and its accompanying statements. I want to state my case and my opinions in an objective and impersonal way and, I hope, in a more sober manner than was displayed in the debate that occurred on Thursday. I want to put beyond doubt my belief as to whether the Budget, in its essential decisions relating to economic growth, inflation, employment and unemployment, and business and social confidence, in fact achieves the objectives which the Budget itself has set and with which we agree. We both agree- Government and Opposition- that the essential conditions of success are: The reduction of the rate of increase of Government expenditure in order to ensure that the private sector has room to expand its operations and to permit economic growth in the private sector, the sector which is principally responsible for increasing effective marketable production; a more effective and economically beneficial relationship between rewards to labour and capital, closer to the long term norm of 61 per cent labour and 16 per cent business investment- I might mention that the ratio today is about 69 per cent labour and about 9 per cent business and capital. 
And as the Budget explicitly says, a substantial . increase in economic growth overall, control of inflation and substantial increases in the operations of the private sector of the economy and its work force; a reduction in inflationary pressures; and growth of confidence. 
Before going any further, let me say clearly and categorically that the Government inherited a healthy, growing economy in 1 972. Unemployment was down in November 1972 to 88 000, not the 3 10 000 it is today under this guy. For 5 successive months to April 1973 there were reductions in unemployment. This was unusual both seasonally and in crude terms. Growth in real terms was 7 1/2 per cent. The underlying inflation was down to 2.2 per cent, not the 17 per cent it is today. Confidence was high, with increasing growth in overseas reserves and a sound and respected Australian dollar. More than any other country, we were able to insulate ourselves from the impact of world recession and the impact of increases in the oil prices charged by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. We did neither under Labor. 
By contrast, the features of our present predicament are: Small, even non-existent, growth of 0.4 per cent last year; inflation between 1 6 and 17 per cent and likely to grow in a year rather than to fall as it is doing in the United States of America, West Germany, Japan and Canada, our main trading partners- even now there are some prospects, with trade union co-operation, in the United Kingdom of inflation coming down below 25 per cent; unemployment of an unacceptable kind; and growth in seasonal terms of 0.4 per cent. Besides that, in respect of one objection the Government claims it wants to achieve, we have not the building up but the destruction of morale and confidence in the business community and in society as a whole. 
We have been gone for 3 years. You have been sitting on your b-t-m for 3 years and have done absolutely nothing other than cause harm. All this has occurred because of extravagant budget and fiscal policies whose origins can be traced back to December 1972 and January 1973. Read  Treasury Information Bulletin  No. 69, page 3, which draws attention to the fact that Government expenditure has increased from $630m to $960m-not a $4,000m increase as with this Budget- and that the country would have to pay for this extravagant increase in expenditure. I spoke on this point in the House on 27 March 1973, and the forecasts I then made for those small increases have turned out to be unbelievably true. Read page 13 of statement No. 3 of the 1975-76 Budget, which implicitly accepts this analysis of recklessness and mismanagement. 
Now let us look at the Budget in order to see the extent to which policies have been translated into effective action. First as to government expenditure,  Mr Crean,  the then Treasurer, said in 2 consecutive budgets that it was not his intention to rein in government expenditure, so up went expenditure in 1972-73 by $ 10,000m, in the next year by $2,000m, in 1974-75 by $4,000m, and now on the estimates for this year to $22,000m. But what we have to ask ourselves is: How much can we rely upon the estimates of the Australian Labor Party and the Labor Government? Last year they thought or they estimated that the increase would be 23 per cent. It turned out to be 46 per cent. I am sure as I live that rather than a 23 per cent increase this year 1975-76 it will be substantially in excess but not as high as in 1974-75. 
Here we find an increase in government expenditure beyond productive capacity which inevitably must lead to inflation and which, as the Government admits, inevitably must lead to unemployment of an unacceptable character as well. That is what has happened in a country that is as rich in resources as we are. Unfortunately we are compelled, while Labor remains in power, to live with consequences of this kind. 
What will happen as a result of Labor's policies? I do not believe that the deficit can be held within the estimate of $2,800m. Large deficits must, first of all, lead to excessive demand in the public sector not the private sector, then to a careless approach to spending and administrative management, and industrial unrest, followed by increased wage demands. Thus inflation, with its unfortunate effect of maldistribution and uneconomic allocation of resources and greater inefficiency in production, must take place. It probably will be well in excess of $3,000m. We will be swimming in dollar bills- an environment in which inflation and wage demands will inevitably take off again. 
What then of the future? What of the year's deficit in real terms at the end of the financial year? There is an estimated deficit of $2,800m. We have shown in  Mr Malcolm  Fraser 's statement that we could have reduced expenditure by $ 1,000m without increased unemployment but with increased demand in the private sector and a reduction in unemployment providing only the reduction in the public sector was phased in with the increase in demand in the private sector. 
What of the growth in the money supply as set out in table 2 of Budget Statement No. 2? I am not committed to the monetarist's theory of economics and Professor Friedman, but I have to admit that that philosophy and attitude to the money supply has a substantial influence on inflation. In fact, there is concrete evidence to support the view that a rise or fall in inflation is paralleled by a rise or fall in the money supply- M3- with a delay of about 18 months before the inflationary forces fully realise their potential. 
The Treasury estimates that the main contributor to the internal money supply will be the 
Budget deficit. Our balance of payments on current account is estimated to be minimal. It is said that banking, one of the main props of the private sector of the economy, will be under a degree of restraint in the growth of the money supply and will not be sufficient to accommodate inflation at present rates.  Mr Hayden  suggests that present policy envisages an increase of 20 per cent. This year the Budget in my opinion will expand the money base considerably by at least $3,000m- another record. This means that the Government will have to raise at least $2,000m in revenue if  Mr Hayden  's goal is to be achieved. But on the basis of what I have already said this leaves very little for the private sector, and if Labor has its way must be squeezed out of the market through open market operations of the Reserve Bank and increased call-ups from the trading banks to statutory reserve deposits with consequent increases in interest rates or greater contributions to Commonwealth loans. 
Already pressure is being exerted on the banks to reduce new and increased lending commitments which have been reduced by $132m a month in March to less than $100m a month in July. The recent loan raising of about $680m was largely in short term 18 months securities and 5-year bonds. The long term securities of 20 years drew only $34m. This clearly indicates the loss of confidence in the long term and, so far as the 5-year securities are concerned, a desire by the banks to avoid a call to statutory reserve deposits. 
I do not believe that this is the setting in which it can be said that the confidence of the private sector is being restored. I am sure it is exactly the opposite. 
What then of the incentives to restore business confidence and the balance between the rewards of labour and capital and to restore the conventional relationship of 61 to 16 per cent of gross national production between the two? The Budget says that it wants to give a stimulus to the private sector. In words, yes; but in performance it is business bashing with a vengeance. Corporation taxation is reduced by  2lA  per cent or by $ 120m. Depreciation allowances will be doubled and will, in the period of 2 years, add $7 5 m, but all this is more than swallowed by the increases in postal and telephone charges and the increase in petrol prices of between 6c and 8c a gallon at the bowser. The source of funds for the private sector through savings with the life offices and superannuation funds- one of the main sources that trading banks have for investment- will be heavily reduced, more' or less permanently if Labor policy remains. 
Investment in plant and equipment is expected to fall in the March- June quarter by 9.4 per cent. A fall of 32 per cent is expected in 1975-76, according to reviews that have been recently carried out. This indicates a radical difference in policy between Liberal and Labor. 
There is no other way to promote or make practicable investment except through savings. Every free and democratic country that wants investment to grow realises the complementary nature between investment and savings. The alternative- and a temporary one- is through inflation. West Germany and the United States are classical illustrations of the effectiveness of the Liberal policy of incentives and those countries, with Japan, lead the free world. We must provide incentives to save and invest and we would have introduced an investment allowance in this Budget. Labor is doing the opposite. At a time when it should be inspiring business it is squeezing it out of essential elements of finance for development. Those 300 000 people who save through the life offices and superannuation funds will suffer through a reduction in bonuses and through inflation. 
Labor says that taxation concessions and taxation deductions have been made, but in 1975-76 revenue foregone will total $550m but taxation will increase by $722m. In 1976-77 revenue foregone will total $420m and taxation will increase by $758m. Here we see impediments to getting on with the job of incentives for greater business activity and with that a fall in unemployment. I hope that with the other measures we proposed there would be a drop in inflation as well. 
What has been done to corporation profits? This is the only other aspect I will touch. Honourable members will see, as I said in the House last Thursday, that the net income of corporations was $4,755m. Company tax was over $2,000m. Stock value adjustments were $ 1,820m. This leaves a net of $935m out of a total income of $4,755m. This is not much. It is not good enough to inspire confidence. 
Another matter I would like to speak about is the assistance that must be given to small business particularly private corporations. We must give this assistance because as the Finance Director of the Australian Mutual Provident Society has said, the real difficulty facing small business and private corporations is that their capital has been so eroded and the cost of stocks so increased their borrowings already are up to the limit of their credit and assets. Now, with inflation, they will not be able to carry on unless remarkable changes take place. That is why such a very large number of corporations- over 3000 of them- went out of production or operation last financial year. 
Let me now turn to Budget Statement No. 2 which is supposed to contain the philosophy and the attitudes of the Labor Party. It is an extraordinary document forecasting as it does growth increase in non-farm production of 5 per cent, a one per cent increase in employment and a 4 per cent increase in productivity. 
As Professor Hogan, who lives in the market, has said, it would be a modern miracle if it proved correct. He went on to say that the Budget was predicated on 3 increases- the ones I have mentioned- and added that he did not think Labor's forecast was real sense. He said that the 23 per cent climb in consumer spending as projected by the Treasury would require a complete reversal of the present savings pattern. He said that overall the Budget is predicated on an inflation rate of 16 per cent and if average weekly earnings do not rise by 22 per cent as projected the Budget deficit will be much larger than expected. I agree with Professor Hogan. 
I also wish to touch briefly on unemployment. I believe that if Labor wants to achieve its objectives with a one per cent unemployment rate it must find jobs for 400 000 people before 30 June. 
I do not think the Budget is designed in detail to fit in with the objectives. It is full of petty deceits, miserable tricks and statements that could not have been made by anyone experienced in preparing Budgets. I conclude by referring to a statement from the London  Financial Times.  Yesterday it said:  . Whitlam is done for. 
I agree with the  Financial Times  too, as I do with Professor Hogan. The  Financial Times  stated that Labor and Whitlam were done for. In my view they should now strike tents and get out. I think they should do so before their credibility disappears completely, and should do so, if they are men and men of conscience, not only for thenown sake but for the good of this country as well. 
-No doubt the Acting Treasurer has read or heard about the United Kingdom Sandiland report recommending indexation of stocks and current cost valuation of plant and equipment and will know that the United Kingdom Government has allowed tax on stock profits to be deferred immediately. As well, it will permit depreciation of plant and equipment and other capital investment to be written off in one year. Does the Government now realise against this background, that the explanation on page 21 of the Budget Speech that very serious problems would be created by indexation, is obviously superficial nonsense, and that in any event the difficulties could easily be avoided? I will tell the Acting Treasurer how if he cares to consult me. Does he now realise how wise the Leader of the Opposition was in recommending similar policy changes to those of the United Kingdom? What does the Government intend to do about it? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The Treasurer will know that there has been an alarming increase in the money supply due to the way in which the Goverment is fiddling around and running down its balance with the Reserve Bank from $ 1,680 to about $400m. It cannot go very much further together with the tremendous build up in the amount of money out on treasury notes and at the same time completely changing the definition of the words 'treasury notes' and 'treasury bills'. Once upon a time a treasury bill was something that the Government - 
My question, directed to the Treasurer, refers to the somewhat superficial analysis of the Mathews Committee report by the Taxation Office. When answering questions in the House yesterday was he aware of and what credence did he place upon the facts that a former Deputy Commissioner for Taxation was a member of the Mathews Committee, which was chosen by the Labor Party, and that he was an officer of great competency and integrity; that one of the members of the technically authoritative Sandilands Committee in the United Kingdom, which completely endorsed the relevant parts of the Mathews Committee report, was a very senior member of the present Inland Revenue Depart; and that the Mathews Committee report itself analyses and answers, particularly in the appendices, each of the statements in the Taxation Paper? In order to test his knowledge and degree of understanding could he let me know which of the analytical appendices in the Mathews report he personally disagrees with and how many he agrees with? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I assure every honourable member in the House that I approve, even welcome, the fact that the LiberalNational Country Party Opposition has decided to do all in its power to reject this Loan Bill, together with Appropriation Bills (No. 1) and (No. 2) which were introduced in this House in the Budget Speech. I say that because I was a bitter opponent last year of the then Loan Bill, and I remain so. I speak with this degree of pleasure because at long last so many people have decided to accept the argument that I put then as to why last year's Loan Bill should have been rejected. So much has been said that is totally dishonest and unfair about the origin of this Bill that I would like to mention a Bill I introduced in 1966. 1 want to explain the differences between that Bill, last year's Bill and the Loan Bill 1975 that we are now debating. 
In the Bill that I introduced in 1966 I ensured that we stated it as 'An Act to authorize the Raising and Expenditure of a sum not exceeding One hundred and fifty million dollars for Defence Purposes'. The purpose of the Bill that we are now considering is 'To authorize the Raising and Expending of Moneys for Defence Purposes '. An amount is not set out. 
Clause 4 of the Bill that we introduced stated: 
Moneys borrowed under this Act shall be issued and applied only for the expenses of borrowing and for the purposes and services expressed in Part I of the Second Schedule to the Appropriation An (No. 1) 1965-66 under the heading 'XXII-Defence Services '. 
I am sorry for those people who have made the accusation that the Bill which we are now considering contains exactly the same provisions as the Bill to which I have just referred. They have shown a degree of cowardliness and unwillingness to listen to the truth. They have shown, therefore, that they are not disposed to accuracy when problems like this which involve public accountancy and accountability to the people are involved. 
In addition, clause 4 of the Bill that is now under consideration includes the words 'Department of Defence', and then states: . . . in the Supply Act (No. 1) 1975-76 or in an Act passed after the commencement of this Act and appropriating the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the service of the year . . . 
That is very general in application. It applies not only to defence, which is the reference at which clause 4 of the Bill that I introduced ended. It applies to the ordinary expenditure of the Government as well. 
What therefore is the difference? Our legislation was for a specific amount of $ 150m. As I have explained, it was to assist in the payment for the Fill aircraft. We sought a particular amount for a particular purpose- a defence purposeand in respect of a particular part of the defence Services. 
But this Bill seeks money not only for defence purposes, as is set out in the preamble, but also for any other purposes for the ordinary services that are set out in various other Acts that can be passed. This is a totally and absolutely deceitful way in which to raise money. A completely unlimited amount of money can be obtained. 
I want to take this matter a stage further because so far as I know this matter has not been mentioned by any other honourable member in the House. The method of borrowing set out in the Bill is by the issue of treasury bills under the Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Act. What are treasury bills? I heard the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  come into this House and say that it had been whispered or leaked to him by someone that I had asked what had happened to treasury bills. We gave up issuing treasury bills in 1971 and they have not been introduced since. Just what are treasury bills? Treasury bills provide the simplest kind of transaction. A government goes along with a treasury bill to the Reserve Bank, it discounts that treasury bill with the Bank and it gets an issue of fiduciary currency. This is not the creation of money to balance increased production. It does not go out to the public in the way that T Notes or Treasury Notes go out at the market rate of interest. It goes out at a rate of about 1 per cent and in any amount that the Government cares to borrow from the Reserve Bank. This is an extremely bad way of financing, except when it is being done for temporary purposes or where the end result can be seen. So I am glad that this act of deceit has ended. As I said, I tried to get similar legislation stopped once before but I was not able to do so. 
The second point I want to make is that borrowing is not the only factor that is involved. Obviously there is not a member of the Labor Party who understands this. The Government has to ensure that the Appropriation Bill is supplementary to the Loan Bill or it will not be of any use at all. Section 83 of our Constitution rightly provides that no money shall be drawn from the Commonwealth Treasury except under the appropriation laws made by the Parliament. Admittedly there is a difference between appropriation and loan moneys. But it is because of that distinction that I also believe that we are right in ensuring that this Bill restrains or is rejected at least until an accommodation has been made by the Government with the Opposition as to the future course of business in this House. I certainly strongly endorse everything that has been said by members on this side of the House. 
Next I want to say that if this Bill were to be administered by people of the same character and integrity as a Liberal-Country Party government I would be in no doubt about it because there would be some control by the statements contained in the second reading speech. But I do not believe in these days and times that one can trust the Labor Party to carry out the promises in any second reading speech or in any other kind of a statement because that Party changes its tune from time to time. Minister after Minister has been dismissed for practising deceit so far as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is concerned or for other acts that could be regarded as being of a reprehensible kind. I would not give the Government any freedom at all outside the rigid provisions of the law. 
I would not give the Government any freedom for another reason. Everyone knows that if by a miracle- and miracles have not really been performed since the year 1 A.D.- the Government is elected again we will move from problem to problem, from disaster to disaster, from stagflation to what could easily be regarded as one of the worst disasters we have ever faced. I will not trust the Government. I do not think that anyone else should do so, either. 
The background as I see it is this: Since March 1973 we on this side of the House have been telling the Government where it was going wrong in respect of the money supply and the ways in which it has been financing the operations of the Government. But the Government never listened because it did not understand. So, 2 Treasurers had to be removed from office because they did not understand that one cannot continually go on increasing deficits in order to finance the operations of the Government. They both lost their jobs and no one regrets the fact that they have gone. They showed no ability to operate as Treasurers. They deserved the treatment that was meted out to them by the Prime Minister under the most sordid circumstances. 
But let me now just look at one set of facts which is alarmingly important and which ought to be known to everyone. The weekly statement of central banking business, which is published by the Reserve Bank of Australia, shows that in the course of 5 weeks the credit drawn by the Government from the Reserve Bank has been increased from $95 9m to $2,354m. This has been in the form of Australian Government securities mostly of a cash or treasury bill kind. I do not think that any increase of this kind has ever been known in Australian history. This is the clearest possible indication that what the present Treasurer- the momentary Treasurer- said in the House a few days ago that the Government has lost control of the money supply and that it is no longer able to estimate what the deficit is likely to be is correct. 
The latest Niemeyer statement of financial transactions of the Government for the first 2 months of the year shows that the Government has used cash balances to the extent of $660m. If those 2 amounts of money are not met by production there can be only one inevitable result. That will be an increase in money supply. Those who know anything about money supply and monetary theory will know that if you increase money supply by a certain percentage almost inevitably over a period of time- probably a 14 to 18 months gap- there will be a comparable increase in inflation and the consumer price index. Then there will be an increase in unemployment. As sure as night follows day we will see the figures rise, as I have said, within a period of 16 to 18 months. It is for that reason that the Opposition has taken the attitude that it has taken. It is for that reason that I strenuously urge the Opposition to do so- to get rid of Whitlam and those who stick behind him but do not support him. If one talks to them privately you find that their private attitudes are different from the ones they express in their votes in this House. If one has the opportunity of talking to them one finds that they express distress because they do not like to see this country of ours- a country with more wonderful prospects than any other country- being taken from a stage of stagflation into what I believe could be a real depression where we will have not only deficit financing but also a kind of desperation which we have never before had to tolerate in this country. 
What has happened in relation to the money supply? First of all when we started to crossexamine the present Treasurer about the increase in the money supply he was nice enough to confess that he would like a 1 5 per cent increase. But when we look at the last seasonally adjusted figures, even taking what is called Ml- the tightest of all definitions- we find that the increase is 24 per cent, that is an understatement, and it is bound to go even higher as the months go by. That implies that there will be an inflation rate of that order during the course of the next year. There is nothing that can be done to restrain this unless we put in an alternative government and give it the opportunity to introduce its policies as soon as it possibly can. Above all it must be able to do something which would ensure indexation of stocks as recommended in the Mathews Committee report- something that is already done in the United Kingdom and is roughly proportional in cost to what that would have to be borne in Australia if the Mathews Committee recommendations were adopted. My Party when in government will go only half that distance. So no one can argue that we would be taking a risk. In fact what we would be doing would be taking action to ensure that business remained viable and that the Australian community had a reasonable prospect within a reasonable time of getting affairs back on to a satisfactory basis. 
I come back to only one other matter before I conclude. Recently I went on a mission overseas. For the most part I had to pay for it myself because the Prime Minister refused to do so despite agreement before I left overseas that the expenses would be paid. Everywhere I went I found ridicule of the activities of the Whitlam Government- ridicule because the Goverment did not know where it was going, ridicule because even now on the international exchanges there has been a devaluation of a minimum of 7 per cent. This clearly indicates the lack of trust in the Australian currency under Whitlam. All this can be ended by the actions and the decisions of one man. All he has to do is what he did in May 1 974 and see the great dangers which this country is facing due to the continued occupation of the treasury benches by this Government. He should go to the Governor-General, tell him the problems and ask for an immediate double dissolution-a dissolution of both Houses. If he were a statesman he would do so. If he is a politician of a kind we have never known in our history he will go down in tradition as a man who failed his country in its hour of need. It was not necessary to put the country through trials and tribulations but he could have put us on the road to success under a government led by Malcolm Fraser, who I believe will be one of the great Prime Ministers of this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The right honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I refer to the misleading answer he recently gave in this House that the Sandilands Committee in the United Kingdom had not reported that current cost accounting should be introduced quickly. I ask him whether he has read pages 3 and 4 of that report which says, amongst other things, that: 1a. An initial standard of Current Cost Accounting should be made mandatory for listed companies and should be implemented for accounting periods beginning not later than 24 December 1977. and that: 
In our opinion Current Cost Accounting is a fully comprehensive method of accounting for inflation . . . 
Has the Treasurer woken up to the fact that already the United Kingdom Government has taken action to assist overcoming the 2 relevant problems mentioned in the Mathews report and that the cost to the United Kingdom revenue was proportionately of the same order as it would be in Australia if the Mathews Committee's report had been adopted? Finally, does he now know that the Sandilands Committee did not recommend, as he had alleged, that a royal commission should be held before definitive action was taken? 
-Yes. In order to again prevent misrepresentation by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  I want to state that at no time during the period that I was Prime Minister was any proposal put to me or through the Prime Minister's Department for any substantial improvements at the Lodge or to extend the premises. I think he must have been dreaming or dredging the bottom of the waste paper basket. 

 Mr E. G. WHITLAM (Werriwa-Leader of the Opposition)-  Mr Speaker,  when I took up residence in the Lodge for the first time there were plans by the Department of Works to extend the front of the Lodge forward on both sides. Those plans were still there when I left. No action was taken on them during my incumbency. I do not remember the date of them. They might not have been devised in the right honourable gentleman's time; maybe it was during the time of his predecessors. However they were there when we took up residence. 
-Yes. My personal explanation relates to a report in today's  Sydney Morning Herald,  a reputable journal which almost universally reports what is accurately stated to it. However, I want to say that I did not bluntly tell the Treasury yesterday that I did not understand the Government's economic objectives or its strategy. 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim misrepresentation on 2 occasions. In the Sydney  Sun  dated 1 March there is a report of an interview with Reuben F. Scarf under the heading  Facing the Sun.  The article states: 
The key to the Arabian treasure chest was produced, he said, at a private luncheon in his home soon after Labor was elected in 1972. 

 Mr Whitlam addressed a meeting of 42 Middle East representatives and contacts of all kinds, 'everyone of them different'. 
The meeting was set up by  Mr Fischer,  a man with great contacts . . . 
The article goes on: 
There were, in fact, 2 meetings,  Mr Scarf  told me.  Mr Whitlam  spoke at one- at the other, William McMahon and Andrew Peacock. 
Both stressed the same line- Australia's even-handed approach to the Middle East. 
I did not meet  Mr Reuben  F. Scarf at any time during 1972 and certainly not about the time of the election. I have never discussed with  Mr Reuben  Scarf the key to the Arab treasure chest which is said to have taken place at a luncheon in 1972. 1 have never met  Mr Fischer.  He has never contacted me and I have not spoken to him. Thank heavens I never did because today I would have been rueing the day. We did not talk about an even-handed approach to the Middle East. It was not then one of the in phrases and I did not coin it. 
Nonsense. You did not listen to what I said or, more importantly, you did not understand, and you never have. Get back into your kennel. Stop yapping. 
I am,  Sir. I  am explaining what I did not do and telling our friend what I did do. My memory is clear. I did visit  Mr Scarf's  home on 4 June 1974. 1 took the precaution immediately, on 20 June, of letting the  Australian Jewish Times  know exactly what I said so that there could be no misunderstanding by Israel or by the Jewish community. I stressed that I believed that resolution 242 of the Security Council should be observed- in other words, that there should be termination of all claims, states of belligerency, and respect for sovereignty and territorial independence. 
The second one occurred in today's  Sydney Morning Herald  under the heading 'Lobbying: Both sides of the Middle East fence '. The article said that  Mr Scarf  had held 2 dinners for his foundation and for his work for the Arab world, one attended by  Mr. Whitlam  and the other by  Mr McMahon  and  Mr  Peacock. That is totally false. I went to a small luncheon attended by no more than 12 people. We discussed only one problem, and that was resolution 242 of the United Nations Security Council. 
I ask the Treasurer: Does he remember that when the Financial Corporations Act- that was twice referred to by- whatever he is- the transient Leader of the Opposition, obviously without any knowledge of what was contained in it- was being discussed with the finance organisations of this country we pointed out to them- this happened probably 1 8 months ago- that under section 8 (4) of the Reserve Bank Act the Reserve Bank has power to lend money without qualification or restriction at its discretion? We then pointed out to the - 
Thank you,  Sir. I  am grateful and I - 
Yes  Sir. I  only ask this of the Treasurer. Will he please let it be known not only to the permanent building societies but to the Australian people as a whole that the permanent building societies do have this right under section 8 (c) or (d) of the Reserve Bank Act and that it can be exercised with the discretion of the Reserve Bank authorities? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker if  Mr Speaker  had been in the Chair I would have congratulated him on his victory over you for the speakership of this House.  Sir, I  go a stage further: Not only am I glad that he has been elected to that position but I also appreciate the clarity with which he expresses himself when he is speaking to the House.  His  voice is clear and his opinions are unmistakable. This is a wonderful change from what we had to endure over the last two or three years. I would also like to extend my congratulations to the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  on his election to the position of  Chairman  of Committees. We all know of his ability. Over the years the honourable member developed a capacity for chairmanship that I think has been unequalled in all the time I have been here or during my political life. 
But  this  is not my reason for speaking today. I am taking part in the debate not to deal with the amendment to the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech moved by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  but to support those parts of the Speech which relate to the state of the economy. Firstly I would  like  to put the internal position of Australia into perspective. Australia must be concerned with the growth and development of the economies of the countries with which we trade. We must ask ourselves the question: What will be the impact internationally of these economies on Australia 's commodity prices and on our standard of living? 
It is not so very long ago that views were expressed that there would be substantial changes this year that would have meant that the growth overseas would have been a positive one instead of a negative one. It was predicted that growth in the United States of America would rise from minus 3 per cent to plus 5.75 per  Gent,  Japan from 1.25 per cent to plus 4.25 per cent and Germany from minus 3.75 per cent to plus 3.25 per cent. We have heard only in the last few days that as a result of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade discussions these expectations can no longer be realised because it is believed there has been a block and that that block will mean, of course, that international trade will not be generated at the predicted figure of 7.5 per cent but will fall to an ever much lower figure with a consequent impact on commodity prices and the welfare of the people of this country. 
Having said that, I turn to the internal financial position. I ask the question which I do not think has been asked quite enough: What in total are the objectives of the Fraser Government? I believe that I can express them in this way. First we have the major task of ensuring that our growth is continued and that our national development increases so that we can develop a prosperous and successful economy. By doing this we will not only be able to produce more resources and provide more services to the community but also we will be able to provide for the welfare of pensioners and those who might be regarded as being in the disadvantaged sections of the community. The approach of the Government is therefore both utilitarian and humanitarian at the same time. We must remember that we are trying to solve our problems against the background that last year this endowed country, this wonderful country that only a politician can muck up, had a growth rate of minus 1.7 per cent. If the previous Government had stayed in office much longer we would not have been able to count the size of the negative growth rate. Certainly people like me who cannot count more than 10 fingers on my 2 hands could not do so. This is the muck up we got into by the consistent approach of a series of Treasurers who went like sheep through the gate into the dip and came out at the other end not drenched but certainly bewildered. That is the position we got into; it is the position that had to be cured. 
What are the great problems that face us today? Unmistakably as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has so consistently pointed out, those problems are inflation, the money supply, unemployment and the transfer of real resources from the public to the private sector of the economy. These are the problems. The Government has stated its objectives. But I want to state on my own without any prompting or assistance from anyone else that the policies that have been developed by the Fraser Government are not only comprehensive but also are consistent with the achievement of that Government's objectives. I believe that they are, but I do not want to pass over that without giving this warning: Do not think that the same policies will continue ad infinitum. They could change in a moment, and I want to look later on at one or two of those problems and make some suggestions. 
Let us now consider what is happening in the economy. Let us consider what are the dynamics of movement, the dynamics of progress. There has been little or no progress in retail sales in recent months, certainly little over the course of the last 12 months. The figures are there for everyone to see. It could be said that there has been a money increase, but the money increase is not enough because it must be discounted by the amount of inflation. So while we are selling more in money terms we are jumping up and down in the same place so far as real sales are concerned. Housing construction was down from 12 400 in November to 1 1 000 in January, and a fall is likely in the months immediately ahead because of the offering of Australian savings bonds. Motor vehicle sales were 63 000 a month a little over a year ago. In January they were down to 38 000, and General Motors-Holden's is jumping through hoops because the figure went up to 42 000 in February. According to figures I received today, the position of the building and construction industry, in relation to non-housing construction, is at an almost disastrous level. The Master Builders Federation of Australia has stated that in 1970 the value of all work of a nondwelling kind was $ 1,131m. Now it is about $1,1 10m, which is a pretty drastic fall. 
We have to consider these problems and we have to accept the fact- and it is accepted today by most commentators- that the economy is in a state of stagflation. I will explain the reasons for that in a few moments, but first let me quote Alan Wood of the  Sydney Morning Herald.  He has stated that there is currently no sign of an upturn from the official indications and no real reason to expect an upturn. One of Sydney's leading business consultants has stated that anyone who says the Australian economy is in a process of recovery will be at a loss to back up his claim with facts. A paper issued only today by the Chamber of Manufactures and the Bank of New South Wales indicates that the future may be good but it states that there is surplus capacity, orders are bad, and similar considerations of that kind point to the view that conditions are slack. 
Who is to blame for all of this? I do not think it can be said that it is only a question of having most unfortunate Treasurers, although certainly they have to take a major share of the blame. One Treasurer about whom I would have to comment is the last Treasurer of the Labor Government,  Mr Hayden.  He was given credit for being a bit of a genius in economic affairs. I could never see that in all the time that I sat here. I thought he had a strange capacity to con the Australian people into believing that it was the second political coming. But I never saw any other evidence of it, certainly as far as his economic and financial attitudes and knowledge of life were concerned. He claimed: 'We will be out of our troubles soon. We have got the money supply under control'. He also said that from January onwards he would be putting $350m into circulation by taxation reductions and this would increase demand. As I have just said, everyone knows that he failed and he has to be treated as a failure, in the same way as Crean and Cairns and the advisers who tried to assist them, and helped to make bad decisions, have to be treated as failures. Those people in the Labor Caucus and cabinet have to take responsibility. 
I believe that today there may be a need for stimulus in the private sector and there may be a need to have a selective Keynesian approach to special assistance in some areas of the public sector of the economy and probably for some temporary personal taxation relief even if it means a reduction in expenditure somewhere else in the Budget. I put that to the Government only because I believe that the facts I have stated are eloquent and that something must be done. It is true that the Government has done a lot with regard to income tax on corporations, including private corporations. It has also given an investment allowance of 40 per cent, tapering off over time, and double depreciation to end this financial year. There can be no doubt where the Government wants to go. But I have to state also that it seems to me that over the period between now and when the Budget is introduced in the middle of August something must be done, and I recommend to the Government that it consider the problem as quickly as it can. 
Let me turn now to the real problems that we face today and let me analyse them. I have mentioned inflation, and without any doubt one of the basic causes of inflation is the fact that wages today are rising in excess of productivity. It is a mathematical certainty that if that happens there has to be an inflationary pressure. If there is no productivity, as there was none when we inherited government from the Labor Party, and wages were rising at the rate of 27.7 per cent per annum, or now at about 1 1 per cent per annum, then necessarily there is an inbuilt or stabilised inflationary pressure to the extent of the difference between the two. As I said, wage rates are rising currently at the rate of 1 1 per cent, but the 6.4 per cent increase in the indexed wage has to be considered. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  rightly tried to restrict that increase, although I did not think that there was much chance of his succeeding. Certainly the attempt was correctly made in the best interests of the Australian people. When those problems are considered, the inevitable conclusion is drawn that the 6.4 per cent increase, together with recent increases in the price of foodstuffs, is going to bring about an increase in the March quarter of something between 3 per cent and 3.5 per cent. That is an increase of close to 10 per cent for the 2 periods, and only half of the year has gone. The Government will have to be remarkably lucky to keep inflation at between 1 5 per cent and 20 per cent, and I think it will take all the skill, all the ability and all the efforts of the Prime Minister and his Cabinet to achieve the Government's efforts to keep inflation to within 10 per cent over the course of the next financial year. 
I turn now to the question of indexation. Fundamentally, when indexation is pan of the wage fixing procedures, it automatically institutionalises inflation What does indexation mean? It can mean only that an effort is being made to conceal the facts from the producers and from other members of the community. Indexation does not touch causes. It merely protects those benefiting from indexation. Somebody has to pay for the advantage that is given to one section of the community, tinder indexation today, not only is inflation institutionalised but it is the poorer sections of the community, the people who cannot look after themselves without government assistance, who have to pay. I do not know of any person of any great degree of intelligence who would not support that thesis. I am prepared to say that the Arbitration Commission was successful for a time with indexation, but that period of success passed with the 6.4 per cent indexed wage increase. Indexation has never been successful anywhere. Brazil was the No. 1 model, and that country reached 46 per cent, and only because the wage earning classes were suppressed and they were controlled by a military dictatorship. Chile, with the Friedmanites running the show and telling it what to do, is in nearly as big a mess as Brazil. We do not want that sort of thing to happen here. 
What should be done on the wage front? I believe that the time has come when the House should be debating what sort of proposal should be put to the Arbitration Commission. I have had the advantage of talking to  Mr Cameron,  whom I blame in large part for sooling on the PublicService to put in excess wage demands and sooling on other trade unions too. But at least it has to be conceded that he has a very good knowledge of the workings of the Arbitration Commission. What can be done? We could do what the British have done and put a maximum increase on wages of 6 per week. We could seek refinements of the consumer price index, particularly so far as potatoes and onions and indirect taxes are concerned. I believe that their weighting within the index should be changed, and changed dramatically. We could introduce a system associated with minimum award rates or average rate or average weekly earnings, or we could use a percentage of the consumer price index. These are my own ideas, although other people have expressed the last two that I have mentioned. I believe that we must have a debate on this matter. I think that what I have suggested is the essential condition of success, and we should do it quickly. 
I had intended to speak about the private sector of the economy because I believe that the facts about how drastically this section of the community has been treated are not quite known. When one looks at the position regarding investment in private industry, one sees that last year investment in the mining industry fell by 6 per cent. Investment in manufacturing industry fell by 18 per cent. I invite honourable members to listen to these more dramatic figures relating to investment. I have taken out figures based upon the New South Wales Stock Exchange figures- they are contained in the publication entitled  Syntec-  which show that consistently, over 5 quarters, there has been a loss of $358m of investment in plant and equipment compared with what could be regarded as normal replacement cost for the plant and equipment that is necessary in industry if efficiency is to be sustained. This fall in real investment must mean, of course, that productivity will go down. As I have said, already the Government has taken action to provide for double depreciation as well as for investment allowance. 
I come now to the second great problem of government extravagance and expenditure and its relationship to the money supply. We find already that government expenditure is now taking 32 per cent of our gross domestic production, as opposed to 24 per cent when we left office in 1972. The government deficit has been increasing. When we left office we had an internal deficit of $2 15m. Under the Labor Government, in 1974-75 the total deficit rose to $2,600m, an increase of $2,200m on the previous year. Despite the fact that the Labor Government said that it could keep the deficit at $2,680m this year, all honourable members know that this year the figure will probably have gone, not through this roof, but through the skies unless the Fraser Government had taken unpalatable action. The Treasurer immediately preceding the existing incumbent conceded that he had lost control of expenditure and therefore had lost control of the money supply. It is this matter of the money supply about which I wish to speak now. It is a well known theory that if you have money supply that is growing extravagantly in excess of the increase in gross domestic production, then you have an element that will create the conditions under which inflation can flourish. I believe that the money supply is increasing now at a rate of 1 5 per cent. I have this information on very good authority. The figures can be checked. This was a real achievement. I also believe that it is the Government's goal during the period of either this or the next financial year to reduce the rate of the money supply to 1 1 per cent. In this context I want to emphasise that one of the 2 prongs of our approach to the economy is that we must stimulate the private sector of the economy-  Mr Fraser's  words. I am somewhat worried that if in the period between now and the presentation of the Budget, the drying up of the money supply occurs to too great an extent it will be an impediment to private capital expenditure and demand. I therefore believe that the time has come when the Government ought to be considering suspending the second series of Australian savings bonds until after the September quarter, because in that period more than $ 1,200m will be payable by corporations to the Federal Treasury. A new issue could be floated after September if the deficit is too high. I conclude by saying that I know of no country that, per head of population, has the opportunities, the prospects and the resources that we havewhether real resources or the vitality of our people. Above all, I believe that we have now in this country a Leader and a Cabinet that are capable of providing administrative efficiency and guidance of a kind that has not been known for the last 3 years. I believe that during the last few years of the previous government private business performed miracles in being able to sustain itself against the hostility and the business bashing operations of the Whitlam Government. I think that if there had not been a change of government this hostility would have continued. I have enormous confidence in this country. I know that with sensible administration it will succeed. I am sure that there is only one government which can give that sensible administration and leadership and that is the Government led by our present Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser. 

 -Mr Speaker, I have been misrepresented by the Acting Minister for Defence in relation to the use of Cockburn Sound - 
I am sorry. I am referring to the shadow Minister for Defence, who will remain in the shadows at least as long as he remains in this Parliament. 
Yes,  Sir. The  fact is that in 1972, when I was the Prime Minister, I received a report from a special technical committee of the Defence Committee which advised that the Committee as a whole was unable to determine conclusively the security considerations attached to nuclear powered and nuclear armed ships going into Cockburn Sound. Given as I then was to prayer, I decided to rely upon that method of obtaining a solution rather than to implore the technical committee of the Defence Committee to do something which was manifestly in the interests of this country. I left it there. My prayers were not answered. They did not have to be, because I did not have to take any decisive action then. 
More recent information coming to hand, particularly as a result of an opinion of  Sir Hartley  Shawcross of the House of Commons supported by the  Clerk  of the House of Commons, is that that rule as to privilege does not apply in the House of Commons to criminal proceedings. I have the documents in my possession. May I please tender them to you while you are making up your mind? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
When I came into the House I thought I would be listening to some constructive contribution by the shadow Treasurer to the problems that face us economically, financially and industrially. I regret to say that I did not hear such a contribution. This is understandable because of the shadow Treasurer's lack of knowledge of finance or of fiscal or monetary concepts of any kind. I sympathise with him. I am sorry for him. I think whoever wrote his speeches should have written a somewhat different one for him which would have given some kind of guidance to the Australian people and particularly to this House as to Labor's fiscal policies and alternatives. He referred to an issue that ought to be forgotten by now. He referred to the withdrawal of the mandate of the former Prime Minister as Prime Minister and to the vesting of that office in  Mr Malcolm  Fraser. There can be no doubt that that action was welcome to the Australian people. The vote showed it. He spoke about whether there was power under the Constitution to take such action. Obviously he has not read section 5 of the Constitution. If he reads the words of that section surely he will have to concede that there is such a power. Could there be anything more precise than the words in that section? It states: 
The Governor-General may appoint such times for holding the sessions of the Parliament as he thinks fit, and may also from time to time, by Proclamation or otherwise, prorogue the Parliament, and may in like manner dissolve the House of Representatives. 
Therefore he has the specific power. What else could he have done in a situation like that which existed towards the end of last year? There is no doubt that the economy was being mismanaged. There is no doubt at all that Supply was just about to run out. 
In this context I refer to another section that should interest the shadow Treasurer because of his hitherto total ignorance of this subject. Under section 83 of the Constitution, there can be no appropriation unless there is a vote of the Parliament. If there had been an attempt at appropriation, even if the money had been borrowed overseas, it would have been illegal and unconstitutional to appropriate it without a vote of the Parliament, not just the House. Under section 61 of our Constitution the Governor-General in Council has certain obligations. One is to ensure that the government of the country is carried on. As there were no prospects of the government of the country being effectively carried on under the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  the former Prime Minister and now the Leader of the Opposition, the GovernorGeneral had to act. For the time being, I hope, after the Paltridge affair, he can be only the temporary Leader of the Opposition. It was a sorry and degrading day for us that the events associated with the name of the late  Senator Sir Shane  Paltridge alleging corruption should have been made a subject of public debate without any evidence and pursued not only in this House but outside as well. 
For these reasons I dispose quickly of the first argument of the shadow Treasurer. Then, he referred to the powers of the Senate. There is no doubt that the Senate has the power to refuse passage to a Bill. That power has been there for donkeys years. People accept that power.  Mr E.  G. Whitlam and the former Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Murphy,  both stated that they would use that power if they had the opportunity. 
Do not be a hypocrite. They tried but could not muster the numbers. They accept that fact. The shadow Treasurer obviously does not understand what all this is about. Again I sympathise with him and express to him my sorrow. Nonetheless, there it is. They would have done it. Now they resent the fact that the Governor-General appropriately and properly took the action he did. Of course the question is this: 
What is wrong with the people of this country being given an opportunity to express their views when the country is headed for a depression? When the Government cannot control appropriation there can be no doubt that the economy had moved out of the stage of stagnation and stagnation. We had marched through the phase of recession, and were steadily and inevitably moving towards depression. Under those circumstances surely the people of Australia had the right to vote? They did! What was the result? The sovereign power in this country, the people of this country, took the present Opposition to task and chucked them out. The people acted in the most responsible and decisive way known in Australia's history. 
The shadow Treasurer then mentioned the funny old story about inflation being a world phenomenon. In one sense it has been a world phenomenon. Apart from Australia, no country had the same prospect of escaping the rigours and unfortunate effects of this world phenomenon as we did. We had oil enough for our own needs. We could have isolated ourselves from many of the misfortunes of the world. We had an immense export income. We had an economy which, when the Labor Party came in, was developing at a magnificent pace. Real growth was 7 1/2 per cent. Inflation by the implicit deflator was 2.2 per cent, and by the consumer price index it was 4.6 per cent. Unemployment was down to 88 000. Out of this inheritance what a horrible, nasty, mean mess the Labor Party made of the economy in less than 3 years. It reversed all those trends and established the conditions that prevailed when the Fraser Government came into power in 1975. 
I must mention retail sales but I will do that a little later on. The shadow Treasurer distorted statements made by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  Let me make this clear and positive statement. The shadow Treasurer raised the question of deficits and said that Australian deficits were small compared to others. There cannot be any doubt on the best figures that are available, that the figures given by the shadow Treasurer were manifestly and provably false. The figure for the deficit in the United States of America is 4.6 per cent, for Canada 4.3 per cent, for West Germany 3.3 per cent, for Japan 3.7 per cent, and here it is 6.1 per cent. The honourable member's statement that we are at the bottom of the league is wrong. In fact we are at the top of the league in real terms. If he knew a little more about monetary and fiscal policy surely he would have turned to what was one of the decisive influences in halting the environment conducive to inflation- the money supply. In the United States if the money supply is in excess of 7 per cent people go jumping through hoops. Here we had to tolerate a level of 27.7 per cent whilst Labor was in Government. It would not have stopped if the Fraser Government had not come into office. Do not look like that. You look as though you ought to be in another place. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The House will come to order. The right honourable member should address the Chair. 
I should,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but when I am tempted in that way I cannot resist. 
Yes. You are right,  Sir. If  it had not been for the action taken by the Fraser Government probably the estimated deficit of $2,860m at the beginning of the Budget year would have risen to at least $4,750m and ended up, probably, at about $5,000m. So how can the honourable member argue in the way he did about the kind of action taken by the Fraser Government to reduce the deficit Government expenditure. I could talk in this way for some time but I have no wish to do so because there are other matters that ought to be dealt with while I am speaking in this debate. I would like to mention one, but only one, fact associated with the Appropriation Bills and compare it with the performances of the Australian Labor Party last year. I refer to the fact that the savings under Appropriation Bills (3) and (4) will be of the order of $500m. Let us contrast that with what happened under Labor. Last year expenditure increased by $ 1,700m. All told there would have been an additional deficit of $ 1,200m. This was just part and parcel of the persistent way Labor did things- the devastatingly destructive way in which they acted when they were looking at the Budget and expenditure of Government Funds. 
At least the shadow Treasurer acts with good will. I cannot criticise him for lack of goodwill or integrity. If you look at the actual figures associated with Labor's various Budgets you have to concede that the first 2 Treasurers did not try to control expenditure. On every occasion they gave in to the pressure or cajolery of Ministers and the Caucus. The first Treasurer- the honourable member for Adelaide who is the fourth in succession in a long line of failuressaid that he had no intention of restricting his colleagues' requests in relation to increased and excessive expenditure. Let us look at some of the figures to prove that point. If we look at the year 1971- 72 we find a domestic deficit of $405m. In 1972- 73, at a time when we had to stimulate demand in order to ensure that we moved out of a recession and on to prosperity and reduce unemployment- which we did- we had a domestic deficit of $2 15m and a total deficit of $709m. We knew what we were doing and would have had to put on the breaks early in 1973 when the economy recovered. We get to 1974-75 and find that the deficit under Labor rose to $2,567m- a colossal increase and one that could only cause damage and create the environmental and financial conditions under which wage claims could be made and achieved. Inevitably over time with productivity fallen we would have created the conditions of depression which I mentioned a few moments ago. 
The point I want to make here and now is this: I believe that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has rightly stressed that the first objective of this Government must be the reduction of inflation. I believe that this Appropriation Bill gives us the opportunity to look at the various changes in particular departmental appropriations and the explanations given to establish the trend that is occurring in the economy, to highlight the real problems the country faces and what ought to be done about them and to inquire whether we can move more quickly to get this country strongly back on the path to economic and financial recovery. I think that honourable gentlemen will agree with me that the critical factors in the policies of the Fraser Government are these: First of all, the shadow Treasurer knows that national growth and development, and with it prosperity, are the keynotes of success. To achieve that purpose we must have a diversion of resources from the non productive sectionthat is the public sector- back to the private sector. Secondly, we have to ensure that the money supply will not create inflationary expectations and develop a momentum for wage increases of its own. 
I believe it to be a truism that to achieve success the critical factor must be in national growth of an effective kind both of supply and demand. Keynes fashioned the theory of effective demand. He said that there ought to be enough money created by the Government to absorb potential supply at full employment level. I change his words a little and I say that supply has to be increased in an effective way- that is, in accordance with the wishes and needs of the people expressed in the market place. I had intended to say something about the international position and the prospects of higher prices for our exports but time prevents me from doing so. Instead I have to content myself with the statement by the shadow Treasurer about the international position and that conditions in Australia are a reflection of world conditions. Today only one country is showing obvious signs of getting back to real growth development and prosperity, and that is the United States. Japan looks as though it might soon reach the take off stage in the same direction. The United Kingdom is putting up a magnificent performance to restrain wages and public expenditure but so far is getting nowhere. If you look at the rest of the world, you are drawn to the conclusion that, with the exception of West Germany and the oil producing states of the Middle East, the world is in a very sick condition. We cannot expect a strong and permanent improvement in commodity prices or the prices of our primary industries or our extractive mining industries or for that matter the products of our manufactured exports until the second half of this year. In fact so far as manufactured goods are concerned they have been reduced to minimal quantities during the time when Labor was in power. 
Only today I read some figures which illustrate the kind of problem we face in this country. The figures are associated with the gross national product in Australia and the way in which the various sectors have joined in making up the GNP. Let me turn to what I regard as the critically important section of the economy if we are to achieve an increase in our gross domestic production. I refer to the manufacturing and producing section of this country, to corporate profits and to the relationship between corporate profits and wages. Normally, when the economy is bubbling along in a healthy state we like to believe that as prosperity and growth develop we achieve satisfactory and reasonable proportions between wages and profits and, out of those profits, the ability to develop- whether by technology or by the application of more machinery. When my Party was in power at the end of 1 972 the amount of our gross national product that went to profits was 17 per cent. Under Labor it fell to about 8 per cent or 9 per cent. At the beginning of 1975 the figure had risen to 13 per cent. Before the turn of 1975 it worked down to 11 per cent again. This is the great economic problem that we face today. The former percentage of corporate profits must be restored. Looking at the facts observers will see that wages themselves and their percentage of GNP have consistently improved. Of course we want wages to have a better purchasing power and to ensure better standards and more options for all. But unless the flow of money to industry is increased, industry cannot invest and generate the confidence to do the job that is so necessary if Australia is to prosper. We want every single section of the community to have the opportunity to share in prosperity. 
Let us look at one facet of this; frankly I cannot discuss any other because of the limitations of time. I ask honourable members to look at the statistics for other new capital equipment besides housing, motor vehicles and production of a similar kind in our manufacturing industry. This relates to 1975. Here is the condemnation of Labor and its policies- the damnation of Labor's policies and where they were taking us in their headlong rush to depression. In the September quarter of 1975 investment in manufacturing fell by 7 per cent. In the December quarter the figure was a further fall of 1 1 per cent. In mining there was an increase in the September quarter of 12 per cent and the figure fell to minus 6 per cent in the December quarter. If you look at industry as a whole and take into consideration the theatres, entertainment industries, recreation and occupations of that kind, you will see that we had a deficit in investment of 5 per cent. In those circumstances what alternative was there unless policies were changed? There was none. The real prospect was a recession followed by depression. 
I believe that the Fraser Government is on the right track in legislating for an investment allowance and double depreciation provisions for industry as a stimulus. I believe it is on the right track in attempting to divert resources from one section of the community to another- from the public sector to the private sector. But I also believe that the most urgent action it must take now is to make further representations to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission about wage and income tax indexation in the national wage case. We should look at the fall in profits as a percentage of gross national product and the prospects of a further rise in wages due to the probable increase in the CPI of 3 per cent and a possible wage rise of $9.20. This prospect should be considered against the background that the Fraser Government has decided that in the next Budget, for 1976-77, it will start the process of indexation of personal income tax. The Fraser Government has already stated that it will commence indexation of personal taxation. In my view that statement has been treated with scorn by the Commission and not without reason. It is not precise enough or a basis on which the Commission can act. 
I believe the time has come when the Fraser Government must be more explicit in saying what it intends to do with personal income taxation in the light of the statement by the Treasurer last night, that he will from time to time make statements relating to such matters as indexation as a help in solving the nation's problems. I took it that he meant indexation of personal income taxation. There is a very good precedent when we are considering great national issues of an economic kind and when the judgment has to be made as to whether the Government should take action quickly. I do not know of any person who has had better knowledge of finance and economics than Keynes, the great British economist. He and for that matter his disciples never hesitated to act quickly when the future was at stake. We now have within 6 months increases of 6.4 per cent and 3 per cent in the consumer price index and these will be written into wages. So we face a 1 5 per cent inflation rate in a year. In order to pre-empt that I believe we have an obligation as a Parliament and a government to indicate clearly to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission what it will do in terms of income tax indexation with its effect on future wage claims. There is a precedent. Many years ago the Arbitration Commission informed the Government that it would not grant a wage rise if child endowment was introduced, and child endowment was introduced. I believe our general approach in the present Arbitration case is right and that is that the Commission should permit the CPI increase to apply up to average minimum award rates and then that amount should flow through the whole of the award wage structure, providing always we have hearings every so often- once every year or every year and a half- relating to relativities, work value claims and matters of that kind. This is a moment of decision. It is a moment of trial for the Government. I believe it is one of those occasions when with courage, a persuasive, logical and acceptable case can be presented to the Arbitration Commission. Members of the Commission are talented and experienced men. They are looking for leadership and guidance from the Government. They must be assisted with a sensible and achievable approach by the national Government. I believe that the Fraser Government is the only government that is capable of giving it. 
I address my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Has the Minister been informed that the British Trade Union Conference and the British Government have in the national interest agreed to limit pay rises to 4.5 per cent next year with a maximum of $A6 a week and a minimum of $A2.50 a week? Has the Minister also been informed that the British Government's expectation is that this would halve the inflation rate in the United Kingdom in 1977 and would bring the rate down to about 10 per cent? Will he inform  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, of the statesmanlike and strong support by  Mr Len  Murray, the General Secretary of the British Trade Union Conference, and ask  Mr Hawke  whether he will, in Australia's interest, take a similar national and statesmanlike approach to that problem too? 
We just heard a speech read by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  which obviously was written by Graham Freudenberg. It was read without a great degree of enthusiasm or interest. It must by doubtful whether the honourable gentleman had any idea at all about the substance of the subject on which he was talking. 
'Lack lustre' is a very good phrase to use. I wish I had chosen it myself. I want to examine the performances of the honourable gentleman while Prime Minister. I cannot understand how he could have the hide, when judged against those performances, to get up in the House and condemn the Government after it has been in office for only 6 months whilst it has been trying to repair the devastating conditions that he himself created. I would like to mention 4 aspects. I point out that during a period of 10 years that we were in government we increased our gross domestic product by 5.2 per cent per annum, on the average. 
During the 3 years that the Labor Party was in government it reduced gross domestic product to 2.8 per cent, and in each of the last succeeding quarters of 1975 it was operating with a substantial deficit in national production. Those figures are unbelievable in anyone's language, including the banana republics and including, if you like, other countries which are in critically desperate economic positions today. 
I can give the House the consumer price index figures. When we were in government from 1962 to 1972 the average rate of increase in the consumer price index was about 3.4 per cent. What did the Labor Government achieve under the leadership of the Leader of the Opposition who has just sat down. The increase was nothing like 3 per cent, but the average increase during that period was 13.4 per cent. Similarly, when we were in government average weekly earnings, which are the most important determinant of increases in prices and costs, increased at a rate of 7 per cent. But in the days of Labor the average increase was more than 18 per cent in 1972 to 1975. We heard the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  talking about unemployment. What credit can the former Labor Government take in relation to unemployment, when in the March quarter of 1973, to be handed on as a legacy from our Government, unemployment was down to 87 000. Today we have an unbelievably high unemployment figure, It is something of the order of 270 000. Labor had predicted that if it remained in office it would increase to 360 000. 
-Quite right. I want to speak about the bravado of the Leader of the Opposition. I have never known a man in all my life with such pretensions and delusions of grandeur as the Leader of the Opposition. I remember that four of five months after he became the Minister for Foreign Affairs he had not had time to do anything in that field because he was managing, so he said, about 10 other portfolios. No wonder he made a mess. Speaking about Curtin and another great man,  Mr Chifley,  he said on a radio interview that he regarded the 3 years of his Government as having far more influence on the development of Australia than the 8 years of the Curtin and Chifley governments m the 1940s. I wonder whether there can ever have been a more contemptible statement. Does any honourable member opposite or any member of the whole of the Labor movement agree with that statement, or do they believe that it is a show of vanity unequalled in Parliamentary life? But hold your horses  Sir, I  know that you are capable of reacting very suddenly and hostilely to a stupid statement. The Leader of the Opposition went on to say: 
Menzies, in his 16 years as Prime Minister, did not achieve as much as I did in three. 
This fellow who is up the back of the chamber gossiping with my friend from Hunter. I cannot understand a man who I admire so much talking to him in the friendly way that he is, especially after what I have just said about his performances in relation to national growth, inflation, employment and the other matters which I have mentioned. I cannot think of a greater failure in the history of this country than the honourable gentleman. It must be a surprise to everyone- every single thinking person in this House; every single person in the community- that a man with such a record can be sustained in office. Let us look at another angle of his criticism. As far as the 2 statements which have been made are concerned- the one made on television by the Prime Minister  (Mr 
Malcolm Fraser) and the other made in this place by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)-  the honourable member for Werriwa ought to listen to what  Mr Hawke  said. In the  Australian  of 24 May we see in the heading to an article that  Mr Hawke,  as the chief of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, said that the statements are very acceptable. I simultaneously thought of a cartoon which appeared in the  Australian  of the same date. It depicted  Mr Hawke  looking at a railway engine which ought to be marked 'Labor'. Broken down, derelict, unable to pass the crossings or proceed further on the permanent way. It had  Mr Hawke  making this statement to  Mr Fraser.  'I'd give you a hand, mate, only I would be wasting my time; there is a national rail strike now on'. He might have added these words: 'And you haven't yet overcome the problems created by my predecessor in the leadership'. He would be referring to  Mr Whitlam. 
What are the national tasks that are immediately ahead of this Government which flow from the performance of its predecessor? We have got to repair the damage done by 3 years of Labor Government; 3 years of unparalleled damage that no one could ever have anticipated and which we all hoped would not in fact occur when Labor took office in 1972. First of all, we have to try to establish the essential conditions of national growth. I think, and I believe very deeply, that with sound government of the kind that is now being provided, we can get that growth again to go to a rate of 5.5 percent, which was the average during 10 years of former Liberal-Country Party governments. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has stated that we want, if we can get it, an inflation rate of no more than 7.5 per cent next financial year. In other words, the Government recognises that in the case of a country like ours- a great trading country- we cannot get out of step m inflationary terms with our trading partners or we will cost ourselves out of the international markets, cost ourselves out of production, and therefore cost ourselves out of increased employment. 
I turn to other things that have to be done. Of course, we accept the fact that unemployment created by Labor- an estimated 270 000 unemployed- has to be reduced. I remember that when the present Treasurer was the Minister for Labor we had unemployment down by diligent effort to 88 000, according to the published figures, and it was reduced even further, in seasonally adjusted terms, for the succeeding 5 months. We want to restore confidence, and in doing so we want to make certain that investment increases, that business solvency and recovery are achieved, particularly in manufacturing industries and in building and construction. 
Let me look at the prelude, if I can call it that, to the Budget. First of all our changed policies were adumbrated by the Prime Minister and then filled in in detail by the Treasurer. Our income tax indexation scheme will expand the tax grouping and will result in a reduction in income tax paid of something like 13 per cent. It will mean there will be a cost to the Budget or a loss to revenue of $ 1,050m in 1976-77. That, I should state, is an estimate or forecast of forward estimates for 1976-77. 1 point out that one of the changes that has been introduced and that the Labor Party ought to be saying something pleasant about is that for a single person there is the taxation threshold of $2,604 and for a man with a dependent spouse $4,299 before any tax is paid. Government forward expenditure has been cut from $4,700m by $2,600m to $2, 100m. That is a cut in expenditure- not the deficit, which is about $ 100m more. 
I turn to the third element, namely, child endowment. I do not think there is a person who does not welcome the change. Any person who has a regard for children and a love of family will desire to ensure that the mother will have a better opportunity to feed, clothe, entertain and ensure the recreation of her children. We were told by the Treasurer that more than 300 000 families and 800 000 people will benefit from that measure alone. Yet we hear the contemptible statement of the former Prime Minister, now the temporary Leader of the Opposition, that he does not believe that anyone will benefit from the changes made in the proposals. He implies that he does not believe in the women of this country; he does not believe in the kiddies except one whom he got promoted in an electoral division with the help of  Mr Fred  Daly. 
I want to look at the forward estimates because I think that this is one of our great problems. The Government rightly has not stated what it believes the forward estimates will reveal in terms of a financial deficit in 1976-77. It has not done what the former Labor Treasurer said that it should do. That is, to disclose the estimates of revenue itself. I am glad it has not done so, because everyone ought to know, and above all the former Treasurer ought to know, that one does not reveal those figures unless he is reasonably certain of what the amount is likely to be. The honourable member was able to turn an estimated deficit at Budget time of $2,960m into a deficit of $4,200m. This deficit, but for the actions of the Fraser Government, would have been between $5,000m and $6,000m. Under the circumstances can we take any notice of a man like the honourable member for Oxley? That deficit of $4,200m is after the deduction of Australian savings bonds of well over $1,1 00m. Can we take any notice of that. Can we take any notice of a man who forecast in his one and only Budget that there would be a 22 per cent rise in wages- it is now running at about 1 1 per cent- a 5 per cent increase in gross national productrunning at a negative rate- that employment would rise by 1 per cent- in fact it is falling- and that all the other assumptions as set out in table 2 of the Budget would be achieved? No, sir. If ever there was a failure after Cairns and Crean it was he. I place him at the top of the list of failures or rather at the bottom of the list of failures. 
At least I stayed in my Treasury portfolio for 4 years and did very well. I now come to this: I ask everyone who can analyse what are the likely effects of changes in policy in these 2 statements as a prelude to the Budget. No one can doubt that there will be a diversion of funds or spending power from various groups in the middle income and the upper income brackets into the pockets of the less well off groups, particularly the mothers. There is no doubt that there must be a stimulatory effect on consumption expenditure, not in the white goods it is true, but on food, clothing, entertainment and recreation, as I mentioned a few moments ago. No one can deny either that supplementary to this- and I have not heard this mentioned before by anyone, including members of my own Party- is in fact that housing is booming today. As houses are commenced and completed there can be no doubt that there will be a substantial increase in the purchase of the white goods section of Australian manufacturerefrigerators, washing machines and any sort of equipment that goes into homes, including radio and television. We have to remember also that supplementary to those policy changes there is already an investment allowance of 40 per cent with double depreciation. I believe that these policies in combination create part of the conditions under which we can hope for an increasing consumption expenditure with a multiplier effect and by means of the increase in consumption expenditure to ensure increases in the order books, then to the factories and then into employment. I believe that we achieve more than that, because under the present provisions, particularly with regard to the indexation of wages and income tax supplementary to an increase in wages and child endowment increases, we have established the proper basis on which we can now approach the trade union movement in order to ensure that the unions are persuaded to come to the party and agree to an incomes policy and, more particularly, a responsible wages policy. 
I believe that the Prime Minister and the Cabinet were right in agreeing to take action to make reforms to the secret ballot legislation because this provides the opportunity and the bargaining power to handle the most serious problem that faces this country today. That most serious problem relates to wages in excess of productivity. This does not complete the story but at least it does present the foundation on which, with sensible, reasonable discussions with the trade union movement we can hope- and we have good grounds for hoping- that we can get a sensible and proper response in the best interests of this country. I have not lost confidence in the trade union movement. I believe that there are more leaders in the trade union movement generally with common sense and goodwill than one would gather from the actions and statements of the Australian Metalworkers' Union, the transport union and the building unions. I believe that there is a prospect- a little prospect perhaps, but growing into a bigger one as the days go by- that those wise men in the trade union movement will help the Government to succeed in achieving goals that will improve the national development of this country and the welfare of most Australian people. 
-This is the second time is less than 10 days that I have had the misfortune to have to follow the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  in a similar type of debate. Of course one must answer, in exactly the same way as previously, the proposals that he has put to the House this morning. He talked about ideology. I wonder whether his definition of ideology is different from mine. I hope it is, because when looking at the measures which have been taken by the Fraser Government we have to admit that they are a straight out application of common sense to the problems this Government inherited with a bankrupt economy which resulted from the futility and stupidity of the actions of the Labor Party. 
The honourable member for Adelaide went on with the old thesis, which I thought was drowned over a year ago, that inflation was a world phenomenon and that our problems were due to overseas conditions. If that is so, how does the honourable member answer this proposition: Is it a fact that inflation in the United States has moved down to between 6 per cent and 7 per cent? Is it a fact that the United States thinks it will achieve a growth rate of 7V4 per cent? If honourable members look at our other main trading partners with the exception of United Kingdom, which is now starting to show signs of real revival and change, it will been seen that most of them expect a growth rate of 4% per cent in their next financial year and inflation down to less than 10 per cent. If these are the facts overseas, why are not we in Australia moving in an exactly parallel fashion if the honourable member's silly argument relating to overseas conditions being the cause of our problems applies? We now face an inflation rate of about 15 per cent this year with the real hope that it can be improved in 1977. It is only now that the Fraser Government has established the conditions on which we can hope for progress in the next two Budget years. 
I do not want to say very much more about the comments of the honourable member for Adelaide other than to reply to what he said about Sweden. When you meet a Swede today and ask him where he would most like to live he will name half a dozen places but never mention his own country. The Swedes are sick and tired of the idea that mother knows best and that 50 per cent of everything they do has to be controlled by a government. I do not care very much about Sweden anyhow. I care about my own country. I know what the people of this country did to the Labor Party when it tried to bring 50 per cent of their activities under control. They booted it out of office and left it with a miserable minority consisting of the miserable lot of people sitting opposite today. 
I turn to the 2 Bills now before the House. The Government has managed to keep down to $720m the increase in the appropriation in Supply Bill (No. 1 ) above the corresponding appropriation for last year and has reduced the appropriation in Supply Bill (No. 2), which relates to capital expenditure and other similar types of items, by $264m. This means that the overall increase in the Supply appropriation this year is $456m. When we recall that Medibank will take up $495m, because of the cost of the scheme and the other peculiar circumstances that applied in this Budget year there will be an overall reduction of expenditure. There can be no doubt that this is a good performance. The Government has every right to believe, every right to be proud of the fact, that it is another of the achievements for which it can tick up a plus mark. I believe the general public supports it. 
In the context of the economic situation which exists today these 2 Supply Bills are based on forward forecasts. They do not look at today! They do not look at the past! They look to the future! I want to look to the future too. Because I believe that this will be the last opportunity I and others will have before the Budget is presented. I want to make a few comments about the main problems that we face and I would like the Government to consider these problems when the Budget is being constructed. In fact, I know that the Government has already given consideration to them. I want more. I know that from the first day the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  became Leader of the Opposition and then, providentially for us, the Leader of this great country of ours, he has always had these problems in mind. Immediately I want to contrast the difference between the two Governments- the general attitude of the Australian Labor Party with the attitude of the Fraser Government. 
I think the best way to talk about the attitude of the Labor Government to administration and economic problems is this: Normally its attitudes and actions were ill considered and were taken at random. In an overall economic and administrative sense they were aimless and unpredictable. In contrast the activities and the policy decisions of the present Government have been deliberately designed. There is a continuation of policies directed towards achieving the strategy of the Government with regard to national growth, inflation, unemployment and incentives to the private sector of the economy. Its actions in the public sector have been designed to build up in places where the government sector was previously taking up too much of our resources and creating conditions of inflation and unemployment. The bases on which I put my argument to the House today are these: I have just read a copy of an article in the  Australian Economic Review  for the last quarter of 1975. 1 believe that it touches on the critically important residual economic problem now that the Government has dealt with so many other problems which face the Australian people and Government today. This article concerns the economic performance of private enterprise in the overall Australian economic and social field. As the Prime Minister says, if private industry does not suceed we cannot remove inflationary pressures. We will not get growth. We will not get a better standard of living for Australians and a better and happier life for them. I believe that that is the objective of every honourable member who sits on this side of the House. I cannot say that for the Opposition. I shall read from the article. It will frighten everyone as I believe it must have frightened the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I took time this morning and left the 
House to hear what the Commission had to say in the judgment it delivered on indexation. 
The gross operating surplus in the year under consideration was $3,484m; depreciation was $ 1,420m; interest was $546m and stock adjustment was $75 lm. That means that profits before tax were $767m. That is a big reduction from an operating surplus of $3,484m. Then, income tax was $900m. The residue of profits was only $767m out of which taxation was taken. Therefore, profits after tax were minus $133m. The dividends declared were minus $358m. There was a deficiency in the retained profit accounts of the corporations of $49 1 m. That is a prescription for disaster. That kind of result has to be altered. I know that the Fraser Government, the present Government, has taken action of a kind on consumption expenditure. It has diverted more income to the less well off section in the community. The housing industry and motor vehicles industry are doing well. 
To look at the substance of my argument against this background. I believe there is an area, critically important to the economy as a whole that needs consideration. It is proper that I should make some comments and suggestions about it. 
It concerns Australian corporations. The real problems facing corporations in general have been dealt with in outline or, in many cases, in depth by the Mathews Committee and the Asprey Committee. They have identified 2 problems associated with corporate finance and survival which must be cured. The first one deals with current value accountancy; that is, applying new accountancy methods and formulas to inflation. These are methods which are designed to establish the real profits of corporations after allowing for inflationary effects rather than the profits that are illusionary because of inflation. It is not money that counts, it is real assets. It is these at which we have to look. The second problem relates to the replacement cost and value of plant and equipment. I do not want to touch on that. It is not necessary. I believe that the Government has been generous even to the point of over-generosity. All I suggest is that when the investment allowance of 40 per cent, reducing over a period of years, is phased out the Government might consider several alternatives and even give taxpayers a choice. But it is too early to push that argument to too great an extent. 
I turn to current value accounting. The real problem associated with current value accounting and its application to the difference between the value of opening and closing stocks is that under our present taxation laws the difference is taxed even though the closing stocks have not been sold and profits have not been made, and have to be replaced at inflated value. When I think of it now in inflationary conditions, I cannot understand in logic how the system was ever introduced and continued even when there was no inflation. Unless the Government wants higher returns from taxation- I do not think this is the proper way to do that-I believe that the values should remain as at purchase and should not be taxed. Under inflationary conditions the effect of such taxation becomes extremely bad. When the Government taxes the difference between opening and closing stocks it takes the money flow that permits the company to buy replacement stocks. In most cases this price has increased since the purchase of the original stocks. This must be a self-destructing process and has to be changed. I do not know of any economist of merit, or any economist at all, who disagrees with that analysis. This raises 2 major problems. Let us look at the position of some sectors of manufacturing industry to get a truer appreciation of the way in which the company finance and the substance of companies is being chiselled away and see the reason why so many sections of the economy are going bankrupt. Before I come to the specialised part of dissecting manufacturing industry I mention- it was mentioned also by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission- that Company profits normally used to represent 15 to 17 per cent of gross domestic product. They fell to 8.8 or 8.9 per cent and then recovered to about 1 1 per cent, but there is a recent downward trend again. This is a problem we have to look at and solve. I believe that the level of 15 to 17 per cent of GDP must be reinstated. We should be doing our best to ensure that it is achieved by fiscal action and also by the decisions of the Arbitration Commission and others. 
Let me present some facts about some of the manufacturing industry of crucial importance. The metal trades comprises 41.6 per cent of the total number of manufacturing establishments in Australia, employs 47 per cent of the work force and pays 49 per cent of the wages and salaries paid in the manufacturing sector as a whole. What is the position today of that sector of the total manufacturing industry? Although there has been some upturn in the general employment figure, it is still retrenching labour. The industry covers refrigerators, clothes washing machines, radio sets, electric motors, internal combustion engines and motor vehicles. The foundry section of the industry is probably the most reliable of all indicators of conditions in the metal trades industry generally. In that section orders on hand are now down to 4 weeks, compared with the normal 20 weeks. In the words of industry spokesmen, no orders are coming into the industry from its customers. Because it is of crucial importance, I repeat, that no orders are coming into the industry from its customers. They say that no upturn is in sight. I have here a typical account which shows that while profit for tax purposes was $570,000 and tax was $240,000, after deducting provision for long service leave and depreciation allowance and after applying current value accountancy rules relative to inflation there was a loss of $2,600,000. Those are some of the facts which ought to interest us. Much the same sort of thing applies to the building industry- that is, building and construction but not housing- this is another area I hope will be looked at during the Budget discussions. 
It is not that we have not done this before. It is not as though the Prime Minister has not done his homework. Many of us remember the statement he made in this House on 26 August 1975. He said then that an essential feature of reviving the economy was to revive production and investment in the private sector. He stressed, so far as the matters I have mentioned are concerned, that it would be achieved over a 3-year period. I do believe that some taxation concessionseven a considerable one- must now be made to overcome the problems relating to taxation of the valuation of stock. I believe it was intended originally that there should be a value adjustment of 50 per cent in the first year, as recommended by the Mathews Committee and the balance within the following 2 years. I hope this is done. 
The second question to which I will refer relates to Government deficit financing. I have never believed that any simple kind of formula or any simple kind of rule can be developed to overcome serious inflation. I do not believe in fetishism or trying to govern by rule of thumb. Therefore I do not believe the money supply, the deficit in government finances should be the sole and dominant element in a political strategy designed to conquer inflation. I am sure that that dominant role will not be the guiding principle of the Fraser Government. I believe that common sense must apply everywhere. Of course we want to reduce the deficit but simultaneously, as the Prime Minister has said, we have also to ensure that stimulus is given to the private sector of the economy to take over the slack particularly any slack which emerges because of reductions in Government expenditure. The facts are there. 
They prove beyond any shadow of doubt that manufacturing industry including small and private corporations and the building and construction industry need help and need it soon. I do not know the forecasts or estimates of deficit relating to the next Budget. I have read newspaper comments that Treasury wants the deficit to be between $2,200m and $2,500m. That figure just cannot be sustained. I believe the proper principle should be that large enough appropriations should be directed to ensuring that production is stimulated in the private sector to get the economy going so that industry can be made properous as part of the contribution to the solution of inflationary problems and national growth. You are then on the right track. Supplementary to that must be an effective funding program to sop up the deficit part of it. 
Let me turn now to wages. I think one must approve the decision set down today by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It is a decision of the highest level of authority, of the highest level of common sense, and designed to be in the best interests of the unions and the Australian people. I know that there will be trouble with the Maoists, the Stalinists and others in the builders union, and that there will be trouble with the transport union and the metal trades unions. But I believe the mass of the trade union movement as such is solid and sound. I believe that it and its members will approve the decision to introduce platform wage indexation which the Fraser Government advocated at the most recent Arbitration Commission hearing as complementary to its own taxation indexation proposals now being debated in the House. The Arbitration Commission decided that minimum award rates will be increased up to $125 a week by the 3 per cent equivalent of the latest rise in the Consumer Price Index. On award rates in excess of $125 a week the increase will be $3.80 a week. The increase will not apply to over award payments. It is a real and significant break through. It supplements the other actions that the Fraser Government has taken to control inflation. I can only hope that the problems I have mentioned will be looked at in relation to the next Budget and answered in a way that will establish the framework in which private enterprise can prosper. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I have been misrepresented. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has stated as he did on another occasion I prohibited the use of Cockburn Sound and Jervis Bay by visiting warships from other countries, particularly those from the United States and from the United Kingdom. The truth is that I never prohibited the use of those 2 ports by either nuclear powered or nuclear armed ships. Inquiries had been made during the last 6 months of my tenure of office as Prime Minister as to whether such ships could use those 2 ports. I asked the Foreign Office and the Permanent Head of my Department, the Prime Minister's Department, to inform me of the position. I was informed by both sources that there was a difference of opinion within the defence machine itself, and that in those circumstances it would be unwise to give approval until the Defence Committee had made up its mind what the best decision would be. In what manner the security, environmental safety and matters of that nature could be effectively protected. That is the only advice I received. And I conveyed the decision that no action should be taken until we ascertained the facts. 
I intend to speak on only one aspect of this matter. I do not want to go over the history of it because it is well enough known to the House. I want to look at the words in the notice of motion or the intention to move a notice of motion which were used by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair). 
No, I want to speak on the substance of the matter. 

 Mr LIONEL BOWEN (KingsfordSmith)  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation as I claim to have been misrepresented by the Attorney-General (Mr Ellicott). 
The second part of the question of privilege raised by the honourable member for Kingsford Smith was that were the documents to be produced in a court and there in a court examined, then the fact of the examination of the documents in the court would amount to a breach of privilege. I understand entirely what the honourable gentleman is getting at. What he is saying is that if there is a risk of a court examining the documents and by that examination of the documents the court would be in breach of the privilege of the Parliament, we should not assist the process by releasing the documents to go to the court in the first place. That is basically the way in which the honourable gentleman puts the arguments. I must reject that. There is no reason I should assume that any court would be unaware of the long line of authority in relation to this privilege of the Parliament. I have every confidence that whatever court it went before would observe the parliamentary privilege and not breach it. I have the safeguard of course that if the court did breach the privilege it could be corrected on an appeal. Therefore I do not accept the issue of privilege raised by the honourable member for Kingsford Smith. The Leader of the Opposition has the call to the issue of substance. 
The point upon which I rise to order is not one that I could have taken if this motion had come on within a week or a couple of weeks after the petition was lodged with the House. It is a point which I must take now. 
When the proceedings were due to come on before the Queanbeyan Court of Petty Sessions, if this motion had been moved then, I would not in any way have resisted the House voting on it or voting for it. Since then, however, the matters have been taken out of the hands of the Queanbeyan Court of Petty Sessions. They may never go back to that court. Proceedings have been taken to say 2 things: Firstly, that the matters which are alleged in the proceedings in the Queanbeyan Court, even if established, do not amount to any breach of the law; and, secondly, that those matters, even if it were established that they do amount to a breach of the law are not matters which should come before a court so located. I need say no more than this: The persons concerned and the events alleged in no case reside or occurred in the Queanbeyan Petty Sessions district. The events would have occurred in Canberra or Sydney. The persons concerned reside in Canberra or Sydney or Wollongong. Accordingly, even if the events amount to any breach of the law by the persons concerned, it would not be a matter which could come before the Queanbeyan Court. 
The other point is that even if the facts alleged are established, they amount to no breach of the law. This matter is now before the Court of Appeal of New South Wales. It could not have come before that court without permission of a Justice of the Supreme Court of New South Wales. Leave was sought and obtained from  Mr Justice  Lee of that Court for the matter to come before the Court of Appeal of New South Wales. The Court of Appeal has set the matter down for 15 June. It would certainly seem premature and, I would put it, it would be improper for this House to say that the documents can be produced either in Queanbeyan or in any proceedings flowing from Queanbeyan when in fact the Court of Appeal may say either that the proceedings cannot proceed at Queanbeyan or that the proceedings cannot proceed at all. I put it to you,  Mr Speaker,  that this House should not in any way presume to act in such a way as to express a view or to pre-empt a view on such matters. 
Looking at the notice of motion, one would apprehend that it would not be practicable for any party to the Queenbeyan proceedings to have an effective subpoena until the determination of the appeal; but the notice of motion, as the Leader of the House has put it, is not an interference in the proceedings themselves. I would respectfully submit to you,  Mr Speaker,  that this is not a matter in which the  sub judice  rule applies, but the motion simply allows justice to be done if the event occurs between now and, say, 17 August, 24 August or whenever the Parliament resumes. It allows justice to be done to the extent it could be done by the issue of a subpoena should the Court of Appeal or some ultimate court of appeal hand down its judgment in the meantime in a way which would enable the proceedings at Queanbeyan to continue. If they were quashed under the writ of prohibition there would be no point in the subpoena; the motion would have no effect. 
Therefore I cannot rule the matter  sub judice.  Because I cannot rule it  sub judice  I cannot prevent the motion from going ahead or prevent discussion about it. The Leader of the Opposition indicated that it should be deferred to the next day of sitting to await the court's decision. That may or may not have been a good course to take, but it is not one which I can order. What is obvious to me is that the purpose of the motion is that, if a decision is made after the hearing on 1 5 June and the proceedings in Queanbeyan spring up again, the authority will have been given by this House to produce the documents. Whether the purpose could have been as well served by leaving the matter until August is a matter for argument but certainly not a matter in which I as Speaker can intervene and require that course to be taken. 
Because the matter is not  sub judice  and because it is not contrary to the Standing Orders I rule that the notice of motion may proceed. The Leader of the House has talked to the substance of the motion. There has been discussion on the privilege issue and the point of order raised by the Leader of the Opposition. I now propose to call someone from the Opposition side to speak to the substance of the motion. 
Grant leave to your petitioner and his legal representatives to issue and serve a subponena for the production of the relevant official records of the aforesaid proceedings of this House which took place between 2.55 p.m. and 10.9 p.m. on 9 July 1 97S and of the relevant documents tabled therein; 
In fact, the petition calls for the production of the documents. Even if it had not I would have ruled the motion in order, having regard to the petition for the production of the proceedings. I return to the substance of the motion. Is there any speaker on the Opposition side who wishes to be called? 
It may well be that the statement by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  disposes of this matter. That is, that the Opposition agrees that there will be no objection to the motion or the various provisions contained in it. I want to speak on this matter that I think is of enormous public and national importance. It goes right to the heart of parliamentary privilege and the extent to which that privilege goes. I think the historical background was well set out by you,  Mr Speaker,  in your statement of 8 April in relation to privilege in connection with the notice of motion by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  With deference to you.  Sir, I  believe that ruling which applied the Standing Orders was a brilliant explanation and interpretation of the Standing Orders. It is on that ruling that I base the contribution which I want to make today. 
I know the need for relevance. That is why I am proceeding to deal with this matter. I first state the very general principle as to the nature and extent of any particular privilege claimed by Parliament. I refer to the report of the Committee of Privileges of the House of Commons in 1947. It states: . . . the underlying test in all cases being, whether the right claimed as a privilege is one which is absolutely necessary for the due execution of the powers of Parliament. Mot only has Parliament no legal right to extend its privileges beyond those which satisfy this test, but your Committee feel that any attempt so to do would be contrary to the interest both of Parliament and the public. 
It is know that an information was lodged in the Queanbeyan Supreme Court by  Mr Sankey.  It was based upon section 86 of the Crimes Act and section 18 which permits, unless there was a contrary intention, any person to institute proceedings for the commitment for trial any person in respect of an indictable offence against the law of the Commonwealth. Section 86 states that any attempt to undermine the Constitution is to be considered a criminal offence. Therefore the question which arises is whether privilege applies in a case such as this. Was it necessary to put this motion which relates to a criminal offence before the house? I refer to an article published in  The Parliamentarian  of 1970, under the name of  Sir Barnett  Cocks,  Clerk  of the House of Commons. He quoted from Erskine May and later explained the interpretation given by Lord Shawcross who, as honourable member will know, was a very well informed and highly respected law officer of the Crown when a member of the House of Commons. Lord Shawcross said: 
The underlying test in all cases being, whether the right claimed as a privilege is one which is absolutely necessary for the due execution of the powers of Parliament. 
The article in  The Parliamentarian  went on to say: 
The privilege of freedom from arrest, it will be noted, is confined to civil cases . . . 
I understand that the motion is as to whether the documents should be produced. I say that there is no basis on which production can be refused. One can justify a refusal only if it is associated with a noncriminal case. This is why I wanted to put a point of view to you,  Mr Speaker.  In criminal cases there is no power in this House to refuse to produce documents wanted in a criminal court. It has never been refused in the United Kingdom. That is the point I wanted to make. I believe it is proper and consistent with the dignity and status of Parliament that an application be made to the House for the production of documents and the carrying out of other procedures set out in the motion by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair).  That is what I wanted to prove. I think the documents which I have quoted ought to establish that proposition to your satisfaction,  Sir. 
I will confine myself to making only 2 quotations, in deference to your wishes. I quote from the article: 
The privilege of freedom from arrest, it will be noted, is confined to  civil  cases (a rarity under the law today) and does not entitle a Member to evade the criminal law. 
An article in  Parliamentary Privilege in Australia  by Enid Campbell, at pages 60 and 61, states: 
Where a member of Parliament is accused of a criminal offence, it has never been suggested that his status as a member places him in any different a position as regards the law of arrest or trial from that of an ordinary citizen. 
I content myself by stating that those 2 quotations reflect completely what I believe ought to be the practice in this House. I do not make any suggestion as to whether or not there is any proof of guilt. I merely state that if an application is made to a court and an order is given putting people on trial for a criminal offence, at least we should not prejudice the hearing but give the applicant every opportunity to present his case effectively before the courts without hindrance from this House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Those of us who have been in the House for a considerable time treat the debates on the Budget as one of the most momentous occasions we face in the year. It relates not only to the economy and to the financial structure of the country, but also to the way in which society can itself develop and prosper. How sorry we were when there was a total failure of the Opposition to present an alternative. Let me refer firstly to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  who is a former Prime Minister and I say with emphasis and without doubt at all that his was the worst speech by a Leader of the Opposition I have heard in the 27 years I have been here, and that includes a lot of duds like the late  Dr Evatt  and a few other people of that kind. What did he say? He delivered a series of unconnected sentences, some elegantly written, it is true, but totally irrelevant to the Budget. He made little contribution to the problems of the development and growth of the country. He showed no knowledge of the way in which the economy is trending and what should be done about it. This was well illustrated by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who sat there in riotous laughter with my friends, the members of the Country Party. This man was contemptuous of the Leader of the Opposition, showing that he was determined to ensure that the leader would never again be restored to a position of power in any government. 
As we went down the line we could see the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren),  who was recently defeated in an election for appointment to the most important of all the Labor committees, looking more like Rasputin than I have ever seen any portrait of Rasputin himself. A lot of people will say that is slanderous of Rasputin but I cannot be prosecuted for what I say here. Then down a little further to the left were the sounds of an out of tune trombone. Who or what was it? It was none other than the former Minister for Minerals and Energy the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor).  He was asleep and snoring in a key that did not fit the voice and words of his Leader. Those are positive and identifiable facts. I do not want to proceed any further. 
I want to refer to the contribution of 2 people, the shadow Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and the so-called shadow Minister for Defence who wants to get back to the position of shadow Treasurer again. The shadow Minister for Employment wanted wages fully indexed and increased. I am referring to  Mr Willis,  if I may name him. I can understand his feelings because he was once an advocate for the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I wonder if he knew what the consequence of wage increases would be. Even  Mr Hayden,  the honourable member for Oxley, was proud to say, as the former Treasurer before him was proud to say, that an increase in one man's salary is the loss of another man's job. Did this former officer of the ACTU care about his mates? Does not he care about unemployment? Let me cite some figures to illustrate my point. The number of unemployed was 88 700 in September 1972. When my Party left office in December this figure rose to 130 000 with school leavers. At that time all the pundits were saying there would be 200 000 out of work by June 1973 but by June, as a result of actions of my own Party in office, there were 81 376 out of work-not 200 000 as had been forecast. By June 1 974 there were 78 000 out of work. In December 1974 there were 266 998 out of work and by December 1975 there were 328 700 out of work. These figures have to be remembered. Honourable members opposite did not care about the unemployed. They created the 'Andy Capp' syndrome. These people who now sit opposite did not worry about the hearts, the bodies, the lives, the futures and the frustrations of those people who would have to stay out of work not for 6 months but as long as 1 8 months and even longer. 
Let me return to that sneaky little fellowforgive me for saying that-  Mr Hayden,  the honourable member for Oxley - 
I withdraw it, sir. I have never known a word like that having to be withdrawn, but I do so. In any event, let me come back to him. I want to refer to some figures. I have with me a graph and a series of statistics which everyone ought to read. My case is based on these figures. If we look at average weekly earnings between 1970 and 1972, making allowance for inflation and the tax rip-off, we will find that in those  2*A  years my Party in office was able to increase the take home pay for the average weekly earner by up to 13.3 per cent. This graph will show what I am saying. But what happened when the former Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  came to office? He tried to keep pace but failed dismally and the take home pay slipped about 5 points. 
But then came Hayden. I cannot use the same word again. I mean it; it is deep in my heart and in my mind. I have to have it in my mind and I cannot stop it from being there. This gentleman came along and imposed his own tax scales. What happened was that the increase of 1 3.3 per cent came down to 0.9 per cent. The larger part of that 13 per cent was lost. If honourable members look at the basic rates of tax in the taxation tables I will lay on the table of the House they will see- I can give only one example- what happened. Compared with 1974-75 rates the net tax of a single man on $6,000 a year went up $465 under the Hayden scale to a total tax $875 and net tax $629. After taking out all the other payments the increase amounted to 121 per cent. The other figures are unbelievable. Incomes which bore the brunt of the increase were those between $6,000 and $8,000 a year. This pattern continued at a decreasing rate for a person earning up to $14,000 a year. For a person earning over $20,000 a year there was some relief. I do not wish to have these documents incorporated in  Hansard.  However, I would like to table the graph and the tax scales which show the degree to which tax has increased and the extraordinary loss of take home pay by people in the lower income brackets. In those circumstances how can we expect that a government can ensure improved consumption. How can we ensure greater retail sales in the economy when the tax scales are so structured that people in these income brackets- that is to say, earning $6,000 to $8,000 and up to $14,000-were punitively damaged and their take home pay was severely reduced? There was no prospect under those scales of any revival in spending. I have pleasure in tabling those documents. 
Let me deal with these two fundamentally important problems. First, who created these vast increases in unemployment? Second, does not the Opposition realise that unless it helps us to restrain wage increases, unless it helps us to bring down inflation, the problem of solving unemployment is probably an impossible one? 
I now turn to something which I believe will be one of the critical factors in the days to come. I want to look at the achievements of the Fraser Government and then refer to Statement No. 2 brought down with the Budget. I have said without any reservations that when Malcolm Fraser became Prime Minister and leader of this great country of ours he was faced with the most difficult problem I have known in all the time I have been a member of this House and even before then. He had the problem of restructuring the whole of the Australian economy. Its finance, and the impact on society- foundations and structures that had been virtually destroyed by the Labor Party. They had to be restored. 
Please, little boy, I sympathise with you for your impetuosity but when you are speaking you will be given a go. You have shirked the job of coming on first because you knew that somebody would reply to you. You did not have the guts. You had to let my - 
He is down on the list. 
That job which was faced by the Prime Minister has been done and done satisfactorily. In the prologue to the 
Budget of May- and prior to that- to ensure that we would have indexation of wages and indexation of personal taxation. Action had been taken in regard to opening and closing stock valuations. Action had been taken on various other fronts that was absolutely and vitally necessary in order to re-establish the foundations and structure. The Fraser Government deserves my praise and the praise of every thinking Australian for what it has been able to do. 
However, I do not want to continue to speak about this. I now want to speak about Statement No. 2 which was brought down with the Budget. It says, first of all, that there were some signs of recovery in the economy particularly relating to inventories and to exports. These are the motivating areas. These are the areas in which there was said to be a real sign of progress. But I have to say with some reluctance it is not turning out that way. If we look at the ratio of sales to stocks we will see it fell from 0.9 to 1 in December 1974 to 0.82 to 1 in December 1975 and in the statistics set out in the Quarterly Estimates of National Income and Expenditure Statement for the June quarter which came out last Friday we will see the ratio fell to 0.791 to 1. 1 now quote from Syntec which puts it this way: 
The Budget forecast of a resurgence of stock building received a sharp setback in the June quarter. 
I now come to another area of absolutely crucial importance. We know that unless a country's exports are growing and there is a balance of payments surplus on current account it is likely to run into increasing difficulties. The simple fact is that exports for August fell by 3.7 per cent to $999m but imports rose from $8 12m in July to $859m. If a coincidence in these 2 figures occurs and grows worse then we are entitled to draw the conclusion that our balance of payments on current account will this year be in deficit. I believe that this financial year this deficit will be about $l,500m-$lVi billion. These are figures that must concern us all and we must now start to look in earnest at action to be taken to restore economic growth and consumption expenditure in the economy. This leads me to a simple statement. Because of wage demands and the fact that during the Labor regime wages got out of kilter with the growth in profits. We costed ourselves out of world markets; we now find that our wages are 27 per cent higher than those in the United States of America. In 1972 we had a cost advantage over the US of 15 per cent. Now we have a cost disadvantage of 30 per cent. That is due to both the increase in the wage structure and also to the industrial problems. At the present moment I do not see great prospects of improvement. For a very obvious reason I leave out the question of the balance of payments other than to say that our overseas reserves fell to $2,369m at the end of last week- less than 3 months supply of imports. 
Let me turn to the second important factor; that is, consumption. Retail sales are one of the vital elements together with motor vehicle sales. I say nothing about motor vehicle sales because sales in this area have dropped in a way we all regret. We know how serious the position is but we do not see at the moment any prospects of recovery. 
If honourable members study the figures in the document entitled National Income and Expenditure Statement 1975-76, Budget Paper No. 9, they will see that in seasonally adjusted terms our retail sales fell in the July half year to .6 per cent. But that is not the real point. If we look at the April, May and June figures, we will see that from the level of 1.6 per cent, without allowing for inflationary discounting the rate of increase fell from 1.6 per cent to 1.5 per cent in May and to .6 per cent in June. These are danger signs that we must look at. We cannot afford to have the Labor Party back in power again. 
I now turn to gross operating profits- the surpluses of trading enterprise. I have taken out some figures, but not from the quarterly estimates of national income and expenditure for the June quarter. I did not want to do that for these reasons: They are gross figures in the national income statistics; they do not allow for inflation or constant price; they do not have regard for depreciation, nor for that matter do they cover changes in the value of stocks. The better basis for analysis is on page 16 of this National Income and Expenditure Statement, Budget Paper No. 9, where figures are given in respect of company income in the year. They are not figures. That income figure is $4,036m. But we have to make certain allowances when looking at those figures and this is what worries me about those allowances: If allowances are made for taxation and dividends, we find that we have to subtract from that $4,036m an amount of $4, 100m. This means there was a loss or net reduction in the value of assets of corporations in 1975-76 of $64m. Those are the points I wanted to make. I believe that they are points that have to be looked at in total. The Government has about 3 months before it has finally to make up its mind as to whether the Statement B trends turn out to be correct. The longer it delays action, the more certain it will be that more dramatic action will have to be taken subsequently. 
I mention one other matter The reason I wanted to speak tonight and in this traumatic way was because of my own experiences in 1 960 and 1961 when in Cabinet as Minister for Labour and National Service. In those days our troubles were due to a balance of payments deficit and standby arrangements made with the International Monetary Fund. Today it looks as though we will have a large deficit on Current Account in 1976-77 except to the extent that we borrow overseas. I well remember in 1 97 1 , 3 or 4 weeks after the Budget was presented I advised the Treasury I thought we should reduce taxation and also reinstate the investment allowance. 
No. What did I hear from the Treasury? I heard things like 'Hold fast';  'Sir, see  the integrity of the Budget'. Now, I am quoting from the record. I was told,  'Sir, keep  your nerve'. No action was taken until the middle of February and April, 7 months too late - 
Thanks for your help. Under those circumstances, naturally I feel that I should give a warning sign. I give it here and now. I emphasise that I believe that the Fraser Government is on the right track. It has for the next 2 or 3 months time within which a decision must be taken to provide a stimulus. The Fraser Government has certainly restored confidence. It has certainly created an atmosphere in which people can start to think and feel they have opportunities, not only to get on with the job again but also ultimately to prosper. That applies to every single section of the community. I say this about the Opposition with some regret. I do not think that the parliamentary system of government can really be successful unless it has an effective Opposition able to understand the facts, able to put up arguments and able to put up alternatives. But has anyone heard of an alternative from the Opposition, other than greater unemployment or of a taxation scale that deprives people of the opportunity to spend and therefore to restore consumer expenditure and national growth? I would like the Government to be thinking now of a reduction in personal taxation of the order of  7 1/2  per cent. I also believe that we will have a consumer price index inflation rate in the December quarter of this year of about 7 per cent. In such conditions we ought to be looking at some way to reduce the CPI to overcome the Medibank charge of 2 per cent. Money spent in reducing sales tax items in the consumer price index to obtain a 2 per cent benefit would be money well spent and would keep this Government, probably as great a government as we can expect to have, in power for at least another 1 5 to 20 years. 

 Mr KEATING (Blaxland)-Mr Acting  Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I rise with some reluctance. I do so because there has been so much misrepresentation about the Government's attitude. So little has been said about the impact of financial arrangements in respect of the introduction of the health insurance scheme that I thought it necessary that someone from this side of the chamber explained the Government's position in some detail. I must say that I was alarmed to hear the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  speak as he did because there is no doubt in the world that he knows the financial implications of Medibank. He chose to disregard those implications and make a speech, obviously not in order to sustain his position in Grayndler because the seat is about to be abolished and no one will care if it goes and he goes with it. Nonetheless, I am a little ashamed of the fact that a man with his knowledge should not have explained completely the economic and financial implications. 
I speak against the background that on the first night this year when the problem of Medibank was raised on television I heard the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  say that the Labor Party was not worried about anything other than the actual system. They did not care about delivery or about the patients whose needs and wants had to be satisfied. What they were interested in was a socialist system, and if they got that the honourable member for Maribyrnong would be happier than he has ever been before. 
I turn now to  Dr Scotton,  who on the same night said he believed that if the Government's intentions were carried out he could be a strong supporter. Shortly after that, for reasons I do not know, he left the organisation and from then on became a rather bitter enemy. More is the regret, because he is a very capable person and I would have given him the job of carrying out the Government's intentions. I think we would have got a greater number in the private system of medical and hospital care and with a greater degree of efficiency than under the present 
Medibank system. I recall also a couple of other facts which I should like the honourable member for Grayndler to hear, if he does not rush out of the Chamber for purposes that I do not know. The Government appointed the Nimmo Committee to look into the private system of health care. The Committee reported that the existing system was a good one and that its efficiency was first class. So the honourable member for Grayndler therefore cannot object because of the lack of economies of scale. The simple fact is that he was not here at the time, he was still in his napkins and swaddling clouts, and I do not blame him for not being able to understand what Nimmo said, probably as long ago as 10 years. 
The honourable member for Grayndler also referred to the consumer price index. He ought to have remembered that at one stage Medibank was taken out of the consumer price index and now, under the Government's proposals, it is to be replaced. It was taken out at one time, put back at another time. So in total there has been no loss; the position remains exactly the same. The other philosophical comment I make is against the background that honourable members on the other side of the House claim that they know what democracy is all about. What is wrong with the patient having the right to choose his own doctor and express his preference for the medical or hospital benefit organisation to which he wants to belong? If he chooses one, why not? We do it with the Commonwealth Bank, we do it with transport, we do it on a dozen and one other occasions. Why should we not have a plural system and give an abundance of opportunities to Australian people if they want them? 
The point I really want to make relates to deficit financing, and here I have to rely enormously on my memory. Until I heard one or two people speak I had no intention at all of speaking in this debate. But having heard them, I thought it was essential that somebody who knew the Government's case on finance should get up and say something. As I understand it, this year the cost of the Medibank levy will be about $260m, but in a full year when the levy goes up the tax will be $430m. If one looks at the Budget papers one will see that this year the cost of medical care will be of the order of $2,908m. I do not know how much of that belongs to Medibank, but it means that through deficit financing drawn out of Reserve Bank funds through the printing press- fiduciary currency through the printing press- medical care will cost the Australian public about $2,648m. This Government came into power in order to control the quantity of the money supply. It came in because it knew that deficit financing, financed by a bank for social welfare benefits, was disastrous so far as inflationary pressures were concerned. Therefore the Government decided that it had to follow up the proposals initially made by the Labor Party under non-inflationary conditions to finance Medibank by a tax on incomes of 1.35 per cent. If any members of the Labor Party, any members of the community or any technical experts want to argue that the Labor Party's policy on financing part, at least, of Medibank out of taxation is wrong they have to go back on the principles that the Labor Party established when it first decided to introduce the scheme. 
I want to point out that I do not mind deficit financing. In fact, I would recommend deficit financing. In this year's Budget I would not have minded a deficit of $3,750m- providing only it was spent in the right way for productive purposes and providing it was soundly funded through open market operations, would draw in money from the public and neutralise it in terms of borrowed money in the hands of the Commonwealth. If we have a deficit of this kind not for productive services but for welfare services, that amount of money- it was $2,648m or a lesser amount according to the amount that is properly attributable to Medibank- must have inflationary consequences for us. Let there be no mistake about it. The Government recognised that the Medibank levy was justified on economic grounds and was anti-inflationary. 
I have always been a member of a private medical and health system. I am not an antagonist of Medibank. I believe private systems are effective and efficient and that they do good for this community. They introduce an element of competition. If honourable members opposite are frightened of competition to Medibank they show it in the worst possible way in this House. In the time that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has led the Government of this country the Opposition has squealed about every issue. Today we saw what I believe to be one of the most degrading experiences I have known since I have been in Parliament. The Opposition refused to let Parliament operate sensibly and in the best interests of the Australian people. This is the kind of occurrence which we have to put up with from the dilapidated and depleted Opposition. From the day of their defeat members of the Opposition have gone back into their burrows. They have hidden from the public view. All they have done is to try to distort the processes of this Government and the effective administration of the economy. Give the Prime Minister time and he will make us prosperous. He needs a couple of years but in the meantime he needs to have this measure passed by the Parliament in the interests of the medical care of the Australian people. 
-I knew the late  Senator Ivor  Greenwood for a long time. Having witnessed his achievements as a back bench member of Parliament, I appointed him Minister for Health in March 1971. In August 1971 I appointed him Attorney-General and he continued in that office until my Government was defeated at the election in 1972. 1 found him to be a remarkable man. First as Minister for Health he performed a task that was becoming increasingly onerous and difficult. He performed it with merit and, I believe, with a great degree of success. He kept down the charges that otherwise would have been payable to some members of the medical profession. But his greatness lay in his work as the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth. Not only did he look at all the legislation that came forward and advise his colleagues about it but also, no matter what sort of measure it was or what sort of problem was being debated in the Parliament or by the Cabinet, he was always willing and able to give his version- it always was a very worthwhile versionas to what should be done, the problems that were involved and how they could be solved. He was committed to the cause of freedom- in particular, to the freedom of the individual. 
In the whole of my association with members of this Parliament I have known of no one as dedicated to a cause he chose to fight for as was Ivor Greenwood. Not only was he of tremendous help in those dying days of my own Government in 1971 and 1972, but also most people will remember him because of the contribution he made as shadow Attorney-General when the coalition was in Opposition. Many will remember, too, that many of the amendments made in those days to Government legislation- memorable and really worthwhile legislation- were due to the dedication, work and effort of Ivor Greenwood. In times of trouble there was no greater friend than he. In times of stress of work when it was necessary to get special assistance to do a job, he did it without argument and he did it quickly and to perfection. Above all, he was as charming and sensitive a person as it is possible to imagine. Those who knew him as well as I did, including you  Mr Speaker,  regarded him as a very good and worthwhile companion. He was one whom I was and most other people were always willing to welcome whenever the opportunity arose to join him or to have him join us. 
I join the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in expressing my sympathy and very deep regret to his wife and children. They are a wonderful, loving family and they deserve the respect of all of us. 
I ask the Acting Minister for Overseas Trade whether he has yet been informed of the decision of the Japanese administration to suspend the import of Australian chilled beef under what is called the Touch I section of Japanese meat import controls. Is he aware that until yesterday the price of quality steers had fallen disastrously by over $40 a head and that yesterday at the Wodonga sales it fell from $132 to $70 a head, with naturally disastrous consequences for producers in this premium market? Will he discuss this matter with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs to ensure that strong representations are made to the Japanese Government to have the administration decision reversed? 
-I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  He correctly quoted a statement by me which was reported in the Melbourne  Herald of  15 July, but the report went further. It read: 

 Mr McMahon said Australia was pricing itself out of export markets and the Government must consider a devaluation as an instrument of policy to right the position. 
But he said devaluation could not be considered until the Government knew where wages were going. 
No action was possible until wages in Australia were comparable with those in its major trading partners- or at least moving in that direction. 

 Mr McMahon said recent wage increases had been at a rate which were impossible for primary industry to sustain. 
He quoted comparative Australian and American wage increases- in December 197 1 the average Australian earned $80 a week and this had risen to $158 in 1975. This compared with the U.S. figures of $113 in 1971 and $135 last year. 
What the honourable gentleman said was a total misrepresentation. If he had any decency he would apologise. 
-Will the Minis  ter for Primary Industry inform the House officially before it rises the details of the new scheme of quota entitlements for the entry of meat into United States market which was recommended to him by the Australian Meat Board and the exporters of meat more than 2 weeks ago? Will he adhere to his publicly stated views about the independence of the Meat Board and non-interference in its recommendations? Against the background of a strongly rising sellers' market and even better prospects in the future, does he think it is in the interests of the cattlemen who are struggling to survive that they should be compelled to sell to the less remunerative markets, with less remunerative returns to the producers themselves? In a somewhat humorous vein, would the Minister entertain such a quaint idea if he were selling meat himself? 
I ask the Treasurer a question supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Oxley to show that gentleman's total ignorance of financial affairs. Is it a fact that in December the inflow of capital into Australia was $670m, reduced by $168m by January 12th? These figures are well worth remembering. Is it also a fact that in the last 4 weeks the inflow was, in the first of those weeks $48m, subsequently minus Sim, then plus $3m, and in the last recorded week minus $18m? That inflow has now raised our overseas reserves to the very comfortable level of $3,000m. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-My memory of the late honourable member for Cunningham, Rex Connor, goes back a very long way. I remember him long ago as a member of a group in the Wollongong area which could be regarded as the extreme left wing of the then Australian Labor Party. My memories were refreshed in 1973 when, I believe, it was a case of paradise lost and paradise regained. I went into Opposition and was rather miserable to find that I was poked into a room in the corridor immediately beyond your chambers,  Mr Speaker.  Paradise regained was quartered diagonally opposite in the form of the honourable member for Cunningham. The honourable member had served in the State Parliament and then came here and achieved ministerial honours. It was here that my memories of him were revived. When I was in the room opposite his, I knew I could discuss political matters with him, even though there was a substantial difference of opinion between the two of us. He never hesitated to answer on the telephone: 'I will be across in a couple of minutes'. He always kept his word. While one could argue with him and find him difficult to convince, on at least two occasions I can remember he changed his mind and policies which might have been adopted were altered as a result of our discussion, or at least that appeared to be so. 
The first point I make about him is the charm of the man in personal conversation when the subject was divorced from political consequences. The second point I make about him relates to his ability in his portfolio. Few people can deny his great knowledge. Without reference to notes he seemed to know the industry backwards. He could quote figures with a relish and in a way that I envied. Whilst I thought he was too much of a socialist and I frequently, perhaps almost always, disagreed with this attitude, no one could deny that in relation to our international trade in minerals he took the side of private enterprise in order to ensure that Australian exporters got the best deal they could in negotiations with other countries. 
For those reasons I have to say that I liked him as a person. He was an important member in this House. He was a personality in his own right. He attracted attention. Parliaments these days do not have many personalities to look up to, to criticise, to talk about and talk to. I extend my condolences to his surviving children and I join with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in saying that I am sorry in a personal sense to know that he has gone. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, 2 1 days after listening to the Budget brought down by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  I must say, after all these years of experience, that it seems like handling cold puttydead and lifeless. I think it is a pity that we do not concentrate our efforts and our time on the Budget for a limited period until the discussions are concluded and a vote is taken in the House. The honourable member who preceded me in this debate- I have forgotten the name of his electorate and I hope that after the next election he will not be here- spoke about my desire for changes in economic policy. I have to concede that I do have that desire. But nobody could ever say that he or she wanted to change back to a government such as the Whitlam Government with all the experiments it made and its failure. That Government caused economic and financial devastation amongst the Australian people in less than three years. A return to that type of government is totally unthinkable. 
Let me preface my remarks with these qualifications: I have been associated with politics for a long time. I aspired to Federal honours in 1943. I should not have said that; it rather advertises my age. Nonetheless, I came out of the Army in 1943 for the purpose of trying to gain preselection in the Division of Martin. When I very nearly had preselection my supporters said to me: 'You will be devastatingly defeated'. My reaction was immediate I would rather go back to Atherton and the Army. And I did. Perhaps that explanation is worthwhile. 
I come back to the Budget. I do not know of any Budget that has had to face as many difficulties as this present one. Therefore no matter what 
I might say or what opinions I might express, I must do so with that qualification. No government has ever had such difficulties to overcome and no government has worked harder in trying to solve them. I mention also the basic problem of the wage cost structure and the difficulty that that creates for all of us. Until we can solve that problem we cannot solve any of the problems that beset us. I mention the structure of the economy itself and the consequent need, through tariff board reports, to be able to achieve a restructuring in our time which will divert assets from the less successful and efficient sections of industry to the more efficient and successful sections. I ought to say something about unemployment but regret that I cannot- certainly not at this moment. 
There is one matter which I believe regrettably has been forgotten. You would know about it as much as any of us,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I refer to the fact that Utile or nothing has been said in this debate about our overseas trade and other interests; the way in which our balance of payments and the inflow of money and international commodity prices are changing and the consequent effect these have on Australia. You will know, sir, particularly of the very great difficulties that it creates with regard to Australian commodity prices. I believe that something has to be said about this matter because it is a problem which is beyond our control and is usually regarded as one of the dynamics of progress. It is one of the most main dynamic forces in this country. Again, sir, with respect to you, you will know that we lived off the sheep's back for decades, to put it metaphorically. When this source was reduced we turned to minerals. Somebody recently mentioned the imposition of a resources tax. I shudder to think what will happen if that comes into force, and how little knowledge it shows of how the Australian economy works. Associated with that we have the beggarmyneighbour policies which are now being followed in so many countries, including the United States, particularly in relation to Japan. Only recently the International Monetary Fund, when referring to what was happening in the world, said that it had never known of such trade restrictions to be inforced in so many countries at the same time and with such ill effects. 
Let me return to the effects of this international problem. I refer to the balance of payments and overseas reserves situation. On 5 January our overseas reserves totalled $2,800m. If we disregard the revaluation of the price of gold, our overseas reserves today would be down to $ 1,800m, which is a perilously low level. We are now borrowing money- rightly so- from overseas in order to neutralise this problem. Let us look at the international commodity prices. Copper, it fell from $864 a tonne in August 1976 to $657 a tonne in August 1977. The price of sugar went from $142 a tonne to $144 and wheat fell from $106 to $93. We know-you will know above all,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  that we now have to buy in wool through the Australian Wool Corporation at the rate of 30 per cent. One of the great dynamic forces of progress in this country has been the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. It is now being costed out of the market. Only this year it has recorded a loss on its steel making activities of $53m. So it has to subsidise that loss from its oil production and sales. 
I turn to the Budget itself. I would like to make a comparison, first with last year's Budget. I never tried to disguise the fact, as the House knows, that I did not think that last year's Budget would be a success. It was predicated on the fact, firstly, that there would be an increase in gross domestic production of the order of 4 per cent. In this year's Budget that figure has been shown to be de facto an improvement of only one per cent, which is low in anyone's language. Let us look at this year's Budget. The Treasurer said in his Budget Speech that as far as gross domestic non-farm production was concerned we could expect a growth rate of something like 2 per cent over last year's figures. I believe that that is altogether too low to accept. We must do better than a 2 per cent increase in gross domestic production. 
What then do I think? I have to ask: Is there sufficient stimulus in the Budget? If there is not, what should we do? It is true that there has been a reduction in personal taxation of about $406m to come into force on 1 February next year but there is a counteracting provision totalling $380m comprised of $200m from increased cororation taxation payable this financial year and 180m through indirect taxation on crude oil. So we cannot look to that area to get the stimulus we need to bring our gross domestic product up by 3 per cent. I turn then to the personal tax reforms that have been made. I believe that any tax reform should be based upon 2 principles unless there is excess demand. The first beyond any doubt is that we should see that the value of take home pay of the earner is steadily increased and the second is that we should always try to ensure that the after tax income of the income earner is steadily increased.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I might say with some feeling of vanity, and I hope that  Mr Speaker,  your superior and mine when he is in the House, will be delighted to hear what I have to say, that the 1972-73 Budget was the only Budget which carried these two basic principles of liberalism into practice. There was a considerable increase in the value of take home pay after taxation and allowing for inflation. As to the present income tax changes I like to fiddle around with computers to see what the tax scales mean. I draw attention to the changes that have occurred from 1974-75 till 1977-78 in respect of incomes between $4,000 and $9,325. In only one income group was there a decrease in tax payable and that was in the $4,000 group when there was a 2 1.5 per cent decrease. There was no increase in tax payable on $4,600. There was an increase of 11.1 per cent on $6,000 gradually diminishing to zero on $9,325. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing these figures. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197709062_36_6.jpg"></graphic>

I am fortified in this opinion that a greater stimulus is needed, by the level of retail sales. When one looks at these statistics with the anguish and anxiety with which I look at them one has to realise that they do not indicate that we can expect a very good growth rate this year. Retail sales were down in July by 0.1 per cent, or an on-going rate of 1.2 per cent over the year. Over the year to July they were down 1 1 per cent with inflation running at 13.4 per cent when Medibank is taken into consideration. Despite what was said in the Budget, employment is down by 14,000 jobs from May 1976 to June 1977 and, as we all know, there has been an increase in unemployment. Here I have to emphasise my great worry about unemployment because of its social impact upon the Australian people, particularly young people. All of the indications including production and the build up of involuntary stocks move in the same way. I know the difficulties which we face. We are pricing ourselves out of international and domestic markets. Nonetheless I believe that employment now has to be placed with reduced inflation as the golden aim of policy. We have to get unemployment and inflation down and to increase growth at a more rapid rate. 
That brings me to an argument that I would like to put with a great deal of emphasis. It is no use my coming here and saying that we have this slowing in the growth of non farm gross domestic production unless I can suggest an alternative to existing policies. Recent statistics are nowhere near as good as we would want them to be. Is there an alternative? I have now to qualify what I have said by adding that there are two schools of thought and we have a choice between them. The Department of the Treasury and the Reserve Bank of Australia would no doubt select the current method which is one of restraint in every one of the main dynamics of the economy. I ask myself, as I had to ask last year when I came to certain conclusions and pressed them through the year, whether there was an alternative. I believe there is an alternative. In June or July this year I had the good fortune to talk to people in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris. They gave me a book prepared by a Committee for the OECD entitled  Towards Full Employment and Price Stability, in a free economy.  I believe that Committee was one of the most professional that one could choose. It is led by Paul McCracken with people like Guido Carli an Italian, Herbert Giersch, a German and five other people including Robert Marjolin. They gave their unqualified support to the market economy. They believe that if the market economy is given a proper go and if the proper rules relating to a market economy are observed, there is no doubt that we will work our way out of our problems in a much quicker time than we can do by restrictions. 
Let us look at the methods to achieve these goals set out in chapter III of the book I am showing to the House. It sets out the demand management policies, monetary policy, financing budget deficits, fiscal policy, selective demand management policies and policies directly affecting employment. Then, in relation to reconciliation of conflicting claims it sets out investment, public expenditure, foreign sector activity and prices and incomes. In relation to the international dimension it particularly mentions exchange rates and international liquidity. This is the alternative I suggest. I now want to tell the House about my talks with the OECD and the top men in that Organisation. They now accept the fact that we want stimulus in the economy. 
OECD wants Japan, West Germany and the United States to reflate now. The reason is that 18 months to two years ago it was thought that Japan would have a growth rate of 6.5 per cent, America 5.5 per cent and Germany probably 5.5 per cent to 6 per cent. Those figures have been revised substantially downwards. On 22 August a United States representative in Australia said that he thought that the growth rate of his country would be 3.5 per cent. Japan's growth rate will not be as high at 5 per cent and Germany is now wallowing in a period of growing stagnation. So stimulation for growth is now considered to be desirable in these countries. 
What does the OECD and the McCracken report say about growth and how it should be achieved? The OECD believes that there should be a stimulus to demand at a 'cruising speed'. I have never heard those words 'cruising speed' before but they perfectly set out my attitude to what ought to be done in Australia to stimulate demand and to get this economy running in a way which I think is in accord with true liberal principles and philosophy. The report by my friend Paul McCracken and others says that the aim should be an expansion of demand somewhat greater than the growth of potential supply. The report adds a very strong qualification, namely, that the policies of all governments should act in a way that will not and in the end cannot accommodate high rates of inflation. I have no doubt that that is exactly what we ought to be considering. 
I am talking now about full employment in a free economy. If anyone can think that socialism is anything but a controlled economy of the kind which the honourable member and his friend the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  would like, then no one can understand what socialism means or, for that matter, what democracy can mean. Therefore I believe- this is critical- that consideration should be given to this report and its recommendations. I believe it contains the ingredients of an alternative policy. If in 3 to 4 months' time we find that the present restricted policies are not succeeding we should be receptive to ideas and show willingness to change. Because of the way the taxation reforms were included at the last minute in the Budget, I believe that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will show that willingness if he is convinced changed policies are needed. 
I said that we needed a stimulus from overseas. An externally led dynamic to the Australian economy. The Leader of the Opposition said in the House that we on this side of the House had missed the bus and were not taking advantage of what was occurring overseas. He went even further and said that not only did we never share in the world economic recovery but also that Australia's economic problems and their solutions depend more on what happened here than on what happened overseas. But having said that we did not participate in the externally led stimulation he forgot that it was his own actions in reducing tariffs and substantially revaluing the currency that stopped the process. 
He must remember that he inherited an economy that was fundamentally sound. Not only did the Liberal-Country Party Government bring down a good Budget in 1972. It also left economic growth at 7 per cent in real terms, inflation by the implicit price deflator at 2 per cent, consumer price index increases of 4.5 per cent, unemployment at 88,000 and interest rates at 6.5 per cent. What did the Whitlam Government do? It left production growth in the December quarter in which it left office at nil, inflation at 14 per cent, unemployment at 329,000 and high interest rates. I wonder whether any other man or any other government could have done as much damage in such a short time as his Government did. Then there was the ghastly failure of the Hayden Budget which was, I believe, the source of our present problems. It was punitive in relation to those on incomes of $6,000 to $ 1 1 ,000 per annum. No one denies that. Today there is a hangover from the Hayden Budget and its punitive action against the Australian taxpayers. 
I would like to put all this in context. Never before in our political life have environmental conditions and, the industrial and political actions caused so many and such great troubles. We all know of the devastating actions of small groups in the trade union movement. I also want to refer to the tendency to massacre the truth. I will give only one instance. That is a statement by one of the leaders of the Labor Party the night before last. He said that  Mr Justice  Fox totally disagreed with the proposal to mine uranium and sell it overseas because of the 'waste' problem.  Mr Justice  Fox recognised that there were problems but, in fact, recommended that there were no real bars to its export from this cause. He also referred to a statement by  Mr Fraser.  He referred to what  Mr Fraser  said about the technical control of waste on a trial basis. But he left out the part relating to the need for a substantial increase in the commercial protection of waste.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  who do you think made that statement? None other than the Leader of the 
Opposition! During 1973 to 1975 he proved himself to be totally incapable of sensibly governing this country. He must not be given the opportunity again. 
I am alarmed at what I have heard from three honourable members opposite whom I would have expected to have made a presentable case in this House as to why the legislation brought forward by the Government should not be passed. But far from touching on the essentials of the legislation they have engaged in efforts to ensure that there will be greater political and industrial problems than are necessary. Let me, first of all, ask one question. Each of those honourable members whose remarks I have listened to, such as the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  and the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  who opened on behalf of the Opposition in the debate, has claimed that this legislation is an attempt by the Government at confrontation. 
Where did the confrontation come from? The Latrobe Valley dispute taking place at the present time? Or maybe the tanker drivers' disputes, the seamen's disputes with Utah coal, the disputes involving Australia Post and, if you like, the Medibank dispute. We have seen strikes and go slows of government service, both Commonwealth and State. These were deliberate confrontations by small sections of the Trade Union movement. The Government's response was a reaction. What I am amazed about - 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide ought to take notice of this too. I think the Latrobe Valley problem must have been designed .by the shop stewards or those who advise them. They would have known that there was no prospect of a solution on the basis of an anomaly in the indexation guidelines of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. You know,  Sir, and  I know, and so does my friend who sits opposite, that this dispute occurred as a result of a decision in relation to incremental payments for the Latrobe Valley workers. Because of the action of the Victorian Trades Hall Council, those payments were merged with special payments relating to trade unions as a whole. Therefore there were no grounds, on the basis of facts presented, on which the matter could have been resolved by the Arbitration Commission. Do honourable members opposite tell me that those who prepared the case or the log of claims on behalf of the workers of Latrobe did not know what they were doing? Can they tell me that consequently when the Full Bench of the Commission came to handle the matter, it had no other course to follow than to decide that it was inconsistent and not viable. 
The second part of the log was that they wanted to make a series of claims that would have repercussions throughout the whole of the trade union movement of Victoria. The Commission could not deal with the Latrobe matter unless it dealt with the other unions as well. Why then do we find that  Mr Ken  Stone, who we all concede is an intelligent man, has urged the workers to go back to work? Something far worse than that is the use by the honourable member for Hindmarsh of the word 'scab' and urging the workers in the Latrobe Valley not to go back to work no matter what  Mr Hawke  might achieve in the work value case which is now before the Commission. The honourable member for Hindmarsh used the word 'scab'. Let him think of himself and then ask who is scabbing on  Mr Hawke. 
Now let me look at the essential features of the legislation. I want to make some analysis of what the Government proposes in relation to the national interest. As you know,  Sir, and  as the House knows, the Industrial Relations Bureau has been created. That Bureau's fundamental functions are, to ensure that the law, regulations and awards under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act are observed. The Arbitration law and awards are known! Why should a few sections of the trade union movement have a licence to forget the law and not care about the devastating effects that strikes in essential industries, by a small number of people can have? Why should they be permitted to ignore the law and why should not the rule of law apply to them? 
I wonder why Sammy Armstrong and his shop stewards- Sammy Armstrong by the way has been imported from Scotland; I do not know the 
E laces from which the others have come- should e able to ensure, that 300,000 of their colleagues in the trade union movement are put out of jobs and that Australia lose a minimum of $800m and probably $ 1,000m in production? When those workers go back to work there is little or not hope, even if they get a 20 per cent rise, that they will be able in a period of less than two years to make up the pay that has been lost. 
I look at this matter in a totally different manner. I believe that power corrupts, and I think that every honourable member in this House, except members of the Opposition when their own interests or trade union interests are involved, agrees with that. Power has corrupted too many of the trade unions. We are at a watershed now. If we do not take action to bring trade unions within the established law, I believe that parliamentary democracy will be at stake. We are not prepared to wait any longer. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish the honourable member for Hindmarsh would not walk around the chamber in his idiotic and clumsy way and be very rude in this House. I wish,  Sir, you  would ask him to take his hands out of his pockets when he is standing in front of me and to resume his seat. I do not know what he is doing with his hands in his pockets. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Hindmarsh will resume his seat. 
If the honourable member wants to be offensively rude, gigling the way he is when he is trying to be smart, will wait till he sits down. I would like to analyse the powers of the Industrial Relations Bureau. I have to say in front of the honourable member for Melbourne that it does not have powers relating to arbitration and conciliation. He said that conciliation had been destroyed. That is simply not true. The Bureau, it is true, can take a matter up to the stage of conciliation and arbitration, but it can act only as an intermediary in order to get a solution. It cannot arbitrate if it cannot achieve a solution, the matter has to be taken into the courts or to the Commission itself. It is true that if a bans clause has been broken the Bureau has the power to take that matter to the Commission for a certificate and then proceed to the courts. It has four other powers. It has the power of injunction.If an award is not being obeyed, why should not injunction proceedings to try and ensure compliance be taken? Those proceedings can be taken in a court of common law when civil rights are involved, so why should not it happen in the case of industrial law? The Bureau can have an award abolished. Why should not that be the case if, day in and day out, little groups of unionists with a maximum of destructive power disobey an award and are callous about what effect their actions might have? The Bureau also has the power to apply for deregistration of a union that is causing continuous trouble. 
I go back to my own history on the waterfront when I had to say, first to Jim Healy and then to  Mr Fitzgibbon,  that they would be deregistered unless they obeyed the law. They did. Similarly in 1972 we threatened to deregister the tanker drivers. They went back to work. There was the problem of Mackie in Mount Isa and other unions including Public Service unions that had to be faced. The situation was much the same. A similar situation existed with Laurie Carmichael and the General Motors-Holdens' strike and the problems associated with the Calabrians who were working in the foundries of GMH. 
-Yes! But I would not have dinner with the honourable member-not again, anyhow. I prefer the corns. That,  Sir, is  the reposte that he deserves. Those are the powers of the Bureau. And they are needed. In the measure now before us, the Government has decided wisely, on three other powers which I wish to speak about before the debate on this Bill concludes. The first one relates to a matter which I believe to be very important. I now refer to proposed new section 142a of the Act. Under that section the Arbitration Commission will have power to exclude certain parties or groups of people from the provisions of an award or to prevent them from entering certain areas of work or occupation. There is also power, when the Arbitration Commission is determining claims before it, to take into consideration past practices and arrangements in the industry concerned. Is it not right and proper that when there have been practices and arrangements that have continued successfully and economically for years, unless there is some overwhelming reason why they should be changed, we should prevent industrial disturbances from permitting those operations to be performed by the class of workers already performing the job? I think this will be a great help in bulk loading. The legislation is not as safe as I would like it to be. It does not give the same protection as was given under the Stevedoring Industry Authority Act. But I do not doubt that it will be a severe restriction on interfering with bulk loading operations by waterside workers unless they are agreed to by the employers or by State instrumentalities or private industry. 
The second point I want to make relates to deregistration of unions under section 143. One of the problems we faced with regard to deregistration was this: There was only one power of total suspension or deregistration. Let me take suspension first. Suspension will now relate only to the circumstances associated with possible deregistration and particular sections of the union involved. It will not apply over the whole range of union activities that were previously envisaged in the earlier Bill. I turn now to deregistration. Frequently we may be faced with a set of circumstances in which a group in a trade union or a division or branch of a trade union may be causing all the trouble. In this case the law will now provide that it is within the power of the court to distinguish between the union itself and the various groups or branches that make up the union and are causing the industrial dispute. It is only those guilty of continued failure to observe the law, the regulations or the awards who will have to take responsibility for their actions. 
Now we come to one other matter which I believe to be of great importance. I said that power corrupts. I have no doubt that in the case of corruption by industrial power the Government has to do all it can to take corrective action. As an example there must be proper administration and proper accounting for moneys received by the union. Arrangements will be made under the Bill to provide, under the supervision of the Industrial Relations Bureau, that all sums must be properly accounted for and supervised by recognised accountants. The accountancy will not be by single entry but has to be in detail and to the satisfaction of the auditors. It has to be complete. It has to be filed with the Registrar and it has to be open for inspection by members of the union and by the general public. 
The honourable member thinks it happens now. He should not be in this House if he were as innocent as that. Does the honourable member think that the Builders Labourers Federation does it? How friendly is he with Comrade Gallagher? I conclude with this comment: I believe that in this country today we have the greatest economic and social problems that we have had to face. I do not think it can be handled by ignoring it or by being cowardly. On the contrary, I believe that over the months the Government has presented facts and opened up debate and discussion so that people, if they wish, can become well informed, not only about the problems, but also about the solutions the Government has offered. In all the years that I was Minister for Labour and National Service- probably for a longer time than anyone else - 
I wish I were there still. If I were the problems would not have occurred in such an intense way. I say that with great deference to you,  Mr Speaker.  These problems have to be handled quickly and in such a way as to ensure that the trade unions are brought within the new province of law and order. We are taking this action so that parliamentary democracy will survive. I commend the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  for the time and effort he has given not only to the National Labour Advisory Council but to the committees of his own party. 
He has given us the opportunity to recommend changes to the policies he presented and to understand the very basis on which the original policies were based. I believe that the legislation will be successful. I do not take much notice of the threats that have been issued by members of the Australian Labor Party. It was ever thus. I doubt whether the Opposition knows what public opinion is all about. But we will have the evidence in front of us- first of all by Tuesday by which time I believe  Mr Hawke  will have settled this dispute, and subsequently when I think the nation will benefit from the changes that are now being recommended and which will be passed by this Parliament in the next few days. 
Question put- 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek your approval to make a personal explanation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

I have listened with a great deal of attention to what has been said by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  and the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett).  I think both honourable members are anxious to make a contribution to the problems of employment and unemployment. I credit them in public with having an ability and a willingness to do what is right, but I must point out that the honourable member for Port Adelaide did not utter one single word which, I believe, would go towards solving the problem. He gave us no reason to think that if we were to approve the establishment of a parliamentary committee the Opposition would be capable of contributing to a solution because of the restraints imposed upon it by its masters outside Parliament. 
The second point I want to make is that we already know from statements made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  that all the means he recommends of overcoming our problems would exacerbate them to an alarming extent. The truth is that the Opposition has not learnt from its failures of 1973 to 1975. What policies does the Leader of the Opposition now recommend? He wants complete indexation of wages at a time when it is essential, if we are to become internationally competitive again, to cut our costs- I am talking about money costs related to the prices paid overseas for our goods in dollar terms- so as to bring them down to a level comparable with those of our main trading partners. I am talking about money costs. I am not talking about a trade-weighted balance, which is altogether different. 
Another matter that the Leader of the Opposition has spoken about and that I think should not be raised at a time when the world is in a state of anxiety and even anguish is economic growth and restraint. He talks about imposing a resource tax at a time when we want to encourage foreign investment and we want to improve our competitive position in international markets and trade. Above all, we want others to buy our product so that our economy can be stimulated internally. I see no prospect of a committee of this kind being successful. 
Having mentioned the comments of the honourable member for Adelaide, I think I should deal with the history of the unemployment situation in Australia since 1 972. 1 will put it in a slightly different way from the honourable member for Port Adelaide, whom I admire tremendously for his energy, his intelligence and the way in which he is succeeding in his shadow portfolio. I remind him, although he probably does not need reminding, that 80,000 people were unemployed in October 1972. It was agreed by all the technical experts with whom I came in contact prior to that time that, according to official papers prepared for the Government in 1969, there was little or no prospect of keeping inflation below 1 1 per cent to 13 per cent in 1970 and 1971. To what percentage did we get inflation down? In 1972 we got the underlying trend down to 2.2 per cent and the consumer price index down to 4.6 per cent. We had a growth rate in real terms of 7v4 per cent. Interest rates were down substantially in real terms, too. 
What happened as a consequence of changed policies by the Labor Government? It mucked them up completely. If we examine the figures we will find that in June 1975 there were 246,000 people- not 80,000 people- unemployed and that the level was constantly increasing. Other changes were dramatic. The consequences of the stupidity of the Labor Government's actions were so obvious that I hesitate to recall them today. Why were they so stupid? They offended every canon of sensible management of the economy, particularly fiscal and wages policies. Wages increased well beyond productivity. Public servants' wages increased first and those increases flowed on to others. In two years wages increased by about 16 per cent when a 4 per cent increase would have been adequate. Labor indulged in business bashing which frightened business into restraint. Uncertainty grew continually worse. Nothing was as important as the wages explosion. As my colleague the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has said, there was also extravagant government expenditure in areas which did not add to productivity or growth. Those actions have caused alarming problems ever since. 
I will go a little further. World problems grew in severity. Most of them are still with us today. For example, when the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries quadrupled the price of crude oil in 1964 it threw the world economies out of kilter. I suggest to the honourable member for Bonython that he ought to read an article which appeared last week in the London  Financial Times.  Deficits are building up in those countries importing crude oil from the Middle East, that is, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development countries. Their international payments are growing because of the necessity to import more oil. Because the OPEC countries cannot spend the funds and the capacity of the purchasers to buy other products internally is reduced, there is necessarily a gap. As demand falls, so too does supply, and unemployment increases. It would be wise for the honourable member to read that article, which is intelligently written. I have not seen it previously. 
The arguments in it deserve the greatest consideration. 
Please do. The honourable member has been promising to come round to my office for a long time for a drink. The second reason for being in the peculiar state we are in today is what is called satiety. It is not a good word but I cannot think of another. The belief is held that we need a new series of innovations before we can get the world working properly and at full steam again. 
I should like to refer now to the specific points in the motion moved by the Opposition and to comment upon some of the things that it says ought to be done. I do not think the establishment of such a committee is necessary. Frankly I do not believe that any good would come out of it. I should like to concentrate on paragraphs ( 1 ) and (2) of the motion, which deal with the extent of unemployment and the degree to which it has become a long term problem, and paragraph (7), which deals with the extent and nature of possible conflict between the objective of reducing unemployment and other policy objectives. If honourable members opposite want to know where unemployment exists and what are the occupations of the people registered for employment they should look at the quarterly labour surveys and the monthly returns of the CES statistics. If they come round to my office I will give them those documents. If one looks at the Labour Force document for November 1977-1 have great admiration for the Commonwealth Employment Service and for the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations as a whole- one will find all the answers one needs. I say with regret, and I hope with a fair degree of humiliation, that I cannot believe that the debate could have been led by a man who had not bothered to ascertain the facts before he came here and made an accusation against the Government. 
If I might come back to the Opposition Leader and all Labor members of Parliament for that matter, the reason they can never hope to succeed with policies which will ensure growing output, growing employment and less unemployment is that their wages policy calls for full indexation of wages at a time when, in $US money terms, we are being competed out of world markets because we have a cost disadvantage of somewhere between 10 per cent and 15 per cent. 
It is critical to the success of the Australian economy that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission reduce still further the percentage of the consumer price index that is applied to partial wage indexation in order to reduce real wages and restore our competitive capacity, and by those means once again to put us back in a position where we can exploit our opportunities in all parts of the world. I believe that that is fundamental to success, and I do not believe that there is any prospect of that policy being successful and that objective achieved while the Labor Party has any voice in what should be done. 
The honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  who has spoken for me, is a person for whom I have great respect. I have long believed in the fullest level of employment, both of manpower and material resources. I have lived with that belief and I will die with it, even if that is within the course of the next few minutes, or for that matter the next few years. I must say that I was extremely worried by the figures relating to employment that appeared in the statistics published late last week or early this week. In the 12 months to February 1978 the number of employed persons fell by 25,000. And unemployed rose by 105,000. Of course the Government worries about it. Could we have a Minister of the talent of the honourable gentleman who spoke first on behalf of the Government who was not consistently worried, consistently devoting his efforts to getting employment higher and unemployment lower? Of course not. Although I do not come in contact with the Prime Minister (  Mr Malcolm  Fraser) as much as I do with the Minister, I am certain that would certainly apply to the Prime Minister as well. 
Coming to the last question, that is, the extent and nature of possible conflict between the objectives of reducing unemployment and other policy objectives. For some time I have believed that too many of the great countries- those that were once called the locomotive countries, the main driving forces on which recovery dependshave persisted for too long, as did the countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, in dealing solely with inflation. They forgot other objectives. I had the opportunity of speaking to Van Lennep and one of his top technical staff in July last year in Paris. They admitted that they had gone too far. They accepted what I had said to them that employment and output were just as important. My ideas corresponded largely with those of Arthur Okun of the Brookings Institute. In my opinion we should establish total objectives. Then the members of Parliament or the Executive of the 
Parliament must decide the order of priorities and the extent to which they will give emphasis to each in order to achieve the maximum balance between supply and demand. Today demand is nowhere near as high as it should be. I have mentioned that there are the problems of inflation, employment and unemployment. I want to emphasise that increasing demand and output are tremendously important. If we do not achieve increases in output then I do not believe we can solve our problems. 
I have recently read a debate between Arthur Okun and  Mr Greenspan,  both at one time or another head of the council of economic advisers to the US  President.  This debate clearly shows the differences of opinion as to what can be done to achieve the four objectives. As an example relating to a fall in economic growth and its effect on inflation, answering a statement by  Mr Greenspan  he said: 
What the economic models tell me is this: If you reduce the growth of GNP by 1 per cent, then in the first year at least four-fifths of that will show up as less real GNP and no more than one-fifth in the form of less inflation. 

 Mr Greenspan took an opposite view. We desperately need increased output and therefore we desperately need to have an economy where demand is increasing consistently, as the Treasury has accepted. By that means we will be able after a lapse of time to reduce unemployment and, as the population and the work force increase, larger numbers of employees as well. 
Those are the points I wanted to put before the House. I believe, and I want to state this again and again, that this is a country with magnificent opportunities. But we live in a world in which we depend very heavily on trade. Unless the OECD countries, including Japan, agree to stimulate their economies and local demand with a consequential increase in demand for commodities and world trade, with its effect on Australia, it is going to be tremendously difficult for us. The problems of America are immense mainly because the  President  will not come to grips with the energy problem, which in itself creates additional problems particularly with regard to the balance of payments deficit and the impact of inflation. He is now forcing the Japanese into deficit financing of a kind that also can create problems for us, particularly in relation to the demand for Australian iron ore and coal. These are problems of growing importance. I believe that they are the ones on which we should be concentrating throughout Australia and making our contributions to their solution in the best interests of this country by adopting new policies instead of the old ones that have failed. 
Has the Treasurer been informed that the notices of disallowance are being issued under section 5 1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act disallowing Curran-type claims to tax deductions except in the case of geniune traders? As this inevitably means that the loss to revenue will not be great -it will certainly not be great relative to the unproven astronomical estimates given outside the House- can he inform the House why the policy which he favours, or says he does, of let the law prevail is being applied in the Gortontype case and is not being applied in the Currantype case? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I want to debate what has been said by members of the Opposition and also by one honourable member on my side of the House. But I prefer to deal with the objections I raise to their statements in the body of my speech rather than now so that I will not take up more time than I think is desirable. 
My attitude to the Bill has been very clear, and I have made it public on several occasions. I think it is right that we should terminate each and every one of the taxation avoidance procedures and schemes that have been mentioned in the second reading speech. Equally do I believe that that should apply to two other measures that have been mentioned by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  The first relates to loss companies being taken over by another company, and the second to the pre-payment of rent and interest rates. What I do object to is retrospectivity, and it is with that matter that I shall deal in the body of my speech. 
Secondly, I draw attention to clause 3, which will insert a new section 6ba, and to clause 9, which will insert a new section 62a. I believe that not only are the powers of the Commissioner for Taxation being unduly extended contrary to everything in which I have ever believed in political life, and something that I would not permit myself as a Treasurer, but contrary also to Liberal Party philosophy. It is right that I should make a declaration of pecuniary interest, for as one of those who is moderately well off, I should say exactly where I stand with regard to these sorts of schemes and retrospectively I have no pecuniary interest of any kind, nor does any member of my family, in any of the schemes that are now before the House or will come before the House. 
You shut up, because you are a bit of a dumbwit and I do not want to have to deal with you. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! I ask the right honourable member for Lowe to withdraw that expression and to address his remarks to the Chair. 
I withdraw. If I could go a little further, until I heard the word 'retrospectivity' mentioned, I had never heard of the Curran case. I knew of no person involved in a Curran type case nor do I know of any person involved in any of the other schemes mentioned by the Treasurer. I dislike the lot and, even if I had been informed of them, I could not have been persuaded to join one. 
I take up this matter in a much wider perspective than dealing solely with retrospectivity. I believe in what Lord Hailsham has said during the course of the last few days. He is a man who has to be admired for his liberal principles and his liberal attitude to life and his wish to ensure that democracy survives. I well remember that, not so long ago, we had to deal with a case concerning whether there could be political interference with the administration of justice by the senior law officers of the Crown. I was horrified when I heard what had been attempted, but regrettably to me the then Attorney-General resigned. I believe that that episode ended any prospect in the future of political interference in the administration of the law, at least while this Government is in power. There will not be any further attempts at interference. 
Let me return to the matter of retrospectivity. I want first of all to quote Lord Hailsham about retrospective taxation. He has said that there are two fundamental principles of the rule of law. Those who want to be informed, must have read his book relating to liberalism in the Conservative Party. I read it years ago and I read it again only the other night in order to ascertain his views. This is what he said - 
If you do not know, you had better go back to school. Lord Hailsham said: 
A man cannot be punished or penalised for doing something which is lawful at the time it is done. 
That is a principle I believe in. It is exactly what I have believed in while I have been in the Liberal Party. The principle applies both to criminal and taxation law. I turn to my own Party. I am a believer in the Liberal Party. I am a believer in its platform and policies. I believe all Liberals are morally committed to the platform and policies. The platform and policy of the Party is binding on all of us if we have a conscience. It says: 
The platform is the statement of essential principles based upon the Liberal philosophy. 
The policies are detailed statements of specific programs of action derived from the platform. 
If one looks at that part relating to taxation, it states: 
The rights of the taxpayer are safeguarded by . . . minimising discretionary powers . . . 
I have referred to the powers of the Commissioner of Taxation as contained in this Bill. But more importantly, the document states:  . . . ensuring that taxation adjustments do not have retrospective effect. 
There is no qualification of those words. Later on it is stated that taxation avoidance schemes will be eliminated. We heard some mutterings not so many days ago about something else being contained in that part, but on a second look I could not find anything else. Now let me deal with the responsibility of Liberal members. I believe that that is of importance to us. I quote now from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in one of the most eloquent and, I believe, dramatic speeches he has made since he has been Prime Minister. He comments about the principles and attitudes of  Sir Robert  Menzies, who was the founder of our Party. This is what the Prime Minister has said about it, and I believe that it applies with particular emphasis to members of the Liberal and National Country Parties and to what we do in Parliament: 
The security provided by the rule of law . . . is that security to which a man may confidently and calmly appeal even though every man's hand may be against him; the law's greatest benefits are for the minority man- the individual . . . 
I add: The individual against the State. I believe it is the responsibility for each of us to fight for the basic principles of the Liberal Party. Let me come now to the very difficult question whether there is a presumption against retrospectivity. It is being claimed regrettably by the Government that if one reads the Budget Speech it is too clear that it was intended that retrospectivity would apply or that is implied anyhow; I will quote from the Budget Speech in a few moments but let us look at the law. Lord Ashbourne in Smith v. Callander, 1901 Appeal Cases, puts it this way: 
It is obviously competent for the legislature ... to make the provisions of an Act of Parliament retrospective-- 
I agree with that:  . . . but before giving such a construction . . . one would require that it should appear very clearly in the terms of the Act or arise by necessary and distinct interpretation. 
I defy any member of this House with clarity of thought and objectivity of reason to show me where it is set out very clearly. I defy them to show me where there is a necessary and distinct interpretation in the Budget Speech. I will deal more fully later. If we want an argument even more impressive, let us turn to the opinions of probably the greatest justice ever appointed to the High Court, Chief Justice Owen Dixon, a man very well known to me. In Maxwell v. Murphy, reported in  1956-57 Law Reports,  he said: 
The general rule of the common law is that a statute changing the law ought not, unless the intention appears with reasonable certainty, to be understood as applying to facts or events that have already occurred . . . 
That is what I believe the Liberal Party stands for on the rule of law and the proper way in which the law should be administered. On that I stand, and I believe that the Government has abused those principles- not only the common law but the platform and policies of my own Party, principles that I believe are essential if democracy is to survive in the way in which we people in the Liberal Party and National Country Parties desire. 
Now may I turn to those arguments that have been used officially to support the Government's case. First, I should say that as I read through the second reading speech of this Bill I was a little ashamed to think that I as a Treaurer or Prime Minister could have made such a second reading speech. It is sloppy. It omits to mention facts that are essential, such as the law. It omits facts that would help a member to make up his own mind. It is deficient in fact and in law. Few members of the back bench have had the proper opportunity to know what it is all about. 
You are not paying. 
I do not know what you are talking about. I will deal with the first question: Is it retrospective? Many honourable members spoke to me immediately after the 
Bill was brought down. They said that it is not retrospective and they gave me reasons. I do not doubt that they believed those reasons at that moment, but I believe that those who say that it is not retrospective- and they continue to say itmust be incapable of understanding. I do not know what is the proper word to use. If one looks at the second reading speech on this Bill we find: 
The Government acknowledges that retrospectivity is involved . . . We make no apology for acting retrospectively to protect the public revenue. 
So I have to dismiss that argument. Then there is the question of the public interest. The basic idea of this legislation is to protect the public interest- that is exactly what is said- and to protect Government revenue. When one introduces a phrase such as 'public interest', which can have a thousand different meanings to a thousand different people, one introduces a principle into the law that anyone can decide on any grounds that comes into his head. Anything goes. The fellow from Chifley who spoke wanted not only retrospectivity in taxation, but also to abolish family trusts. He made a ghastly error- he mucked it up altogether- in relation to averaging of income. Because what he said was absolutely idiotic and wrong. So if the intention is to allow anyone to make up his mind about what 'the public interest' is, it will be a bad day for parliament and, much worse, a very bad day for the people of this country. 
The next point concerns the difficulties connected with the amount of tax foregone or lost. One thing which disturbs me is that we have never been able to learn the precise amount of money involved. At first I heard that it would be $50m hard. Immediately afterwards it became $500m to $2,000m. What the people have not been told, what has not been disclosed, is that if there is a loss to revenue to the extent of $500m or if $2,000m, there must be taxable income of $4,000m. It is totally idiotic that nobody should ever think of such a sum. The best people I could ask were solicitors and counsel involved in these cases. They told me that the amount involved could not be more than $120m to $130m. Next, were the warnings adequate? Let us look at the Budget Speech- I refer the House to the warnings given in the Budget to see whether or not retrospectivity was implicit in it. Is any very clear definition given? Does it mention the Curran schemes and say that retrospectivity will apply as from that date? By any stretch of the imagination, is there a necessary and clear implication of retrospectivity? I do not believe that one can; in fact, I am fairly certain that no such implication can reasonably be made. 
Let me go a stage further. Only last year we had before us proposed changes to section 36a of the Act. They related to the ownership or disposal of stock in a business. What happened? In fact, the retrospectivity clauses were withdrawn, and the clear implication which arose was that we did not like retrospectivity and that we were not prepared to legislate for it. I come to two other matters which must be mentioned. Not so very long ago- in September 1977-  Mr R.  J. Viner, the Minister Assisting the Treasurer, wrote to the joint accounting bodies of the Institute of Chartered Accountants. Some of them are the people who are promoting various schemes. We have got to ask ourselves whether we can say they were put on warning. This was actually said in a letter prepared by the Treasury: 
Indeed you will be aware that the Government decided in line with your views that it should remove any element of retrospectivity from the amending legislation. The provisions of section 31c and the first of the amendments to section 36a as finally enacted now apply from April 21 1977, the date on which the Bill was introduced into the Parliament. 
Far from putting the public and people on warning it had the opposite effect. The Treasurer said that he did not know of that letter. Was he deceived by the Treasury? If they did not tell him of the contents of that letter, it is a very sorry outlook for us. I have warned him of the necessity always to check their advice. There is other evidence that investors were lulled into believing retrospectivity was out. On 30 March of this year an open forum was conducted in Sydney with the Institute of Chartered Accountants and was attended by two very important members of the Taxation Office. Immediately after the forum they said, in the presence of other people who were answering questions, that there was little likelihood of retrospective taxation being introduced. 
The question may well be asked: Why did we not announce retrospectivity in relation to the Curran case when we came into government, when we had weeks and months in which to do it? Why did not the Labor Party do it, as the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  would have us believe it ought to have done? He also said that we should have done it. Why did not the Labor Government do it after the then Labor Treasurer  Mr Crean  made his celebrated statement. 
I mention this to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I mention it to the House, and I mention it to the Treasurer. The Treasurer will remember that on 5 April the  Australian  got in touch with him and informed him that it had been told that legislation would be introduced in relation to a certain case and would be made retrospective to 16 
August 1977. If that were so, why did he not say that that was so? Why did he not let us all know what the legislation was to be and say it would be retrospective? There was no reason for secrecy. There was every reason to make a statement immediately his mind was made up as to what would be done. I go a stage further. He will remember saying in my presence that there had been a leak and that he had suspicions about the source of the leak. The very next morning it was learned from the  Australian- some  people may care to call it a leak, but I do not like to use that term- that the briefing came from the Treasury. 
I will send the newspaper clipping to the honourable member and then he will be ahing. I wish to comment about the Curran type transactions, because mistakes have been made about them this morning. My own view is the same as the reasons for opposition to retrospectivity legislation as the  Canberra Times.  That newspaper dealt with the objection to retrospectivity in these words: 
The great danger in making retrospective laws is that or using a lame administrative device to enforce a political decision, to cover up inexcusable administrative neglect or to give a semblance of legitimacy to political decisions that have none at all. 
I have already referred today to what was said by Lord Hailsham in regard to the survival of democracy. We in the Liberal and National Country Parties have the sacred trust of ensuring that it survives in the critically important conditions that exist today where throughout the world communism is dominating one country after another, against the will of the people. For that reason I support the rule of law. The Communists know no rule of law. For that reason also I support very strongly that part of the rule of law which deals with nonretrospectivity. Secondly, if provision for retrospectivity is introduced then I would have to agree with the leader which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  in relation to retrospective laws. It was in these terms: 
They are bad because they impair the right of the individual to have confidence in the certainty and predictability of the law as it stands when he makes a transaction or a decision. 
I go further, they know not what retrospectivity will involve. What precedent is created. What a pandora's box we will open if we abandon the common law and Liberal principles. Only today we heard the Opposition taking retrospectivity back one stage further. What is to prevent Labor from taking it back even further or introducing retrospectivity in relation to any matter it wishes? One honourable gentleman opposite said that he would not only backdate retrospectivity, but would introduce it in relation to family trusts. Family trusts are designed to protect the family alone and not to be an avoidance type scheme. If we want confidence, if we want predictability in business, if we want to sustain democracy, if we want to ensure that those methods which protect the family interest are upheld, we must not introduce retrospectivity. Retrospectivity works against each one of those objectives and principles. Therefore it is objectionable to me. I will be voting against this legislation, and I will be seeking to divide the House on it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The right honourable gentleman's time has expired. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, on two counts. 
First, in the  Hansard  of Friday's proceedings, at page 1937 it is reported that the Treasurer asked for, and received, leave to incorporate that page of the Liberal Party's policy relating to taxation. Neither the public nor the Parliament were informed of the details. But the Treasurer, referring to what I had said, read part of the preamble which says: 
The system must be easy to understand . . . simple and inexpensive to administer . . . fair in appearance and practice. 
But, sir, either carelessly or by intent, he left out these critically important words in the platform: 
The achievement of these objectives requires a tax system in which the rights of the taxpayer are safeguarded by: 
Minimising discretionary powers; and 
Ensuring that taxation adjustments do not have retrospective elect 
These are the words that I used. The failure to mention them, together with the other words mentioned in my speech, puts a totally false interpretation on what the Liberal Party platform and policy says. Then again, on page 1939 of  Hansard,  in relation to tax losses of between $500m and $2,000m mentioned by me, the Treasurer is reported to have said: 
I think the right honourable member for Lowe suggested that it means that one would need SI ,000m of income in order to support a figure of $S00m. 
To be correct, I said that if there is to be a loss of revenue of $2,000m, that is, to the Treasury, there must be taxable income of $4,000m. That statement is correct. The Treasurer, replying, said: 
It is $ 1 ,000m of capital reserves, not $ 1 ,000m of profit that is involved. 
I did not mention the word profit. With regard to the Treasurer's statement I point out that it is necessary in a Curran scheme that a company shall have a capital profit. If the example of companies with $ 1,000m of capital profit reserves had been utilised, the tax deduction available would be $ 1,000m, and the tax saving $500m with, therefore, a loss to revenue of the order of $500m too. 
As well, the Treasurer's statement is incorrect unless he is saying that the companies did not pay tax on the created capital reserves. This is confusing income and capital gains tax. No Australian company or individual is required to pay tax on capital profits. There is no capital gains tax. If the company goes into liquidation under section 47 there will be no tax on the distribution of capital profits to the shareholders. At long last we get an estimate from the Commissioner of Taxation: The figure of $500m is not out of the question. That is a far cry from the $500m to $2,000m - 
I finish on that note, but have not gone outside what was actually said by the Treasurer and by myself in the contributions that we made on Friday. 
-I shall divide my comments into three parts. Insofar as each of the schemes that are to be affected by this legislation- the pre-payment of rent out of interest rates and the taking over of loss profit companies by other companies- and the announcement today with regard to dividend stripping are concerned, I agree wholeheartedly with each and every principle involved and the action that is to be taken in regard to them. My argument centres upon restrospectivity. I will divide on that issue. I have two objections that I regard as important. Both come within the platform and policy of my Party- the Liberal Party of Australia. I take it that they would apply with equal force to the National Country Party which usually takes these matters very seriously. Clause 3, which proposes a new section  6BA,  relates to what we commonly call the Curran case. I say of this scheme as I said of the others that I do not like it. I would never have been able to participate in it, nor would I have permitted my family to do so. I have also mentioned in the House that to my knowledge I have no connection with any person who is involved with this scheme. 
The real problem in this clause is the incredible power given to the Commissioner of Taxation. We believe that it is for the Parliament of this country to govern. If that can be done using guidelines, the Parliament itself should determine them. It should not be left to the widest discretion of the Commissioner of Taxation. I have tremendous respect for the Taxation Office, garnered over the years. Therefore I must necessarily speak with great restraint. Most of us by now know that unless there are extraordinary circumstances a company can be the subject of a Curran case only if there is an increase in the capitalisation of the value of assets or there arc exempt incomes. When bonus shares are given to the equivalent of the capitalisation or the exempt income, the bonus shares can be sold leaving the other shares with no value and, therefore, capable of attracting a tax deduction. I have also made it clear that in this case there are very special circumstances. I referred to a case earlier in a personal explanation. Such cases must be treated on the basis that the rate of income or the grouping in the income structure payable by the beneficiaries also applies. Therefore only half the amount is allowable and the other half is a benefit to the Commissioner of Taxation or to Australian revenue. 
The part I do not like in this clause relates to bonus shares and those shares I choose to call the mother shares, that is, shares that were originally in the company before the bonus was issued. The clause states in part: 
where any of the original shares or any of the bonus shares are articles of trading stock of the taxpayer and the taxpayer elects, under sub-section (I) of section 31. in respect of all or any of the shares that are articles of stock, to adopt the cost price of those shares as being the value of those articles of trading stock- the value of those articles of trading stock; and 
where any of the original shares or any of the bonus shares are not articles of trading stock of the taxpayer- the amount of any profit or loss arising on the sale or disposal of any of those shares 
Very wide powers are given to the Commissioner of Taxation. In respect of the mother shares and the bonus shares he can allot the amounts paid or to be payable in such proportions as he considers appropriate in the circumstances. It is my suggestion now that far from he alone being given the power the words should be 'in such proportions as are appropriate in the circumstances'. I have been advised that if that is done there will be an ability to carry out a reconciliation but, more importantly there can be an appeal to a court as to whether the circumstances are appropriate. That is the conclusion to which I have come. I am supported by many of the great accounting authorities in Sydney and other parts of New South Wales. 
Some other very damaging effects could also occur in the normal course of a business which is not associated with this type of scheme. To show how hurriedly this legislation was prepared I have given a hypothetical case to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  relating to the purchase in the marketplace of 1000 shares at $3.50, with the knowledge that there would be a bonus issue of 1000 new shares at a nominal value of 50c. In this case the gentleman would have paid $3,500 for the shares. The notional value of the new shares would be $500. The value of the shares when sold would also have to be taken into consideration in the sale. That happened to be $1.75. Therefore the value of the bonus shares would be $1,750. A most complex formula has been arrived at to decide the amount of taxable income payable which I do not believe relates to the circumstances. The formula is a over b plus c multiplied by b. The symbol a is the value of the original shares, that is $3,500, and b is the value of the thousand shares with a nominal value of 50c, which is $500. That amount is multiplied by 1,000 times the amount of $1.75 at which the shares were sold. The only profit made on selling all the shares was $200. Under this system, the taxable income would be $944. If he paid tax at a rate of 50 per cent, the gentleman's taxable income would have been higher than the actual profit he made. 
I mention these facts because I do not believe that this is the proper place for us to handle such matters. We have not had enough time to consider the legislation properly. The Senate must take this clause into consideration. After listening to the outline of the case in this House it must be prepared to obtain even stronger advice and to act in the way in which we believe the Senate is capable of acting. I would not under any circumstances call for a division on a measure such as this but I believe that it requires much careful attention. It should be left to the Senate to pass the kind of amendments which would be acceptable to the Government. I have adumbrated my amendment. Therefore, I move: 
In proposed section 6ba (3) omit 'the Commissioner considers appropriate ', substitute 'are appropriate '. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  has put up an argument which is the basis of everything that I want to do. He now says that he hopes that the Taxation Commissioner will act rather hard and press down very hard. This is what we want to eliminate as far as we can- that it should depend on the opinion of any one person whether legislation is to be applied hard, soft or straight down the middle or whether a decision is to be objective and real. The whole of my argument centres around so many of these things that are happening today. We are getting away from the profound concepts of the law as we have known them in the past and as they have been taught to us because they have turned out to be right. Again, as happened on Friday, we get the Opposition expressing views that would enable people to violate the law, that would put people in a position where they could never be confident of what would happen and would be terrified if a Labor Government came to office again. I think it is a pity because the young fellow is trying his best to be good. I did not mean to laugh at him but I can understand his situation. I confirm my convictions that the Liberal Party and the National Country Party from time immemorial have been against too great a power being held by anyone. We believe that power can always be misused and mistakes can be made. This is the place to act. I recommend therefore that the proposed amendment be accepted. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2) omit '16 August 1977', substitute '7 April 1978'. 
My objection now is fundamental, and on this amendment I can assure the House that I will seek a division, if that is practicable. 
Sub-clause (2) states: 
Section 6BA of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 applies in every case where the bonus shares referred to in that section were or are allotted after 1 6 August 1 977. 
In my amendment I have recommended that that date be changed to 7 April 1978, that is, the date on which the announcement was in fact made in this chamber. I have moved my amendment on very profound grounds. The first is the rule of law as I have understood it ever since I have been in the Liberal Party of Australia. That rule has never been violated previously. The rule of which I am speaking is that a man cannot be punished or penalised in any way for an act which at the time it was done was in fact lawful. I think that is a very good rule. I have not found anyone who has been able to argue in a substantial way against it. I know that the meaning of the rule has been challenged by a member who has applied an interpretation that he felt would be given to it by Quintin Hogg, that is, Viscount Hailsham himself. One of my colleagues will deal with this matter later. I think he will show how the performance by the individual concerned was a poor performance and how biased we can become when we set out minds in a particular way. 
We have been talking about the presumption of retrospectivity. I know that one can quote cases on this subject from all over the world. I believe that one can quote some very very good ones as well as some that I regard as unfortunate. I will not quote again what was said by Lord Ashbourne or anyone else like that. However, I will quote what was said by one of the greatest judicial minds we have ever had in Australia. His thinking as regards to both the rule of common law and presumptions can be stated in these words: 
The general rule of the common law is that a statute changing the law ought not, unless the intention appears with reasonable certainty, to be understood as applying to facts or events that have already occurred . . . 
In other words, the basic principle expressed there is not only that laws should not be made retrospective but also that there should be a presumption that unless one has absolutely overriding evidence and implications that retrospectivity was obviously intended the benefit of the doubt and the advantage should be given to the individual himself. 
I remind members of my own party- I do so with all the strength at my disposal- of something that  Sir Robert  Menzies, our founder, said when I first became a member of the party. He said, in effect, that it was the responsibility of a member to protect the rights of the individual, no matter how many influences there might be in the opposite direction and regardless of whether they came from the government or from a powerful clique or group, and that if the member thought that it was right that he should support the individual in his fight against might he had every obligation to act as a liberal. I will follow that practice as long as I live. 
I would now like to deal with the rules of my party. In this regard I am speaking with some distress. I think that there has been too much misrepresentation of them. When speaking earlier I referred to the platform and policy of my party. I said that the platform and policy were morally binding on every Liberal if he wanted to remain a Liberal and that if he did not want to abide by the platform and policy he ought to ask himself the moral question of whether it is right for him to stay. I then read out the part of the platform and policy which states that the achievement of certain objectives requires a tax system in which the rights of the taxpayer are safeguarded by minimising discretionary powers and ensuring that taxation adjustment does not have retrospective effect. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said in reply that he believed that the words in the preamble that the system must be easy to understand, simple and inexpensive to administer and fair in appearance and practice were dominant. What he did do, which I regard as absolutely wrong, was leave out, either carelessly or by intent, the critically important words in the platform and policy which state that the achievement of those objectivesthis is set out in the preamble- requires a tax system in which the rights of the taxpayer are safeguarded in the way that I have mentioned. I believe that the failure to mention those words, together with the others I have mentioned, puts a totally false interpretation on the platform and policy of my party. The Treasurer incorporated the document but he did not mention what was in it. He went on then glibly to quote only the preamble but he did not mention the relationship between the preamble and the part I have quoted from the platform and policy. But that is not all. Some of the great democracies of the world prohibit retroactivity or retrospectivity. In particular, Article 9 of the Constitution of the United States of America forbids it. 
-Thank you. I am glad to hear that I am right for once, at least in the minds of some honourable members. I cannot believe that anyone with any reasonable degree of honesty can say there were grounds on which it could be thought that there was a necessary and conclusive implication in what had been said before, that is, that the operation of the Bill would be retroactive to a particular debate. Above everything else, I think I can stress now that many of the things that have occurred have created an entirely different impression. I set them out in my contribution to the second reading debate and I do not want to repeat what I said. 
I also want to refer to some other glib things that have been said. The Treasurer challenged me on the use of the words 'the public interest'. If he had listened to what I had said he would have known that after the most mature thought I stated that if one introduces a glib phrase like 'the public interest' and one does not give a definition for it any individual can come along and put a totally different interpretation on it. Unless we know in specific terms what public interest is involved and how we are to protect it there is no way of knowing what that phrase means. If ever I have seen an example of an opening up of Pandora's box and the creating of difficulties of a kind that I am sure were never envisaged when the Bill was prepared I have seen it in the statements made by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  They have clearly indicated that as far as they were concerned the legislation could be backdated as far as was wanted. Once a precedent is created there can be no reservations about how far back the legislation is to be backdated. As the honourable member for Chifley very clearly implied one can go back a very long time. 
The honourable member for Chifley introduced other elements which I believe were frightening. For example, he advocated the averaging of farm incomes. He said that it was Labor Party policy that this matter should come up for review. I wonder whether members of the Labor Party know how difficult it is for farmers to make ends meet today. I am in a very strong position to speak about the difficulties of primary producers. I have tremendous sympathy for the National Country Party and the way in which its supporters are being treated. Because of that the Labor Party will lose every seat it contests at the next election. I indicated that I will cross the floor on this issue. I have never gone through such anguished moments as I went through when I not only heard that this would be retrospective but also realised that it is against all the principles of my party and of common law. 
When I was speaking previously I received such applause from members National Country Party that, for a moment, I lost track of what I wanted to say. I was mentioning some of the statements made by the Australian Labor Party in an effort to show the degree to which it would go if it had the opportunity to exploit a lapse of judgment of the Government or, if it happened to be on the other side of the chamber, the Opposition. Those of us who have had any experience at all can go back to 1973 when Whitlam took office and to the justifications he made for the first two actions he took when only two Ministers of the Crown were in the Executive for a period of some weeks. After saying that the Liberal Party permitted the money supply to run riot, he immediately turned around and in a matter of months there was a revaluation upwards of 25 per cent, after taking the 10 per cent devaluation of the United States dollar into consideration. At the same time an enormous tariff reduction was made without any consultation at all with his party or with the Parliament itself. He finished up on another note: He entered into the Khemlani agreements knowing that it was in the - 
-There is so much noise, I cannot hear what you are saying,  Mr Chairman.  The honourable member for Robertson is now interrupting. 
I accept your ruling,  Mr Chairman.  I turn now to the question that has been raised by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  who bewildered me no end, and I have listened to him for a long time. He raised the argument of the political versus the legal. I believe that so far as the rule of law is concerned, it is based upon common law and, therefore, is based upon common practices and common ideals. That has been acceptable to and has been accepted by the greatest justices we have known in history. Now, of course, there comes a political time when the Government has to make up its mind whether it wants to change the common law; whether it wants to take some other action which is totally different. Then we are faced with an amendment to the law that can be debated here on a rational and sensible basis. There is no conflict. One follows the other, as day follows the night. Therefore, I feel that that argument of the member for St George is totally unwarranted. But what can be said, with actual realism, is that in 1974 and 1975, when the Labor Party could have taken action, it did not do so. Then, in 1977, there was a second judgment of the High Court upholding the Curran case. If we had wanted to take action then, that was the time for the Liberal Party to take action. But it failed to do so. Are people to be prejudiced now because two opportunities to participate in Curran schemes were handed over to them by the High Court of Australia? If the honourable member for St George wants to run down the High Court of Australia, he should say so without going about it in a roundabout way. 
The next point I want to make because this was stressed by some honourable members is this: Was there any justification for thinking that retrospectivity would be practiced in this case or that notice had been given and that, therefore, the schemes were at risk? The words used by the Treasurer in this context were, ' no risk '. But let us look at the facts to see whether or not there was good reason to think that the Government was adhering to its own rules as set out in the Party platform; that is, that there should be no retrospectivity in taxation law. First, let me refer to the fact that no action was taken in 1974 or 1977 after the High Court decisions. We had the famous Viner letter written on behalf of the Treasurer of the day saying that there would be no retrospectivity so far as section 36 was concerned. So if people had been given notice of retrospectivity after that date they would have acted entirely differently. 
At an open forum in Sydney on 30 March this year two of the senior taxation officers who were present were asked the simple question whether there would be any retrospectivity. They said they did not think there would be retrospectivity. On 5 April, my colleague the Treasurer was asked a plain question by the  Australian  about whether there would or would not be retrospectivity. He had the opportunity to give the answer to that question but he did not give it. It should have been yes or no at that time because there was no reason for secrecy. The Treasurer did not answer that question. This must have led to people being persuaded to think that this was the Government's policy. This was adhering to the policy in the platform of the Liberal Party and this was stated in the Viner letter. What else should the public take into consideration? 
I revert again to what retrospectivity means. If we look at retrospectivity in this case, we find that it represents a failure by the Government to exercise powers within its control. It failed to do that. So now the Government has to make any excuse and find some reason to make legislation retrospective. Why was the Government selective. Why did the Government not propose retrospectivity in all the other cases? If we analyse some of the other cases we find, without any reservation, that they cost the community just as much as, if not more than, the Curran scheme. 
I come back to the remarks of the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  and the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter).  I should like to refer to another definition given by Quinton Hogg, Lord Hailsham. When referring to the two fundamental principles of law, he said: 
The first is that a man cannot be punished or penalised for doing something which is lawful at the rime it is done; applied by the judgment of an impartial court; after a public hearing, and executed by public officers. This includes a tax law. 
Their interpretations have been horribly wrong. The honourable member for Macarthur quoted me. This is exactly what I said: 
They amount to serious qualifications to the ideal that predictability and certainty in the law are essential in the interests of good government, and that retrospectivity should only be tolerated when it is clear beyond doubt that serious damage would otherwise permanently be done. 
Keep in mind that retrospectivity could also be applied to all aspects of our lives- for example, our private lives, our privacy, the criminal law, marriage and divorce, and the conduct of business. 
Against that basis and the knowledge of the way in which the Labor Party acts it is irresponsibility in the highest degree. And it can be arbitrary. Pandora's box has been opened. The risk taken is immense. Those who are favouring retrospectivity now will one day pay the penalty. 
I think it is a pity this matter was opened up in the way it was. I believe that it was pejorative in nature and was intended to be so. Honest and sensible discussion was prevented. I point out one matter that excited anguish and created too much confusion for the question to be objectively looked at. At the beginning the cost of this practice was $50m hard. The figure then went to $500m to $2,000m. As I said earlier- I have just checked with the authorities- this means a person would have to have a taxable income of $ 1,000m or $4,000m, which is out of the question. Then the figure increased. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  told us that he has now received a report from the Commissioner which states that 'the figure of $500m is not out of the question'. I am not interested in whether it is out of the question. I am concerned whether it is in the question and within acceptable limits. I do not think it is. After getting advice from counsel who consulted the various individuals concerned, I submit that the figure could not be as high as $ 120m. I added $ 10m just for luck and to be conservative. 
I am glad that this Bill will go to the Senate. The Senate will have an opportunity to look at all that has been said before the Bill is introduced and to examine the case for and against it. Senators will not be compelled to say something today which they would not have said yesterday. They will not always be looking around to see that they do not offend a superior authority. As  Sir Robert  Menzies said - 
If we turn to page 7 of the Bill we see that clause 9 provides that after section 52 of the Principal Act new section 52a is to be inserted. It then, after examining certain cases where expenditure is to be disregarded in ascertaining taxable income, gives vast powers to the Commissioner of Taxation. Under this clause as a whole the Commissioner is given power to decide what is reasonable and what is unreasonable. That means that he would have to exercise a subjective judgment. 1 have long believed- and have heard honourable members opposite argue just as strenuously- that the Commissioner of Taxation should not be given excessive powers. So for the reasons I have just given and also for those that I gave with regard to clause 3, and because of the application that it would have under sub-clause (3) of that clause, I ask that clause 9 be omitted. 
I have stated my views before. But I do not regard this as a matter of fundamental principle. I distinguish principle from what I regard as excessive use of power by an official, rather than the Parliament itself being in a position where it establishes the guidelines and the law. Over and over again when that question has been raised we have come down on the side of denying further power to anyone. No matter how good the Taxation Office is- and nobody knows that much better than I do; I still believe it is one of the great departments, and has very good officials- I would not give it very much power. I believe not so much that power corrupts but that power is sometimes used in excess, and the ability to use excess power is something to which we should all object. Therefore, I move: 
That clause 9 be omitted and that nothing be put in its place. 

 -Mr Speaker, I was associated with the late  Sir Denham  Henty during all the time that he was a member of Parliament, including his period as a member of the Ministry and a member of the 
Cabinet. I remember him as a very pleasant person, always anxious to help. His vast commercial experience enabled him to give advice on what the market place was thinking and what ought to be done no matter what portfolio he was handling. He could always make a contribution on economic and financial affairs and, particularly, on matters related to aviation and retail sales. He was amazingly well informed on the retail trade and whenever we were dealing with the necessity to give a stimulus to the economy or to impose restrictions you could bet your life that he would give data which would make you better informed than if you relied on official sources. 

 Sir Denham was a practical man.  His  home in northern Tasmania- I cannot remember the name of the place and I could not ascertain it because I did not hear of his regrettable death until the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  spoke- was one of the loveliest homes that one could imagine. I hope that it will be retained by the Tasmanian Government for posterity. The honourable members in this House who did not know him as well as I did would nevertheless know of his many activities. I do not know whether you remember this, sir, but he did like to make his own strawberry brandy and on one occasion he thought it would be a personal compliment to me if one night he brought along three bottles of it- the strawberries were still in them- so that I and some of my colleagues, particularly those in the Ministry, would be able to taste it. I invited four or five of them along. I was absent for a little while and when I came back, so nice was the taste and so pleasant the reaction, none of it was left for me. He did replace one bottle, which I felt was not quite justice from him for the first time in his life. He was a charming man and his family was charming. He represented Australia well. I express through you,  Mr Speaker,  my sympathy to his wife and family. We regret his passing very much but he will always be remembered in the most favourable light by those who had the good fortune to be associated with him. 
-I think it is fair to say that I knew the late right honourable member for Kooyong for longer than any other person in this House. I certainly knew him as far back as 1934 when he was a practising lawyer. I remember him from before I became a member of the firm Allen Allen and Hemsley. 
They acted for the Legislative Council, the Upper House, in New South Wales to prevent its dissolution. And that the Governor of New South Wales had the power to dismiss  Mr J.  T. Lang, the Premier. We acted for  Mr Trethowan  and others of the Upper House who were the petitioners.  Sir Robert  gave advice to  Sir Dudley  de Chair which was contrary to the case we supported. For once we won. The Upper House survived. 
I knew  Sir Robert  in other capacities. The firm handled one of the most important patent suits of all time. So much royalty was involved for our clients that we took the case from various State courts to the Federal court and then to the Privy Council. During that case I was informed that R. G. Menzies was slowly but surely convincing the Lords Justices of Appeal, the Privy Council, that there was no invention which could be patented. Sure enough, regrettably, he turned out to be right. I did not like him for a long period but had to swallow my pride subsequently. I believed at that time-I believed so more strongly later on when I was associated with him as a minister- that he was, with  Sir Owen  Dixon, one of the two greatest jurists ever produced in Australia. He was a delight to listen to in the courts. He was always persuasive and he always had charm. It was to be said of him that he usually won. Those were my first experiences with him. 
I then had a passing acquaintance with him when the Liberal Party was being formed. The United Australia Party organisation in New South Wales had disintegrated. Two Liberal Parties were formed and later merged.  Sir Robert  then took control and amalgamated them and other like-minded parties in other States spread throughout Australia into one organisation. 
I come now to the Parliament itself. Naturally I knew of his contribution in the banking case, one of the great cases in Australian history. In the House  Sir Robert  paved the way for the defeat of the Chifley proposals for bank nationalisation. The final decision again came from the Privy Council. I remember when the Communist Party Dissolution Bill was being debated in the House. I was sitting where the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is sitting now waiting to answer the Labor Party.  Sir Eric  Harrison came in and said: 'Can I have a look at your notes, son?'. He then painstakingly tore up all the notes and said: This will be your moment of trial; and one of decision. You are rotten when you read but not too bad when you speak without notes'. After that speech I was invited by  Sir Robert  to join the 
Cabinet. I had to wait for some weeks, during which time I was informed on a couple of occasions that somebody else might be appointed in my stead. Then I received advice from a Cabinet Minister. I went to Ezra Norton of the  Daily Mirror  and sought his support. Within a couple of days I became a member of the Cabinet. I say that in the presence of my colleagues to let them know that I learned in those days that there always is someone able to give us guidance of a very helpful kind. 
I remember the morning he asked me to become a member of the Ministry. I was at the Balmoral Naval Base. He said that I would be Minister for the Navy and Minister for Air. Somewhat reluctantly I said: 'That does not appeal to me very much,  Sir. What  is wrong with the Treasury?' I thought that he would have a fit of hysterics, but he replied: 'I don't think I would have the courage to talk to dear old Artie about that'. I managed to survive in those years as Minister for the Navy and Minister for Air, I do not know how, because on at least three occasions I made major and successful decisions without informing Cabinet. As an example, I allowed the war criminals from Manus Island to go back to Japan without informing  Sir Robert,  and I gave approval for a 2 program for the Sydney dockyard without telling the Cabinet but with the approval of the Treasury officials. I can assure you,  Mr Speaker,  they were memorable days. I stuck it out, but only because I had the support of  Sir Arthur  Fadden and  Sir Eric  Harrison. 
I do not want to proceed on that line for too long, but I want to give the reasons why I believe  Sir Robert  must be remembered and what his main achievements were. First, I must stress that he changed the outlook of the Commonwealth Parliament to the Constitution. Some amendments had already been made through placitum (xxiiiA) of section 51 of the Constitution, the Evatt amendment which dealt with social welfare and health services. Apart from that, in those days the Federal Parliament was truly a Federal Parliament and did not believe in interfering where the rights and responsibilities were obviously those of the States. Slowly but surely  Sir Robert  changed this attitude. One of the great constitution changes, therefore, was that over a wide range of activities  Sir Robert  took action which I believe involved and ensured development and growth in Australia and, through that, set us on the road to achieving a unity that otherwise could never have been achieved or achieved so quickly. 
There was his attitude to education, which he liked to take pride in himself as his greatest achievement. I put it no higher than third because there were other things that he did as well. I can remember Artie Fadden coming into Cabinet and saying: 'What do you think, mates? I have to announce that we are giving aid to the church schools in Canberra, and he did not even tell me before he left'. I can also remember that in a Cabinet meeting I was pressing strenuously to get aid for independent schools and it looked as though I had lost. I was supported by  Sir Garfield  Barwick. Suddenly I mumbled: Wouldn't it be a wonderful thing,  Sir, if  when you go to the Christian Brothers in Waverley you give them aid for their libraries and their science blocks?' He said that that was a wonderful idea. A couple of days later we had the wonderful announcement. The Prime Minister will know that the Federal Government then went on to provide aid for independent schools. 

 Sir Robert was a remarkable man, and I must stress that no one paid greater attention to employment and unemployment than he did. He established a totally new attitude to unemployment, and as Minister for Labour and National Service I was aware of this. If he saw the rate of unemployment growing to around 1 per cent close to the Christmas period, we would meet to see what we could do to ensure that it was kept low. The matter of pensions was another of his great preoccupations. In those respects he was a remarkable man. Above all, he had an instinct for economic trends. On at least two occasions he took independent action to ensure that changes were made which improved the trends in the economy. He acted despite the opinions given by the Department of the Treasury and despite the opinions that had been accepted by other members of the Cabinet. 
In regard to foreign affairs, we lived in times that were temperamental and tempestuous. I remember when he was either in the United Kingdom or going through to Canada and he was asked to be the  chairman  of the committee dealing with the Suez crisis. Available members of the Cabinet were asked to meet in the British Empire Society- he had asked six or seven of us to be there each with a telephone- to discuss the chairmanship with him. Despite what has been said, we strongly urged him, led by  Sir Arthur  Fadden, not to do so. We felt that on occasions such as that one is likely to be undermined. That is exactly what happened.  Sir Robert  was Prime Minister during the time of the Korean war; he was Prime Minister during the time of the conflict in South East Asia. He and  Sir Percy  Spender were responsible for ANZUS and the 
South East Asia Treaty Organisation. The international changes in those days were of a kind that other than during world wars we had not had to face before and have not known since. 
As a man,  Sir Robert  was a person of considerable charm. If one had the good fortune to divorce oneself from politics and go to dinner with him you would find a person of kindness and charm. He loved laughter; he loved pleasure; and he loved children. I remember him suggesting to me that I should read Beatrix Potter's books, and I did. At his suggestion they were the first books I gave to my children when I thought they were able to understand. I must speak of  Sir Robert  as an unbelievably remarkable person, a very great man. He was probably the most eloquent  speaker  I have heard. For all these reasons I am glad that I have been able to associate myself with the Prime Minister and other people who have spoken from this side of the House. I must also pay my tribute to Dame Pattie. Wherever  Sir Robert  went one could be certain that Dame Pattie would be there as his helper and counsellor. She would make certain he remembered young children and the women of this country whenever major decisions were being made. 
-I claim to have been misrepresented. In today's  Australian Financial Review  there appears an article, the second paragraph of which states: 
In 1972, just before the election campaign, Prime Minister McMahon was asked by  Time  magazine what future he saw for Australia. 
The Prime Minister was reported by  Time  to have replied that he did not have a paper before him on the future but would ask for one. 

 Opposition members interjecting-- 

Wait a moment. If you like lies, laugh to your hearts' content about a man who was the devoted supporter of your own party. I agreed to see a reporter from  Time  but before doing so I took the usual practice of finding out what the party thought about him. I was told that he was a leftist and had to be watched with great care. Consequently, I took a tape recording of everything he said, not only when he was in my office - 

 Honourable members interjecting - 

Wait a minute. He is a supporter of honourable members opposite. If that is the way they like to giggle about their supporters, they do the same as I do behind their backs. Not only did I take a tape recording when he was in my office but a tape was taken when he was being seen out of the office by my private secretary. He did not ask me about the future of Australia and he expressed total satisfaction with the answers that had been given. Similarly, when my private secretary was seeing him out of the office, he said to the news man from  Time  that if there were any other questions he would like to ask then I would be only too happy to give an answer. Notwithstanding that, we had this report in  Time.  I offered the tape recording to  Time.  I denied the request about the future had been made.  Time  did not want to see the tape because by that time it felt that the matter was dead. I make this comment: Like other articles coming out of the  Australian Financial Review  lately, there is carelessness about facts. I had to write to the publishers on 1 April in a similar way. I must say that the editorship of the  Australian Financial Review  seems to fall far below the standard set by the  Sydney Morning Herald-Sydney Sun  group of newspapers and the high standard that they expect, particularly of their editorial statements. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question is to the Treasurer, and concerns the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978. In order that the House will be able to follow the trend of the question that I am about to ask, I point out that it involves a novel method of additionally taxing Australian residents overseas who work for subsidiaries of Australian corporations, and also overseas subsidiaries of Australian corporations that are owned by Australian interests. I ask the Treasurer whether in view of the very great number of representations that have been made and the complicated nature of the Bill itself, as well as the prospects of endangering employment in Australia because so much of the products used are constructed here, just as importantly the probability of endangering our foreign relationship in South East Asia; and also prejudicing the viability of overseas subsidiary corporations if the changes are made, will he give an assurance to the House now, before he goes overseas, that he will give the most careful attention to all the representations and ensure that if necessary, the Act is amended in order to make it more presentable and acceptable to the Australian people? 
Can the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations inform the House of any recent developments, subject to his attempts to obtain negotiation between the parties, as to what has happened so far as the maintenance workers and waterside workers strikes are concerned? 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek the indulgence of the House to correct a statement that I made yesterday relating to foreign investment. 
I think it is well known that I have some differences with the Government about the policy measures that should be adopted in order to get Australia back on the road to recovery. I do not claim omnipotence for anyone, whether he be a bureaucrat or a back bencher in the Parliament. But I do believe that alternative policies should be sought and that they should be thoroughly considered by the officials. I made a speech on 28 August at the University of New South Wales. It was not really a speech because I had no notes. I spoke because no other speakers were available from the Liberal Party. I recommended that we should not concentrate specifically on inflation as the one element that had to be handled and given priority but that we should look at our problems from a three-fold point of view. This involves giving equal weight to unemployment, inflation, production and productivity. I am glad to be able to say that that view, which I have been espousing for a long time, has become commonplace now within the academia of New South Wales and Victoria. In my view we would be far better off if there were a larger deficit, particularly a larger domestic deficit. This would be done by reducing costpush indirect taxes. Such a policy would not only have an impact on the inflation rate but also would stimulate demand. I believe that it is this stimulation of demand which is so urgently needed. It could be funded by borrowing internally. The internal deficit is running at approximately $ 1,800m. The amount of $575m was obtained from the non-banking sector for the recent Government loan. This showed that we would be able to handle another Government loan this year- although I hope we do not- and certainly another loan before February which would cover the internal deficit completely. 
It must be stressed that we would have to take great care in allocating the funds. They would have to be allocated in the areas where we know there is a surplus capacity. In many industries surplus capacity amounts to over 20 per cent. The funds should also be applied in areas where unemployment is highest and in industries which do not have a substantial overflow into imports. Those industries are engineering, construction and transport. I am glad that other people are taking up the cudgels. I remind the House of the cost of the present type of Government policies. For every one per cent of increased production in real terms there is a gain to the economy in production of the order of $ 1,000m. Accordingly, a three per cent increase in production would result in a gain to the economy of nearly $3,000m. 
In my speech at the University of New South Wales I also spoke about what I regard as the most critical matter that we face today. Success will depend upon it. I refer to the relationship between wages and productivity and, in particular, the wage overhang, which, in real terms is 8 or 9 per cent. We must look at this aspect not in money terms, as has been done too frequently in the past, but in real terms. The wage overhang has been argued before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, usually in money terms and included in argument put by counsel for the Treasury. But now, even in a throw-away line, the Treasury has accepted that we must look at the problem in real terms. However, that is not the argument I want to put to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and the House. My proposition is that we must now use the abilities of the independent economists in the universities and outside the bureaucracy to put this argument before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. In recent weeks, Professor Fred Gruen, Professor Max Corden of the Australian National University, and Professor J. N. O. Perkins of the University of Melbourne have argued this case in a convincing way. Their argument would have a real impact on the Commission. It is no good relying on the consumer price index and reducing wages in money terms to meet the change in the index. We have to get the wage overhang of 8 per cent in real terms down by that percentage. I believe that instead of relying on the case presented to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission by 
Commonwealth counsel, who do not understand either the techniques or consequences of these matters, Fred Gruen, Max Corden and perhaps J. N. O. Perkins should be recruited to put the case for a real reduction in wages of the appropriate amount. I think it is probable that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, unless it is looking at so-called constitutional responsibility rather than combining it with the effect on the economic recovery and the future development of this country, would listen to and accept the views of these very talented men. 
The second point I want to make is that so much of our economic recovery is expected to depend upon the reduction of household savings. I for one do not believe that we can get household savings much below the 1 5 per cent level it is at today. I know that there are arguments one way or the other, but, as I have to syncopate most of my arguments, I cannot argue the matter other than by saying this: We know that a 1.5 per cent increase in personal income tax will come into force in November. That is not putting it correctly as set out in the Budget itself. The Budget points out clearly that the increase will be 1.5 per cent on the standard rate of tax of 32 per cent, giving an actual increase in tax of 4.6875 per cent. Correspondingly, the 46 per cent taxation rate will be increased to 47.5 per cent, giving an actual increase of 3.2608 per cent. The 60 per cent rate will be increased to 6 1 .5 per cent, giving an actual increase of 2.5 per cent. Honourable members will notice that the rate diminishes as the money income increases. 
There is another point that has to be made very clearly in this respect, that is, that we must also look at not only the tax rises but also the loss of home interest deductions, the excise rise and the benefits of the vehicle sales taxes. An exercise that I believe to be well worthwhile is to put that in actual money terms. An income of $120 a week will be taxed an extra $4.88 a week, an income of $220 a week will be taxed an extra $6.33 a week, an income of $400 a week will be taxed an extra $9.82 a week and an income of $1,000 a week will be taxed an extra $25.82 a week. I am glad to see that the rate of taxation in this respect is ascending rather than descending. I certainly approve of that. Taking into consideration the rashes of strikes that are occurring now, which obviously are co-ordinated, designed and activated by members of the Australian Metal Workers Union, such as Carmichael and Halfpenny, who are hell-bent on destroying the economy of this country, I do not think that we can expect people to do other than save. 
The third point I want to make is about our gross domestic product. The Treasurer said in his Budget Speech that the Government was hoping for a growth rate in the gross domestic product of 4 per cent. The Government also says that that will be due to a large extent- more than half- to the primary industries. I think that is critically important to us. I want to state clearly that a mistake has been made in arriving at a figure of more than 2 per cent in the primary industries. Treasury has forgotten the lag in payments for the wheat crop overseas. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics does not think that the increase resulting from primary production will be as high as 1 per cent. To that extent, the figure of 4 per cent has to come down considerably. Even then, most people would say that there is no prospect of a growth of more than 2.8 per cent in the non-farm sector. I do not believe it will be that high. I have very grave doubts that it will be as high as 2 per cent. The figures for retail sales published in the last few days show that the rise, or was it fall, in constant prices in the March quarter was only 0.2 per cent greater than for the December quarter. This does not give us ground for confidence that we will achieve a gross domestic product rise of the size expected by Treasury. 
I deal now, again in a synoptic way, with the money supply situation. I believe that the idea of achieving a 6 per cent to 8 per cent increase in the money supply is suspect unless certain precautions are taken. We have to remember that the Budget deficit on internal accounts was $ 1,670m. This is the critical one- I can never understand why these days the Treasury gives emphasis to the overall deficit and relates it as well to what happens overseas. We were able to get $575m from the non-banking sector of the public as a contribution to the first loan. I have no doubt that we will get at least another $400m. Based upon that, the basic liquidity from the Budget will be $700m. But we have to consider the second component, which is the deficit on private account in our overseas balances which, for the first six months of last year, amounted to $ 1,200m. There was a negative or nil amount for the final six months. Taking that into account, from a liquidity basis aspect, and if the same happens this year, there will be a $0.5 billion deficit. What does that mean? It means that there must be complete sensitivity on the part of the Reserve Bank to ensure that the liquidity of the trading banks is not restrained in such a way as to restrain advances which have a real effect on economic growth. I know that the Reserve Bank is very sensitive in these matters. But I believe this must be a constant preoccupation of members of parliament and, above all, of the Treasury. Where do we get to? We have already reduced our statutory reserve deposits to $700m. Following the speech I made at the University of New South Wales, the Reserve Bank released 0.5 per cent or $90m of banks funds from the statutory reserve deposits. I hope that in future it will be sensitive enough to act quickly as a basis of establishing confidence amongst the banks and the business community. The banks themselves will make a contribution of $45m. In addition I believe the Reserve Bank will have to reduce the liquidity ratios, which are now at a minimum of 18 per cent. I have no doubt that they will have to reduce them to at least 1 5 per cent over the course of the year. 
Another matter I want to mention is interest rates. We are in trouble here. I have before me a chart that shows that, while Australia's interest rates in the form of the Australian 6-month bank bill are coming down, overseas interest rates, such as those on the Eurodollar 6-month bill, are rising. If they overlap- they have only a very small percentage to go before they do overlappeople will not borrow overseas, so we will not be getting the capital inflow that we want. But they will be seeking it in Australia thereby pushing up interest rates. This is a tremendously serious problem and one to which I think the Government must give very close attention. 
I turn now to the balance of payments. As honourable members would know, at the end of the financial year we had $3,0 16m in foreign assets with the Reserve Bank. That was after borrowing $ 1 ,820m. We had to allow $387m for devaluation and $275m for appreciation of the value of gold. On current account, our deficit was $2,480m. I have no doubt that this year it will be considerably greater by at least $250m. I do not think there will be recovery overseas in the course of the next two years. That view is fairly commonly held. 
I deal now with one other problem that is of major importance. It relates to the terms of trade. A look at our terms of trade in the last three years shows that import prices have gone up by 50 per cent while our export prices have gone up by only 20 per cent. That trend is likely to continue for probably the next two years or a little longer. This creates grave doubts as to the validity of Treasury estimates of the figures as to our gross domestic product, our growth rate, including the growth rate of non-farm product, and the various other assumptions on which these figures have been based. 
Last, I wish to refer to the employment position. This is not entirely an economic matter. For years, the Treasury has based its attitude to inflation and employment on what is called the Phillips curve; that is a trade-off between employment and inflation. I do not believe that the Phillips theory now applies with the rigidity and the accuracy that the Treasury feels it does. I think that by February next year we will have an increase of at least 80,000 in the number of unemployed. To me, this is intolerable. We are dealing with young people who form the greatest number of unemployed. We need a determined effort by the community as a whole to ensure that those young people have the opportunity of being placed in employment and are not treated as economic statistics for the benefit of achieving theoretical Budget success. I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for your slight indulgence. I have tried to syncopate everything that I wanted to say. 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
Motion (by  Mr Groom)-  by leave- agreed to: 
That so much of the Standing Orders by suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Adelaide and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations speaking for a period not exceeding 30 minutes. 
-I ask leave to make a personal explanation. 
As an introduction I should say that I have been associated with the attempt to redraft the Audit Amendment Act 1978 since the inception of what came to be called the Wright Committee. I well remember that some of the objections of those of us on the Committee were raised initially when we met six officials of the various departments of State. Various recommendations were then made to them. I, in particular, drew attention to some attempted amendments to section 49 of the principal Act which deals with what is called the Niemeyer statement. The proposed amendment is contained in clause 41 of the Bill which is now before the House. When I first raised the question of the Niemeyer statement I asked in the clearest possible language why it was desired to amend the section which had existed for so long, which had been so useful and which had been an essential instrument for examining monetary statistics as they came through in order that we could ascertain exactly how the Budget proposals were going and whether the events lived up to the expectations and the anticipations mentioned in Budget Paper No. 2 and other Budget papers. 
I could not get a sensible answer to the questions we put and I have not been able yet to get an acceptable answer. I want to persist with that now by asking firstly that we do not amend section 49 and then that the House reject that proposed amendment, leaving the law exactly as it is today. In my hand I have the latest Neimeyer statement for the three months to 30 September 1978. lt presents information in a way that cannot be found anywhere else in government statistics. It sets out the outlays and receipts of the Government for the immediately preceding month and the corresponding period of months in previous years. The latest statement deals with the month of September and compares the three months to 30 September 1977 with the three months to 30 September 1978. It then goes on to deal with financial transactions and gives an analysis or a summary as required by the Audit Act 1 90 1 . Finally it makes some comments about the unfunded debt and bank balances at 30 September 1978. 
I emphasise again that if we are to serve the interests of the public and if we want the members of this House to know what is happening with the monetary transactions of the Commonwealth and the debt of the overseas accounts, we must have this document in its present form. 
I repeat that I have not yet been able to find one argument why there should be a change. So, in the nation's interest; in the interest of those who have to study these things and prepare documents which can be used by members of this Parliament, I am sure that this clause should stay as it is. The Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  was good enough to permit me to have discussions with a member of the Department. That person put it to me that two safeguards would be provided by giving the Minister the opportunity, by regulation, to amend the form and the substance in which the Niemeyer statement is presented. I would not have a bar of this argument, for these reasons: First of all, when we look at this question of whether or not there is any protection due to the fact that it has to be done by regulation, I must state immediately that I cannot accept that. All members and society itself will remember an attempt by the permanent heads of two departments to make amendments to by-laws they can do exactly the same by means of resolution- in order to introduce a green edging around the envelopes in which pensions are posted. Then, by bureaucratic dictate, there was an attempt to ensure that if the pension was to be on-posted it had to be in a green bordered envelope. Neither of the Ministers were consulted and no one would have known about the amendment to the by-law if it had not been for the Press. Therefore, it seems to me, and I am certain that this will be accepted by most members in this House, that we are not prepared to accept an amendment by regulation. It would have to be done by the House itself by means of a substantive motion and a change in the law. 
The second point was put to me- I accept that it was put in honesty- that the Department could not accept the words 'receipts and expenditures'. The Department felt that they were lacking in precise definition. But when I looked at the Billthis was one of the incredible factors- I found that exactly the same words were used there. If in one case there was not a clear and easily understood definition of the words, I cannot understand why the Department would want to stick them back again. I cannot accept that. I am rather sorry that the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  who spoke before me did not mention this. I took this matter to the Expenditure Committee of this House. The Committee agreed with me and I was assured today that it would be mentioned by the honourable gentleman in his speech. He might have done so before I came in here. That is the first reason. The second reason is that the Bill seeks to leave out reference to the Loan Funds. I have to say in precise and definite language that I could not accept that. The Loan Funds must be included in the document because they give the Parliament the opportunity genuinely to understand over the whole spectrum of finance what is happening. Those are the points that I wanted to make. I ask that the clause be left exactly as it is. 
There are two other amendments to which I want to refer that I choose to call the 'Baume' recommendations. The Wright Committee strongly recommended that we should make two amendments to the Bill. Regrettably we were not able to have those amendments drafted before the Bill was brought in and passed. I would like to read out to the House what I regard as the Baume proposals. I was in a rush to speak at another committee meeting before I came here and I hope I have not forgotten to pick up the amendments en route. Nonetheless I will do my best to extract them from the mass of papers that I had at both meetings. In any event if I can remember them they refer to two factors. The first concerns action taken against a member of the Public Service by a permanent head. In most cases in private life if there has been negligence, the negligence is enough to have the person reprimanded. The reprimand and action must be contained in reports that are available to the House or in papers that are printed by the Auditor-General. It is desired of the Bureaucracy that gross negligence rather than negligence must be the decisive factor. 
Over the years I have believed that standards in the Public Service must be higher than they are in any other section. Because public servants have a great degree of privilege as a result of their permanence in office and of other matters associated with it, I believe that the recommendation of the Wright Committee should be sustained. I believe that most members of my party and members of the Opposition will agree with that. I am afraid that I am unable to find the document detailing the other Baume amendments. It concerns publication of names and amounts and when settlements take place. They are well known to the Department and they would be well known to the Minister. I will make copies of the proposals available. I hope that before this matter is brought before the Legislation Committee we will have been able to resolve the difficulties so that we can agree upon the amendments in the Legislation Committee and then bring them back into the House Committee as a whole. I believe that it is critical that we understand why. 
I have just come from a meeting of a Legislation Committee and I found there that in regard to amendments that were to be moved the Minister concerned was saying that he would have to refer the matter back to Cabinet. I believe that if this system of Bills being considered by legislation committees is to be successful, it is critical that the Minister should be not only aware of the proposals- in each case he has known that the proposals have been referred to the Department over a period of months- but also that he must have some authority to decide so that agreement can be made or he can give an assurance that in the interim period between the meeting of the Legislation Committee and the matter going back to the House for approval, there can be discussions between the Minister involved and the member involved in the proposed amendments or the members of the Committee itself. Unless that is done the Committee will not serve the useful purpose that it is now serving. I must say, in regard to the two meetings I have attended and the one that I hope to attend relating to trade practices, that we can deal with these matters ever so much more easily, ever so much more effectively and competently in the Legislation Committee than we can in the Committee of the Whole. I have to compliment those committees for the work they are doing, but, as the honourable member for Grayndler said to me, I hope that in the process we will regard ourselves and the Ministers will regard themselves as the protectors of the rights of this Parliament and the people of this country and not allow the bureaucracy to put into law what it wants because it might find it easier to administer the amendments it wants rather than the amendments that the representatives of the people want. I am told that I am supposed to speak for 20 minutes. I am doing my best to get that far, but I have now run out of words. I hope I may be excused by the  Speaker  for going back to the Legislation Committee now. 
My question to the Prime Minister is supplementary to two questions already asked from both sides of the House. It refers to the statement of 24 October by the Minister for Trade and Resources relating to the export mineral industry. Is the Prime Minister aware that the statement involves fundamental Government policies and Liberal political philosophy? And, as the statement has been made without parliamentary or party discussion, is he prepared to treat the statement as a provisional Green Paper and not as a definitive declaration of policy? Would he treat this matter along the same lines and with the same results as those adopted by the Treasurer with reference to the taxation of overseas subsidiaries of Australian companies? 
I must confess that I was a little disturbed as I listened to the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown).  For some time I felt that he was eligible to join the Liberal Party.  His  performance tonight shows that he is not entitled to be a genuine member of any party, be it Labor, Liberal or Country Party. Now I will tell honourable members why. First he dealt with this important question of interest rates. I am as sure as I live that he could never go on television to debate interest rates with anyone, even my baby daughter aged five. The first thing that has to be remembered about interest rates is that somebody has to earn the money, save it and lend it. Does the honourable member think that those people who deposit their money in savings banks at investment rates should be enticed not to get an interest rate that is at least in excess of the rate of inflation? If they do not get an interest rate at least equal to the rate of inflation they have a capital loss and they get no profit out of the investment whatsoever. 
Oh, do keep quiet son; I am trying to help you. The honourable member has just got to the stage where he has to learn a fair bit about the game. He should not think that he can act in the same way as on a racecourse; buy a race horse, give it to Bart Cummings and have it come about sixteenth in a field of seventeen. He has come here to learn and I hope to tutor him a bit. And which government pushed up interest rates? We should make absolutely certain that we do not have- as the honourable member would like- a yo-yo procedure with interest rates. The simple fact is that anyone in Australia today who forecasts the trend of interest rates for the future is having a big problem. For example, in the United States of America discount rates have reached 9.5 per cent in the course of the last few weeks. That is the rate at which market securities will be discounted by the Central Bank. Even prime borrowers have to pay at least 1V5 per cent more interest than the discount rate. The interest rate for prime borrowers in the United States is something of the order of 1 1 per cent. It is the same in the Euro-dollar market. That is an indication of how little the honourable gentleman knows about interest rates. He should also know that long term securities of the Commonwealth Government have an interest rate now of 9 per cent. Does the honourable member not think that a person borrowing up to $ 100,000 ought to pay something more than the Commonwealth bond rate? Commonwealth bonds are the most solid securities one can get in Australia and are recognised overseas as among the best securities. That is the first thing I put to the honourable gentleman. 
It has been suggested that this measure is a political gimmick. I have been involved with this sort of legislation firstly since the days of the Lang Government and then since the devastating defeat of the Labor Government in 1949 when it tried to nationalise the banks. Can the honourable member come into this House as a decent, responsible and honest man and tell us that he loves the banks, and that he loves any sort of bank? As I said, I rather like him and I do not like to see him humiliating himself in a discussion such as this. He talked about a political gimmick. I remind him of the circumstances and the origins of what happened in 1949 and he has given me the time to be able to do it. I was a lawyer for the Commonwealth Bank as well as for the Bank of New South Wales and I knew a lot about Ben Chifley 's nationalisation proposals. I well remember that I came into politics with one commitment and obligation to the people of this country and that was to prevent the Australian Labor Party getting into government for as long as I stayed in Parliament. I missed out for a period of three years, but Labor now has another 10 years in Opposition anyhow. As long as Parramatta is represented by the present member, Labor will be 25 years in Opposition.  His  grandchildren will be waiting, in the passage of time, to take his place. 
Let me turn to what happened. As a result of the Privy Council decision in the nationalisation of the banks case I gave certain assurances. I gave three that I felt ought to be honoured. The first was to divorce the Reserve Bank from the Commonwealth Trading Bank activities. The second was to keep the Commonwealth Savings Bank completely independent from either. I will mention that again later. In 1959 we brought down our first banking legislation. I refer not only to the Reserve Bank legislation but the Commonwealth Banks as well. For two years we in the Liberal Party had fought- as recently we have been fighting- to sustain private enterprise. We believe private enterprise is an essential part of European liberalism. In my early days in Parliament I had been shifting from one portfolio to another. I had a portfolio for a couple of years and would then pass to another. I well remember Artie Fadden saying when I was Minister for Social Welfare, and doing well: 'Bill, we can't bloody well put up with you any longer. We can 't afford you. You've got to move into the Primary Industry portfolio'. The Government formed, for my special benefit and to my pleasure, the Department of Primary Industry. 
The Government brought down the 'Banks' legislation. I will take credit for this. My Department wrote into the Act the parts relating to the Commonwealth Development Bank. It was my intention that it should relate only to primary industry. I ask our friend from Parramatta: Do you understand that? Need there be any further justification for one's belief in the primary industries, their basic role in this country and the wish to protect them and the obligation to provide them with their own bank? I remember these words, and they are written on my. heart. The function was to provide finance for persons for the purpose of primary industry, and for no other purpose. That is why the Development Bank was created. The man who gave me the inspiration was  Dr Strong  of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. 
I must admit that by the time the law came in- I was then Minister for Primary Industrysomeone had added 'also for the establishment and development of industrial undertakings'. That hurt my feelings and I did not want any other section of industry to be included in the Development Bank. So to accommodate me particularly small business undertakings' was added. That was something that I had to accept. But I wanted only a primary industry bank. That was the origin of a primary industry bank in this country of ours. 
Again, I listened with horror to an untrue statement that was made by the honourable member for Parramatta, for whom up to that moment I had had some respect. He said that the Australian Labor Party introduced the policy with regard to a reserve price for wool. I happened to be the Prime Minister at the time we first provided funds to enable the wool corporation to obtain funds to meet the reserve price and buy in wool that did not reach the reserve. 
We had two difficulties. I was Prime Minister when the price of wool dropped to below 40c per lb. Without legislative authority- I say it in this House- I approved of $250m being applied, as honourable members will know, firstly for the purchases by the Corporation and, secondly, to sustain the reserve price that we put on wool, each of which involved a commitment of about $125m. That was what we did at a time of great and unexpected anxiety and trouble. Yet this little boy over there is claiming Labor credit for it. He has not been a member for long enough to know what it was all about. That was the first point I wanted to make. 
I go a stage further. In 1971-72 we again gave very close consideration to the introduction of a primary producers bank. We did it, but there was one stumbling block. If the honourable member wishes I will even dig out the papers and send them to somebody to read to him so he can understand what it is all about. I hesitate to say who was the head of the Liberal Government in 1971-72 - 
No, not modesty. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics said: We think that what the government has done through the Development Bank through the extension of facilities to long-term loans' has closed the gap which had existed in respect of medium to long-term loans. We went a stage further and provided assistance not only for long-term loans but also loans to reconstruction authorities throughout the Commonwealth and for term finance. A second reason was that although Treasury for the first time agreed to the proposals to establish a primary industry bank, the Treasurer was out of the country and knowing his previous attitude we did not think it proper to take immediate action. 
Let me come now to the Bill itself. In 1959 we had the 'banks' legislation prepared. The Liberal-Country Party Government brought down the banking legislation which this Bill seeks to amend. Its purpose was to give the Commonwealth bank the right to carry on banking facilities in the same way as a normal trading bank would. The relevant legislation was introduced in July and September 1978. 1 come now to one very important problem, and that is the role of this Bank. During the time I was dealing with this problem- I want to put this accurately and clearly- the primary industry representatives were saying to me, including men such as  Sir William  Gunn, that they were stressing one, and only one, aspect. That was longterm banking facilities. They told me, as can be proven in evidence, that long-term loans for primary industries was critical. Interest rates were given a low priority. That is understandable because conditions are different in times of inflation compared with normal times. We were thinking about normal times. I have no doubt that, under the guidance of the Fraser Government, when international trade improves to a substantial extent it will be possible to reduce interest rates considerably. 
Therefore, the power created under this Bill was for long-term lending to primary producers, including fishermen and foresters, thus augmenting existing facilities of banks and other lending authorities I emphasise 'thus augmenting existing facilities '. It is of tremendous importance that that be known. One of the reasons why the Minister for Primary Industry was able to achieve agreement was that the trading banks would handle not only the refinancing of development but also the normal day to day operations of the man on the land and his family. What we had to do was draw a distinction between reconstruction or other proposals and day to day activities, and was to be complementary to other facilities available. We wanted to keep the family unit on the farm so that, on the death of the senior representative of the family, the surviving members would be able to obtain the facilities necessary to provide for probate and similar matters. 
More often than not, it was found, as those who have been associated for a long period with war service land settlement will know, that the amount allotted was nowhere near sufficient for a farm to be run efficiently and with the advantages of the efficiencies of large scale production. Farmers wanted coverage in respect of fire, flood, storm, tempest and other acts of God. There were extensions as well. I cannot remember the words exactly, but I have here my legal friend who will, I understand, prompt me in a few minutes. So those matters were covered in the Bill. There are also the matters of pastoral improvement and water conservation. Here we find a very wide range of new banking functions. But we will have to distinguish between the two. These kinds of activities will be provided in addition to normal day to day accommodation. Decisions will remain within the jurisdiction of the trading banks. This Bill provides for long term proposals. That means that the Primary Industry Bank will be able to borrow from the five major trading banks and from two other State banks. The honourable gentleman has left the chamber; he cannot take his punishment. I did not think that he would be able to do so. 
He is talking to my relative over there. 
The honourable member interjected 'your son'. This is a refinancing operation. The banks will therefore have under their supervision and within their advisory capacity not just those matters relating to the new functions, but normal banking facilities as well. The banks will be able to advise their customers as to the changing conditions and the changing market demands and therefore the necessity to be able to change their production scales to meet the changing market circumstances. I believe that it was essential- I am glad that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  accepted it as essential- that the two functions should be kept together because if we have two banks advising the same people about the same or complementing problems of necessity that situation would cause trouble. More importantly, the honourable gentleman from Parramatta referred to the bureaucracy. The simple truth is that the legislation was devised in the way it has been to ensure that the growth of the bureaucracy would be reduced to a minimum because the trading bank will be able to do all the work that is necessary and above all it will take responsibility for the success or failure of the operation. I have already talked about the matter of eligibility. 
As to the term, I personally believe that it was fundamental that we had long-term security. I can remind the House of the activities of another Labor man, a Premier this time- Jack Lang- in relation to mortgages. He brought down a law preventing lenders from calling up their loans even when the maturity date had been reached. I had to draw the securities and advise on legislation to provide for demand mortgages so that the banks would once again be able to re-enter the business of lending. I certainly believe that eight to 30 years is a reasonable period for a loan and I believe that that period ought to satisfy the primary producer. 
I turn to the matter of interest rates, which to some extent I have dealt with already. I personally believe that an interest rate of 10 per cent for a loan of less than $100,000 and an interest rate of 12 per cent for bigger loans are suitable figures. I have two statements to make about this matter. Under present conditions these are concessional rates. Therefore the Government has lived up to its election promises. Added to that it has given the additional assurance that, as ordinary rates come down, of course the concessional rates now being charged will be lowered. That answers the Labor Party's main objection. I have mentioned the contretemps of 1972 with the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. I was surprised to hear the comments of the honourable member for Parramatta regarding the latest statements of the BAE for which organisation I have enormous respect. 
I come to one further point. I compliment the Minister for Primary Industry for the effort and the devotion that he gave to the job and the success he has achieved. Much more importantly, I compliment him on the success that inevitably will be achieved in the future. This is a valuable measure. I find it hard to believe that those people who wanted to destroy the social system, the economic system with which we lived in 1 948 and 1949 can have the effrontery to come here and say that they love the farmer. Did that appear to be the case at the last State elections when the Labor Party had a wonderful victory in New South Wales. I give it credit for that result. But did it have the same devastating victory in the country areas as in the cities? On through its performance its approval will continue at the next elections, Federal or State. I expect the honourable gentleman from Parramatta will lose his seat when the next election occurs. 
I wish to deal only with Order of the Day No. 1, the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 3). I think this question has to be answered for the benefit of the House: What are we considering? We are considering section 5 1 ( 1 ) of the Income Tax Act. That section says: 
All losses and outgoings to the extent to which they are incurred in gaining or producing the assessible income or are necessarily incurred in carrying on a business . . . shall be allowable deductions . . . 
The application of that section has already been answered in the Nilsen case and in several other cases. In this case there is no question of avoidance or evasion of tax, none whatsoever. That has to be stated. I put it to the House- this was mentioned by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)-  that it is in many respects retrospective, but to a minor extent there is a guarding clause to prevent retrospectivity, and I am thankful for that Further, I want to put pretty clearly to this House that there is a long line of High Court decisions which show clearly that the decision in Nilsen 's case was legitimate and proper. They follow the text of other decisions given there. The honourable member for Gellibrand also mentioned that the Asprey Committee recommended the very process which we are now trying to overrule. 
Let me come back to what has happened. In the case before the Victorian courts called the Nilsen case it was argued by Counsel, on behalf of the Australian Taxation Office, that losses or outgoings incurred could be claimed as a tax deduction only in the year of the tax return and only when payment in fact occurred. The finding of the Victorian court was clear and obvious. It said this: 
The provisions for long service leave was a loss or outgoing necessarily incurred within section 5 1 ( 1 ) of the Taxation Act The taxpayers obligation to pay was an indefeasible one. 
The court dealt with long service leave mainly but said exactly the same principles applied to annual leave. 
That is a critical decision. Once it becomes accrued and indefeasible- that is, you cannot negotiate to get rid of or change the obligation, the law has to be applied- the taxpayer can claim the tax deduction. The Victorian court also said this: 
Losses or outgoings are incurred when either they accrue due or when they are realised. 
I think it is regrettable that we have heard in this House and in other places that this is something new. It is not new. I have said, and I emphasise it again, that it is consistent with a long set of rulings of the High Court of Australia. Within the Nilsen case the background to it all was traced by the judge or justice who heard the appeal. He referred to the James Flood case in 1953, reported in 103 Commonwealth Law Reports at page 655. In that case the High Court held that the word 'outgoing' in section 51(1) has been- I want to emphasise these words- interpreted as covering outgoings to which the taxpayer is definitively committed in the year of income although there has been no actual disbursement. How can it be said that this is something novel and something new? In 1953 the Taxation Office, in its magnificence and greatness, should have let the Government know what was involved in the Flood case, and the Government, if it wanted to, should have taken remedial action then in order to change the law if it thought it desirable to do so. 
I also ask people who like the law and above all have a tremendous admiration for the legal practitioners in Australia, particularly those who go on to the High Court bench, to read the decision of Dixon C.J. in the Caltex case which says exactly the same thing: Therefore, I do not accept this nonsense about it being something novel and something new. I believe there are several other things we should mention. Firstly, it is critical to remember that if the deduction is not claimed in the tax year in which the allowance is claimed, it cannot subsequently be claimed. That is another protection. Then it has to be remembered when we are looking at this that it is a 'one off' proposition- that what the Taxation Office gains today it has to allow for by way of a deduction in the following year. I would point to two other matters that have not been emphasised anywhere but are of tremendous importance to us. First we must ensure that the profits of corporations are built up to somewhere about 19 per cent of our gross domestic production. That has to be done. It is fundamental if the economy of this country is to recover. Why then do we turn around and deprive companies of the opportunity, first of all to be able to appropriate and then claim a tax deduction which, under the laws they are perfectly entitled to do so? Second I refer to the fact that in Gorton 's case the Government said that we will obey the law. We will let the processes of the law and the appeal provisions take place and we will be guided by that. In the present instance it is to be done both ways. We will let it go on to appeal but at the same time we will amend the law although the law has been there for a very long period. 
Let me mention two facts which also deserve to be stated in the light of what I want to say later. This has nothing to do with the Statute law of New South Wales and Victoria- in the case of New South Wales the Long Service Leave Act, and the Annual Holidays Act, and in Victoria the Victorian Labour and Industries Act. The law of those two States provides that leave must be granted within six months of accrual unless the registrars of the various departments of labour- or whatever they are called- agree. 
The Nilsen case was based upon Metal Trades Awards. I deal now with the two arguments that were put in the second reading speech. The first is that uncertainty has been created by the disturbance of a practice followed by a great majority of taxpayers over past years. Taxpayers have been waiting since 1953-25 years ago- to see justice done and seen to be done. I cannot accept what has been said in this respect. Too many people have been hoping that the law as expounded in the Flood case would prevail, and that the disturbance created by the tax office would be overruled. The second argument relates to the loss of revenue which will occur if an amendment is not made. When the matter was first explained to me I was alarmed to hear the loss put at an amount as high as $600m. I could not believe it I cannot find anyone else who is prepared to justify such an assertion. I will tell honourable members why later. 
One of the decisions in the Flood case was that there was no prospect of a pro rata claim being accepted and that the provisions of either the award or the law had to be carried out. In the case of long service leave a person had to have 1 5 years continuous service and in the case of annual leave the period was one year. No pro rata allocation was applicable. Let me analyse some of the points in that respect. Firstly, let us look at the long service leave situation to see whether there is any justification for such an amount being mentioned. A person has to serve for 15 years before such an entitlement arises. After that 15 years has been served a further period of several years has to be served before there is any pro rata entitlement for that subsequent period. In considering this matter one has to remember that there is a labour turnover of 20 per cent to 30 per cent in a year. Against those figures, the tax loss amounting to $250m or a little more than that, seems highly improbable! That is the main point I want to make on that aspect. 
I turn now to the annual leave. I have referred to the fact that there is various State legislation, most of which was referred to in the Nilsen case. The trend today, and it is in accordance with the law, is for leave to be taken within the relevant period or the following six months. In view of that situation, surely one is entitled to ask how the amount could rise to the extent stated. Usually this leave is taken at Christmas when the kids are on holidays. By June they are not entitled to anymore. We have been given no evidence as to the way in which the amount of $600m could possibly be lost to the Treasury this financial year. In an endeavour to get information about this matter, I had to do my own homework. What did I do? I am glad that the honourable member for Gellibrand has returned to the chamber. He referred to this matter in his analytical and well-delivered speech. 
I went to the Bureau of Statistics and found that it had no facts and no basis on which such an opinion could be arrived at. I went to the Reserve Bank, which is usually a pretty well informed organisation. It could not give me any information either. I went through the annual report of the Commissioner of Taxation and found nothing about this matter. I went then to Statex, which is the information centre for most of the companies listed on the stock exchanges. It could not find any readily available figures that would help me. 
I believe it came from one of those intuitive judgments we heard about a few weeks ago from a former member of the Taxation Office. If not, maybe it was the result of crystal ball gazing. The honourable member's imagination is a little better than mine. He will have to answer the question himself. One argument was put to me- not very persuasively- to which I took rather strong exception when I heard it. It was that as the wages and salaries supplement amounts in total to $50 billion one can draw the conclusion- by intuitive judgment and by other means- that $600m could be involved. I do not think that remotely touches reality. 
Let us analyse the situation. From that amount of $50 billion one has firstly to deduct for the three tiers of government and the hospitals and edicaton. One has to look at a dozen and one things before one can ascertain what percentage of the amount of $50 billion should be deducted. The honourable member for Gellibrand also referred to the fact that certain people, particularly in Victoria, had made guesses about this matter. I have made inquiries about it. I have the approval of  Mr Risstrom,  the Secretary of the Australian Taxpayers Association, to say that he does not think the amount could be as high as $30m. From barristers and accountants whom I regard as being among some of the best professionals dealing with taxation matters I have obtained one common expression of opinion, that is, that it is a storm in a teacup. I believe that that statement is true. 
I refer now to the attitude of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the business sector and the community generally to annual and long service leave. The trade union movement believes that annual leave and long service leave are benefits that have been acquired over the years for the purpose of ensuring that the workers have time off from work and that they are part and parcel of their conditions of employment. It is not the money consideration that is important. It is the fact that under modern conditions, with the complexities of life and the unpredictability of the world in which we live, the workers must have time to rest and recuperate. For example, automobile workers, whose awards should be read, are given time off because of the dullness and the routine nature of their work due to mechanisation. It would be nothing but hypocritical if the ACTU and its members did not stick to that principle. I favour it, too. The large corporations, particularly those in the United States of America, are more and more realising that if the law provides for long service and annual leave to be taken at a particular time it should be taken then. I concede that on a large number of occasions technical officers, administrative officers or specialists cannot be given time off immediately. In those cases some dispensation must be made. But from a sociological, physiological and psychological point of view in the interest of the workers themselves, and given the fact that the mind and the body need refreshing frequently, I believe that it is in the best interests of this country to ensure that annual and long service leave are taken when it is available. 
To sum up, I look at this matter from two points of view. I have asked myself whether, in the interests of the country and in the interests of ensuring that we achieve economic revival quickly, it is a proper measure. I have mentioned why I do not believe that this legislation is in the best interests of the country. Secondly, I have very grave doubts about whether, given the guesswork or intuitive judgment of those concerned, the amount could even get as high as $600m. I believe that $ 100m would be the maximum. We will find out in the wash up. When we add together all the amounts that we think will be recovered by the various pieces of legislation- and see the Neimeyer statement for 1978-79-1 think we will find that the amount that will be saved by the Treasury will be very small. 
I make one final comment, and it has already been made by the honourable member for Gellibrand. I believe that the incidence of tax avoidance and evasion has become so bad that it amounts to a taxation conspiracy. Therefore I would like to see a brief relating to section 260 of the Act given to lawyers outside the AttorneyGeneral 's Department with a view to devising some change to the legislation to enable it to stand up against tax avoidance schemes as interpreted by the High Court. When I was handling the waterfront I had to brief professional counsel to prepare special legislation. It was successful. I believe that it can be done on this occasion. I also believe that an appeal ought to be made to the two great national taxation societies to use their prestige and authority to try to stop these shockingly bad tax evasion practices. They are bad in terms of morality. They are bad in terms of a perversion of what is in the best interests of the community. Therefore, I believe that drastic action ought to be taken in order to prevent them. Above all, at a time when the Government is seeking ways to reduce the deficit, let us hit tax avoidance and tax evasion, not legitimate commercial and business practices on which we will have to rely if this economy is to recover from stagnation. 
I could not vote for this Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Resources. 
Has he received a letter from the Australian Mining Industry Council which in substance rejects the present mineral export control guidelines? Will the Minister be good enough to table this letter in the House or make it available to members? I understand that the letter is not confidential and is not intended to be. Is the substance of the letter similar to the substance of a statement released late yesterday by the Council setting out the free enterprise principle that the marketplace provides the most efficient system known for the allocation of resources? Is not this wholly consistent with the Liberal and National Country Party philosophy and platform? 
This is a very interesting question, which I well remember the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  speaking about at the legislation committee meeting. That committee is one of those established by this Parliament. What I am worried about is this: I feel that, as the Minister has said- although this was not quite understood by those who were forcing the point- these rights are in fact available. But the Minister did say that if information were provided by the AuditorGeneral it would have to be provided in camera. Does that mean that if there has been gross negligence, negligence, or whatever else one calls it under the strange definition that is given in the new proposals, no further action can be taken by the relevant committee to ensure that the Auditor-General will exercise properly the powers he has or will explain why he has not acted? I refer to cases in which there has been gross and culpable negligence and action has not already been taken. 
I do not agree with the amendment. I desire to speak on it on two occasions. Before I come to the substance of the matter I shall add to what was said by my friend and colleague the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart).  I did not get a copy of the proposed amendments circulated by the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  until I left the party room this morning. I certainly did not have the great advantage that the honourable member for Grayndler had of reading the statement that would be made by the Minister in the House this evening. I defy anyone, no matter how accustomed he is to looking at audit Bills, how long he has been in the Parliament or what portfolios he has held, to understand properly all the changes that have been made and to make a realistic, sensible and positive contribution to the debate. I hope, as the honourable member for Grayndler hopes, that this does not happen again and that at least we are given proper notice. 
I believe that when legislation committees meet the Minister himself should have far greater power to agree to amendments unless he believes that they ought to be referred to his colleagues. This will prevent much delay. I believe that the legislation committees are a remarkably good and long delayed innovation. I have been a member of certain legislative committees. They have made a remarkably good contribution to the correction of legislation and to ensuring that bureaucratic errors both of fact and relating to the public interest are drawn to the attention of the Minister. We have been able to make changes in the interests of the public but not necessarily in the interests of the bureaucrats themselves. I congratulate the Minister for the sensible, prudent and wise way in which he has handled the recommendations that have been made. 
I drew up the original amendments. I cleared them with the Minister. One related to clause 22. I prepared a draft and had it approved by the House officials. The amendment cut out the word grossly'. The officials themselves redrafted the various clauses for me. They suggested that the word 'grossly' be cut out of clause 57. There are two ways in which we can look at this clause. One is from the point of view of the Public Accounts Committee which has one view. Initially, that view was associated with clause 42 and the right of the Auditor-General to impose a surcharge. The other one, I believe, relates to a much more important matter. The House and the public should have complete access to the details of the expenditure, revenue and loan funds of the Government. We should receive those details each month and in those monthly statements during the year we should also get figures for the end of each month with corresponding figures for the preceding year. Those documents are vitally important. I think that the Minister himself would agree that in modern conditions the deficit is one of the most important factors that has to be looked at in estimating the effectiveness of the Budget and the trend in the economy. If we were deprived of all this information we would be in a hell of a mess. There is no other way of expressing it. 
Anything could have happened with respect to the proposals in the Audit Amendment Bill. I am glad that the Minister accepted that. The drafting of the Bill reduced considerably the scope of the rather broad words contained in the existing Act. It did not refer to the loan funds or to the words 'during the year up to the end of the month'. Those words were left out. It had one other very bad failing. It provided that determinations could be made by the Minister. They would come into force at a prescribed time. This was to be done by regulation. At about that time we had had the unfortunate episode of the green edged letters which were to be sent out to pensioners. They were signed by an officer of the relevant department. They were not approved of or seen by the Minister. The minute was presented in such a way that no one but a genius or someone with heavenly qualities would have been able to understand or put on notice about what was being done. We asked for an amendment. The Crown Law officers on instruction brought along the same type of form as we have today which we built into a table in the Act. But that was not good enough if changes could be made by regulation. I indicated that they could slip through even without the knowledge of the Minister. I could cite other occasions on which much the same has happened and corrections have had to be made. I believe that matters of supreme importance of this kind must go before the House and be approved with the knowledge of members. 
It might be known that in relation to the Financial Bill I recommended to the House when we were in Opposition that there should be an affirmative resolution. That is a procedure carried out in the House of Commons. It refers to complex Bills, taxation measures and similar matters. They ought to be considered by a standing parliamentary committee before going to the full Committee on the Whole or the Parliament itself. To the credit of the Crown Law officers, they suggested that in this case we have an affirmative resolution. No longer can changes slip through. They must go through the procedures of the House before becoming regulatory law. There has to be an affirmative resolution after debate in the House and the Senate. The existing procedure ensures that a regulation becomes law and can be rescinded by the Senate or House afterwards. 
I come now to the next question that relates to the matters we have under consideration. The Standing Committee was of the opinion that there was a strong tendency in the provisions to give to a public servant a different kind of protection, a privileged position, from that enjoyed by the ordinary member of the public. If there is negligence of any kind in private business negligence is enough on which one can base proceedings of one kind or another. But it was set out in the proposals put to us that there had to be gross negligence on the part of the civil servants a much greater degree of protection- a provision I could not tolerate and would not tolerate. Therefore we argued the matter. I had the initial changes drafted for me. I then discussed the matter with the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly).  I suggested that after I had proposed my amendments he had better propose one relating to the particular clause that he was arguing about relating to his own committee. I must say that he argued the point very well. He said: 
As I said, the historical process leading up to this initial suggested comment by the Auditor-General was his belief that under the existing legislation he has unable to apply surcharge provisions of section 42- 
That does not really apply to this case. In any event, the honourable member was wrong when he said that the historical process leading up to it was this initial suggestion of the AuditorGeneral. The fact is that we had been considering the matter for five years under the Wright committee. I believe that there are at least two or three honourable members here who have been members of that committee. The honourable member for Bradfield has not been a member of it. We were very wrapped up in this question of making certain that there was no privileged position for the civil servant. I believe that one of the best contributions to the discussion was that made by the honourable member for Bradfield when he said: 
I am still concerned, however, at the use of the term grossly negligent'. I will quote Lord Goddard on the subject. He said: 
The use of the expression 'gross negligence' is always misleading. Except in the one case when the law relating to manslaughter is being considered, the words 'gross negligence' should never be used in connection with any matter to which the common law relates- 
Prior to that he said that it could not be used - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The right honourable member's time has expired. 
The honourable member for Bradfield went on to say that in each case at which we were looking it was best to keep to the word 'negligence' alone because the definitions were well known in law. But there are definitions which could meet different sets of circumstances and different sets of offences, negligence or whatever else it might be. This principle is upheld by the superior courts of the world and established for a long time in the present Audit Act. If negligence is committed then in the certain circumstances set out in the legislation certain action could be taken by the Minister or by the Permanent Head. So I expected that that provision would remain. But to my horror when I turned to the documents distributed today by the Minister for Finance I found that the words 'gross negligence' were to be used. This was a most astonishing fact: A definition was to be given of the words 'gross negligence' to be added to the Bill. In effect this definition is merely one of the definitions of what negligence could mean. I cannot believe that an official, proud of his department and worthy of his salt, could want to turn round and use the words 'gross negligence' when he knew that would be contrary to the common law, when he would be using a meaning that was totally unfitted to the words used in plain english. And when he could have left the word 'negligence' as one of the meanings to be interpreted when the circumstances required. 
I understand that without any consultation with three of my colleagues another colleague agreed to these changes. So far as I am concerned no one had any right to make that agreement. That ought to have been known to the officials because they had consulted me. Also the Auditor-General knew of my great interest in this area and the interest of the former Wright committee. We had fought on this point for five years. We had the wording approved by the Standing Committee as a whole. Then we found at the last moment, without consultation with those involved, that the motion in the name of the Minister was to be moved. I do not blame the Minister. I have to say positively that the way that he has treated us has been with courtesy, consideration and an enormous degree of intelligence. But I believe that at some time or other this matter has to be looked at again. 
I hope that the Minister will keep it in hand. When we get an opportunity to correct the matter that he will consult those of us interested in the public welfare and in the Parliament. Interested to ensure that the standards of the public servants are kept high and not lowered. I believe that the standards could be lowered by such a provision. If it becomes public knowledge that there is this difference, a preference, a discrimination as between civil servants and ordinary members of the public it will react against those who in the restructuring of these proposed new sections did not inform the people intimately involved and with a profound knowledge of the matter. We did not know of the Ministers amendments until 11.30 this morning. We were not able to handle the matter properly. I can say no more than: I am sorry that it has happened. I hope that it does not happen again. I hope we get the chance to be able to correct the matter along the lines recommended by the committee. 
After listening to my colleague, the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  who spoke in the debate this evening, I wish to return to what I said before. I want to put this point very strongly to the House: I find it extremely difficult to believe that the honourable member could have agreed to changes without some discussion with me. 
Order! The right honourable member for Lowe spoke for an extended period which, in fact, took up the two 10-minute periods normally available to him. If the House is amenable to granting leave to the right honourable gentleman to make further remarks, I will consider the proposal. Is leave granted? 
Leave granted. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I think that you might have given me guidance on that matter before I spoke rather than trying to terminate my speech now. However, I thank the House for its indulgence. I took up this matter with the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  alone to ensure that there was the closest co-operation between the representative of the Government, those honourable members who belonged to the Wright committee and those honourable members who had all agreed to the amendment which was put before the legislation Committee and which was agreed to by it. At that time no-one else was involved in this matter. But I did warn the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  that he did not have any amendments before the committee and that he ought to place some before it. When he did so, we arranged that he should take priority, that he should have an opportunity to speak and to move his amendment. I want to make this point clearly now. During the preparation of new section  70AB (  1 ) the honourable member proposed an amendment as follows:   . . omit 'or by performing any of his duties in a grossly negligent manner', substitute 'by his inefficiency or  imcompetence  for reasons or causes within his own control or by his negligence or carelessness . . . 
The amendment was almost exactly the same as that which I had put before the legislation committee. I moved an amendment because I believe that in the case of the Public Service there ought to be at least as high an obligation- I believe, a higher obligation- to the nation as there is in the case of someone who is self-employed or who is in private industry. The public servant has security of tenure. He usually has promotion opportunities. He receives a very good salary. I am sure that the cases in which these provisions would need to apply would be few and far between. We are entitled to expect not only the very highest of ideals but also the very highest performance. That is the point that I wanted to make and I want to keep on making it. I shall quote what was actually said by the honourable member for Bradfield in support of the reason given by him for moving his amendment. He quoted Lord Goddard who said: 
The use of the expression 'gross negligence' is always misleading. 
The quotation went on to give one example where the use of the words 'gross negligence' was justifiable and proper. I do not know whether subsequently the honourable member talked to some legal counsel. I did not hear him say to whom he spoke. But I ask the honourable member this: Has he ever been in a Ministry or held the Treasury portfolio? I wonder whether he ever knew the provisions of the Audit Act backwards? If so, I think that it would be wise of him to tell us. I am amazed when I read the words that have been spoken on this subject. I am fascinated that anything like this should happen. A description is given of the conditions under which a person might be subject to some sort of rebuke or other kind of action by the permanent head of his department. It is as follows: 
He shall be taken to have performed duties in a grossly negligent manner if he has displayed in the performance of those duties a deliberate or serious disregard of reasonable standards of care. 
That is part and parcel of one of the definitions of acting in a negligent manner or of the word negligent'. Can anyone of the officials who love the english language tell me that they want to so bastardise the meaning of those words that they are prepared to write into the legislation a definition that really cannot apply to the words used? The word 'grossly' is used in association with the word 'negligent'. This is one of the definitions of the word 'negligent' that have been taken for the purposes of the Act. 

 Sir WILLIAM McMAHON I was a partner in the greatest firm of lawyers in Australia. I profess occasionally that I must have got there through the wings. Yes, I was a graduate of the university of - 
-Would the honourable member like me to go further and give him my other qualifications? I do not have enough to talk about. I have told honourable members my position. I go further and state that I, along with some of my colleagues, were members of the Wright committee. One of my colleagues who was on that committee has spoken already in the debate. I hoped that one of my other colleagues who is from Queensland might have spoken in the debate also. I well remember the debate that took place when we argued about this question. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  said certain things. I shall quote from page 33 of the 

 Hansard report of the legislation committee of 17 November 1978. The honourable member said: 
The word 'grossly' worries me a little, even though it is to be interpreted as a deliberate or serious disregard of reasonable standards of care. 
After explanations were given to the honourable member he said: 
I  am still puzzled. 
After listening to the honourable member for Lilley and the honourable gentleman from Bradfield, I am more convinced than ever that what we asked the Minister to agree to and what was agreed to at that time was right and proper. I believe that the exhibition of talent by members of the Parliament should be compared with the exhibition of lack of talent by the members of the Public Service who were present and who were supposed to be able to advise honourable members. Therefore, I have to take this matter very seriously. I think that I have made my point clearly enough. I do not like seeing the Queen's English treated in the shabby and shoddy way that it is treated in this legislation. I do not like to feel that we are appearing to give- it may possibly be the position in reality- a specially privileged position to members of the Civil Service. I do not think there would have been any industrial relations backlash if that amendment had been introduced. The members of the Public Service would have accepted it in their stride. There is more to this legislation than meets the eye. I think that there is a tendency for members of the Public Service to want to show that they are part of a superior group. I do not believe that they are. I believe that the superior organisation ought to be the Parliament. It is up to the Parliament to decide what is right rather than to have opinions changed without discussion with the relevant people and without their full knowledge of what was occurring when a subsequent amendment was made. 
I thank the honourable member for his interjection. I wish I had heard the honourable member at whom I am looking say 'Hear, hear!' I would have sat down with a great degree of pleasure. In any event, I sit down with a great degree of pleasure because to have brought the honourable member into the chamber to listen to my speech is, I believe, a triumph for me. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I am glad that my friend the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  has given me an opportunity to present some facts relating to the recognition of the Peoples Republic of China which probably are not known to the House. During the time I was Prime Minister nobody in the Opposition really knew a great deal about foreign affairs. Even the then Leader of the Opposition, who hoped to be a great statesman, had no experience whatsoever overseas- that is, before he became Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister of Australia. I can say to the honourable member that at the time I was Foreign Minister we drafted a number of the documents as a basis on which thinking could proceed, firstly as to the special question of whether there could be the requisite majority and, secondly, to ensure that a permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council was voted to the People's Republic of China while sustaining the position of Taiwan in the General Assembly. We believed that we could have done better than was done by the Canadian Government. I tell the honourable member this because I know that it would be of interest to him particularly and to the House. 
Negotiations were commenced by us, but Chou En lai was a pretty wily man. He had some idea that we, the then Liberal Government, would not be returned to government in 1972. So first we started to get messages through Colombo which in fact said: Are you prepared to capitulate about Taiwan? They are not quite the words that were used, but that was the substance of them. 
This is tremendously important. If you are not . interested, please go outside. You are reading a book anyhow. Then we had to send cables through Rangoon.  Mr Alan  Renouf had a special meeting with a member of the central committee who was ranked third in the political committee. He was given regal treatment at the beginning of the meeting in the Chinese Embassy, but was shown politely out the back door when we had nothing additional to offer. Then we were told through messages through Bucharest to our ambassador,  Mr Fernandez,  that Peking would like negotiations, but through a member of the foreign office, not a member of the central committee. We did try! In addition I had an opportunity to make contact through two young Australians who tried to help through their constant contacts in Canton, but it came to nothing. I offered to send the then Foreign Minister, Nigel Bowen, and the then Minister for the Army,  Mr Peacock,  to Peking but they would take  Mr Peacock  only if he went on a joy ride with his wife and as a private citizen. I was told by the legal authorities that that could not be permitted. In any event those are some facts I have not made known before and I hope they are interesting to those who are really concerned with the facts and about what happened at that time. 
The next point I want to make relates to refugees. I was sorry to hear the honourable member for Lalor speak about refugees. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  did not raise the matter because this statement is not associated with that problem; it is associated with the problem of peace in our time. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  making this time a read speech, said that the Minister had not said a single word about human rights. He could not have understood the speech of the 
Foreign Minister. The very basis of that statement is that we want peace in the interests of humanity. We want every country to have the opportunity for freedom and for their people to have the opportunity for freedom and the good life. This is a battle for humanity, not power. 
You would not want freedom for anyone. You want power for your own trade union and yourself. You would not know, my son. 
-It is rather difficult to speak over his shouting, but I will. I make this comment. I well remember 1965. We decided to take part in the Vietnam conflict. At that time the Labor Party was totally in accord with Liberal policy. But because of a fight between  Mr Calwell  and  Mr Whitlam  they mucked up the whole show and from then on it became a problem of getting out. At first Labor realised that the domino theory was real and probable. Here and now we are learning in Laos and Kampuchea that the domino theory is not only a theory but a reality. Now the Labor Party comes here and takes a different attitude. Are they not frightened that if another domino falls- that is Kampuchea- that Thailand, Burma and Singapore will be threatened? Nobody knows that better than the member countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations. Today- and I think that this is tremendously important-  President  Carter is warning about participation in Iran. He is warning about obstruction to the decision to complete the SALT II negotiations. But on or about 17 Februaryagain I think that this is tremendously important- he made the statement that America's commitment to Thailand's security under the Manila pact was assured. The basis of the Manila pact was signed in 1954 and ratified in 1955. The original South East Asia Treaty Organisation members were Thailand, the Philippines, Australia, New Zealand, Pakistan, the United States et cetera. Those people who were members at the time and those people who were interested in foreign affairs would know that that commitment was subject to the constitutional processes of the government involved. Who wanted to destroy SEATO? Who destroyed and positively came out against ANZUS? It was the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam.  Who destroyed SEATO? So far as Australia was concerned it was the Labor Party. Members of the Labor Party show themselves as hypocrites when they say something different today. We are concerned about peace in our time. 
I now want to refer to what I believe is of critical importance at the moment, leaving out Iran and the problems of Egypt and Israel. It is the fact that the Vietnamese invaded Kampuchea. I have been interested in this area for a long time. As Minister for the Navy and Minister for Air I came through Hanoi and Haiphong and stayed with General Salon in Hanoi when the Vietnamese were trying to save their troops in Dien Bien Phu. I went there as Foreign Minister on several occasions. I have been to China on two occasions in the last four years and I have been to the Soviet Union as well. 
What conclusions can one reach about these countries? In many ways they are not quite as civilised as we are. I am expressing myself in very kind language. Each one dislikes his next door neighbour. The Chinese are fearful of the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union detests the Chinese. The Soviets think that the Chinese are funny little yellow people crawling about like mice. When you go to Vietnam you see a tremendous difference in physique and outlook between the North and South Vietnamese. The Cambodians detest the Vietnamese. As to Cambodia, Australia took the dominant influence when, with the great nations involved, we drew up plans to attempt to ensure peace in Cambodia and to give the people the support they needed to remain independent. I have to admit that the prospect of getting these countries to agree to negotiate to ensure peace and independence in Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos is remote. The prospect of successful negotiation between China and the Soviet is not good. 
I do not believe for one moment that it is practicable for a small country like ours to be playing any sort of decisive role, but I agree with China which stated publicly today that it believes that the time has come for negotiations. It would like Vietnam to gather around the conference table. I do not think that this is good enough. It must be under the jurisdiction of the United Nations. The United States, the Soviet Union and certainly Vietnam and Cambodia should be present as should some of the other great countries of the world. It is not good enough to have the super powers alone. We must have Japan, a great power, and we must have other major nations such as West Germany, France and Britain. Surely it is not outside the capability of mankind or the great countries of the world to be able, under the auspices of the United Nations, to call a cease fire and, once that occurs, to consult, conciliate and achieve a reconciliation. We will all be losers if this does not happen. In the case of Vietnam I have in mind that the boundaries in the parrot's beak may have to be eased a little. The Cambodians cannot be allowed to be at such close quarters that modern bombers could destroy Saigon in a matter of moments. 
What attitudes should be taken by the great countries, particularly Australia? I believe that we have adopted the totally correct policy. It is one of justice and fairness. Above all, we are trying to have peace in our time, to permit the smaller, undeveloped countries of the world- the Third World- to be able to participate in growing prosperity and to permit their people to live better lives. What do we want? We want Vietnam to be contained within its own borders with possibly some border corrections between China and Vietnam. We want Kampuchea to be free, not under something like the Pol Pot Government, not under the insurgents that are in control now, but under a man like Prince Sihanouk who would be capable of pulling the nation together and giving it the opportunity of freedom and enjoyment of life. 
The Soviet Union is the only country in the world that can endanger world peace and the only country that has both the will and the ability to create a world diversion and involve the rest of the world in possible nuclear assault of one kind or another. I do not think that will happen as I know the facts at the moment. I remember my last visit to the Soviet Union when all the Russians talked about was war. This has to be kept in mind. The Russians have never moved unless they knew that the pickings were easy. They moved in Angola and Afghanistan and made an attempt in Portugal. But what did they do in Cuba when John Kennedy stood up to them? They got out. All through history the Soviets have acted this way. 
There are other matters of great concern at the moment. Just as the United States of America and the rest of the world want the SALT II negotiations to be completed soon I have no doubt that so too does the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union knows that it could not do more than possibly take out Singkiang Province and destroy the oil reserves and oil operations in Taching. This is all the Russians would do and then they would want to get out. The misery that they would create would be of no real benefit to them. If one goes to the Soviet Union and talks to the people- they cannot talk very much to you- one finds that the people in Leningrad and Moscow are people of energy, physical strength, and effervescence. One wonders how long they will put up with the type of government and constitution they have to live with. There will be another Leningrad in time. The people might not have a Lenin as a leader but they will be so fed up with total surveillance and control that their own people will cause the trouble. Of course the Soviet Union cannot go on permanently appropriating so much of its real wealth not to the purposes of humanity and its consumers throughout the whole of the Union, but in order to sustain the greatest army, navy and air force of all time. How well trained those forces are I do not know. 
The American Under Secretary of State,  Mr Richard  Holbrook, said that he was confident that there would be no military action by Moscow. I could not be confident but many of the great world leaders such as the Chancellor of West Germany and others, have expressed their belief that the Soviet Union will act with restraint. I can but pray that it does so act. As I have said, it is the only government that has both the will and the ability to cause a world conflagration. Russia would not want this because it would come out of the operation very badly. We do not want it because we believe in humanity and we want the ideals of humanity to be sustained on this occasion. 
My question is  directed to the Acting Treasurer and concerns capital gains taxes. Can the Acting Treasurer confirm that in the 1974-75 Budget the then Treasurer stated that a capital gains tax would be introduced? Did the then Prime Minister, within five months, say that, because of the effects on economic growth, inflation and unemployment, the idea had been abandoned? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a recent article under the heading 'Hayden's Useless Tax Tool'- 

 Honourable members laughing- 

I can assure the House that there is no cause for laughter. I am not laughing at the man. This article was written by  Mr P.  P. McGuinness who was economic adviser to the former Government. It states that the Opposition was returning to old egalitarian slogans. I agree with that. If this is the situation, will the Treasurer permit Treasury economists to discuss the matter with the Leader of the Opposition in order to help him understand the problem? I offer this suggestion with malice towards none. I do so only to assist the poor brute to understand what is involved. 
I rise to oppose the Lusher motion. Honourable members will recall that in 1971-72, when I had the good or the bad fortune to be Prime Minister, I was constantly faced with the problem of abortion and particularly with the argument of the time that abortion on demand should be accepted. One of the main advocates of that policy was the then Leader of the Opposition who stated his position on 24 June 1971. His views on abortion and his intentions towards influencing his party policy on this matter were these: 
I believe that if a woman does not want to bear a child, she should not have to. I believe in abortion on request. 
To that statement I expressed complete opposition, and I said so. I wish to make two preliminary comments before getting into the body of what I want to say. 
Firstly, I still believe that abortion on request is wrong. Secondly, basically the constitutional and legal responsibility for these problems rests with the State governments. Their legislation is critical from our point of view. The passing of this motion would not restrict what is happening. Women would move to the States in order to ensure that they could take advantage of the State laws. The basis of my thinking started way back in 1969. The name of  Mr Justice  Menhennitt has been mentioned already. He delivered a judgment that I thought was epoch making because it denned what was meant by lawfully' insofar as abortion was concerned. He made this statement: 
For the use of an instrument with intent to procure a miscarriage to be lawful, the accused must have honestly believed on reasonable grounds that the act done by him was - 
I emphasise the following words-  necessary to preserve a woman from the serious danger to her life or her physical or mental health (not being merely the normal dangers of pregnancy and child birth) which the continuance of the pregnancy would entail; and ... in the circumstances not out of proportion to the danger to be averted. 
In contemporary life only yesterday Premier Hamer of Victoria confirmed that statement. He has asked Liberal Party members of this House from Victoria to vote against the Lusher motion. The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  referred to the necessity for the act of abortion to be performed. The House will see that the first phrase that is used in the definition by  Mr Justice  Menhennitt is 'necessary to preserve a woman from serious danger'. I regard those words as so critically important that they have influenced my thinking ever since that definition was given. 
A little later, in 1972 in New South Wales Judge Levine, in the case of Reg. v. Wald and Others, took that definition a stage further. I think he did so wisely in the interests of women. He said: 
The accused must have an honest belief on reasonable grounds that what they did was necessary to preserve the women involved from serious danger to their life, or physical or mental health, which the continuance of the pregnancy would entail, not merely the normal dangers of pregnancy and childbirth, and that in the circumstances the danger of the operation was not out of proportion to the danger intended to be averted. The Crown of course bears the onus of establishing that the operations were unlawful. 
He went on to add to that statement. I believe that this addition ought to be listened to because no one else has referred to it. I believe that it is of tremendous importance. He said: 
Of course in determining that question with regard to mental health, it is proper for you, the jury, to consider whether the danger to the mental health arose from not only mental disease, or disease of the mind, but from the effects of economic or social stresses that may be pertaining at the time. 
There we have another judgment. I believe it is a very wise and civilised judgment, sympathetic to the cause of women, and I believe that it is designed to do good rather than harm. 
I ask the honourable member not to interrupt. I never interrupt him. 
I ask the honourable member to keep quiet because I do not like him interrupting. I turn now to the attitude of the New South Wales Premier. Only today he has said he had signed a petition which opposes the motion that has been put to this House by the honourable member for Hume. This means that over time both the Liberal Country Party Government in New South Wales and the present Labor Government support or supported this judgment and so does the Liberal and Country Party opposition. So we have the Governments of the two main States of Australia against the proposal. The law in the two main 
States support propositions that I believe are right at law in the interest of women and in the best interests of a tolerant and concerned society. Of that I have no doubt at all. 
Let me go on to state where I and the Liberal Party stood in the election campaign of 1972. I have no doubt about this. I will not go through the whole statement of course, because my speech took me about an hour to write. But I did say:   . under certain conditions there is justification for therapeutic abortion. The law should and does provide for this. But my Government does not believe in abortion on demand. I confirm the statements I have made before that we will not amend the law relating to abortion. 
In other words, I stood firmly on the decisions of  Mr Justice  Menhennitt and Judge Levine. It was approved by the Liberal Party with the assistance of the then Premier. It has been stated rather foolishly, by a member not very closely attuned to the law- that there has been no appeals. But there could have been an appeal. There was no restriction in either State, Liberal Country Party or Labor government as to appeal. The Attorney-General or the State governments of the day had an unqualified right to appeal. Of course it would have been to a higher court. If honourable members care to look at the final report, No. 3, of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships they will see from page 138 the several attempts that have been made since to have this matter further debated. When last introduced into the Lower House in New South Wales a Bill about abortion lapsed because no one took a great deal of interest in it. I have emphasised where I stand in relation to the law. If there is something wrong it is with the administration. The proper way to go about correcting this is to ensure that the Liberal Government in Victoria and the Labor Government in New South Wales administer the law according to the decisions of either  Mr Justice  Menhennitt or Judge Levine. That is the position I take. 
I move on to the second argument. It relates to the Australian Medical associations attitude to the motion. I do not know how many people in this House have received today a copy of a telegram or a statement that was made by the Australian Medical Association stating its attitude to  Mr Lusher  's motion. Six reasons are given for their deep opposition to the Lusher motion. The first is that the matter is now under consideration by an Australian Medical AssociationGovernment working party. The second reason, which is much more important, is as follows: 
It has long been an accepted principle in the provision of medical services that the doctor's judgment of what is in the best interests of the patient should be the determinant of the medical need. 
Finally, the AMA referred to the very important question of confidentiality. It would be a disgrace to humanity and a disgrace for this Parliament to allow such legislation go through which would mean that women, because they had a simple curette or some other internal operation, must have a certificate signed and have all of the facts associated with the operation made known and recorded day after day. I have no doubts about that. I believe that one of the items in the Medical Benefits Schedule, item 6469, which deals with evacuation by certain methods, ought to be looked at because it can be argued in respect of that particular item that abortion on request is all right so far as the Medical Benefits schedule is concerned although it is contrary to the law. 
It is far too wide and lacking in definition. That is the case that I wanted to put here today. I felt this way in 197 1-72. 1 feel the same today. 
I come to some of the arguments that have been put in this House. The first is that put by my friend the honourable member for McMillan,  Mr Simon,  in his amendment. It is exactly the same in substance as the argument I am putting now without the reasons, the legal interpretation of lawful and or the opinion of the AMA. Much the same can be said of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Mitchell,  Mr Cadman.  I will not go through all these arguments because there are too many. But I want to make this clear. If we look at the wording of the motion moved by  Mr Lusher  we will see that it deals with a physical pathological condition only. It does not relate to all of the factors that were mentioned by Judge Levine. These are the factors that I think are so tremendously important; the danger to the mental health- not the physical health but the mental health: 
. not only to mental disease or disease of the mind, but from the effects of economic or social stresses that may be pertaining at the rime. 
I believe that it is the women, not the men, who are under stress in these cases. I believe that women must receive special understanding, sympathy and care. I believe that it is the job of this Parliament to ensure that that care is given to them and that strong preference is shown to them. I find it strange and unacceptable that men should make such savage judgments on women. These are the problems as I see them. I have no wish to change my mind. I advise those who have given long, deep and considerable thought to these matters and have reconsidered my conclusions in depth. I have no more to add. I suggest to those who have made amendments that they should withdraw them no matter how good their intentions. Because I think they prolong the debate and do not serve a useful purpose, I ask honourable members to give up their amendments and move straight on to a rejection of the Lusher motion. 

 -Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
Yes. 
On Thursday last week, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  said: 
If the 1972 tax scales of  Sir William  McMahon had applied in 1973 we would have collected $2,000m more in taxation than we actually collected. 

 Mr Speaker, you will know the facts. As usual, the Leader of the Opposition has overlooked them. You will know that the revision of the tax rates in 1972 when I was Prime Minister- and if it is permissible to say,  Mr Speaker,  you were the Treasurer- was the first genuine reduction since 1954 of taxation on incomes below $25,000 a year. Not only in this House but also in the election campaign, I stated that, providing the same policies were followed in subsequent years, the Government would ease the taxation scales and hoped to do so by 10 per cent each 2 years. 
I turn to the facts. If we look at the increases between 1972-73 and 1975-76, we will see that in 1972-73 personal income taxation revenue was $4,089m and in 1975-76 it was $9,2 19m, which was an increase of $5,130m or 125.5 per cent. That is an unbelievable but disastrous performance by the then Government. If we compare that with the preceding three years when the Liberal-National Country Party was in government from 1969-70 - 
I am not trying to argue; therefore, I will go on with the figures. Personal income taxation revenue in 1969-70 was $2,858m and in 1971-72 was $3,769m, an increase of only $9 lim or 31.9 per cent. If we look at the figures from 1972-73 to 1973-74, we will see an increase in taxation revenue from $8,453m to $ 10,873m; in 1974-75 taxation revenue rose to, $ 14,085m; and, in 1975-76, it increased to $ 16.843m. That is an incredible performance by a very bad government. 
Does the Minister for Industrial Relations remember the substance of an amendment to section 22 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in 1972 which provided that the powers of conciliation should be executed by commissioners and that the powers of arbitration should be executed by presidential members and arbitration commissioners? Is he aware that one of the reasons for the change was to ensure that guideline decisions of a Full Bench should be binding on conciliation commissioners in particular cases? Is he aware that the law was substantially amended in 1973 to neutralise the effect of this change but retained the separate conciliation and arbitration functions? 
In the light of the damage to the economy, particularly in the areas of inflation and unemployment, as a result of a decision of Commissioner Deverell who disobeyed the guidelines determined by the Full Bench in a work value case, will the Government take action to restore the 1972 amendment to ensure that Full Bench decisions establishing guidelines to be applied generally are applied in particular logs of claims by conciliation commissioners and that if conciliation fails the log will be referred to the Full Bench or a member of the Full Bench for the puposes of arbitration? 
-It was only a few minutes before I came into the House that I heard of the death of  Sir Charles  Adermann. I served with him in Cabinet for a long time, probably longer than any of my colleagues here. In my opinion he was man of common sense, a man capable of reasoned and sensible judgments no matter whether they concerned the interests of rural people or sections of manufacturing industry. I got to like him tremendously, just as I developed a very great liking for his wife. I stayed at their family home at Kingaroy after Charles asked me if I would go there to try to explain to the farming community what I had done to improve the returns of milk and butter producers. I spent a couple of days with the Adermanns and the producers seemed to be satisfied. I will never forget Charles's determination to teach me how to pick peanuts. It was a laborious job in those days. It was not done by mechanical means; it was done by hand. You picked up the whole plant, shook off the dirt and let others pick up the beans if they wished. 
Later he asked me to go into the Brisbane Valley, I think near the Somerset Dam. He wanted the electrical facilities there to be provided for Brisbane. He also wanted me to speak to the people in that valley, which was a butter and milk area at that time, in order to convince them that the Government's actions were right. I was fairly certain that they would be happy, because I lived by Charles's philosophy: Give the people everything they want and they can never really grumble. In that year, when I was Minister for Primary Industry, other than in the sugar areas we won every rural electorate. I remember going to that valley with the late  Senator Ted  Maher- I learnt for the first time what it was like to drink rum and milk and I have never done so since. 
When the Department of Primary Industry was first formed, I remember John McEwen first and then Charles coming to me and suggesting that I should give up the portfolio of Social Services and become the first Minister for Primary Industry. That staggered me at the time because my knowledge of primary industry then revolved around draft horses that we bred in very great numbers near Orange and at Rooty Hill near Sydney. But, I agreed, and became, to the amazement of everyone, the first Minister for Primary Industry. It was a very successful period but I was not happy when I was asked if I would give up that portfolio and become Minister for Labour and National Service. 
There is one matter that I want to refer to. At that time we were forming the Department of Primary Industry and the Department of Trade out of the then Department of Commerce and Agriculture. On at least two occasions, during the absence of John McEwen, I participated in the work to establish the framework and structure of the two new departments- Trade and Primary Industry.  Sir John  Crawford was the driving force behind the creation of the departments. Later his role was taken over by  Dr Westerman.  I regretted  Sir John's  departure.  His  ideas were more expansive so far as Trade was concerned. I think the system we were developing would have been much better if  Sir John  Crawford had completed it. I was helped by Charles when, as the Minister for Primary Industry, I was responsible for the first wheat agreement that was developed by a Liberal-Country Party government. When there were moments of anguish- for example at the final meetings at Parliament House, Sydney, and when, regrettably, my Permanent Head became very ill- I had to make the decisions myself. The wheat industry never had a better deal. In the negotiations I was helped by telephone advice given to me by  Sir Charles  Adermann. He was a loyal, charming person and a good man to work with. It is we who will be the losers because  Sir Charles  Adermann is no longer with us. Again I express my deepest sympathies to his charming wife and members of his family. They are a remarkable family and they deserve our respect. 
I think it best that I should try to clear up the point raised by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  I have been advised that a criminal case such as the one mentioned by the honourable member cannot be taken to the High Court on a matter of criminal appeal. There can be no appeal in a case such as that. The honourable member is not listening, so it does not matter anyway. 
-I have listened with great attention to what has been said. I would like to have it made beyond doubt by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  that it would be unusual or extraordinary for a justice to permit a listening device in the office of a solicitor who was acting for a client providing that in all cases he was not a participant in the commercial narcotic operations taking place. That can happen and I have no doubt that it does happen, knowing the extent to which this sort of disease has permeated this country. Although I listened to what the Minister said I was not convinced by it. However, the Minister is not a lawyer. He can only quickly repeat what is said by his officials. I would like his assurance that this matter will be kept under observation by the officials and if there is the slightest evidence that the use of listening devices is permitted in these cases, it would be reported to him so that action could be taken to prevent it in the future. 
We all claim that we believe in privacy as one of the dominant values of a free and independent society. The one reason that compelled me to participate in the debate on this Bill- as I would have hoped to participate in the debate on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill- was to see that there were no further intrusions into personal liberty and freedom. I believe that this Bill goes a little too far but I am not one who is able to draw the exact dividing Une and, in a prescribed way, draft legislation which would be suitable. It would satisfy me in relation to proposed section 5a if the Minister could say that a judge or a justice is there who is a judicial man belonging to a supreme or federal court. Surely in those cases we have to rely upon him as in other cases we have had to rely upon him, for example, in the Sankey case relating to Crown privilege, to ensure that we protect the interests of the individual and do not support the causes of the Crown. Until proved to the contrary, I would rely upon these gentlemen. Therefore, I regret that I cannot agree with the proposals or rationale being put forward by the Opposition, much as I appreciate its efforts. 
I move amendment No. (1) standing in my name: 
That the following amendment be made to the Bill: Clause 8, page 8, proposed section 219G, omit paragraph (a) of sub-section (3). 
The substance of the Bill itself- I hope that it becomes law- states: 
A person shall not divulge or communicate to another person, or make use of or record, any information obtained by using a listening device for the purposes of narcotics inquiries . . . 
That is the law as it is expressed. I believe that it is a good law. But a throw away line in the part that I seek to be deleted states: 
Without limiting the purposes for which a person may, in accordance with sub-section ( 1 ), divulge information, a person may divulge or communicate information obtained by using a listening device for the purpose of narcotics inquiries that are being, or have been, made by officers of Customs in evidence in a proceeding - 
Totally contrary to the substance of proposed new section 219G is the provision that evidence can be given by way of prosecution for a narcotic offence or any other offence against the law of the Commonwealth, a State or Territory punishable by imprisonment for life or a maximum period of not less than three years. There is a distinct contrast in the two propositions. We say that we believe in the freedom of the individual. We hold that he is not guilty until he is proved guilty by proper administrative processes, proper evidence and in the eyes of the law. But even though we say these things and we preach that gospel, what do we do in practice when we find an easy way out of a difficult problem? In that case we are prepared to permit evidence collected for a particular purpose to be used for a totally different purpose. That is unnecessary to the enforcement of the law because we have all the means available to search people involved, to collect evidence and to establish proof in narcotics inquiries. That is the problem we face. 
I stress that as members of this House we ought to regard it as a fundamental duty to protect the individual against the might of the State. I do not think it is proper that in a throw away line some action should be taken in order to permit an easy prosecution in another case. That is the gravamen of what I want to say today. I do not want people to say to me that it cannot happen here. Those who have had a long association with, say, the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill and those who have been associated with the administration of the law for a long time know that it can happen here. The report of the Hope Commission into the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation uses condemnatory words about an excess of power and bureaucratic designs by ASIO to show that its officers were capable of detecting crimes that had never been committed and having people wrongly blamed. It is worth mentioning what the Hope report said in relation to ASIO, particularly that part of it that was quoted by an honourable senator in another place. That is exactly what I want to put tonight. 
I believe that when we have exceptional lawthe House agrees that this is exceptional law- we have to take exceptional trouble to see we do not open up the opportunity for the possible persecution of somebody else. That is why I believe that we should omit the paragraph to which I have referred. I think that that is critically important to a parliament that believes that one of its fundamental missions is to look after the cause and the rights of the individual and to treat them as the supreme ideal of parliamentary government. 
Country  Sir WILLIAM  McMAHON- I wishthatthe honourable member would do so. I cannot and I do not want to try. Members of the National Country Party can do what they like. I refer to the arguments that have been put by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife).  I am sure that he did so unintentionally but he said that the power to use listening devices can be delegated to us by the State authorities and that we can exercise that power. It is peculiar that we can make a concession of that kind when section 219 indicates that the Commonwealth Parliament ought to exercise that particular power. When the Government realised it did not have the right to exercise the power it went to a State parliament which is subordinate to the Commonwealth Parliament and said: 'Delegate this power to us and we will do something that is not possible to do under the Commonwealth law'. 
The honourable member will have to worry more about it for longer than I will because he will be here for much longer. I know a lot about it. I do not know how much the honourable member knows so I can not argue with him. I do not know whether it is worth while giving him an answer. If we want to go to other precedents let us look at the United States law from which we can draw some experience. By and large the commission of narcotic offences and similar types of crimes is certainly of greater magnitude than it is in this country although internationally I believe- from lately reading the Press- that regrettably Australians seem to be part and parcel not only of addiction and user but also of commercial transactions throughout the rest of the world. 
Let me deal with the problem that it cannot happen here. Let us look at what can happen. Look at the allegations that have been made today in New South Wales that some police are being used to issue licences if the bribes are high enough. Look at the problems that the New South Wales Government has in regard to allegations that the police are involved in starting price betting. Of course these things can happen. Long experience in Parliament has shown that governments should not give any sort of opportunity for these things to happen if they can possibly refrain from doing so. I believe that we have to be particularly careful in this legislation not to create opportunities which will enable a pimp, who has collected evidence for a particular purpose, to give the information to somebody and to have it used for a different purpose altogther from narcotics offences. In the United States in- formation obtained by similar means cannot be used in other cases. 
In regard to the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  he said he did not like a similar type of clause, which is the second last clause we have to deal with, and he would like to ensure that under no circumstances could approval be given for a solicitor or an adviser to an individual to have a listening device installed so that conversations between solicitor and client could be heard. How far can we take this principle? I think that is a pretty naive suggestion. What about communications between husband and wife? If a solicitor wanted this sort of thing, I would want my wife to have the same protection in relation to what I say to her. What about communications in religious orders. Is a listening device to be used when a Roman Catholic makes a disclosure in the confessional box? What about communications between a doctor and patient? If this principle is adopted in one case, it will be treated as a precedent and it can go on interminably. We would never know where we were going. This is the sort of thing that can happen under this legislation. 
I will do all that I can to make certain that this clause does not remain part of the Bill. Therefore, I would have to say that I am sorry that this is in the Bill. It is a throwaway line. It has nothing at all to do with the substance of the Bill and therefore it is a peculiarity. It contradicts everything that the members of the Liberal Party believe in and everything that I certainly believe in. I was a fairly good lawyer once. I would be a pretty awful sort of lawyer now but nonetheless - 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, I strongly support the amendment that has been proposed by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  The more I look at the proposed new section the more bewildered I become that anything like this could ever have been put into a Bill by a Parliament of this kind. I am dumbfounded to think that this could have happened. Why has it occurred? 
First of all we must remember that the Bill proposes two new Divisions. The first relates to narcotics and to the user, the pusher and to the men who can mastermind this filthy and undesirable practice which has to be stamped out to the maximum of our capacity. The second, proposed new Division 3, relates only to the recovery of pecuniary penalties for dealings in narcotic goods. It does not require that there should be a prosecution and a conviction. All it says is that under certain circumstances there will be recovery of pecuniary penalties, not that there will be a gaol penalty. Proposed new Division 3 is different. Divisions 1 and 2 generally cover criminal matters, which to a large extent are a State responsibility. Proposed new Division 3 relates solely to Commonwealth Government responsibilities. I regard these points as important. 
Proposed new section 243D is incredible. As I tried to say when I spoke earlier, I believe there has to be a presumption that a man is not guilty until he is conclusively or beyond reasonable doubt proved to be guilty. If we give up that principle, the decencies and the fundamental rules of life as provided for by the law will be abused. The very words of this proposed new section are frightening. The word 'shall' is used. The honourable member for Denison has already quoted proposed new section 243D but I repeat it. It reads: 
Where, in a proceeding under section 243b against a person, the Court is satisfied that the narcotic goods in relation to which the person is alleged to have engaged in a prescribed narcotics dealing or in prescribed narcotic dealings are goods reasonably suspected of having been imported into Australia ... the Court shall, for the purposes of the proceeding, treat the narcotic goods as narcotic goods . . . 
That is an incredible statement. It does not matter about the facts or the evidence. The court is under an obligation to make a presumption of illegality. It is not given the opportunity to test the evidence to see whether there is justification for proceeding. I believe that the whole of the proposed new section ought to be struck out. The honourable member for Denison convinced me that it ought to be struck out. Nonetheless if he likes to take an easier way and give the court an opportunity to express an opinion, I certainly agree that the word 'shall' should be taken out and the word 'may' put in its place. Equally I therefore think that the concluding words of proposed new section 2430D would be unnecessary. I regard them as unnecessary anyhow. When the word 'may' is inserted instead of the word shall' it is right and proper that we should delete these words:   . . unless it is established to the satisfaction of the Court that the narcotic goods were not imported in to Australia or were not imported into Australia in contravention of this Act. 
I do not like this proposed new section. I would like it to be cut out completely. I think that the question of evidence in a court of law is being disregarded. So many of the principles that we have held to be sacred at law are offended by this proposed new section. I therefore support very strongly what has been said by my colleague and friend, the honourable member for Denison. 
I move amendment No. 2 standing in my name: 
That amendment No. ( 14) made by the legislation committee be omitted and the following amendment substituted: 
14) Clause 13, page 17, omit proposed section 243e, substitute the following section: "243E. In a proceeding under this matter, it is necessary for the Court to be satisfied concerning any matter beyond reasonable doubt. '. 
What I have tried to do is to go only a little further than I have previously gone during the debate on this matter. I believe that in a case like this where one is dealing with pecuniary penalties the proof should be beyond reasonable doubt. That is the normal rule in any proceedings of a criminal or semi-criminal type. I see no reason why we should turn around and say that proof should be determined on the balance of probabilities. We have had a lot of discussion and very good debate today about the protection of the rights of the individual. I believe that for the proper prosecution of a narcotics offence in which the property of an individual is likely to be confiscated or a individual is likely to be subjected to a heavy fine the individual should be in the same position as any other person. When proof is necessary the evidence should be of such a weight that guilt is beyond any reasonable doubt whatsoever. I make those points against the background of the other comments I have made on this Bill. 
I confess that when I first read the amendments circulated in the name of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and now moved by my friend on the other side of the House, the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  I thought that some of them were plausible. However, after the very deepest consideration, I had to come to the conclusion that they go too far. I believe that they are so complicated in design that, far from being of use in ascertaining whether an offence was committed under the Act, vital time could in fact be lost. The Minister was able to give us an illustration of one case where a matter of minutes was absolutely vital. He referred to a case where people were hiding drugs of an illegal kind in a body cavity. If there had been a delay of 5 or 10 minutes those drugs might not have been found. I also have to compliment the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  and particularly the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, for the proposals that were put to the Committee relating to who in fact should issue a warrant. I could never believe, for half a dozen reasons, that it ought to be a Minister who would do that. 
My friend the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  gave one part of an analysis about the Cabinet and its responsibility and accountability to the House. If a warrant was issued by a Minister, he would be called upon all too frequently on the grounds of accountability. I believe we would have been worried constantly with the difficulties that that would have created for the proper administration and success of the Bill. According to my version of what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said, there is no doubt that the Opposition agreed with the trend of the Bill, and so do I. However, I was very interested in taking the right to issue a warrant away from the Minister, who is too busy to be able to look at all the information given to him to decide whether the warrant in a judicial matter should in fact be issued. I believe there is a talented body of men within the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, and therefore in these matters one has to act with hesitation. I believe also that on this occasion they were right. We are looking at the proper administration of the law. I believe that this amendment does ensure that, faithful to Liberal principles, we are able to propose an amendment. The Minister agreed. I understand the Cabinet agreed. 
I wanted to state that fact. I believe the amendment makes it a better Act. I believe it protects the Minister in a way which he otherwise would not have been protected. I was attracted by Opposition amendment No. (3) which provides that only a judge of a particular State or Territory can issue a warrant relating to that State or Territory. I believe that over a time one would find that the judges or the justiceswhatever they happen to be- in a certain State would be the ones with whom the officials would regularly communicate. If that occurred then those judges would in a short time become experts in the administration of the law and would gain the knowledge of the difficulities that were faced with regard to the detection of the kind of offence mentioned by the Bill. They would very quickly and usually be guarded by principles and precedents of a kind that are essential. 
Having said that, I cannot say that my judgment is sufficiently great to vote along the lines recommended by the Opposition. I do not think that its case is strong enough. It is plausible. I think the law should be left as it is, at least for the time being. I hope that the Minister will carefully watch the operation of the Act in regard to a justice of a particular area, say the Northern Territory, issuing a warrant relating to the whole of Australia. If the Minister looks at that aspect I will be satisfied, providing that, if he ever is dissatisfied, he will bring the amendment immediately to the House. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker,  for generating the applause. My question which is directed to the Treasurer concerns the three proposals made in a letter from Eric Risstrom to him dated 27 August. The proposals include indexing by 9 per cent the exemption level of taxable income and indexing the family allowance. I ask the Treasurer to confirm my own very quick mathematical estimate that the real cost of the proposals to revenue would be between $750m and $800m a year or even more. I think I should say that this would compound and increase the Government's fiscal problems rather than solve them. Could the Treasurer let the House know whether the Risstrom method of ascertaining what Risstrom calls the 'percentage effective tax increase' this fiscal year is a very quaint and illogical one? 
Those honourable members who are deeply interested in the economy have now had time to consider the fundamental question, that is, the alternative policies or attitudes of the Government on the one hand, and  Mr Hayden  speaking for the Labor Opposition on the other hand. These overall comments can be made at the beginning of my speech. The Government's strategy is both comprehensive and consistent, designed to strengthen the basic structure of the economy and open up the way for greater economic growth, rising employment, and lower inflation. But realists must accept that in a disturbed world environment and excessive domestic wage rises it will not be practicable to resolve our major problems in one Budget. I do emphasise, as I have emphasised publicly before, that the Budget strategy does contribute to achieving the objectives that I have mentioned. In particular the large reduction in the Budget deficit will have a marked effect on business and overseas investors' confidence, favourably affect medium term expectations about the trend of inflation, and reduce the amount of Commonwealth Government borrowing in the market, with consequent greater access by the private sector and semi and local government operations. The pressure on interest rates should fall. I would have liked a still greater cut in Budget expenditure. 
There is considerable evidence to show that the Government's estimates of revenue are conservative. Already we know that the crude oil levy will be $60m more, and of course it is probable that crude oil prices of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries will rise. Each $ 1 rise will bring in an extra $ 145 m. I would not be surprised a scrap, from my knowledge, if there were a rise of $2 between now and the end of February next year. As well, I think that corporation taxes will be about $200m to $300m higher than the estimates. Based on past experience, I must confess that the Government's conservative approach is business-like. As to the alternative approach presented by  Mr Hayden,  on behalf of the Labor Opposition, I must make these comments. The Leader of the Opposition, in his reply to the Budget Speech, did not act and speak with the dignity and authority demanded of a leader in the House whether of the Government or the Opposition. It was painful to listen to him and it was anguish to have to sit through his speech. He did not propose an alternative Labor policy.  His  speech was deliberately designed to create social and class divisions and to play upon the fears and emotions of the disadvantaged. It was directed towards the socialist Left who supported him at the recent Adelaide Conference of the Labor Party where he dumped his former friend and colleague,  Mr Bob  Hawke. It was a repeat of the Whitlam debacle and it would have the same consequences. The possibility of another Khemlani incident is not totally out of prospect. 
Let us examine some of his ideas. Under Hayden, the Labor Opposition is committed to greater interventionism- Labor's word, not mine- in the market and the diversion of resources from the private sector to the public sector of the community. This was tried between 1973 and 1975 with disastrous economic and financial results, as everyone knows. I must say that Labor started off with the whole world in its hands. Statement No. 2 attached to the Budget shows that in the 1972-73 Liberal Party Budget year, real gross non-farm product increased by 6.3 per cent. That is a remarkable record. I do not think that it has ever been bettered. I happened to be the Prime Minister at the time that that Budget was introduced and  Mr Speaker  was my Treasurer. In 1974-75 it fell to 1.3 per cent under Labor. It recovered under the Liberals to 2.8 per cent last year. Incidentally I have in my hand a diagram that sets out that between 1970 and 1972 net average weekly earnings adjusted for increases in consumer prices improved by 13 per cent. That was a wonderful achievement. Under the Treasurership of Frank Crean there was a slight fall. Under the Hayden Budget, very nearly the whole of the 1970-72 improvement was wiped out. About 1 1 per cent of the 12 per cent rise that was achieved under my own Government with  Sir Billy  Snedden as the Treasurer was wiped out. So much for Labor interventionism. 
The Leader of the Opposition says that he will raise $ 1,500m by business bashing, a capital resource tax and shifting the burden to the alleged rich. He admits that this will increase the Budget deficit considerably. Has he not read the very favourable response in the market place, and by overseas investors, to the unbelievable reduction in the domestic deficit? Does he not understand that experience proves that the bigger the Budget deficit, the greater the adverse impact on confidence, inflation, economic growth and unemployment? Does  Mr Hayden  live in this world? Won 't he ever learn? 
Naturally I listened with care and attention to what was said by my predecessor in this debate, the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  but his knowledge of history is pretty remote. He should know that when the first Chifley-Evatt statement was made in 1949 there were no qualifications or reservations at all about the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. ASIO did not have to report to anyone, including the Prime Minister. There was no method by which there could be a review of action taken by it or by which any protest made - 
May be. This is tremendously important. Then the honourable member for Hughes said that there has been no change since 1952. That is true, but he ought to recognise that since 1952 the means of carrying out espionage and sabotage have so improved that if the Government did not make changes it does not deserve to be in government. The Australian Labor Party did not make changes in the period from 1973 to 1975, and it deserved to go out of government. It will stay in Opposition. It is rather regrettable that he should have gone on in this peculiar way. In the last few statements that the honourable member made relating to the function and operations of ASIO, he showed that the Australian Labor Party is prepared to ignore the main issues and the main problems involved and degenerating the debate into the most flimsy arguments in order to try to win some political support from its left wing associates. I mentioned this with a sense of shame and pity because I think we should try, as far as is reasonably practicable, to make certain that we approach a matter like this on a bipartisan basis. We should try to get co-operation if we can. We should ensure when we are looking at security matters that we do so knowing that we believe in the declaration of human rights; that we want to protect the privacy of the individual and his right to conduct his own life in his own way, provided always that he works within the law. That also means that he works within the law so far as security is concerned. 
My main purpose in speaking tonight is to recommend strongly to the Government, even though the recommendation may have no strength at all- from what I have heard it will have none- that it refer this matter to a parliamentary committee. I believe it is essential. We in this House know that the Senate can refer its proposals for change to a committee of the Senate- it can deal with matters on that basisyet we here, members of the House of initiation, the House that is not a House of review or a State House, cannot. It is this House that should be responsible for the initiatives on every important issue. It should consider them in detail. We ought to have the opportunity to debate such matters across the table at a legislation committee meeting. It is not practicable or possible in this House to debate measures at all. We get up and make political or other speeches and we forget the necessity for doing the best we can. In all the parliamentary committees I have been on I have been delighted with the standard of debate, despite the shortness of dme that we have had to study the Bills. In the drugs debate, the last one in this House, we got the papers at 10 p.m. and by 10.30 the next morning we were supposed to understand 40 pages. One has to be a person like myself, with 30 years of political life and used to not sleeping at night time if necessary, to read that Bill. I did not think that even the Minister knew everything that was in it when he came before us and had to answer questions. But we were successful. 
I think back to 1954 when I replied to  Dr Evatt,  then Leader of the Opposition. He did not protest about the security Bill then. He had only one objection which was that if there were to be any dismissals from the services the matter ought to go to a special inquiry. This shows the shallowness of so many of the arguments that have been mentioned. I can speak on this matter because I was Minister for the Navy, Minister for Air, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Prime Minister. Apart from the prime ministership, when I flopped, I was considered to be a success in those portfolios. I put my honesty right on the table. Anyone can pick it up and say what they like about it. Nonetheless, I am happy enough to be able to speak upon this Bill now. 
I see no reason for urgency, and have never heard anyone who can justify rushing it through. Was it rushed through before the Budget? Was it rushed through the Senate? Why should this House, which ought to be the dominant influence in the country, be rushed? There it is. 
There are three matters that I want to consider as well as I can. The first one relates to the actual functions of ASIO. Before speaking on this point I must mention that when I was Foreign Minister and later Prime Minister I had my worries about ASIO and, for that matter, about the entire joint intelligence organisation and what they chose to call M09. 1 thought that was the greatest farce in history. Whilst I was Prime Minister I never once got a report from the then Director-General. I had to parade him in front of me. I questioned him for some hours. I said: 'Could you tell me what it is all about? What are you doing? I have never had a report'. 
I wish you would keep quiet. I at least had the good manners to listen to you, painful though it was. When he left I remember putting my head in my hands and thinking: There was the deaf and dumb ma in that lovely play 'Don 't Kill the Mocking Bird '. I could not find out what the intelligence organisation was about. I had to go to the New South Wales Police Force to find out about a series of alleged Croat offences. I found then that it was purely a domestic dispute. I also remember that when the American forces marched into Cambodia, north of the Parrot's Beak, I asked ASIO to give me the Vietnamese signal intercepts. They were given to me. The Americans were going to have a tremendous victory but when they got there the headquarters of the signal organisation, which was to be objective of the operation, had never been there. Because of instances like this one becomes suspicious. I believe that the member of Parliament has a role to play. I believe that experienced people ought to be taken some notice of. It is up to the Cabinet to do so, particularly when the advice comes from those on this side of the House with experience. 
Let me speak about the functions of ASIO. I gave evidence about its functions to the Hope Royal Commission. I say without qualification that the Hope Commission followed most religiously the recommendations that I made. In his report  Mr Justice  Hope implied that ASIO may have exceeded its powers and engaged in activities irrelevant to its functions and which may have impinged on individual freedom. He went on to say that ASIO has been guilty in the past of departures from its basic functions. I knew it had. This can happen again. Anyone with any great knowledge of life knows that if a person is in a job for too long he is apt to change; he is apt to suffer from hardening of the mental arteries; he is apt to get himself into a position where he believes he knows better than anyone else. In the four years from 1968 to 1972 instances occurred over and over again which led me to the conclusion that Defence and other sections of the bureaucracy felt that there was no need to let Cabinet or the Prime Minister know what was going on. For that reason, naturally I have my doubts. 
-Will you give me extra time? 
Having said that, let me get to the points that I want to make. I wish first of all to evaluate clause 17 of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill, which relates to the function of ASIO. It states that one of the functions is to obtain, correlate and evaluate intelligence. Nobody could ever doubt the relevance of those matters to ASIO and ASIO alone. They are within ASIO's powers and I do not believe that it should suffer any interference in that regard from the Parliament or any other sources. Another function is to communicate matters relevant to security in accordance with the law. That relates to communication between the various government departments and ASIO in accordance with the law as set out in clause 17. Another function is to advise Ministers and authorities of the Commonwealth in respect of matters relating to security insofar as those matters are relevant to their functions and responsibilities. 
Both of the latter functions are matters of great political importance. I believe that there must be some surveillance or accountability in this respect. I believe that we ought in committee to be prepared at least to listen to arguments that support the case for making accountability necessary. I certainly would not suggest that we should do as somebody mentioned today, much to my surprise, that is, have recourse to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Heavens above, we do not want any more Deverall decisions. But I do believe that we could quite easily have recourse to a justice of the Federal Court of Australia- not to a Supreme Court of a State or anyone else but to a justice of the Federal Court of Australia- in matters such as this. After a little while it would take no effort to look at the situation once a year and make a report. I do not believe that the report should be made to the Parliament. I do not believe that it should be made to anyone but government. That government, in its wisdom, might then be able to give a summary to the House. 
I have known a former Attorney-General to go out and make an assault on ASIO headquarters. It was an attack which should never have been tolerated. There was no rebuke. Afterwards he was entertained in more salubrious circumstances than he ever experienced here. I know of another occasion- I know of it because I was sitting here- when there was a revelation about the conduct of individuals which could have been criminal and could have been subversive. Of course I do not want information floating all over the place. I do not like the computers having any of this information, and I do not like them having such information in drug cases, because one can buy one's way into the output of computer technology. I honestly believe that that could happen in those cases. 
I refer again to the functions of ASIO and the qualifications set out in the Bill. Normally, as we know, the responsible Minister has a right of control, but he cannot overrule. The honourable member for Hughes had it all mixed up. The Minister cannot overrule. He said that the Director-General can overrule. That shows how little he knows about it, and he was constrained in reading his speech that somebody had prepared read for him. He had no feeling of sincerity. He had no feeling that he was committed to a doctrine, to a philosophy, and that he believed in the liberal principles and a liberal approach and attitude to life. 
As to whether the collection of intelligence relating to individuals is justified, I do not believe that anyone should interfere in this matter. It is a matter for security. If we have doubts we can always as a parliament and as a government, if it is a government of the Fraser kind, take action to see that there is some inquiry to ascertain whether ASIO has acted properly and whether the communication of intelligence relating to the individual is justified. 
As to the nature of the advice given to the Minister, I do not think it is right and proper that it should be the Director-General who decides on the nature of advice to be given in the communications that take place between ASIO and the government and its agencies, such as the Department of Defence. I do not believe in that. My experience is that in cases like this there must be some judicial authority that can look at the situation and say: 'Look, mate, let us discuss this'. There can be nothing better than discussion. No Director-General that I have known, other than the one before the present one, could ever resist a discussion whenever he had the opportunity to do so. If we can discuss these matters and satisfy ourselves that what is happening is proper, right and within the law and that the best thing is being done, no comment will need to be made. But if a member of the Federal Court comes to the conclusion otherwise, surely it is proper that the Prime Minister of this country should know. It does not matter whether that Prime Minister is Liberal or Labor. He is there, he is elected and he has the responsibility. If he shirks it, it is up to the members of the public to show their response when the next election takes place. 
I turn now to the last two matters to which I wish to refer. The first of them is the definition of the word 'subversion'. Most of the arguments about the definition of the word 'subversion' are well known. I must say that over the four years that I was looking intently at the matter I was driven to the conclusion, although I disliked it, that there was too much concentration in specificareas where I did not think that subversion, sabotage or anything similar was involved. I refer to such things as the actions of a peace movement where no violence is involved or the actions of a student organisation or some of the right wing sections of the trade union movement. I exclude the people associated with the Builders Labourers Federation and similar organisations that cannot be tolerated in any society which regards itself as a democracy and which places power in the hands of the Government to take action against conduct contrary to the best interests of the country. 
Again I ask: Why should it be that the Director-General or any member of his staff has the right of interpretation?  Mr Justice  Hope said about the general level of political sophistication inside ASIO that he saw little evidence that the qualities of mind and expertise needed in intelligence assemblies were recognised in any large measure. I do not accuse ASIO of this today, but it can happen again. Therefore, we have to be prepared to ensure that we have the greatest protection possible for the individuals. 
The third part of the definition of 'subversion' states:   . . activities directed to promoting violence or hatred between different groups of persons . . . so as to endanger the peace, order or good government of the Commonwealth. 
As honourable members probably know, the words 'peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth' appear in the introduction to the various placita in section 5 1 of the Constitution. When I was Minister for Labour and National Service, I tried to test what was meant by peace, order and good government. I thought that the members of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission must always be guided not by the need to settle industrial disputes but to ensure that there was peace, order and good government and that the law of the government had to prevail when the interests of the nation were greater than those of the need to settle an industrial dispute. I was rebuked for my strange ability to concoct new methods of looking at the arbitration laws. 
I emphasise that I believe that this matter needs to be looked at. For that reason I should like it to be referred to a legislation committee. Many honourable members spent a long time thinking about and working on the Customs legislation concerning drug trafficking even before it was referred to a legislation committee. I believe that drug addiction is a matter of national concern. Generations of young people are being subverted and destroyed by this dreadful menace which is threatening the lives and livelihood of too many young people of this country. I had to do all I could during the examination of that legislation by a committee, with little bits of help here and there, to ensure that when a warrant was issued it had to be issued by a person with judicial knowledge, judicial training and the judicial ability to be able quickly to unravel and understand the facts. Having won the battle there, I thought it would be immediately translated into the area of ASIO's activities. I regret that it has not been done. I regret that a Bill of such public importance is not introduced initially in the House. As I have said, this House should be the national organisation which should be promoting these matters and sending them for subsequent review to the upper House on the other side of the building. I wish this legislation had started here and that it had been considered by our own parliamentary committee. I am sure that we would have got amendments of a kind that I am now advocating. I once again beseech the Government to be a little more reasonable than I think it intends to be when this matter is being discussed during the second reading debate and the Committee stages. 
I stated most of the ideas and thoughts I had in my mind relating to these proposals in the House yesterday but they bear emphasising here tonight. I must say that I made strong representations to the Government in this House for this Bill to be referred to a parliamentary committee. It should have the right, in a very general way, to look at the legislation to see whether there could be an accommodation between Government and Opposition in order to improve the substance of the Bill. I did that for these reasons. I believe in the security system. I have been involved with it longer than any other member of this House, and certainly in a more detailed way. I knew in great detail the 1949 letter or statement made by the late  Mr Chifley  and the late  Dr Evatt.  I answered the Labor Party in 1954 on behalf of the Government. I had a detailed knowledge of ASIO, both as Foreign Minister and as Prime Minister. My knowledge is intimate and related to fact. It is not built upon imagination or what might be given to me by other people. 
The reason for my wishing to have this Bill referred to a legislation committee can be very easily explained. I spoke to the Hope Commission and informed it of the problems I had experienced when I was the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister. I recommended that certain things be done and that certain recommendations be made by the Commission. I will sum up my feelings by referring to the words of  Mr Justice  Hope, which reflect exactly how I felt at the time and what I hoped would be the way in which he would report. 
Firstly, I refer to the statement that he made when he implied that ASIO may have exceeded its powers and engaged in activities irrelevant to its functions and that it may have impinged upon an individual's right of privacy. My attitude to the Bill and my attitude to the law is that we want a security system that is well nigh perfect but, equally, we want to protect the rights of individuals- their civil rights, their right of freedom and their right to live their own lives provided they live within the law. I speak in particular of people of the kind that I see in my electorate. I speak of the small man. I do not like using that expression but I cannot think of a better one. I speak of the migrant who does not like to feel that he has to go somewhere and complain about the administration of the law relating to security. I want to make certain that those individuals will be protected. I want some means to exist by which there can be an oversight of ASIO's operations so as to protect the rights of those individuals and do it well. 
The second point that was made by  Mr Justice  Hope was that ASIO had been guilty in the past of departure from its basic functions. I knew that. I have mentioned cases in the House. When I was Prime Minister I had actually to parade the senior man at ASIO because he was not making any reports. We in the Parliament, we in the Government and I as Prime Minister did not know what the Organisation was doing. I have said that previously. I believe that there should be some kind of accountability. One other matter to which  Mr Justice  Hope referred was also a worry to me. I feel that unless there is a turnover of personnel in an organisation there can be a hardening of the arteries mentally of those who are there. They can become stultified in their thinking. Their brains may not work fluently and freely. They may not be able to adjust easily to change. I refer again to the words of  Mr Justice  Hope, who expressed my views perfectly. Referring to the general level of political sophistication outside ASIO he emphasised that he saw little evidence that the qualities of mind and expertise needed in intelligence assessments were recognised in any large measure. 
The matters to which I have referred are the basis of my worries. My disposition is to ensure that there is some outside authority that is able to conduct surveillance of and have access to the records and is able to report in a very general way. I had hoped that this Bill would be referred to a legislation committee for one reason, that is, the protection of the right of the individual against the might of the state and to give the person who is not totally able to look after himself because of various restraints, including lack of financial resources, confidence in the fact that he will be protected in an indirect way. 
The second matter that I want to refer to relates to the three powers of the Director-General that cannot be countermanded or affected in any way by the responsible Minister. The first relates to justification for the collection of intelligence relating to individuals. I do not believe that any Minister or anyone else should have the right to interfere in that regard, provided ASIO acts within the law. But the other two matters- that is, the communication of intelligence relating to individuals and the nature and advice to be given to a Minister- are matters that should not fall within the sole jurisdiction of the DirectorGeneral. I believe that in these cases there should be an authority that scrutinises the exercising of those two powers to see whether they have been exercised in fairness and in justice. In fact, I would have liked to have seen those powers changed considerably. 
I turn now to the two definitions of 'subversion', which I believe are too wide. They need to be redefined. They should be more precise. I believe that the responsibility for drafting the definition should be taken away for the moment from the Parliamentary Counsel and submitted to an independent senior counsel, either in New South Wales or Victoria, to draft clauses which would bring these powers within the total concept of the Bill and ensure that there is justice and that there is proper control of the exercising of these powers. 
Naturally I wanted this Bill to be referred to a legislation committee. In that regard I would have liked to have seen the use of words much the same as those used by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in the amendment he moved to the motion for the second reading of the Bill, that is, that there should be periodical judicial audits- again I emphasise that they should be only by a justice of the Federal Court- to ensure that the work of the Organisation complies with its charter and the law, that it does not unjustifiably infringe civil liberties, which is the most important matter of them all, and that it operates effectively and efficiently. Having gone past that and having read what is contained in the list of amendments to be moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, I had to recoil. The amendments are an attempt to redraft the Bill in its entirety. 
The Australian Labor Party had an opportunity to make amendments to the Act and to have more comprehensive legislation if it had wanted to do so. Neither the late  Mr Chifley  nor the late  Dr Evatt  relied on anything more than one scrap of paper that gave total power to the senior officer of ASIO. He reported to no one. He reported neither to the Prime Minister nor to any responsible authority. In the 1954 legislation the late  Dr Evatt  made only one recommendation relating to improvement. I understand that there was a hell of a muck up in the period from 1973 to 1975 when the Labor Party was in government. I do not like to blame the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and other members of the Opposition for it, but someone was responsible for it and there were disastrous results. We know very well from some of the events that occurred that one has to be very careful about the amount of information that we permit to be conveyed about the extent of the operations of particular individuals. We have had in the Senate an Attorney-General who actually made a raid without a warrant on the ASIO offices. It was something that was totally improper, totally wrong. It served no useful purpose and was done for no understandable reason. 
When I look at the proposed amendments I am alarmed because I believe that if we were to adopt even a quarter of them we would destroy the secrecy of ASIO and its power to operate successfully. I could not under any circumstances agree with the general tenor of the amendments to be moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. So, to end fairly quickly, I would like to see the Bill referred to a legislation committee but I would not like to see it be referred there when it appears that the amendments are designed to be obstruction rather than a wholehearted and worthy attempt to make improvements of the kind I have mentioned. For that reason, I assure the Opposition that I will not cross the floor of the House. I do not want to deprive the Opposition of any great degree of pleasure by thinking that Iwill. I will not. I have expressed my very deep feelings. I hope I have expressed them succinctly and with persuasion. I will not cross the floor of the House but I will for long believe that the Government should refer the Bill to a legislation committee. There is no reason why it should not. Time is not of essence. We can wait another two or three weeks. We have waited a couple of years. Why should we not wait another two weeks. I would give that opportunity but that power is not available to me. I have expressed my views and content myself with that. 
My question, which is directed to the Acting Treasurer, concerns the Budget statement on depreciation of imported and sold or leased motor vehicles. Has the Minister seen today a report of a government decision rejecting approaches from the importers and distributors of these vehicles? Has there been a Cabinet decision on this matter since 19 September? Is it a fact that there has been no change in the estimates by the dealers' association and major importers of the loss of sales expected to be caused by this decision? Will this loss of imports and sales mean a revenue loss of about $36m in a full year, excluding the tax on profits on resale of leased vehicles which should be taxed under the law anyhow? Is the Minister aware that the Leyland Motor Corporation of Australia Ltd, employs 800 people in my electorate? Is it a fact that the clear profits made in Australia by Leyland are on the import and sale of premium vehicles, that these profits are used to subsidise Leyland 's manufacturing operations and that the elimination of those profits threatens the commercial viability of the company's manufacturing operations and the jobs of some of its employees? Will the Minister have this matter reconsidered, and will he particularly take into account lost revenue, unemployment and our fair trade practices with the European Economic Community? 
I rise in order to deal with an old, worn and grey thesis that is being mentioned continuously that I played a part in raising the money supply and therefore caused the problems of the Whitlam Government in the years 1973 to 1975. I have answered this charge on so many occasions that it has become for me a little boring, but those who would like to see my answer to the Financial Editor of the  Age  on 19 March 1979 will get the complete answer to that statement. I am sorry that the matter has to be raised by me again tonight. 
In that article I point out that throughout 1 972 our worries were about unemployment, inflation and national growth. They continued into 1973. But we had decided to take action late in 1972 in order to ensure that the rate of growth of the money supply was diminished by preventing the inflow into Australia of funds that would be here for a year or less. We had also taken action to ensure that there would be a variable deposit rate if we felt that such action was subsequently needed. The point is that we really believed that unemployment had to be brought under control, knowing of the threat by Messrs Cameron and Crean of the Labor Party that unemployment would rise to 500,000 over the Christmas period of 1972-73. I think that the record was not too bad because even today, as I took out the present Budget and looked at the figures for gross national production, I noticed for the first time that in 1972-73 we achieved a growth rate in real terms of 6.3 per cent. 
It is set out in this document. The honourable member for Prospect can call those who compile this document liars, and I do not mind if he does. Nonetheless, that is what they have set out. This document says that the growth rate was 6.3 per cent, and I wonder whether the honourable gentleman will say that this is not true. In 1974-75 it was 1.3 per cent, whereas in 1975-76 it was 2.5 per cent. It is now struggling to get up to 2.8 percent. 
I mentioned that the Labor Party forecast an unemployment rate of over 500,000. Let us look at the figures. In November the figure was 88,000. Anyone who knows anything about unemployment will know that this was a record. At the end of January the rate was 1 12,000. If we now get a figure of 450,000 at the end of January, we are pretty lucky. So how foolish are those who continue with this argument. I also pointed out in the article that the consumer price index was not 13 per cent as forecast, but 4.6 per cent, and only 2.2 per cent- the going rate- by the implicit price deflator. Interest rates fell to 6.5 percent. 
The only argument that can be put up against those performances is that later on the money supply grew. I was sent a table by somebody from the Labor side, a very kind man, which shows that in the second quarter of 1972 the money supply had a growth rate of 9.5 per cent. It was then that we took action. Later it grew and got to a peak of 22 per cent in the fourth quarter. As I have pointed out, by that time we had taken action. If we look at the 1972 Budget we will see that it was a miracle performance. I am glad that I was the Prime Minister at the time. I hope the  Speaker  is listening because if his ears are not red and ringing, then he is not capable of realising what a wonderful Treasurer he was. 
I rise for two reasons. The first one is that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said I had made a comment that this was the worst Parliament I have been in. I have very great respect for the honourable member for Port Adelaide. I would not, under any circumstances, accuse him of lying. What I do say is that I have never used that expression. Therefore, if he is inventing this story, people can make up their own minds about what he said. I am glad he has coupled me with the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who is waddling along there in his old age, to his seat. I am glad he has got there. I am delighted he is able to make it. I did not think he would. I thought he was going to sit in the lap of my friend in the brown suit. I cannot remember his electorate or what he does. That is not the only reason I stand here. I stand here to teach these unfortunate creatures opposite a lesson. I think I ought to know more about this clause than anyone other than the honourable member for Hindmarsh because - 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! I think the right honourable member should not use the phrase 'unfortunate creatures'. That does impute. 
Do you not like that, sir? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- No, I do not. I ask the right honourable member to continue his speech. 
They do not seem to care. If you ask me to withdraw,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  of course I will. I will do whatever you ask. I will always do so. The honourable member for Hindmarsh should know that in 1965 when I introduced the Bill relating to the deregistration of the waterfront unions, I put in a clause exactly identical with this clause. Not a word was changed. What happened? It remained on the statute books until 1977 when the Fraser Government repealed it. If members of the Opposition are sincere in what they are saying about this Bill, about its horrible effects, the dreadful things it will do, the way it can crucify men in this community of ours, why did they not repeal it when they were in office between 1973 and 1975? Was the honourable member for Port Adelaide too innocent to know what it was all about? In any event the Opposition had the honourable member for Hindmarsh. He knew every word of it. The honourable member for Port Adelaide asked whether or not it was constitutional. I use these words with bated breath but, in fact, I got the former Governor-General who was a very talented lawyer- he was then John Kerr, Q.C.- and another very eminent Queen's Counsel to draft this section of the law for me. They did and it is on record. 
The honourable member can go on if he likes. He hates the truth and I can understand his squirming anguish. Nonetheless the honourable member spoke about constitutionality. What would he know about constitutionality? Has he had any constitutional experience? Was he ever trained in the law? I want to tell honourable members that there was one clause in it that restricted the powers that could be exercised. It was deliberately designed by two very talented lawyers, to ensure that it restricted itself to matters concerned with the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and its jurisdiction.  Mr Justice  Kirby, I cannot remember whether he is a knight or not - 
-Well, I give him the credit for being a knight, but if he likes to have a look at the clause in question and cares to ring me, I will show him quite clearly how it is constitutional. It has been constitutional since 1965. We again were going to introduce a similar Bill in 1972 and the trade unions decided not to proceed with their tactics. I agreed that the Parliament should be called together in order to ensure that a Bill containing similar clauses to these would be introduced, but the trade union movement did not care to stand up to the fight. So there it is. 
All I can say is that the Opposition members obviously are not sincere. If they are trying to give the appearance of sincerity they have no historical knowledge. Had they looked up the law or sought some advice from the Parliamentary Library they would not have made themselves appear- I will not use the word 'fools'- to be totally devoid of knowledge of constitutional law and totally devoid of any knowledge of what was done in 1965 relating to deregistration of unions. They would not have been totally devoid of knowledge of the fact that they continued the 1965 deregistration legislation on the statute books and, therefore, they believed that on occasions they might have to act on the law that I introduced in 1965. I thank you, sir, for your indulgence. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. Speaking on the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill last night I said: 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh should know that in1964 - 
I should have said 1965 - when I introduced the Bill relating to the deregistration of the waterfront unions, I put in a clause exactly identical with this clause. Not a word was changed. 
The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said: 
The right honourable gentleman is wide of the mark when he says that a section - 
I did not refer to a section, I referred to a clause- was written into the Act in respect of registration - 
I was not concerned with registration; I was concerned with deregistration- in identical terms - 
I emphasise the word 'terms'- to the clause about which we are now talking. 
I was fortunate enough to be able to get a copy of the Act from the relevant authorities within the Parliament. I am glad that my colleaue the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is here. He ought to know almost as much as I do about this matter. Under the heading 'Declaration by Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission' Division 2 of the Act states: (1.) The Minister may apply to the Commission for a declaration under this section. (2.) Upon such an application, if the Commissioner is satisfied that the conduct of the Federation (whether in respect of its continued breach or non-observance of any award or any order by the authority in force under the Stevedoring Industry Act1956-1965 or its continued failure to ensure that its members comply with and observe such an award or order or in any respect), or the conduct of a substantial number of the members of the Federation (whether in respect of their continued breach or non-observance of such an award or order . . . (a) prevented or hindered the achievement of an object of the . . . Act . . . 
prevented, hindered - 
I will not go any further than that- the Commission shall make a declaration to that effect. 
Division 3, section18 states: 
Where the Commission has made a declaration under section16 of this Act, the Governor-General may, within six months after the declaration was made, by Proclamation, declare that this section applies in relation to the Federation. 
Where a declaration is made under this section- 
the registration of the Federation under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act ... is thereupon, by force of this section, cancelled. 
That is exactly what I said. If I can turn now to the Bill that was before the House. Clause 16 states: 
After section 143 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: 143  a.  (1 ) Where, on application by the Minister - 
And this is just the same in substance- a Full Bench is satisfied that- 
an organisation has been or is, or two or more members of an organisation have been or are, engaged in industrial action; and 
the industrial action has had, is having, or is likely to have, a substantial adverse effect on the safety, health or welfare . . . the Full Bench shall make a declaration that it is so satisfied and cause the declaration to be recorded in writing. 
Sub-clause (2) which is the critical sub-clause states: 
Where a declaration is made under sub-section (1 ) by a Full Bench in relation to an organisation or members of an organisation, the Governor-General may- 
) at any time within the period of 6 months - 
The same period- after the making of the declaration, by order in writing under his hand, direct the Registrar to cancel the registration of the organisation. 
It is so close that I find it incredible that a statement like that made by the honourable member should have been made. There it is, and those are the facts. 1 was advised immediately after I spoke in the House, by the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  that the present Bill was based upon the Bill introduced in1975. Therefore, I am glad that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  have given me the opportunity to put the facts before this Parliament so that it will know exactly what happened. 

 Mr LIONEL BOWEN (Kingsford-Smith)-I claim to have been misrepresented in the light of the recent remarks made by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon).  I was a member of the Labor Government which he said was responsible for identical legislation to that which obtained in the explanation that he has now made. The question was that a colleague of mine in that Government, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  challenged the right honourable member for Lowe as to whether it was identical. The explanation now given by the right honourable member for Lowe is that it is identical. The great distinction between the legislation last evening which the right honourable member has still not indicated - 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
It has not been canvassed to my satisfaction. The honourable gentleman has liberally misrepresented the position and I believe that this was by accident. 
-Let me reply firstly to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and express three reservations particularly about a sunset clause. After long consideration and after discussion with a number of eminent legal authorities, I have decided that a sunset clause could cause only dissatisfaction because there is too much doubt and uncertainly about for how long the Act will last and for how long the existing procedures of the law can be observed. In my opinion it is totally wrong to suggest such a clause. It is wrong because, if a government has any definite and decided feelings on real, legal or philosophical grounds and wants to make an amendment, it has the capacity to do so. 
My second objection relates to the amendments that are to be moved, particularly those amendments dealing with section 219F of the principal Act. It is suggested that the following sub-section be inserted after sub-section (3):  (3a) Where, in proceeding in a court in respect of an offence, objection is taken to the admission of evidence on the ground that the evidence was obtained in contravention of, or in consequence of a contravention of, or in consequence of a failure to comply with, a provision of this Act, in relation to a person, the court shall not admit the evidence unless it is, on the balance of probabilities, satisfied that admission of the evidence would specifically and substantially benefit the public interest without unduly prejudicing the rights and freedoms of any person. 
That proposed sub-section is altogether too precise and would take away the discretion of the judge or the justice who was hearing the case. I believe that if the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  had given that matter greater consideration he would not have considered the insertion of that sub-section to be a reasonable way of changing the law. 
The Opposition's proposed new sub-section (3C) reads: 
The burden of satisfying the court that evidence obtained in contravention of, in consequence of the contravention of, or in proceedings of failure to comply with, a provision of this Act should be admitted in proceedings lies on the party who seeks to have the evidence admitted. 
This also tries to control the burden of proof and the ability of the judge to give the proper attention that he can give to the hearing of such cases. I cannot agree with the Deputy Leader of the Opposition on all of the important matters about which he spoke. I say this with regret because I usually do agree with him, but on this occasion I do not think enough consideration has been given to the problem now before us. 
I have been interested in this problem ever since we introduced the Customs Amendment Act in May of this year. At that time I had a particular interest in proposed section 219F in that Bill. It related to the ability to use evidence obtained by secret listening devices in narcotics inquiries. It provided for information obtained by Customs officers to be conveyed to police organisations as well as the security service. So far as I am concerned, it is right and proper that any such information should be conveyed to the security service, but I have very grave doubts whether it is proper in a society such as ours that there should be an ability to pass on this type of special information to the police that could be prejudicial to the rights of the individual. I believe that it has been shown by the actions of the Government that it, too, is worried about the problem, although not as worried as I am. 
This problem arose as a result of the Australian Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drugs, headed by  Mr Justice  Williams. I have before me some of the views expressed in what I choose to call the edited version- not the final version- of  Mr Justice  Williams's report. In paragraph 4 he expresses the view:  . . that the 1968 initiative which established the Narcotics Bureau has failed. A completely different initiative is now necessary to improve the national effort against drug trafficking. 
None of us can doubt that one of the greatest problems we face, apart from a threat to security, is the extent to which narcotics are used and the damage they do to people of all classes and sections of the community. He goes on in paragraph 6 to relate some of the evidence given by the department involved. The evidence stated in part: 
There is little doubt that the Narcotics Bureau has developed into a highly efficient enforcement agency. 
On the contrary, the first section of paragraph 7 of the interim report states: 
The Narcotics Bureau is not a highly efficient enforcement agency. 
Increases in arrests, prosecutions and seizures of drugs have often occurred with little or no Narcotics Bureau assistance. 
In paragraph 8  Mr Justice  Wiliams states- this is of vital importance to us all and is the reason why this Bill was brought into being: 
This Commission strongly recommends that the Narcotics Bureau be disbanded. It will recommend to the same effect in its final report. 
That is the basis on which we are considering the Customs Amendment Bill (No. 4) 1979 tonight. The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister  (Mr Viner)  stated in his second reading speech: 
In the light of this interim report, the Government has concluded that the Australian Federal Police should be given all necessary powers for narcotics inquiries ... the power of officers of Customs to use listening devices under warrant of a judge. This power now needs to be transferred to members of the Australian Federal Police subject to the same safeguards and limits as now apply in relation to officers of Customs. This Bill therefore provides for amendments to the Customs Act to empower members of the Australian Federal Police, instead of officers of Customs, to use, under the warrant of a judge, listening devices in respect of narcotics offences. 
I am pleased to see that these provisions are taken from the principal act. I am pleased to say that because most honourable members will know of the efforts that we made in the legislation committee to have this amendment inserted in the Bill as it was originally produced, and that I was the one who initially recommended it to this House. I think, from conversations with many prominent members of the legal profession and certainly with some of the most talented, that that amendment was approved of by all. It took the matter out of the hands of the Comptroller-General of Customs and the Minister and put it in the hands of the judicial authorities, which is exactly where it should have been placed on the first occasion. But my actions are directed peculiarly and almost completely to what was clause 219F of what I could now regard as the principal Act. Sub-section ( 1 ) refers to a matter in which I very seriously believe and which I believe ought to stand on its own. It states: 
A person shall not divulge or communicate to another person, or make use of or record, any information obtained by using a listening device for the purposes of narcotics inquiries that are being, or have been, made by officers of Customs,- 
Now such inquiries will be made by the Federal Police- being information that has come to his knowledge or into his possession by reason of his being, or having been, an officer of Customs- 
It will now be the Federal Police- or by reason of his having entered into an arrangement with an officer of Customs to use a listening device for the purpose of those inquiries, except for the purposes of those inquiries. 
Those are important words. I repeat: 
. except for the purposes of those inquiries. 
Regrettably, sub-section (2) provides: 
Notwithstanding sub-section ( 1 ), the Comptroller may, in accordance with the following paragraph, by himself or by an officer of Customs authorized by him, communicate information obtained by using a listening device for the purpose of narcotics inquiries that are being, or have been, made by officers of Customs- 
where the information relates, or appears to relate, to the commission or intended commission of an offence against the law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory, being an offence punishable by imprisonment for life or for a period, or maximum period, of not less than 3 years- the information may be communicated to an officer of the Commonwealth Police Force or of the Police Force of a State or Territory; 
Similarly, in sub-section (3) there is a somewhat similar provision. I do not believe that those provisions should stand. I believe that we have here what can be regarded as the chronic difficulty of distinguishing between the rights of the people to be protected against too effusive action on the part of the bureaucracy and the rights of the individual to be able to sustain his proper position in society. 
In the second reading speech, the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs said: 
The Government has given considerable thought to the safeguards and limitations to apply to the granting and exercise of the powers to be conferred by this amendment on members of the Australian Federal Police. 
I emphasise these words of the Minister: 
A judge of the Federal Court or a supreme court must be satisfied by information on oath as to the jurisdiction for issue of a warrant; 
I commend the Government for introducing that amendment. The Minister went on to say: there is a prohibition on communication except in strictly limited circumstances; 
It is those circumstances in which I am interested. In clause 6 of the Bill, section 21 9F of the principal Act is amended by giving exactly the same powers to which I have said in the earlier debates we ought to object. In this case the powers are given not to the Commonwealth Police but to the Australian Federal Police. The powers are to be within the jurisdiction of the Federal Police. For that reason I intend to move: 
Clause 6, page 2, omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 
Section 2 1 9F of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting paragraph (a) of sub-section (2); and 
b ) by omitting paragraph ( a) of sub-section ( 3 ). '. 
Having foreshadowed that amendment, I believe that I have to show justification for persisting with it. I was a member of the legislation committee that dealt with this matter. I and other members argued very strongly, both in the committee and in the House, that these provisions should be dropped. The reason we did so is that we were never able to find out why that special power should be given; there was no proof that it was needed. If there was no proof that it was needed and if there was no test on which we could judge it, why should we, as representatives of the people against the strength of the state and the bureaucracy, agree to it without contesting the reasons for it? 
I now come to the really critical issue that we are facing here. We know of the growing strength of the Government compared with that of the Parliament. We know of the growing power of the bureaucracy and its attempt to subordinate the interests of some people to that power. We all know of the various reports that have been brought forward. I refer to the Hope Committee report on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and other reports. Therefore, we want to avoid this centralisation of power in a particular area. We want to make certain that the guiding principle in the life of a liberal groups in parliament- those who say that they believe in democracy- is to protect the individual against arbitrary abuse of power. 
I give to the House some other reasons for the amendments. In the last day or two we have had another statement which indicated that the Government is expected to order an urgent shake-up of counter-terrorist operations. In the report of  Mr Justice  Hope which has been tabled in the Parliament, he outlined a list of their weaknesses, ranging from scandalously bad cooperation between police forces to fragmented intelligence collection. Here we have another indication of the fact that it is for the Parliament to exercise caution and to protect the rights of the individual, unless its actions are manifestly shown to be in the security interests of the Commonwealth and of the people of the Commonwealth and that they are necessary in the case of narcotics abuse or narcotics use, unless such use has been authorised by an authorised medical officer. 
When this matter first came before the Parliament I remember that I, and one of the South Australian members, drew the attention of the House to the fact that under the Bill and therefore under the law, certain privileges were being withdrawn. I believe this to be critically important. What were those privileges? They were, firstly, the privilege of secrecy between husband and wife; secondly, the privilege between solicitor and client; and, thirdly, the privilege between a priest and members of his congregation. I want to emphasise what is now called 'computer crime' and the way in which at a price information that is fed into a computer can be taken out and fed to those people who are engaged in narcotics peddling- the leaders of narcotics syndicates and those people who are doing tremendous damage to the people of this country. 
These basic rules will be withdrawn. For that reason I believe that this clause should not remain in the Bill because the risk is too great. After all, once something has been put into a Bill- it then goes into the Act- it is difficult to remove it. We have witnessed this in the preparation of these Bills. There is no doubt that other people besides me have been worried about such matters and have been prepared to propose amendments to which I will refer later. Equally, if we find that there is a real need for change, we should know that if it can be proved to be needed beyond a reasonable doubt, we can always come back to the Parliament. The Parliament ought to be the judge and the arbiter as to whether increased powers should be given. 
I now deal with two other matters. The Government has attempted to come to grips with the problems that I have mentioned. The Minister, in his second reading speech, said: 
The Commissioner will be required to report to the Minister not only on the use made of the information but also whether, and if so to whom, the information is communicated; 
The Minister may also call for a report if he wants to do so. What are my objections to that course being followed? The Minister can call for a report. What is the good of calling for a report after the damage has been done? What is the use of calling for a report if the Minister has no capacity under the law to take corrective action and to protect the individual? For those reasons I most certainly believe that it is proper for me to move the amendment and for the Committee of the Whole to pass it into law. 
I have one other matter with which I should deal. Under the Act the Minister may call for a report in writing of the extent to which action taken under the warrant has assisted officers of Customs in narcotics inquiries that have been made by them. The Bill substitutes a provision that the Minister may call for a report in writing with respect to the use made by members of the Australian Federal Police of information obtained by using a listening device in pursuance of the warrant and the communication of any information so obtained to persons other than members of the Australian Police Force. From this it is obvious that the Government has recognised the difficulties that I and others have mentioned. But instead of dropping the clause it introduces significant changes. Again I emphasise that the public concern about the increased powers of the Australian Federal Policeformerly the Commonwealth Police- and of the Narcotics Bureau demands that the Government give more attention to whether the amendments that I have just mentioned should be observed. 
In the few minutes available to me I will mention how these problems can be raised in the House and a partial solution found. I am very interested in Division III of the Act, which deals with the recovery of pecuniary penalties for dealings in narcotic goods. This is a quasi criminal offence. Therefore, the standard of proof should be beyond a reasonable doubt. This matter is dealt with in sections 243E and 243d. In one case, in order to comply with the wishes of this House and the legislation committee, it was agreed that such a matter would go to a court, and in the other case it was agreed that it would not do so. Strange, but there it is, and it is an anomaly. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Martin)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
