If the honourable gentleman will have patience all will be revealed to him. 
As I understand the situation the purpose of question time is to enable honourable members to question Ministers about matters for which they are responsible, arising out of their official position as Ministers. This matter has no reference whatever to my portfolio but I take the opportunity to say that those who supported McEwen House financially came from every branch of the community. 
It has been suggested that some activities of the Tariff Board might be modified, but the suggestion did not originate within the Department of Trade and Industry or any other department. Seven industry organisations, through the Australian Industries Development Association proposed to me that the procedures of the Tariff Board might be accelerated if one member were assigned to deal not with protective tariffs - I use that word in the customary sense of protection - but with considerations of dumping, by-law applications, classification of items under the tariff and additions to schedule A of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. All of these things are matters of a kind that do not require long and protracted public hearings, and it certainly appeared to me that it may be a practical solution. I have asked the Department to consider the proposal and particularly to consult the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board as to his views on the proposal. When I have the advice of the Department, and particularly when I have the views of the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board who, no doubt, will consult his own Board members, I will form an opinion as to whether the proposal ought to be brought before the Government. That is the history of the proposal and, of course, there is nothing in the suggestion at all which would impair the traditional independence of the Tariff Board. 
There certainly is no substance in any such allegation. As the honourable member will know, late in 1968 I appointed a panel, representative of Australian growers, processors and the Government, to most with a similar panel of New Zealanders to study the impact of exchanges of peas and beans across the Tasman and to reach understandings. The understandings were reached and I can say that the importations of peas and beans from New Zealand were rather less than were agreed upon by the panel. As a matter of fact it was agreed that in the past season about 3.5 million lb of peas should be imported but 3.4 million lb were in fact imported. This was against an Australian production of 102 million lb and an export by Australia of 2 million lb. So the net importation of peas into Australia was quite infinitesimal by comparison with the local production. 
Quite clearly, on the statistics, the problem that exists is a problem generated within Australia. In 1968 we produced in Australia 79 million lb of peas: last year we produced .102 million lb. This compares with total imports in 1968 of 4.2 million lb and imports last year of 3.4 million lb. There is a problem in respect of peas and the outcome of it is that there certainly will be a cut-back in the acreage for which processors will contract. I am informed that the cut-back will be to 40,000 acres. I have not got the figures to give a comparison in that respect. 
The position in relation to beans - I have the statistics but will not take up the time of the House to present them - is that there is no impact from importation of beans from New Zealand. I think I am right in saying that. The Australian production of beans has gone up quite substantially from 25 million lb in 1968 to 36 million lb in 1969. However, the Australian Pea and 
Bean Industry Panel will be meeting in Melbourne on 17th March to consider this situation. 
I cannot say that 1 am a fan of the author of these articles, but I have read them occasionally. Since the author has identified himself as a member of Parliament and since he writes generally about things that are the concern of the Commonwealth Parliament, I presume that he is a member of the Commonwealth Parliament. The only name that runs through the articles is the name 'Eccles'. The only recollection I have of Eccles is as a mythical character in the 'Goon Show', which used to amuse me very much. The economic theories of the modest member of Parliament are identical with those of Adam Smith, who operated in the 18th century - not even the 19th. Winston Churchill, speaking of a person who described himself as modest, said: 'Of course, why shouldn't he call himself modest? He has so much to be modest about*. 
The Leader of the Opposition has really answered his own question. The matter is with the Tariff Board. The public hearings are, I understand, concluded. I have no knowledge as to when the Tariff Board will furnish its recommendations to the Government, but I will see whether inquiries can be made and if I can ascertain a likely date of presentation to the Government I will inform the Leader of the Opposition. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes several amendments to the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act 1956-1966. The first of these - and one which was announced in October last year - will give to the Export Payments Insurance Corporation an important broadening of its authority by enabling it to offer payments insurance on, and guarantees relating to, exports from Australia to the external Territories of the Commonwealth. The other amendment of major substance will authorise an increase of$1 00m in the maximum contingent liability which EPIC may accept under contracts of payments insurance and under guarantees; and also an increase of $60m in the maximum con tingent liability which EPIC may accept under contracts of insurance on Australian investments abroad. 
The first of the amendments relates to the extension of EPIC's facilities to Australian exports to the external Territories. In actual fact, such an extension of EPIC facilities would have no practical significance for exports to Australian Territories other than Papua and New Guinea. The customs tariff applicable to imports into Papua and New Guinea accords no preference to Australian products. In the competitive sense, therefore, exporting to Papua and New Guinea is no different to Australian exporters to selling to a foreign country. They face the full force of international competition, as to both price and credit terms, and what is more, they have to compete with overseas suppliers who enjoy all the facilities and backing of credit insurance organisations in their own countries. 
Hitherto, this disability has not had serious practical effects on our exports to Papua and New Guinea because these have comprised mainly products sold for cash or on very short term credit. Recent important developments in Papua and New Guinea, however, have opened up very substantial export opportunities with characteristics new to Australian trade with the Territory. These opportunities largely revolve around the huge $300m copper mining project on Bougainville. Developers of large projects like this do not normally obtain their requirements of infrastructure development, housing and heavy capital equipment on a cash basis or on short term credit. The payment period for these bigvalue items normally extends for periods in excess of five years and, in the case of Bougainville, the credit term for much of the purchases will be considerably more than 5 years. 
Last year Australian industry put it to the Government that, over a large area of Bougainville requirements, they felt themselves well able to meet international competition in respect of price, quality and performance. However, they pointed out that without the availability of long term finance they would be at an extreme disadvantage in bidding for Bougainville business, because they would be unable to match their overseas competitor's offers of credit. Moreover, they demonstrated that, unless the credit standing of companies seeking Bougainville contracts were strengthened in some way, they would either not secure the finance they needed or, if they did obtain it and successfully tendered for a Bougainville contract, they would find their fund-raising capacity for future business, at home or abroad, seriously inhibited for a long period. That was the position of industry. 
The banking system moved as far as possible within its capacity to help meet the problem. They agreed, in principle, to make the finance available and the Australian Banks' Export Re-Finance Corporation acted with remarkable speed to amend its charter to enable it to refinance loans on exports to the external Territories. However, the banks, too, had noted the problems which companies faced in raising sufficient security for loans. Their position was that, in very many cases, only EPIC payments insurance, and guarantees, would provide companies with the necessary security for the long term financial accommodation they would need to be able to tender for Bougainville contracts on competitive terms. In other words the banks regarded EPIC cover as a fundamental pre-requisite before they would provide the credit needed by Australian exporters. 1 mentioned earlier that the facilities of EPIC have no present significance for Australian trade with the other external Territories - Norfolk Island, Christmas Island and Cocos Island. However, should major economic developments occur in these Territories, Australian exporters would face competition equal to that now experienced in Papua and New Guinea, lt is for this reason that the Bill proposes that all the external Territories be included within the scope of the proposals. 
The next amendment included in the Bill, apart from a minor drafting change, is an administrative one. At present the Corporation must obtain the specific authority of the Minister for Trade and Industry to determine staff salaries at a level exceeding $7,000 per annum. This figure was set in 1964 and is now out of line with current levels. The Bill would insert into the Act a more realistic figure and would provide that future adjustments be made by way of regulation. 
I turn now to the remaining amendment to the EPIC Act proposed in the Bill. This relates to the maximum contingent liability which the Corporation may accept under both export payments insurance and guarantee and the overseas investment insurance facility. EPIC's contingent liability on export payments insurance, and. under guarantee, is a direct reflection of the amount of business it writes. As the aggregate face value of its policies of insurance and its guarantees increases so does the contingent liability. Consequently, adjustment of the maximum liability is necessary, from time to time, to allow the Corporation to meet the increasing demand .of exporters for EPIC facilities and so to. facilitate further expansion of Australian trade. 
The contingent liability under current contracts totals $192m. The contingent liability ceiling under the payments insurance and guarantee facilities was last set at $200m in 1965. With continuing growth in business and the consequent increase in liability this ceiling will be reached within a very short time. The Bill therefore provides for an increase in the statutory maximum from $200m to $300m. 
The Government proposes, also, to increase the maximum contingent liability which EPIC may accept under policies of overseas investment insurance. This facility was introduced in 1965 to. provide insurance cover for direct Australian investments overseas in desirable types of ventures, particularly those of a joint venture nature in the developing countries. The facility offers protection . against the expropriation of the investment, inability to transfer money to Australia, and damage or destruction by a warlike operation. The actual contingent liability under the scheme currently stands at S17m. Should contracts be taken out in respect of recent approvals this figure will increase to over $29m. 
Taking into account applications currently under examination and new applications expected to flow from the increasing awareness of the benefits to be derived from overseas investment, it is expected that the contingent liability, will, during this year, reach $40m which is the present maximum allowable under the Act. It is therefore proposed to raise the maximum contingent liability for insurance on Australian investments abroad to $100m. 
It would be appropriate, at this stage, to tell honourable members a little of the experience and operations of EPIC in order to provide a background to consideration of the Bill. The birth of EPIC was delayed many years - at least 4 - by the barrage of criticism and opposition raised against it from inside and outside government. Interests representing private institutions such as banks, insurance companies, associations, and elements even within the governmental structure, attacked, criticised and blocked the provision of this new facility by a government corporation for at least 4 years. As a result Australian exporters were denied the EPIC facility long after other countries, with whose exports we have to compete, had developed their own similar institutions. 
I was told with monotonous regularity and with singular unanimity by the opponents of the facility that there was no need for it - worthwhile and soundly based Australian exports should need no assistance of the type other countries had; it would merely provide at government expense a hidden subsidy to prop up 'lame duck' export ventures; it could not possibly work - the premiums would be too high, the losses too great, and exporters would prefer to take their own risk; it was a duplication of existing banking and insurance facilities which were willing and able to afford all the assistance needed; such a corporation was a Socialist conception and an unwarranted intrusion by government into private business; such a corporation would provide unfair competition to private enterprise institutions, and so on. 
But look at the experience of EPIC: How successful it has been. What do the critics now think of it? These amendments stem directly from the success, growth and widespread acceptability of the Corporation. The impressive record of achievement since EPIC commenced business in 1957 speaks for itself. In the. first year EPIC insured $22m worth of exports. Five years later it insured nearly $90m. 
Last year, 1968-69 - 11 or 12 years from its inception - the corporation insured exports to the value of some $300m. Overall, since its inception EPIC has provided insurance cover for exports amounting to $ 1,064m, 
In the 10 years to December 1969 the number of policies in force with EPIC has grown from 91, with a face value of S42m, to 780, with a face value of some $330m. The number of countries to which EPICinsured exports have gone has grown, in the same period, to over 150. Over the period it has steadily enlarged the range of risks which it is prepared to insure, lt now offers comprehensive cover, acceptable to banks as collateral, for a wide range of risks starting from the time of the exporters' or manufacturers' acquiring raw material in connection with the contract for export to risks arising from failure of a buyer to accept goods, risks arising from warehousing overseas, from investing overseas, from commercial default after delivery, from exchange blockages caused by foreign government action, from war risks - cargo in the ships locked in the Suez Canal was, to an important extent, insured with EPIC and the owners have not lost on it - and a number of others. During its operation, the Corporation has substantially reduced its average premium rates, especially on short-term credit transactions which constitute a large part of its business. 
This record of achievement underlines the important role EPIC is playing in promoting the policy objectives of export expansion and diversification. This role has been accepted by all sectors of private industry and commerce as a useful, indeed essential, complement to existing private institutions such as the banks and the finance houses. EPIC has become an indispensable element in the growth of our export trade. Exporters frequently have been able to export only because there is this facility. Banks frequently have been able to extend finance to exporters only against the collateral which an EPIC insurance cover provides. The banks regard EPIC cover as an essential prerequisite to them providing finance for many export transactions. 
The facility of EPIC is accepted by all business as an absolutely essential facility. It is now accepted and now understood that EPIC was designed to do - and has done - what no other institutions, in fact, are designed to do. It provides a facility which fills an important gap in Australia. No longer are critics claiming that other existing institutions are being duplicated, and are facing unfair competition, at the hand of a government corporation. No longer is it being said that EPIC is a refuge for 'no-hope' exporters; a supporter of lame ducks. It has paid its way and is competitive with similar institutions in other countries. No longer do critics talk of socialisation or of the Corporation being a threat to private enterprise. 
Guided by an advisory council of 10 members. 8 of whom are experienced businessmen drawn from a cross-section of banking, industry and commerce, EPIC has established itself as a highly efficient and well run Corporation. Since its inception EPIC's premium income and earnings from capita] have not only enabled it to meet all operating costs and all claims made upon it but also have permitted a build-up of reserves of almost $2m. All this proves that the judgment of the critics has been wrong. The banks, the insurance interests, some associations, the financial pundits misunderstood and wrong-guessed and, as a result, denied Australia the services of a new proven institution for years. And I am now reminded that the Government has announced another new facility - another corporation - to complement the existing facilities and institutions we have to encourage industrial development, exports and Australian ownership. 
Like the Export Corporation, the new Industry Development Corporation is designed not to compete with existing institutions but to fill a gap - to do something for Australia which no other institution is charged to do. That is, to have as its prime purpose making it possible for large Australian industry ventures able to make a major contribution to exports and development to remain to a greater extent in Australian ownership. No other institution, government or private, exists for this prime purpose or is capable within itself of doing what it will be proposed the Industry Development Corporation should do. All other financial institutions exist around the issue of profit making, either for themselves or for those to whom they lend, and mostly this is done irrespective of where the ownership of the enterprise lies or the particular contribution it will make to industry development, ownership, or exports. 
The new Industry Development Corporation is being born in- the same atmosphere of criticism and spurious doubt and detraction. This new Corporation recently outlined by the Prime Minister, although it has very different objectives and will serve very different needs, is already facing very similar criticisms. Word for word the criticisms of the newly proposed Corporation echo the criticisms of EPIC when EPIC was first proposed. Criticisms which delayed EPIC for 4 years- 1and' have delayed the new Corporation already for 4 years. There is nothing new or original in what the critics are now saying. 1 am told now with monotonous regularity and with singular unanimity by the opponents of the facility that there is no need for it (worthwhile and soundly based Industrial ventures should need no assistance of the type proposed); it would merely provide at Government ' expense a hidden subsidy to prop up 'lamb duck' industrial ventures; the language is identical; it could not possibly work (money could not be borrowed overseas for ' 'the purpose, the losses would be too great, and industrialists would prefer to make their own financial arrangements). 1 arn told that it is a duplication of existing banking and facilities which were willing and able to afford all the assistance needed; these words are identical with those used by those who tried to block EPIC. Such a corporation I am told is a Socialist' conception as was said of EPIC and an unwarranted intrusion by Government into private business and such a corporation would provide unfair competition to private enterprise institutions and so on, and so on. It is as if the record, after 4 years, had been dropped back on the turntable and the same words played. Having drawn the attention of the House to the coincidence of this experience of opposition to two great Government proposals designed to facilitate the .development and growth of Australia and designed in the case of the Industry Development Corporation to facilitate a greater measure of Australian ownership, I say that I am as supremely confident of the IDC as I was on the creation of EPIC that it will be accepted that the new Corporation will be just as successful and fill what will be an even more important role than EPIC. Its critics will be shown to have been just as wide of the mark and just as wrongly based as were the same critics of EPIC. Having said this, I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I desire to associate the parliamentary members of the Australian Country Party with the motion which has been moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and seconded and supported by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I join with the members of my Party in the tributes that have been paid by the Prime Minister and by the Leader of the Opposition to the late Jim Fraser. He was indeed a most honourable and a most respected man. I suppose if any of us sought a tribute nothing could be higher than to have it said that one is honourable and respected in the judgment of one's fellows. This was the judgment of Jim Fraser by all parliamentarians and certainly by the community that he represented and served. 

 His most outstanding characterstic as a parliamentarian was his complete and single minded devotion to the interests of the people of the Australian Capital Territory. As I saw Jim Fraser over the years, his thoughts, first, second and last, were for the people whom he represented in this great city and he represented them during a period of quite dramatic development. I have ascertained that when he was elected in 1951 the population of the Australian Capital Territory was some 25,000 people and now it is more than 120,000 people. He gave the most complete satisfaction as a representative to the people of Canberra during that period. The community demonstrated on two quite recent occasions the great respect and affection in which Jim Fraser was held.  His  immense majority in the recent general election was itself evidence of this and the tremendous tribute that was paid to him by people of this city on the occasion of his funeral was the second great manifestation of this respect and affection. 
As has been said he was a kindly man. He was a completely trustworthy man. There was nothing petty about him at all. I am sure that Jim Fraser will be missed by the Parliament. He was a strong and good man. I join the members of the Australian Country Party in this tribute to him and extend the sympathies of my colleagues to  Mrs Fraser,  her son and Jim Fraser's brother, our colleague Allan Fraser. 
Like all other advanced Western countries the United Kingdom has a policy of support for its agricultural industries. It is customary for it to make an annual review of the amount of that support. This review was conducted recently and the results have been announced. I do not carry in my mind the figures for the individual items but there have been substantial increases for nearly every item - for wheat, barley, beef and milk to mention some. I think the price support for beef is more than £stg11 per cwt live weight. Those who are concerned with livestock industries will realise what an extremely high price support this is. Similar provisions have been made for other agricultural and livestock items. I think it would bc better if I treated the question as being on notice. I will supply the honourable member and thereby other honourable members with a full and detailed reply to the question. 
The following answer is supplied: 
Australian exports to mainland China and the Republic of China in this period were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the 5 year period 1964-65-1968-69, 125 reports were received from the Tariff Board and tabled in Parliament. In 63 of these reports the Board recommended increased protection, in 26 cases it recommended no change in the level of protection and in 36 cases it recommended a reduction in protection. 
I remember the Tariff Board's statement. I do not recollect it to be precisely in the words stated by the honourable member, but I have no quarrel with what he said. I understand what he is driving at. It is true that at that time I said, as 1 repeat now, that the Government does not accept a decision of the Tariff Board as a decision of finality in respect of tariff policy. The Tariff Board is an advisory body to the Government, and the Government of course takes to itself the right and exercises the right on every occasion of scrutinising and studying carefully the Tariff Board's report and then reaching its own decision. This has always been the practice since this Government has been in office, and it continues to be the practice. I do not recognise that the Tariff Board report on man-made fibres has to be directly associated with an earlier philosophical statement by the Tariff Board. 
The position is that the industry was referred to the Tariff Board, which conducted quite lengthy hearings in public, lt then weighed the evidence that was given. There was no limitation whatever on any person or interest, either Australian or overseas, who might have desired to give evidence before the Board. On the basis of that hearing and the evidence that was given the Tariff Board made its own judgment and its own recommendation. I had this recommendation studied, as is the custom in all cases, by my own Department and, where necessary, by other departments, and on the basis of that study I made my own judgment and decided what recommendation I should make to the Cabinet. 1 took this report to the Cabinet, made my recommendation, and the Cabinet made its decision. That is the history of this incident, and it is identical with the history of any other case submitted to the Tariff Board. 
I heard the question, but I do not know what the honourable member is driving at. It is a fact that I said in this House that, so far as I could gauge, the economic theories crf the modest member were akin to or almost identical with those of Adam Smith who lived some 200 years ago. I would think that perhaps the abstract theories are as true today as they were then. But today there is a social conscience which pays regard to human beings and does not confine itself only to figures. Adam Smith lived in days when one was transported for stealing a loaf of bread and when children worked in coal mines and that kind of thing. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I speak to the amendment which is before the House. It reads: 
The Leader of the Opposition should be censured for his failure to respond to  Mr Speaker's  request that he use his influence with the honourable member for Wills to obey the decision of the House directed to him by  Mr Speaker  and thereby became a party to an attack on the institution of Parliament by members of the Opposition whose disruptive and unruly behaviour was designed to make impossible the conduct of the business of (he House. 
To the best of my knowledge it is an unprecedented situation to have a motion of censure directed at a Leader of the Opposition because of his unwillingness to contribute to  Mr Speaker's  authority in the management of the orderly affairs of the Parliament. 
This is a very serious charge and one would have thought that the Australian Labor Party would have been most anxious to come to the defence of their Leader and explain if they could his conduct or his failure to act. But what has happened? So soon as the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  sat down at about 4 o'clock after making his speech and moving the amendment the Labor machine went into operation to try to frustrate discussion of it. There were points of order, challenges to the  Speaker,  motions of dissent and almost 2 hours of a desperate attempt to prevent debate on the issue relating to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  which was brought before the Parliament by the Prime Minister. This is the historic fact and no-one can deny it. It shows the Labor Party as utterly unwilling to participate in a debate on its performance last night. The Labor Party is not to be allowed to get away with trying to prevent a debate in the House. What I am saying of the pre-dinner situation is confirmed by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and others who are trying to muzzle me by constant interjection. Trying to muzzle me is an uphill job. The action of the Labor Party in the House- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
The action of the Labor Party in the House of Representatives last night represented a determination to make the House unworkable. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  with the obvious full vocal support of the whole Labor Party defied the authority of  Mr Speaker  and refused to heed the request of the Serjeant-at-Arms to obey  Mr Speaker's  direction. This created a situation never before known in the history of the Commonwealth Parliament. In the nature of things tempers are raised here - occasionally by a man or two, occasionally by quite a number of people. But this was not a sporadic flare of temper last night. It was a violent challenge - these are not extravagant words - by members of the Labor Party who comprise the alternative Government, to law and order in the place where laws are made. This is conduct dangerous to the maintenance of a workable atmosphere in the Parliament. At no stage did the Leader of the Opposition take any steps to request his followers to observe the authority of  Mr Speaker. 
At the final stage when all the Labor members present were standing and shouting and challenging  Mr Speaker  to name them - we recall quite clearly th,is incredible spectacle - the Leader of the Opposition was himself standing as part of the shouting crowd. I do not say that he was shouting but he was aligning himself and standing there obviously associated with this incredible situation which is unprecedented in the Parliament of Australia and, I believe, unprecedented in any Parliament in this nation. The Government will not accept a situation in which the elected Government is prevented from performing its functions in Parliament and Parliament is prevented from proceeding with the carriage of legislation in the interests of the people. Let us face it. There is increasing evidence that the Labor Party in and out of Parliament is set on a course of defying the whole structure of democratic government. There is an analogy between the defiance of authority by the Labor Party in the Parliament and the conduct of the foolish and ill-informed university students and others who have invented this stupid business of sit-in. This was the first evidence of a sit-in in the Federal Parliament. It was a deliberate and, for a substantial period of time, an entirely successful attempt to reduce this Parliament to impotence by general, planned shouting, by defiance of  Mr Speaker  and by defiance of the Standing Orders. 
It so happens curiously that the principal character, the honourable member for Wills, who is not with us because of his continued defiance of the Standing Orders, is, believe it or not, a member of the Standing Orders Committee. This Labor Party defiance of Parliament is frankly in the same line of conduct as that of the Victorian  President  of the Labor Party. The pattern is becoming apparent. He had a motion carried calling upon the Australian troops in Vietnam to mutiny. We are not asked to like all the laws. It is not in the nature of democracy that we all like the laws that exist. But it is the very essence of democracy that we respect the laws and that we follow nothing but constitutional procedures in our attempts to alter our laws. 
This is a picture of the Australian Labor Party starting a pattern to prevent this Parliament of the nation operating. It is a picture of the Labor Party starting a pattern to attempt - a successful attempt last night, let us remember - to reduce the Parliament to unworkable impotence. This is consistent with the campaign of the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and others to bring industry and transport to a complete halt on a certain day by so-called Vietnam Moratorium demonstrations. These demonstrations are due to take place in a few weeks time. Here again is an example of a member of the Australian Labor Party who, I have no doubt at all, would be an important Minister in a Labor government, inciting people to cease work, to mass in the streets, to stop industry, to bring transport to a halt- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Reid will cease interjecting. I suggest to the House that, for particular reasons that honourable members can understand, I would be loath to take action against any honourable member during this debate. 
 Mr Speaker,  speaking as Leader of the Australian Country Party 
Parliamentary Party, 1 wish to associate myself and my parliamentary colleagues with the motion proposed by the Prime Minister and supported by the Leader of the Opposition. 1 first wish to offer the thanks of myself and my colleagues to the Prime Minister and to the Leader of the Opposition for the remarks that they have made about our late colleague, remarks which were extremely generous but remarks which none of us would regard as extravagant in any sense. Although  Senator McKellar  had a quite short serious illness earlier in the year, his sudden death now has come as a great shock to myself and to my colleagues. It was completely unexpected. I am sure no man in the Parliament was more respected than Colin McKellar. When T say *in the Parliament', I mean and believe that this applied not only to the Australian Country Party but to all members of the Parliament irrespective of their Party affiliations. 
He was a man to be respected and a man to be liked, and certainly a man to be trusted. He had a very long record of service in respect of both national matters and the peculiar requirements and problems of rural communities and rural industries. He served as an officer in the AIF in the armoured division and rose to the rank of, I think, major. In his Party work he operated within the New South Wales branch of the Australian Country Party with such dedication and effectiveness that he was appointed  Chairman  of the Party in New South Wales, a position which he occupied for 2 years. He was then chosen as a Senate candidate, was elected as a Country Party senator for New South Wales, and served for a period of 1 1 years in the Senate. In that chamber his worth was recognised, and he became the  Chairman  of Committees in the Senate.  His  worth was further recognised and he was appointed as Minister for Repatriation, an office which he occupied for approximately 5 years until he indicated to the Prime Minister that he no longer wanted to be regarded as being available. This took place just prior to the last election. So his period in office terminated in those circumstances. 
As Minister for Repatriation he was regarded by returned soldier organisations and by the relatives and friends of returned soldiers as being most sympathetic, most understanding and most compassionate in the course of his administration. He was a man of unquestioned integrity and high character, and indeed a very likeable person. Colin McKellar will be greatly missed by his Country Party colleagues in the Parliament and I am sure that he will be greatly and sadly missed by all members of the Parliament in both the Senate and the House of Representatives who had come to know him. Among those who served most closely with him in the Ministry there had grown up not only a respect but also a measure of affection for the man. 
So,  Mr Speaker,  I extend from myself and my colleagues the deepest sympathy to  Mrs McKellar  and their 3 sons in this sad loss. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In a press statement . issued on 18th July 1969, referring to his address to the Institute of Chartered Accountants, South Australia Branch, in Adelaide on the same date, the Minister for Shipping and Transport said: 
Australia's market size and that of her international competitors, meant that for the producing sector of the economy, market sharing, and even survival, depended on forward economic planning. In the rural, mining, and manufacturing sectors, the accountancy profession is particularly suited to this task.' 
It will be clear that the planning to which the Minister was referring related to planning in the commercial sense at the firm and industry level, which is an area to which the skills of professional accountants might appropriately be applied. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
The trade commissioner courses conducted within the Department of Trade and Industry are for the training of persons appointed under the Trade Commissioners Act and Trainee Trade Commissioners who occupy positions under the Public Service Act. No officer of a foreign government or overseas administration has been included in one of these courses. 
Some consideration has been given to the inclusion of a Papuan or New Guinean in such a course. It is hoped that a suitable officer can be made available for a future course. 
The answers to the honourable gentleman's questions are as follows: 
During the last five years indigenes from the Territory of Papua and New Guinea have been included in Australian delegations to two United Nations Cocoa Conferences held in New York in 1966 and in Geneva in 1967 and to a Session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development held in New Delhi in 1968. While no indigenes have been included in trade missions, indigenes have participaed in the manning of displays of products of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea on three occasions at Stockholm, Osaka and Utrecht and on twentythree occasions at Australian capital cities. 
The only international commodity agreement that has covered products exported by the 
In export statistics it is possible to identify exports of kangaroo meat and undressed fur skins of kangaroos and wallabies. Exports of other kangaroo products are not recorded separately. 
I am aware that  President  Nixon has made a statement today. I understand that it is to the e fleet that the United States will withdraw 150.000 troops from South Vietnam by the next Northern Hemisphere spring, which appears to make it about 12 months from now. The Prime Minister intends when he is back in the House tomorrow night - I would imagine, at 8 o'clock - to make a statement dealing with the Government's attitude in this matter. 
AH the arrangements that are made involving  Her  Majesty and the Royal Family are made after consulting the Queen and with her approval, lt is approved by  Her  Majesty that she should attend the reception given by the Government and the Parliament on Thursday evening in this pl'ace. The practice, which has been followed on earlier occasions, is that those judged proper to speak for the Government, for the Parliament and for the Australian community should briefly express their words of welcome, not only for themselves personally but also in respect of those whom they represent. This has been done previously, and it is the procedure to be followed next Thursday. 
I think I could reply to the latter part of the honourable member's question by saying that it is not within my recollection over a period of approximately 36 years in this Parliament that all sections of the Labor Party, many sections of the trade union movement and certainly those who are known to be Communists or to influence the Communist line have lined up in apparent complete agreement. It is a matter of great regret that there should be such an alignment, including members whose function is to make the laws and, therefore, in my opinion, to defend the laws, for the purpose of ignoring the legal situation and demonstrating against laws which are operating with the approval of the Parliament and which are designed to be in the interests of the safety of the nation. 
 The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following table showing quantity and value of imports from New Zealand for Sections 0 to 4 of the Australian  Import  Commodity Classification for the years ended 30 June 1965 to 1969 and for the six months ended 31 December 1969. Imports which are classified within these Sections are mainly primary produce. 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that details of prices are not available for imports from New Zealand and the values shown in the table are values for duty calculated on a free on board basis. 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that estimates of imports from New Zealand for the remaining six months of the current financial year are not available. 
1 am not able to say who were the importers of this produce. The sources from which import statistics are collected are confidential under the provisions of the Census and Statistics Act 1905-1966. 
There is no evidence that imports of primary produce from New Zealand have had any adverse effect on Australian primary industry. 
The Government would take steps to protect any industry which is threatened by imports from any source. As far as New Zealand is concerned there are provisions in the Free Trade Agreement which enable either Government to act where serious injury to a local industry is threatened or is occurring. 
I am informed that: 
At the end of March 1970 four persons in the Office of the Tariff Board were engaged on genera) research - that is, on research other than that required to service the Board's current programme of public inquiries. An additional eight persons were engaged in developmental research - that is, in developing analytical techniques relevant to the Board's normal inquiry work, such as the application of input-output analysis to assess the inter-industry effects of alternative recommendations for particular inquiries, and measuring the effects of scale and specialisation on production costs in industries under inquiry by the Board. These latter eight persons were also servicing Tariff Board inquiries by applying to them the analytical techniques on which they are working. 
Of the twelve persons involved in this work, eleven are graduates and one is currently studying for his degree. Two have M.A.s in economics, five have Bachelor degrees in economics or Arts at honours level and the remaining four are Bachelors of Economics at pass level. Three have additional academic qualifications - one a B.Comm and AASA, one a second degree in Arts and the third a B.Sc. 
The four persons engaged in general research are working on the general economic effects of tariffs in Australia. The purpose of their work is to develop an analytical framework for the Board to use in reporting annually, under section 18 (i) of the Tariff Board Act, on the operation of the Tariff and the development of industries. 
The eight persons, engaged in developmental research are working on matters, such as the following, which have direct relevance for the Board's current inquiry work: 
constructing input-output matrices for industries under inquiry by the Board to help assess the inter-industry effects of protecting them; 
forecasting longer term demand and supply of the outputs of industries under inquiry by the Board; 
measuring the effects of scale and specialisation on production costs in industries tinder inquiry by the Board; 
identifying inter-dependent 'blocks' of manufacturing activities to help determine the scope of review inquiries; 
re-examining die Board's present method of valuing depreciable fixed assets for the purpose of assessing the funds employed by manufacturers in producing goods under inquiry by the Board; 
examining the relationship between the techniques and criteria used by manufacturing firms to evaluate new investment projects requiring protection (based on private costs and returns) and the criteria which guide the Board's subsequent evaluation of such projects. 
Imports from Asian Countries (Question No. 592) 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I  move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Australia has made dramatic progress in industrial development in the past decade. Great new industries, many based on newfound mineral riches, have come into being. In  10  years, the annual value of industrial production has more than doubled. Australian manufacturers have broken through into world markets. Massive exports of minerals are a dramatic new element in the economic scene. 
Australia today has a solidly established industrial capacity. It is undoubtedly a firm foundation for further growth. Most Australian manufacturing is geared to a smaller scale of production than that of older industrial countries. But opportunities for worldscale production, especially in industries based on new mineral resources, are increasingly appearing. The question is only whether we have the capacity and will to take advantage of them. Australia has emerged as one of the most competitive suppliers of basic materials for the industries of the world. This is a source of great strength. Our resources can be the springboard to a great industrial future, manufacturing goods for world markets, from our own low-cost raw materials. 
It is, however, a basic feature of our developing economy that, as the gross national product increases, so do our import requirements to sustain our industries and meet consumer needs. We face a growing burden of income remitted abroad. Income remitted overseas by companies in Australia has in  5  years risen from 8.3% to  10.5%  of our export earnings. In addition, income being earned by overseas investors and ploughed back in further investment in Australia has more than doubled in  5  years. This means a building up of commitments for further income to be paid abroad in the future. And, where the investment is in equity form, there is no end to the commitment. Traditionally, exports of rural products have earned the bulk of our foreign exchange needs. But, with the difficulties which our exports of farm products face in overseas markets, we have to look for export earnings more and more to the products of our factories and our mines. In recent times while the value of our imports has been increasing at the rate of  8%  per annum, the value of our rural exports has been increasing at less than  2%  per annum. 
We have to increase our industrial exports. We must get the maximum return we can from exports of our mineral resources. Our policies to strengthen and broaden Australia's export capability have been directed importantly to increasing the export of manufactured goods. Export incentives, trade promotion, the Export Development Council, the Export Payments Insurance Corporation, have all helped to create a very real capacity of Australian manufacturing industries to sei) their products overseas. But much more needs to be done to build in Australia an industrial structure which can be a principal source of export earnings in the future and which, in the process, will bring lower costs in Australia through the economies of larger-scale operations serving wider markets. We have a ready made opportunity to develop further exports of industrial products from our abundance of high grade, competitively priced raw materials. Each ton of iron ore, or bauxite, or wood chips, or copper, or nickel concentrates, if processed to just one further stage would multiply its earnings many times over. Processed still further, as I believe it can be, and finding some growing access to world markets in the more highly processed form, the rewards in terms of export income would be still greater. 
The capital which comes from abroad into our industries is itself a major and growing element in Australia's balance of payments. Five years ago total capital inflow was running at $500m to $600m in a year. In the past 2 years it has been well over $ 1,000m a year. Capital inflow brings benefits, but also commitments. We must do everything possible to see that it is used to best advantage. 
The proposals outlined in this Bill will encourage the establishment of industries which will contribute most to permanent development in Australia and the longterm strength of the balance of payments. The Government clearly approves, and will continue to encourage, the inflow of investment from abroad. It is nevertheless a matter of national concern that overseas capital is usually obtained on terms which have resulted in predominantly foreign ownership of many of our greatest industrial enterprises and fastest growing industries. 
Hardly a month goes by when we do not hear of an overseas takeover of an important and growing Australian enterprise. In 1969 alone, at least 15 Australian owned companies, with assets worth $100m, disappeared from the lists of the two largest stock exchanges because of takeover by overseas interests. There are also, of course, many other companies which have continued in existence but with the overseas ownership growing and becoming dominant. 
Overseas takeovers and mergers are not necessarily bad. Indeed, they may be part of the process of an Australian industry growing up, becoming more efficient. But too frequently in the pattern of such arrangements, when the Australian partner cannot meet his share of the capital requirements - whether equity or loan - he will at best become the minor partner in the new enterprise that results. We cannot let ourselves be lulled into feeling that all is well because comfortable aggregate statistical figures show only 20% to 25% foreign ownership of manufacturing. Manufacturing industry, in the statistical records, includes thousands of small establishments designated as factories because they have 4 or more employees or use power. Looking deeper into the statistics, we see a vastly different picture. 
If we look at the situation in factories with over 20 employees we find, for example, that the motor vehicle industry is nearly 90% foreign controlled. The industrial and heavy chemicals industry, and the pharmaceuticals industry, are over 80% foreign controlled. In the electrical and electronic industries, including in the total many small enterprises, overseas ownership is around 50%. 
Production of alumina and aluminium is about 75% owned overseas. Foreign domination is not confined to the largest industries. The production in Australia of such day-to-day items as roller bearings, electrical hand tools, abrasives, and glazed ceramic tiles, to mention a few of the smaller and more specialised industries, is carried out predominantly by foreign-owned companies. This degree of foreign ownership has come about in a variety of ways. 
Some foreign firms, for their own reasons of company policy, are not prepared to allow any Australian participation in their ventures. There are others who regard some minor Australian ownership as desirable, to give a measure of recognition to Australian national sentiment and, under the borrowing guidelines, greater access to local finance. A growing number of more . enlightened foreign companies are willing to have, and even seek, Australian participation to the point of an effective Australian voice in the board room. They aim to make the foreign company a good Australian corporate citizen. But these companies often cannot find Australian interests able to participate with them to the extent necessary to achieve a significant element of Australian ownership. 
There are many demands on our limited capital resources. Scarce Australian investment funds do not easily flow to new projects which may take many years to reach the earning stage. Foreign domination also arises in circumstances where established and growing Australian enterprises, with a small foreign holding in the Australian firm, reach the stage where they must expand their scale of operations very substantially in order to compete against imports on the Australian market and to operate effectively in world markets. These Australian companies too frequently have to accept the fact that they cannot attract the investment they need from within Australia. Overseas they are unknown and lack the stature and investment appeal to borrow in their own right. Under these circumstances, it is left to the minority foreign element to provide the funds, and hence become the controlling element. 
There are enormous difficulties for an Australian manufacturing enterprise to achieve world scale and competitiveness under substantially Australian ownership. And foreign corporations do not, by and large, have the objective of bringing Australian industry to the stage of competing on equal terms with overseas industry. There are export franchise limitations, arrangements that limit competition with a foreign parent, processing of raw materials here, and sale at cost, as inputs for industry overseas, and fabricating industries finding themselves at the mercy of foreign-owned firms who control the prices of their raw materials. These are some of the consequences that can follow from excessive foreign ownership of industry and resources. It is increasingly evident that what is best for a multi-national giant is not necessarily best for Australia. Again, too often, there are cases where Australian innovation and research benefits foreign, rather than Australian, industry because the resources to develop their full potential cannot be found within Australia. Australians are not lacking in inventive capacity. But the cost of turning an idea into a product ready to be marketed and then to develop the markets can be beyond the capacity of Australian industry. So the idea lapses, or is sold overseas. 
In what I have said I speak not to criticise foreign companies, but to point out the circumstances which indicate a lack in Australia of the means for Australian companies to marshal adequate financial resources for major expansion and development under Australian ownership. I know of no important country, other than Australia, where the Government exhibits an indifference as to whether its natural resources or production opportunities are owned in whole or in part by overseas interests. In practically every other nation of the non-Communist work! there are policies or procedures or institutions designed to exercise authority or influence upon ownership of industry. Many countries achieve their objectives of domestic ownership in major industry by means of controls and administrative regulations. Approvals have to be obtained before foreign companies can set up operations, or merge with or take over a domestic company. A host of regulatory devices applying to foreign investment are to be found. We have no intention of following this example in Australia. It is the firm intention of this Government to preserve in Australia the free enterprise system. We will maintain Australia's unique open door to investment and ownership by private enterprise, lt is because of this intention that the Government now proposes a constructive means of fostering the objectives of industrial development and maximum Australian ownership in it. 
I have explained some of the problems and the needs which have prompted us to take a new initiative. I have explained that we will completely avoid trying to solve the problems by regulation or controls. Instead, we are going to create a new facility which will be in a position to assist an Australian venture that seeks its help to undertake a viable and important industry development. The facility will be fashioned and equipped especially to assist projects in export industries, and industries founded on Australia's natural resources. It will direct itself to giving assistance in ways which will help Australian companies to gain or preserve a greater Australian participation than otherwise would be the case. 
By establishing this new institution, to be known as the Australian Industry Development Corporation, we believe we are taking a major step forward in policies for development and for Australian ownership. The Corporation will operate expressly to assist Australian industry to expand its capacity and scope, and increase its efficiency and competitiveness. It will assist in retaining and expanding Australian ownership of industry and resources. The Australian Industry Development Corporation is designed to fill a very significant gap in the Australian investment scene. Its role will be to assist Australian interests in marshalling financial resources, particularly from overseas, for major industrial development. lt will have the capacity to help where the existing banking and other financial institutions cannot meet the financial1 and investment needs of Australian companies for development and expansion. It will assist in cases where the development would otherwise not take place, or would otherwise be possible only with undue loss of ownership and control to overseas. 
That there are great resources of capital overseas willing for investment in Australia either as equity or fixed term lending does not have to be demonstrated. The facts of capital inflow speak for themselves. If we could get more capital from overseas in non-equity form, carrying a terminating liability for income payments abroad, our balance of payments would be the stronger and our industries less dominated from overseas. What we want to do by establishing the Australian Industry Development Corporation is to create a facility to tap some of this overseas capital for Australian industry, getting it more in the form of loans and less in overseas equity. The Corporation will do this by the same means used successfully by overseas owned industrial companies w.'th their own vast dimension and obvious credit worthiness After very thorough study in Australia and overseas, and very full consultation with many of those with whom the AIDC would hope to do business overseas, we are in no doubt that such a corporation, established by the Australian Government, will be able to tap overseas funds for attractive industry development projects in Australia. 
The Corporation's objectives and the policies governing its operations are set out in detail in the Bill. The Corporation's task will be to encourage the development and expansion of Australian industry, including the mining industry and processing and manufacturing industries based on mineral resources, lt will have as a clear objective to facilitate this industrial development in ways which will promote trade both internationally and between the States. It must aim especially at expanding exports on a world-competitive basis, and enhancing our long term balance of payments position. It must seek to enable Australian industry to conserve our foreign exchange by competing with imports without recourse to high tariff barriers. It must attempt to keep for Australian industry the advantages flowing from Australian invention and innovation. In these and other practical cases where its assistance is sought, it must aim to protect and maximise the Australian participation and ownership. 
The AIDC's task will be to obtain, principally from overseas, the funds required for particular projects which Australian interests themselves have not been able to obtain either in Australia or overseas. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Employment in the clothing industry (including hosiery and knitted goods) totalled 101,266 in 1967-68. Of this. 17,692 were males and 83,574 were females. 
Capital investment as at 30th June, 1968 in the clothing industry group was $197m. of which $142m. were invested in land and building and $55m. was invested in plant and machinery. 
Statistics are not available on the number of factories located in decentralised areas. However the clothing industry like other textile operations is a substantial user of female labour. Labour of this type is available in country centres and the clothing industry has established in decentralised areas to take advantage of it. 
The industry has been spending substantial sums of money and devoting a considerable amount of time to the matter of efficiency. In the year ended 30lh June, 1968, for example, it invested approximately SI 3m, in new plant and machinery. It is conducting a number of interfirm comparisons in conjunction with the Department of Trade and Industry. 
Within the last two years, manufacturers of knitted outerwear, knitted shirts and woven shirts encountered severe import competition. All three sectors of the clothing industry were referred to the Special Advisory Authority who found the need for temporary quantitative import restrictions on the knitted goods and temporary duties on woven shirts. The recommended temporary protection was imposed and the Tariff Board is currently conducting an inquiry into these sectors. The Department of Trade and Industry has before it no applications for review of protection in other sectors of the garment industry. 
The long established policy of the Government is to afford reasonable and adequate protection to economic and efficient industries. Careful consideration will be given to any further request for such protection. 
 In reply to the question of the honourable member: 1 have not seen reports of the statement attributed to  Mr Bourke  of the Ford Motor Companybut in answer to the second part of your question I would point out that it has been Government policy to trade with the Japanese on a basis of mutual co-operation and advantage for many years and in 1957 a Trade Agreement was signed with Japan which formalised the trade relations between the two countries. The expansion in trade that has taken place since that date has proved beneficial on both sides and Japan is now Australia's biggest customer and took $822 million of our exports in 1968/69. On the other hand Japanese exports to Australia totalled $415 million in 1968/69. This volume of trade is indicative of the good relations that exist between Australia and Japan. 
Papua and New  Guinea:  Contracts of Employment  (Question No. 667)  Mr Clyde  Cameron asked the Minister  for  External Territories,  upon  notice: 
What penalties, if any, apply to agreement workers in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea for breach of a contract of employment. 
Are wages due to such workers paid in full at regular fortnightly intervals. 
Are all such workers granted annual holidays with pay; if so, what are the details of such paid annual leave. 
Is an employer obliged to pay the return fare to enable an Agreement worker on annual leave to return to his native village for the duration of his annual leave. 
The following answer is supplied: 
The value of Australia's exports and imports to each of these countries for each of the last 5 financial years was: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Duties applicable to the major part of Australian wool currently being exported to the United States are as follows: and Japan for 1967-68 and 1968-69 are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that the Premier of Western Australia has addressed a request to the Prime Minister seeking Commonwealth aid to help rehabilitate those who have suffered in Western Australia from the quite serious drought that was experienced there all last year. The Government is at the moment studying the facts of the situation and I am sure I can advise the honourable member and those affected in Western Australia that the Government will, in response, apply precisely the same principles of aid in Western Australia as it has applied in Queensland. This is not merely a matter of compassion, which is a powerful factor. It is the desire of the Commonwealth to contribute to rehabilitating the productive capacity of those affected in Western Australia. 
The subject matter at issue involves the property of those who own the merino rams sought to be exported. I believe that those who ought to be considered in this matter are the private citizens who own that property. Quite frankly, I see no reason why the right of a private citizen to dispose of his property, which he has produced at his own expense, and with his own labour and industry, should be submitted to the decision of those who are merely trying to transform a situation to their political advantage. That is really what is inherent in the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition. The Government is extremely disappointed with the attitude of the Australian Labor Party in helping to incite trade unionists in defying the law relating to this matter. It is, unhappily, totally consistent with the whole sequence of attitudes of members of the Labor Party, whose predecessors in the last century fought with great vigour, great consistency and great determination to get a right for all people to vote to elect a Parliament which could govern with authority. Today it is the clear purpose of the Labor Party to destroy the objective of their predecessors by trying to prevent the Parliament that has been elected by a full franchise of all people, male and female, from operating. 
 Tomorrow is the culmination of the long campaign for the so-called Vietnam Moratorium. The debate this afternoon and this evening of course has been weighed in relation to this long campaign, the incidents that are designed to take place tomorrow and the general implications for Australia. But when the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  rises to speak in the Mouse on this occasion, why. it is New Guinea that he talks about. This is a masterly diversion, lt is true that yesterday the Leader of the Opposition spoke volubly and vehemently about the Vietnam Moratorium. 
1 was saying before I was rudely interrupted by interjections that yesterday the Leader of the Opposition spoke volubly and vigorously on the Vietnam Moratorium and gave all his views on it. But this was not done in the Parliament. lt was done outside on the la wm in front of Parliament House and surrounded by North Vietnamese flags. That was his forum to speak to the Australian people about this great issue that so concerns the Australian Labor Party. In the Parliament when it is being discussed tonight he is silent. lt was New Guinea the honourable gentleman talked about  -  a convenient matter to turn to as a masterly distraction but not one that is successful. 
The truth of the matter, as has been mentioned a number of times in this House, is that members of the Australian Labor Party have been in association with known Communists in this campaign, in this plan, and excuses have been made along the line, as I have heard them, that if it so happens that a Communist holds a certain point of view and a member of the Australian Labor Party happens to hold the same point of view it cannot be helped if they appear on the same occasion on the same platform. 
This is a very plausible statement. But what I want to say and what I will proceed to establish is that all through our involvement in Vietnam and the propaganda campaign mounted and managed by the Communists, the Australian Labor Party, certainly as to the majority and certainly as to its leader, has been wittingly or unwittingly working for the Communists, working for the North Vietnamese. 
We have had running concurrently 2 wars. One has been in the field where our troops, the Americans and the South Vietnamese have been fighting in accordance with the attitudes taken by their respective governments. But parallel and absolutely contiguous with this has been the second war - the propaganda war that has been conducted all round the world, originating in the masler planning area of the hierarchy of the Communist Party, operating in the United States, operating in Australia, operating in New Zealand and wherever there has been scope to do so. 
The Vietnam situation commenced, so far as we were eventually to become involved with it. with what appeared to be a local insurrection involving the National Liberation Front - the Vietcong. But this organisation was being supported, supplied, aided and managed by what was a foreign country - North Vietnam - and it was clear to the world that that country was being supplied, encouraged and supported by the great nations of the Communist world. For what purpose were the terror, murder, the burning of people's homes and the reckless cruelty of this campaign? It was to illustrate that the Government of South Vietnam was unable to control the affairs of the country. The campaign of murder and destruction and burning was a campaign to bring down the South Vietnamese Government. 
In all this time the supplies were coming from North Vietnam and indirectly from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and China. That these were terrible days, no-one will deny. What was the attitude of the Australian Labor Party in those days? There was utter silence from the Communists in this country and all the friendly western countries; utter silence at this terrible programme that was going on. There was utter silence in respect of what was happening in the field but not utter silence on the political front. The defaming of the South Vietnamese Government, the defaming of the  President  of South Vietnam and the defaming of the Prime Minister of South Vietnam began in this Parliament. If honourable members look up Hansard they will see that this was the attitude of the Australian Labor Party on those occasions. 
The next stage was the more formal invasion of South Vietnam by North Vietnamese forces, by North Vietnamese formations penetrating right into this country which was seeking to preserve ' its own independence, just adding to and accelerating the butchery, the terror, the dreadful impositions upon the peasantry in the villages and the poor people in this country. In that atmosphere the South Vietnamese Government, with its own forces desperately trying to handle the situation, asked the United States first and then Australia to send not troops but military advisers to help its forces to manage their own responsibilities. There was no word from the Australian Labor Party, no word from the Communists, about this terrible thing that was going on among the population. But when we sent a few military advisers and when the United States sent a few military advisers they got to their feet instantly, condemning this country and the United States, and mounted a tremendous campaign which was conducted against our national service law. 
Constantly there was the illustration of two co-ordinated wars. They were not merely parallel wars. They were coordinated wars. The Vietcong and the North Vietnamese Communists were fighting in the field, and the Communist Party, the Communist front organisations, the Communist led unions and in this country the Australian Labor Party were fighting the Communist cause on the political front. We saw the mounting pressure on both these fronts and particularly on the fighting front in South Vietnam; the increasing terror and the reckless, relentless attacks with mortars, the ruthless murder of village headmen, the systematic murdering of schoolteachers and any people who could give a lead, and the introduction of larger military formations from the North led to the position where the South Vietnam Government, still seeking to protect the independence of its people, asked the United States to send military aid and asked Australia and other countries to send military aid. This was done, as is known and the response was that these countries, recognising not only the threat to the South Vietnamese but what the consequences would be if there was success in that small country, sent military aid. So, at that point we had our own troops fighting in the field for what they believed in, what their Government believed in, and their country believed in. Do not ever tell1 me their country did not believe in it. This was proved in election after election. Taking a parallel course, the Communists have at ali times, in association with the Labor Party both inside the Parliament and outside, attacked the aid given to South Vietnam. They have unceasingly and relentlessly defamed South Vietnam's leaders. They have constantly attacked the United Slates Government and the Australian Government. This war on the political front has gone on parallel with the war in the field. 
What was the next stage? North Vietnam invaded Laos in order to have a supply line into South Vietnam - the Ho Chi Minh trail. That was an unresisted invasion of a country not involved in the war. Was there any word of protest from the Labor Party about that invasion? Could anybody turn up Hansard and point to 1 speech by any member of the Labor Party in protest against the invasion of Laos by the North Vietnamese and other Communist troops so that they might supply their forces fighting our troops and Americans in South Vietnam? Not a word. This was a real war. The Americans and Australians in the field, together with their allies, were making a real effort. The troops knew that they were in a real war. What happened in the United States behind our front? The most intense propaganda campaign ever known in a Western country was waged in the United States against its participation in the war. I do not think anybody bothers with propaganda campaigns in Communist countries, although T cannot be certain. 
J am sure that such an intense campaign as was mounted on the civil front in the United States has never been known. The moratorium was produced. I was about to say that it was invented, but I do not believe for a moment that the Americans invented the idea of the moratorium. 1 think the idea was sent to them from the headquarters of Communism as part of its propaganda planning. Concurrently the campaign against our involvement in Vietnam proceeded in this country along precisely the same lines, originating no doubt from the same source. The campaign reached such a stage in the United States that  President  Johnson, who had been so stoic, so firm, so loyal in the defence of these poor people of South Vietnam, was brought to say that he would not again contest the Presidency. What a victory for Com.mun sm. What a victory on the political front to have a success through propaganda and impel the  President  of the United States to say that he will not again stand for the Presidency. What encouragement for Communist propaganda in this country and everywhere else. 
While this was going on in America there was not the silence on the part of the Labor Party that we observed in the case of the invasion of Laos, when the North Vietnamese sought a supply route by which to succour and supply the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese. No, there was not that kind of silence but rather a vigorous, vocal and continuous campaign against the allies by the Communists and the Australian Labor Party. So the sad story goes on of the political war and the war in the field ensuing parallel to one another, fitting together as they are intended to fit together by those who planned them - by the brilliantly able Communists who planned all this. We have war in the field and war on the political front concurrently. There was not much success in the field for the Communists but unhappily there was great success on the political front. 
The next stage was the invasion of Cambodia by the North Vietnamese. By this time the American forces had suffered heavy losses. The invasion of neutral Cambodia was the third violation by the Communists of a neutral country in this war. They invaded Cambodia in order to establish a sanctuary for military bases from which to consolidate their formations in South Vietnam. They felt that from Cambodia they would be able to sally forth into South Vietnam, attack the Americans and South Vietnamese, and retreat to their sanctuary in Cambodia. But such a situation was intolerable for a government which had sent troops into the field, so the South Vietnamese and the Americans went into Cambodia to root out this threat to their existence. But there was not a word from the Australian Labor Party or the Communists against the invasion of Cambodia, although they are consumed with rage at the idea of the Americans going into Cambodia to destroy this Communist sanctuary. 
The Australian people must be made aware of these things. Earlier tonight I said that wittingly or unwittingly the Labor Party is working for the Communists in this war. If it is wrong to invade a neutral country why was there silence from the Labor Party when the North Vietnamese invaded Cambodia to establish their great bases? There was utter silence. Not a word was heard. God knows, there has been enough speaking on street corners and under North Vietnamese flags on the lawns in front of Parliament House. There were plenty of vocal people there from the Labor Party, but not a word was said about the invasion of Cambodia. 
Yes, he was outside Parliament House addressing the demonstrators. But when our friends and allies enter Cambodia to seek to ensure their safety and survival, up in flames goes the Labor Party in synchronised harmony with the Communists. Was this jointly planned? I do not know. I am not even alleging that it was but certainly, wittingly or unwittingly, the Labor Party has been working for the Communist enemies of our troops in South Vietnam and of the American troops there. 
Then, pulling out all the stops of the propaganda machine, the Labor Party produced this crescendo of demonstrations planned for tomorrow. The Communists and the Labor Party will march side by side tomorrow in what they hope will be a great moratorium march, working to have Australian and United States troops returned to their homelands. This is the parallel war: In the field the troops fight the enemy; behind their backs on the political front the Communists and the Labor 
Party fight the Governments responsible for having those troops in South Vietnam. The most kindly thing I can think about the Labor Party is that its members are dupes of the machinations of the Communists. What they are aiming to do in this crescendo of propaganda tomorrow is to achieve on the political front what all the military forces of Communism have failed to achieve. The military forces of Communism have failed to drive the Americans and the Australians out of Vietnam, but the Communists hope for success on the political front where their troops have failed in the field. They hope to force the Government to bring the troops home. I do not think T exaggerate when I say that all this conduct can be interpreted to mean only that the Communists who follow this line and the members of the Australian Labor Party who march abreast with them want the Communists to win. 
If the Communists drove our troops out into the sea then they would achieve precisely the same result that they are aiming at by political means. Overseas there is a battle in the field against the Communists who are trying to drive our troops out, and at home the Australian Labor Party and the civilian Communists are working to defeat our forces on the political' front. I again repeat that the Australian people must come to know of this pernicious association with the Labor Party in this Parliament and of the influence that the Labor Party seeks to bring upon this Parliament. The people must come to know that the Labor Party is working hand in hand and to the same end as the Communist Party. They must know that this is happening while our own troops are fighting in the field. It is time for the Labor men who are for Australia and for our troops to stand up and dissociate themselves from this pernicious campaign. It is time that the others who are for the campaign stood out and were clearly revealed. 
The question of the Leader of the Opposition is based, as he informed the House, on an incident as yet incomplete in the other House. I think we should wait until it is complete in the other House. 

 - Mr Speaker- 

There was a time - it was about the time I first came to this Parliament, and a little before that - when the word 'moratorium' was quite common in the vocabulary of all Australians. That was a time when there was very great economic distress in the country. We all at that time knew what the word 'moratorium' meant. 
I would hope now that the word moratorium' as used today is nol to be associated with a period of great distress and suffering for many Australians, although I fear this is the plain intention of the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. No doubt exists that the present campaign was not conceived in Australia. The campaign was applied first in the United States of America where, from coast to coast, north to south, as a consequence of the campaign there, great disorders, great damage, great civil disturbance, not a little human suffering and, indeed, some deaths occurred. It is beyond my comprehension why people enjoying the privileges of being Australian citizens seek to transplant into this country that circumstance which we have seen exhibited in the United States of America. There is not the slightest doubt that the Moratorium Campaign is intended to try to achieve by political means in the Australian Parliament, as it has sought to achieve in the United States Congress, the aid and succour of the Communist forces, whom our troops are fighting, which they themselves have not been able to achieve in the field of battle. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Details of payments made to individual companies, and by classes of manufacture or mining activity up to 30th June 1969, are contained in the Annual Reports of the Board already tabled. Payments made from 1st July 1969 to 1st April 1970 are set out in the accompanying tables. 
Companies provide detailed information about their industrial research and development activities to the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board with the assurance that the information will be treated as confidential and will not be made public. This practice is followed because of the commercial importance to the companies concerned of the information they provide to the Board. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The objective of this policy is to provide an incentive to Australian manufacturing and mining companies to spend more of their own funds on increased industrial research and development leading to more efficient, less costly, methods of production and, in particular, the more efficient use of Australian raw materials and resources. 
Yes. 
Companies provide detailed information about their industrial research and development activities to the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board with the assurance that the information will bc treated as confidential and will not be made public. This practice is followed because of the commercial importance to the companies concerned of the information they provide to the Board. 
Shipping: Torres Strait  (Question No 640) 
No,  Mr Speaker,  they will not.  Mr Dooling  was asked to provide advice and information to the Department on a purely departmental level. 
The honourable gentleman seems to base his question on the premise that a wool marketing scheme has been decided upon. That is not so. It has never been said that a scheme has been decided upon. The growers themselves through their own organisations have indicated a single principle, which I referred to yesterday. They want a single marketing authority. With the concurrence of all the wool organisations and the approval of the Government, the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board has appointed a very broadly based and very skilled committee to make further studies and to submit a succession of reports containing advice both to the industry and to the Government. We are awaiting, as I think the industry is awaiting, the first of these reports which is expected to be released within two or three weeks or something like that. What is regarded as the voice of the wool industry has been taken to be the voice of the wool growers organisations and all the great wool growers organisations have voted overwhelmingly, if not unanimously, in favour of this principle of a single marketing authority. The great wool growers as well as the small wool growers are represented on these organisations, but the great wool growers have never argued in all my experince of the wool industry that they should be entitled to a weighted voice, notwithstanding that some growers have produced very much more wool than others. 
My first experience of a proposed wool marketing organisation was the suggestion of a reserve price plan, which came forward in 1950. The organisation at that time was the Australian Woolgrowers Council, lt has since been transformed into the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council. It proposed the basis upon which the opinion of members of the wool industry should be taken. Its proposal was that any man who owned 200 sheep or produced 5 bales of wool should be entitled to a vole equal to that of any other wool grower no matter how great he might be. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! Does the Minister claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. I wish to correct the misrepresentation. The honourable member for Reid claimed that during an election campaign in Western Australia I advised Country Party voters to give their second preference votes to the Labor Party candidate. That is a pure invention. There is no vestige of truth in the claim. 

 Mr UREN (Reid) - I have been the victim of misrepresentation by the Minister. I stated only what I heard and saw on television. During the election campaign in 1966 the  Deputy  Prime Minister, speaking in the electorate of Canning, asked Labor Party voters to give their second preference votes to the Country Party candidate because, he said, there was no real difference between the policies of the 2 Parties. He does not use the old red bogy. I heard the remark with my own ears. The right honourable gentleman knows that I would not falsely make this claim. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has advised that details of processed potatoes and potato products are recorded separately only for the imports of (a) potatoes, whether or not cooked, preserved by freezing (b) flour, meal and flakes of potato (c) Potato starch. He has supplied the following table showing details of these imports for each of the years ended 30th June 1965 to 30th June 1969 and for the eight months ended February 1970. Values shown are values for duty, not cash values, and are calculated on a free on board port of shipment basis. 
Under the legislation passed by the Parliament for the provision and disbursement of funds in connection with research and development activities, the authority for decision is vested in a board which is independent of the Department of Trade and Industry. The legislation clearly sets down in, I think, 2 broad definitions the criteria which will be taken into account. The board operates independently. Its decisions are not subject to the concurrence of myself as the administering Minister but are reported, 1 think, at the end of the year to the Parliament. 
I have no first hand knowledge of this. I understand from something I have read in a newspaper that the brewery concerned asserts that it has, through its research, discovered certain new processes in respect of hop extract and that the product is now being sold around the world and negotiations. 1 think, are taking place for the issue of licences for the employment of this process in other countries. This generally would be a result in conformity with part of the objectives of the research and development grants. But I suggest to the hon ourable member who is interested on behalf of his own hop growers that if he were to put the question on the notice paper I. would give him as full and as prompt an answer as 1 can. 
I have not seen the report to which the honourable gentleman refers. I will make inquiries, see whether my Department has any information or a copy of the report and make myself familiar with the position. 
I have seen the report of the Japanese decision. Elements of the report have been published. The decision relates to the admission into Japan of citrus fruits from South Africa provided that they have been through a certain cold temperature sterilisation procedure which satisfies the Japanese from the quarantine aspect. The Government has been in fairly constant contact for about 8 years with the Japanese authorities on the matter of the admission into Japan of Australian citrus fruits and pome fruits. The Japanese during this period have made it clear to us that a procedure of sterilisation which they decide is suitable for the fruit from one country is not necessarily acceptable to them for fruit from another area. In terms of our understanding with the Japanese we are continuing to study what processes we may initiate or innovate which would have the effect of sterilising both our citrus and pome fruits in a manner acceptable to the Japanese authorities. I understand that there is a modest degree of hope in this regard but no earlybreak through is expected. 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: (a), (b) and (c) The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the attached' table setting out the value of overseas imports and exports and the weight  ot  measurement of overseas cargo loaded and discharged at Australian ports for each of the financial years 1959-60 to 1968-69. 
The Statistician has advised that while Overseas Trade Statistics and Overseas Shipping Cargo Statistics represent complementary aspects of Australia's trade relations with foreign countries, the two statistical series are derived from separate sources and' have differences in basic concepts and coverage. As a consequence the two sets of figures supplied are not strictly comparable and- they should be used with these qualifications in mind. 
<para pgwide="yes">The Statistician has advised al:0 that neither Overseas Trade Statistics nor Shipping Cargo Statistics are available on the basis of overseas-owned and Australian-owned shipping lines. 
I would like to associate my colleagues of the Australian Country Party with the references which have been made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  to the late  Mr Joshua  and to join in extending the sympathy of my Country Party colleagues to his widow and to the members of the family. I, with others who have spoken, remember  Mr Joshua  as a man greatly respected in the Parliament. Those of us who were here remember the tempestuous days, as the Leader of the Opposition described them. I do not think any of us doubted the profound genuineness with which  Mr Joshua  held his convictions and took his stand. Whatever one's view may have been on the issues, this could have done nothing but enhance the respect in which  Mr Joshua  was held as a person. It is a matter of deep regret to myself and my Country Party colleagues that there should be this sad occasion of referring to his death. 
Having regard to the economic circumstances of the Australian wool industry one certainly would hope that it could be found possible to reduce overseas freights. The discussions involve the Australia-United Kingdom Europe Conference Lines and they are in hand up to a point. Certain procedures which were determined by the Australian Shippers Association have to be followed. My understanding is that the Tonnage Committee met with the Shippers Association in April and the shippers proposed that there should be a standstill of present rates because the containerisation procedures had not been long enough in operation to make final assessments. The shipowners at that time took the stand that they needed an increase in freights because of increased costs. I understand that the outcome was that, the matter should not be proceeded with until June or July by which time certain studies of voyage results would have been made. So the discussions are in hand and these studies of the actual cost experiences will be available, I believe, some time this month or next month. 
The Australian Wool Growers and Graziers Council is a member of the Australia to Europe Shippers Association. It has complete right and competence to make a claim for lower freights through its own association. It will compile its case and submit it to its association. The Shippers Association will be the negotiator with the shipowners' Conference. This stage has not yet been reached so I am not in a position to say what stand the Government will take. As a matter of fact, whereas the Government used to have status in this matter until 1956, in that year all the Australian shipper bodies met the shipowners of the Conference in London and after protracted discussions decided on a formula to determine freights which excluded any Government participation in the negotiations. That was the position from 1956 until the current negotiations, where an observer is present. That was not done at the wish of the Government. Indeed, at the time that decision was taken I took the view that if the Australian shippers were to negotiate of their own right without the aid of the Government they needed to have a very competent secretariat to work for them. I persuaded the Government of the day to make substantial funds available to them for (he purpose of assembling a secretariat to aid . them in their negotiations. 
I do not carry in my mind the actual statistical position of the cotton crop but I believe we now are selfsufficient in most types of raw cotton that we need. If I prove to be inaccurate in that statement I will correct myself later. I believe there is still some importation of types of cotton which we are not producing in sufficient quantity. The circumstances of the textile industry are dealt with by the provisions of the tariff. I have no knowledge that the textile industry is in any jeopardy at the present time through inadequate tariff protection. 
Australia has been participating with other countries over a period of years in an endeavour to get a world commodity agreement covering dairy products. Negotiations have been taking place between the interested countries that are panics to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Some few months ago. the negotiations having concentrated at that time on skimmed milk powder,  an  agreement  was  reached in the GAIT. As is customary when that point is reached, the agreement then went to the governments concerned for ratification. Unhappily because the Government of Ireland was unwilling to ratify the agreement, there was a considerable hiatus before any further step was taken. More recently, all the other parties to the GATT which are principal exporters an.] importers of skimmed milk powder, other than Ireland. Austria and the United Slates, agreed to subscribe lo the agreement and to bring it  into  operation. There have been discussions  with  the 3 countries I have named, and the expectation is that those countries, while  not  subscribing in formal terms to the agreement, will not, as far as possible, trade in such a manner as to make the agreement unworkable. On those terms it is in operation at the present time, with the happy result that the world price of skimmed milk powder has increased  by  S3 1  a  ton. which is a very useful advantage to the Australian dairy industry. Negotiations have now moved to a more difficult but more important area. An attempt is being made to negotiate a world commodity agreement on butterfat. This will cover, I think, 2 items of trade - butter itself and butter oil. 1 am sure I am right in stating that it is judged that it would be more feasible in the first step to perhaps seek a world agreement in respect of butter oil before turning to the problem of butter itself. Australia will continue to participate quite actively in this regard. We are heartened  by  the measure of success of the skimmed milk powder commodity arrangement. We will lose no opportunity, particularly co-operating with our sister country, New Zealand, to try to bring about a butter oil agreement and subsequently a butter agreement. 
Some months ago the honourable member brought to me a deputation of Mildura dried vine fruit growers whose colleagues had been troubled by storm and hail damage, which they were unable to insure against with any commercial insurance company. As I recall the position those gentlemen had in a most admirable manner formed themselves into a voluntary association and they subscribed from their yearly earnings to a fund which would be drawn upon to give them some recompense in the event of damage through hail or storm. The problem which confronted them was taxation - whether their voluntary contributions to their co-operative association would be regarded as tax deductible and whether any recompense drawn from the fund would be regarded as taxable income.I assured the honourable member and the deputation that upon this proposal being converted to a qui te explicit proposition I would ask my colleague, the Treasurer, at the time of preparing the Budget to consider what attitude the Government might properly take to the proposition in respect of taxation. The proposition having now been converted to an explicit proposal I undertake to bring it before my colleague, the Treasurer, and to get a decision of the Government when the Budget is under consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Tariff conforms with the Brussels Nomenclature which provides for classification of products in 99 Chapters. Each Chapter is sub-divided, resulting in 1095 Tariff Items. In the Australian Tariffthere is further sub-division, giving a total of 4050 tariff classifications. 
A precise answer to this question is not possible. Many references tothe Tariff Board cover only part of a Tariff Item because the products of an industry under reference may fall within one or a number of Tariff Items, while other goods not under reference may also be covered by theItem or Items. 
Since 1st January1960, 521 Tariff Items have been reported on, in whole or in part, by the Tariff Board. A further 40 Tariff Items, or parts of TariffItems are currently under review by the Tariff Board. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows:  (1 and 2) One reference has been made to the Tariff Board specifically in terms of Section 15(l)(d) of the Tariff Board Act in the past 10 years. During my term as responsible Minister no references have been sent to the Tariff Board specifically in terms of Sub-section 15 (2) (a) of the Tariff Board Act. It is my normal practice in making references to the Tariff Board for a review of protection to frame the reference in terms covering the whole of Section 15. In the last 10 years 395 such references have been sent to the Tariff Board. 
Papua  and New Guinea: Indigenes  Employed  in Commonwealth Departments (Question  No.542) 
I am familiar with the grave doubts expressed by the Australian textile industry as to the outcome of the adoption of the Tariff Board report on certain man-made fibres. It has been my practice never to see interested parties in matters such as this between the time when a report comes to me and when I make my recommendation to the Government. I have, however, seen the members of this Council although I forget whether I saw them as members of the Council or otherwise. They put to me personally, at an early opportunity that I provided after the Government's decision, their very grave disquiet about the outcome for the manmade fibre industry of the adoption of the Tariff Board report. My reaction was to say that the Government could not consider taking any action merely on the expressed disquiet of parties. There would be no precedent and there would be no basis for so acting at all. What both the Government and the industry would need to do would be to watch the eventualities, and if it transpired that on this decision the man-made fibre industry found itself in considerable economic peril, then it could make an application for a hearing by the Special Advisory Authority. This is the kind of application which has been granted on more- than one occasion when the outcome of the adoption of a Tariff Board report has proved to leave an industry with  inadequate protection. I could not anticipate the outcome of that but I pointed out that that was the course open to the industry. That is a situation which can be considered only when an industry can come along and in quite substantial and practical terms convince the Authority that it is in peril. 
1 have learnt of the lower freight rates reported to have been negotiated for certain fruits exported from New Zealand. These freights are reported to be lower than rates which prevail for Australian exports. I have not yet had time to study fully the facts of the situation but I have learnt this: The freight rate applying in the case of New Zealand relates to unmarked cartons sold in bulk. I am advised that they come from 1 seller and are for delivery to 1 buyer. That is the information I have at the present time. This involves a situation different from that of the trade from Australia. Every carton from Ausis marked. Australian sales are from a multiplicity of sellers to a multiplicity of buyers and all cartons are directly marked. lt is obvious that a bulk, non-discriminatory trade can be conducted at a lower cost than one which involves a measure of identification and discrimination and great diversity of buyers and sellers, such as apply, I am told, in the case of the Australian trade. Whether or not that lower freight would justify the disparity that apparently is to exist, I do not know. I will study the matter. 
I repeat to the honourable member and to the House, as I repeated on a different matter last week, that until 1956 it had been the practice of Australian shippers - that- is the term applied to exporters - to conduct their negotiations with the shipowning companies on the best arguments that they could marshal. If they were dissatisfied with the outcome they would then turn to the Government and invoke the aid of the Government. Indeed, in 1956, I think it was. my own Department succeeded in negotiating a freight rate 7£% less than the rate which the industries had been able to negotiate. But in 1956, without consultation with the Government, all the shipper interests in Australia sent their representatives to London and negotiated a basis of freight determination there with the organised shipowners. It was a basis of freight determination which had relationship to the costs of the service to the shipowners and a measure of profit which the shippers agreed the shipowners were entitled to. This concluded an arrangement which retained within it no place whatever for the Government to step in to aid. 
What we are talking about now is the private property of a multiplicity of people and the private property of some statutory boards. It is not within the philosophy of this Government to seek to intervene and tell people who have produced property at their own cost, who are selling it and shipping it, that they do not know how to run their own- business and that the Government will step in and take charge over their heads. That might be the philosophy of some people but it is not the philosophy of this Government. Until we are asked to take a part we will leave it to those who are acting with confidence in their own skills and capacity, to argue. As I told the House last week, when the point came that Australian shipper interests decided in their own judgment - I do not quarrel with it; I merely state the facts - that they would without Government aid pit themselves against the shipowners in negotiations I took the stand that in this situation they must be equipped with research services, or whatever the people were to be called, with people skilled and experienced in assembling information and furnishing the shipper interests with the capacity to argue their case. To that end I went along to the Cabinet of the day and asked my Cabinet colleagues to make available a substantial sum of money to help the Australian shippers to establish their own research services, and that they did. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Amounts paid by way of devaluation compensation to the exporters of manufactured goods listed in the answer to question No. 839 were as follows - 
It is a fact that both in ordinary agricultural farming and in livestock husbandry the use of chemical formulations is increasingly important. I am sure that those of us who engage in farming would not know how we could carry on these days without the aid of these chemical formulations. As the farmers express a continuing concern at the price of the formulations I have made it my business to keep a close watch on price movements. Between 1965 and 1969 I had a list compiled and continuously updated of the price move ments of the 74 listed chemical formulations used in rural activities. Over that period 60 of the 74 items have been reduced in price. There has been no price alteration in respect of 6 of the items, and only 8 items have been increased in price. As thi:, is a matter of great concern to agriculturalists, with the approval of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a document setting out the chemicals, their prices, and the alterations. 
The following table shows the price movement in recent ye;irs of chemical formulations in common use by rural producers. Earlier tables showed the situation before and after adoption by the Government of the Tariff Board's 1966 report on Industrial Chemicals. 
A total of 74 formulations is listed in the following table. The following price changes have occurred since 1963: 
For 60. prices have been reduced. 
For 6, no price alteration has occurred. 
For 8, prices have risen. 

<graphic href="068131197006121_6_1.jpg"></graphic>

The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The value of handicraft and other goods imported under the system of tariff preferences for developing countries since the concessions became operative in May 1966 has been as follows: 
1 desire to associate the members of the Australian Country Party with the motion proposed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and supported by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  Our late colleague,  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes, was by any standard a great man in his day. He exemplified his greatness in many spheres. It is not every great man who is necessarily a likeable man.  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes was great by any test that one could make, and a man to be friends with and to respect on any occasion. It was my good fortune to commence my friendship with him some years before I came into the Federal Parliament and when he was serving in the State Parliament of Victoria. I have never known an incident in Billy Kent Hughes's life that did not mark him as a man of great integrity, of great dedication and of great courage, whether it was physical courage in war or moral courage which is called for on occasions in the lives of people who enter politics. 
The story of his life has been told by th.&gt; Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition. I remember him for many things. Perhaps one of the best memories I have of him is that he, along with  Sir Thomas  Blarney, Judge Drake-Brockman and a few others who had all served in the First World War, came to the conclusion in the mid-1 930s that war was certain to come. This group gathered together, particularly around  Sir Thomas  Blarney, and dedicated themselves to preparing for what they regarded as the inevitability of war and to persuading many others that if war was to come there had to be a greater consciousness in the Australian political mind and the public mind generally. It is not given to many to be so prescient as this, nor to be so dedicated. He was a man who had in the First World War, served his country in a manner that demanded no further service. It is true that he was the youngest man in the first AIF to hold field rank, the rank of major. At the time of which I am speaking - in the 1930s - he was  Deputy  Premier of Victoria and might well have felt that he could go on serving his State and his country without preparing himself for another war which he correctly saw coming. But he was not the kind of man who avoided any call to which he felt it was his part to respond. 
It was his fate, of course, going with the 8th Division to Malaya, to be taken prisoner and to be held by the Japanese. It was a pretty terrible experience but not one that prevented him from coming back and reentering the public life of the country with all the energy and dedication that he had. Those of us who sat with him in the Parliament and in Cabinets are well aware of his tremendously wide interest in what he conceived to be the basic welfare and security of the country. He was a man who devoted himself to comprehending the problems of international relationships, and he brought the results of his study, his very frequent visits overseas and the contacts that he made into the Cabinet room, into the Party room and into the Parliament. He was a very great man and a very good man, and his life could well serve as an example for others to endeavour to emulate. I join in expressing the deepest sympathy of my colleagues of the Austraiian Country Party to Lady Kent Hughes and to the family. 
As perhaps the only remaining member of this House who served with the late  Mr Fisken  I would like to join the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and extend my personal sympathy at  Mr Fisken's  passing. 1 also associate the members of my own Party with this expression of sympathy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia imposes quantitative restrictions on the following: 
Aluminium and aluminum alloy, unwrought or in the form of waste or scrap; 
Used, second-hand or disposals machinery or equipment of various kinds such as tractors, rock buggies, dumpers, graders, loaders, cranes, fork-lift trucks, four-wheel drive vehicles, etc.; 
Knitted coats, jumpers, cardigans, sweaters and the like; 
Men's and boys' knitted shirts. 
Applications for import licences for (a) and (b) are considered on an individual basis in the light of the current market situation. The goods covered by (c) are restricted to the level of imports in 1966-67. Those in (d) are limited to 60% of imports during the period 1st April 1968, to 31st March 1969. 
and (3) Theabovementioned import restrictions are in accordance with the recommendations of the Tariff Board or the Special Advisory Authority. Details of them have been advised to all GATT members through the GATT Secretariat. 
The question of the conformity with the provision of the GATT of these restrictions has not been the subject of any formal ruling by the Contracting Parties to that Agreement. No member has sought their withdrawal of adjustment on the grounds that they are in conflict with the GATT. 
I should add that certain imports are also prohibited or controlled for quarantine purposes and under various acts such as the Trade Marks Act, the Commerce (Trade Descriptions) Act, etc I assume, however, that the honourable member's question was not directed towards these particular measures. 
HousingFinance (Question No. 608) 
MrHay den asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
What were the sources of finance for housing in Australia in each of the past 10 years. 
What (a) amount and (b) percentage of the total did each source provide in those years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Sir Ian McLennan, K.B.E. (Leader) 
The Government has for years been conscious of the need for adequate assured finance for legitimate exports and it has made arrangements with the trading banks and the Commonwealth 
Bank to provide special facilities to ensure that funds are available for exports. In addition, of course, it established some time ago the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. The cover issued by the Export Payments Insurance Corporation is normal legitimate collateral looked for by banks in respect of exports and particularly exports where substantial long term payments are part of the transaction. Indeed, I am informed constantly that parties requiring finance to support exports in respect of which terms are given, on approaching banks are told by the banks to go to the Export Payments Insurance Corporation and to take out cover which the banks will then recognise as acceptable collateral. Therefore, in the broad the Government has been conscious of this need and has taken quit special steps to service the need. 
It is true that lower interest rates are provided by the governments of some countries that are competitive with us. It is quite clear that certain governments from time to time seek to give their exporters a competitive advantage by providing funds at lower interest rates. I have never felt that this Government could engage in an interest rate war in these circumstances. What we have done is to be guided by the actual experience of our exporters. I can say that, to the best of my knowledge, we have had no experience of exporters coming to us and saying that they were unable to secure finance to service exports, even exports repayable by the purchasing parties over several years. There is no experience to my knowledge of parties coming and saying that they are at a disadvantage. But there are occasions - they are exceptional occasions and are intended to be exceptional occasions - when for some reason the Government is persuaded that terms longer than normal commercial terms should be given in respect of an export transaction which the Export Payments Insurance Corporation feels is outside its normal transactions. In those circumstances the Government is prepared to consider an underwriting by the Government to the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. Although this is an exceptional transaction it is by no means a completely rare one. Export transactions of a very substantial nature have been underwritten by the Government in the terms that I have described. 
I think I have on previous occasions informed the House that it is a statutory requirement that, upon receipt of the annual report of the Tariff Board, it shall be presented to the Parliament within a stipulated time. 
You say 15 days. I do not remember. 
I do not question that at all. I have said that this shall be done, and in recent years it has been done. I remember that on one occasion some years ago - I cannot put my finger on the timefor some reason that I do not recall the Board's report was not presented within the time. My memory inclines me to think that the receipt of the Board's report was late. Since that occasion, which was an incident to be regretted, I have made it perfectly clear that the statutory requirements relating to the presentation of the Board's report to the House will be strictly observed. 
by leave - Recently 1 have visited a number of countries, including most of our major trading partners, for investigations and discussions on Australia's future trade prospects. My prime purpose was to assess the possible consequences for Australian trade in agricultural exports if Britain succeeds in her application to join the European Common Market. I wanted to make sure that the problems likely to face Australia as a result of enlargement of the Common Market were fully comprehended, and to form views on the best course of action for Australia in its own interests. In addition, there were a number of bilateral issues of some importance to Australia's trade which also required attention. 
On no occasion has the Australian Government argued that Britain should not join the Common Market because of the problems for Australian industries which might be created. The real crux of this matter is the operation of the Common Market tariffs and other regulations in relation to the importation of agricultural products which Australia exports, and upon which some of our most important industries are based. My greatest concern is with the operation of the variable levy system in its application to agricultural products which Australia normally exports in bulk to Britain. The variable levy system does not apply to wool, which is regarded as an industrial raw material and is admitted free. Among the items which would be affected by variable levies are wheat and other agricultural grains, dairy products, sugar, frozen beef and eggs. They are items which the Common Market countries in Europe can themselves produce. Under the Common Agricultural Policy, the Community decides what shall be the price for locally produced foodstuffs such as butter, or sugar, or wheat of a certain grade. Then the Common Agricultural Policy operates automatically to impose customs import duties, called variable levies, at whatever level is necessary from day to day to ensure that an import would not be competitive with the local product sold at the determined price. Wherever the Community itself, under the incentive of high support prices, produces sufficient for its own requirements, importation of these items is not possible. This is the end purpose for which the system was devised. 
As Australia has never had an important trade with the present Six countries of the Community, this system has not hurt us significantly up to the present. The United States, which did have a significant trade in some of these items with the Six, has been hurt very significantly. The whole purpose of my observations is to deal with the situation if Britain, our biggest and historic market for foodstuffs, were to be admitted to the Common Market with the same 
Common Agricultural Policy preserved, with the obvious consequence that our sales to Britain of many of our most important and historic items of trade would be brought to a complete end. 
There are other objectionable aspects of the operation of the Common Agricultural Policy, which is generally spoken of as CAP, to which I will refer. Some processed primary products where Britain has constituted a principal market and which are threatened by having applied to them the existing tariffs of the Common Market are also of great importance to Australia; indeed, some manufactures are also important. For example, fresh, canned and dried fruits and jam, and aluminium, at present enter the United Kingdom duty free. But if Britain were to join the Common Market on terms which meant that the present common external tariff of the Common Market applied to Britain, these duties would be raised to such a level as would put Australian exports at a very serious disadvantage compared with exports to Britain from elsewhere in the Common Market and from other areas which would receive preferred treatment. To inform the House and the country of what I think might be done by Australia to safeguard our trade as much as possible, in the event of British entry to the European Economic Community, is the purpose of this statement. 
The history of the operation of the CAP makes it incontrovertibly clear that if the variable levy mechanisms of the Common Market are applied to ensure that the existing EEC domestic prices apply also to agricultural imports into Britain, Ireland. Denmark and Norway - the present applicant countries for membership - the results will be fatal for exporters of many of our agricultural products. I found no-one in London or Brussels, the headquarters of the EEC, who seriously denied this or attempted to argue to the contrary. 
In the decade since Britain first applied to join the EEC, this Government, marketing boards and producers have actively pursued a policy of diversifying markets for the agricultural commodities threatened. Despite these endeavours, Britain still takes almost 70% of our butter exports, 60% of our canned fruit and about a third of our fresh fruit, dried fruit and sugar exports. The cold hard fact is that there are just no alternative markets for some of our products. Furthermore, we cannot ignore the effect of the Common Agricultural Policy upon the prices of exports we can expect in markets outside the United Kingdom. Therefore, should Britain enter the EEC on anything like the existing terms and conditions for agriculture. Australia will face the possibility of serious economic and social difficulties in significant areas because producers will be unable to dispose of their goods. In other words, although we have had considerable success in diversifying our export trade and although, as a consequence, our dependence on the United Kingdom market in balance of payments- terms has declined, the loss of the British market for certain major primary commodities would threaten the very existence of major sectors of Australia's primary industry and major sources of foreign exchange earning. 
When the European Common Market was formed it had the support of all the free world as a major step in the unification of Europe. We were told - and we hoped, although with some misgivings - that the Common Market would not prove to be self-centred but would take its place in world trade in a manner designed to be beneficial to the development of freer world trading. In the event, it can now be seen that, in the first of EEC agricultural production, where Australia and other important agricultural exporters are particularly interested, the adoption by the Common Market countries of the present Common Agricultural Policy has led to radical increases in the barriers to agricultural trade and the creation of a virtually impenetrable barrier around the Six countries of Europe for many products. 
The agricultural policies of the European Common Market are so designed as not to allow imports of any commodity which can be produced within the Six unless there is a deficit between production and demand. Effectively, the variable import levy system has meant that, no matter how efficient the external producer and no matter at what price commodities might be offered to the Common Market by more efficient producers, a levy is placed on those goods large enough to ensure that imports do not compete with them below the floor price. Under the application of these policies, which operate automatically, production has increased rapidly in volume in the Market. The floor prices to Community producers bear no relationship to the cost of production by more competitive producers elsewhere in the world. For instance, the floor price for wheat is approximately 70% above the world price. Similarly, the floor price of frozen beef is over 60% higher than the world price and in the case of butter over 250% higher. Moreover, these guaranteed floor prices are not limited to production sufficient to supply domestic requirements. 
These very high guaranteed floor prices have so stimulated production within the Common Market and have so depressed consumer demand that surpluses have been built up in butter, in wheat and in sugar, as examples. 
At this point the so-called Common Agricultural Policy of the Six operates a system of export subsidies designed to enable the surpluses to be dumped in other markets at whatever price it is necessary to quote in order to achieve a sale. The level of export subsidy necessary to sell the surplus can be extraordinarily high - well over 100% in some cases. This subsidy is paid for collectively by the Community in a manner that does not reduce in any way the return to the farmer. Because it is paid from a common purse, there are few pressures for any reduction in the level of support within the Market. I do not wish to say that the conduct of the Common Market countries in export sales of agricultural products is completely reckless. I do not know exactly how to describe it. 
Where sufficient export sales of surplus production can be made in normal competition with other exporters without distortion of world prices, I believe this is done and, of course, can be justified. But there is no general willingness of the Community countries to confine themselves to normal competition. For example, 1 am told that Community butter is being offered, delivered in Hong Kong, at as low as 20 Australian cents per lb - a price which would represent about 17 Australian cents at the point of export in Europe. This would be butter which had been paid for under the Common Agricultural Policy at. I am told, the equivalent of about 70 Australian cents. This is what is called 'predatory dumping' at its unbridled worst - predatory because it forces the traditional supplier out of his historic market. 
The operation of this policy in agriculture means that traditional suppliers, excluded from the Common Market by the levy system, have to face the increased competition amongst themselves when trying to sell in the residual markets outside Europe. Even more importantly, they then face aggressive dumping, subsidised by the financial strength of the Common Market, which could drive the prices down and ultimately force them out of the residual markets, or to sell at disaster prices. This process of disruption is already in evidence and is gathering momentum. Furthermore, the Community has not shown any great willingness to contribute to stability of international trade in agriculture by participation in international commodity arrangements. 
The Community sat in throughout the negotiations of the world Sugar Agreement but the EEC, alone of all participants - if my memory serves me correctly, about 70 - declined at the final point to commit itself to the concept of any limitation or quota as to the quantity that it would sell on world markets - and this notwithstanding that the quantity which each country committed itself not to exceed in world markets was the whole central point of achieving price stability in sugar. Similarly, when, a year ago, the International Grains Arrangement was close to failure in providing stability of competition in wheat in world markets, the Community was the only exporter member which sent a representative to a conference without any authority to enter into commitments. 
This has been the experience with the agricultural policy of the Common Market. Many countries have found their trade with the EEC seriously affected. Australia's trade has been traditionally with Britain, not with the Six of the present European Community. But, as long as Britain, the largest world market for many agricultural products, has provided a reasonably open market, the damage to world trade in agricultural products, due to Common Market policies, has been tolerable to us. If Great Britain, the largest free market for food in the world today, is successful in its application to join the Common Market, with the present Common Agricultural Policy, the position could become disastrous for many agricultural products. Australia's trade would be seriously hurt, as would that of every other exporter of the kind of agricultural foodstuff products which we export. The countries of the enlarged Common Market would then account for over 40 % of international trade - surrounded by the present Common Market's virtually unscaleable wall for many agricultural products, and capable, with .a seemingly unlimited purse, of driving others out of the residual markets with predatory export subsidies. 
However, the Common Market does not stop with 6 countries, or even with 10 countries, including the 4 which at the moment are applicants. Already what are called 'association agreements' have been concluded with former French colonies in Africa, and other countries are likewise negotiating arrangements involving preferential import treatment with this trading giant - Spain, Greece, Israel, Turkey, Austria, even Yugoslavia. Ultimately the whole of Europe and vast areas of Africa threaten to come within the restrictive sphere of this massive new trading bloc. Indeed, I was told overseas that if the present total applications for association and special arrangements were to succeed there would be some 70 nations involved within the Community trading orbit. This is done by means of special arrangements for association and preferential arrangements - new preferences established contrary to the principles of absolutely equal trading opportunity set forth in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. In the jargon, this is spoken of as multilateralism. 
There are 3 elements which we must oppose: Firstly, a variable levy system amounting to virtual embargoes on some agricultural products which are produced in the European Common Market; secondly, predatory subsidised dumping in residual markets; and thirdly, establishment of new preferences by bringing additional countries within the Market as associates. All these, in my view, are contrary to the principles of GATT and the international principles of fair trading. 
There is the even more basic contravention of the essence of GATT, in my view - the disposition of the Common 
Market ro erect around the borders of the enlarged Common Market the same virtually unscaleable walls of protection for certain agricultural products as already exist in the Common Market itself. This seems completely incompatible with the principle enunciated in GATT that common markets should not be formed at the expense of increasing the barriers to trade against third countries. That is the essential point in my succeeding statements. These developments have not gone unnoticed elsewhere in the world. Australia is not alone in facing the threat of serious damage to its agricultural trade if the Common Market is enlarged without modification of the present levels of protection. So far, Australia, because she has never been a major traditional supplier to the EEC, has not felt the same brunt of Common Market agricultural policies as have some other countries. The United States, for instance, has already suffered in 3 years a drop of 20% in her exports to the EEC of certain agricultural commodities subject to variable levies. This trend seems certain to continue and the scope of damage to enlarge. For this reason, the EEC restrictions in agricultural products have contributed to a new counter-protectionist attitude within the United States Congress, which now has before it a new measure, the Mills Bill, which could incorporate quite significant further restrictions on world trade. This reflects also a confrontation which has developed bilaterally between the United States and Japan on the question of imports of textiles. 
Clearly the EEC's denial of trade opportunities by its CAP is seen by other countries as discriminatory and inconsistent with the principles and objectives of GATT. Judging the situation as I have seen it from the vantage point of my recent visit, unless effective action is taken soon, this could lead to confrontations, acts of retaliation and threats of further restrictions. Looking ahead, this could mean that we face the prospect of a retreat into trade blocs, with snowballing restrictions on trade, with clear economic loss to every country in the long run, with the little nations no longer able to look to the rule of law to obtain their trade rights. In this type of trade confrontation countries like Australia cannot fail to be adversely affected. Following the kind of develop ment which I now see in the course of taking shape, Australia would be outside any of the major trading blocs. 
The Comecon countries, that is the term for the economic linkage of the Communist countries, represent one giant trading bloc within the world which, in respect of agricultural products, does not import $1 worth that it does not actually require unless it is for a purely political motive. The EEC as it now stands, and more so with its proposed enlargement, constitutes an even more formidable bloc so far as our agricultural exports are concerned. If the Ten countries join it would represent a trading community of 250 million people. So 1 say to the House: This is the moment of time, not a moment later, when wc and others should visualise what the European Economic Community could grow into as a trading bloc: the 6 present countries; the 4 present applicants to join as members: Britain, Ireland, Denmark and Norway; the associated territories, the former French colonies; the special arrangements with Spain, Greece, Turkey, Israel: the possible addition of Austria; the special arrangements, for example, in meat wilh Yugoslavia. Here is a giant economic bloc whose total trade between nations inside, and with the outside world, would perhaps represent 50% of the total world trade. The central core of this, the EEC, has a policy in respect of the agricultural products we export not to permit the import of $1 worth of an item which could compete with domestic production at prices below the very high floor prices established by the CAP; in effect, to permit no competition at all in the real sense. 
But apart from the enlarged EEC and the Comecon countries there are other restrictive trade areas in existence or in the making. There are special trading arrangements at present between the United States and Canada. And, in respect of an item, sugar, in which Australia is the second biggest exporter in the world, the United Stales has special arrangements with the Latin American countries. Here is a third bloc, less complete but with many of the elements of favouring trade with those within the area as against the rest of the world. 
Our future - more than that of the large, developed countries - depends on external trading arid particularly trade in agriculture. This is the most difficult area. Australia's interest and, we believe, the world's interest is to try to ensure that trading blocs, where they exist, and countries outside such blocs, return to principles and rules laid down in the GATT. Only by the rule of law can small countries hope to receive a fair deal in world trade. Only by the observance of the rule of law can the big prevent or avoid serious disruption and loss to themselves as well as to others, of all the gains made since World War II in the field of international trade. 
Clearly one of the key elements in any move to a return to order in world trade must be the EEC itself. Already a giant in world trade terms, it now threatens to become a super-giant. Yet although it is the largest single world trader, it lacks cohesiveness in its attitude to, and ability to formulate, external trade policies. There is no single definable source of power within the Community to whom third parties can appeal. The very structure of the Community - composed as it is of 6 - and perhaps 10 - different governments - means that it develops a policy only out of compromise. Experience is that once developed its policies are not susceptible to any change. Furthermore, because of its structure, and I suspect because of its recent formation, there is as yet no sign of a realisation in the member States of the EEC that being an economic giant in the world brings with it responsibilities just as much as it brings advantages - responsibility to support and strengthen GATT as the only international institution governing world trade; responsibility to ensure that there are livable opportunities for the smaller countries of the world; responsibilities which should derive from an understanding that even the big will suffer from trade confrontations. 
Equally clearly, the United States is another key element in the liberalisation of world trade. Therefore in the United States I put it to the leaders of the Administration and to leaders of Congress that it was for them to consider whether their responsibilities of world leadership should not require them to take the initiative in seeking to have restored to world trade a real sense of order - a return to the principles which the USA itself first sponsored and which were so carefully built up in GATT and elsewhere. In putting this, I pledged Australian participation in a move towards having the major international trade problems facing the world today examined as a matter of urgency in the GATT. I said that while this would of course be in Australia's interests, it would more importantly be in the interest of the world in relieving the tensions which must inevitably develop if there is violent conflict in the field or trade. 
There are grave dangers in bilateral confrontations to settle major issues. In the first place, this attitude inevitably invites erosion of the GATT. If the machinery of GATT is not to be the instrument used for settling the issues it was devised to deal with, inevitably GATT as an international authority must become outmoded, ineffective. If important differences are to be settled by major bilateral confrontations and not by GATT, then the little infractions of trade rules will go by default, and there will be a growing disregard for the GATT. If great trade differences are to be dealt with by major bilateral confrontations, this is the course which will regenerate the heat and international tensions that we saw in the 1930s, which the world sought to avoid by providing GATT as the rule of law alternative to the rule of economic force. If we and others seek to have the major problems caused by enlargement of the EEC considered in GATT, we must similarly be prepared to submit our own problems to international scrutiny. 
I do not suggest that we should seek internationally to dictate to any country whether or not it can take action to meet its own domestic problems. GATT itself does not do this. But we should seek to ensure that the contractual rights of other countries to fair treatment are recognised and the principles of trade liberalism survive. I use the word 'contractual' deliberately. The member nations of GATT are known as and spoken of in the GATT as contracting parties, because they contract as members of GATT to forgo certain freedoms in trade. These are balanced by certain contractual rights that are required by their membership. ' This I regard as the most important issue in international trade today. I spoke of this in Ottawa, Washington, London and Brussels, the headquarters of the EEC. 
Of course it was a major part of the mission to London and Brussels to explain as clearly as I could the implications for Australia, in particular, should the Common Market be enlarged on terms which applied to our trade with Britain the same restrictions as at present apply in respect of the Common Market. It is imperative that potential damage to Australian interests should be explained before, rather than after the terms and conditions of any enlargement are finally determined by the parties now negotiating. 
In London, I saw to it that the Prime Minister and other Ministers directly concerned were fully aware of the real problems which could be caused to a number of important Australian industries - the dairy, wheat, sugar, meat, and fruit industries and a number of others. I did not find in Britain any evidence that the British Government was prepared to stipulate conditions of her entry which would give a protection to the interests of her Commonwealth trading partners, except perhaps in relation to sugar and to the very special problem of New Zealand. I said that while 1 was not in London as a supplicant, Australia strongly expected that Britain would ensure that our interests were not overlooked. This was because of our historic association with Britain in all fields, but particularly in trade. I reminded the British that up until 3 years ago Britain was Australia's largest single supplier and also our biggest customer. 
As I have already said, 1 made it clear that the Australian Government is not opposing the enlargement of the Common Market to include Britain and the other applicant countries. But, equally, I made it clear that if the terms and conditions of such entry offend the basic objectives and principles expressed in GATT, Australia would have no alternative but to join with others similarly affected, to require terms and conditions consistent with GATT. 
Australia did not enter GATT nor remain a member without a clear understanding that those countries which contract to membership surrender some of their freedom in trade matters in the general interest. The GATT embraces rules to protect the interests of all members against damaging action by other members. We have observed our obligations loyally. We will insist on our protective rights. This I have made clear in each country where I have had discussions about the policies and practices of the Community. 
I went to Brussels to make clear to the  President  and members of the European Economic Commission the Australian trade interest as at present affected by predatory dumping of Community surpluses in our markets, and by the progressive extension of what are, in effect, new preferences to those countries which have been given, or may be given, an association with the Community. Most particularly I spelt out in clear terms the consequences for Australia's historic trade with Britain if the present Common Agricultural Policy were applied in its present terms in the Community enlarged by Britain's entry. ] was not encouraged by the reaction there to believe that, in respect of agriculture, third countries can expect from the Commission any initiative for a major departure from the current Common Agricultural Policy. 
The Commission as such has no power or interest in altering the Common Agricultural Policy. It merely carries out its responsibilities to the letter of the existing Common Agricultural Policy regulations as devised and adopted by the Council of Ministers of the six nations compromising the Community. If there is to be any change in these regulations, to accord with the spirit and intentions of GATT, the changes will have to be initiated in, and supported by, the individual members in the capitals of the six countries. Accordingly, as a first step, I left with the Commission an aide-memoire, setting out in forthright terms the Australian position and our belief that third countries have the right to expect protection of their trading opportunities in accordance with GAIT. But in addition I also had representations made in the same strong terms to all the governments of the Six. I fully acquainted the Government of Britain with what I had done. 
In all the representations 1 made in Europe and elsewhere, I made special mention of the serious implications which the proposed enlargement of the EEC could have for the developing Territory of Papua and New Guinea. Britain at present is the market for 30% of the exports of the Territory. These products would lose the preferential entry into the UK which most now enjoy and face restrictions on entry into the EEC, while comparable products of the African countries associated with the EEC would be given a preference. I therefore asked that the products of Papua and New Guinea should not be placed at a disadvantage compared with the products of other developing countries. I am bound to say 1 was not encouraged by the reaction I received. 
In Brussels 1 was the guest of the Belgian Government and, apart from discussion of our bilateral trade, 1 took the opportunity personally to put squarely before the Belgian Government the serious effects of the Common Agricultural Policy of the Common Market, particularly if enlarged, on Australia's trading prospects. It was as a result of the worrying impressions I gained in London and in Europe that I decided that before returning to Australia I should visit the Governments of Canada and the United States of America. These two nations are similarly interested in the problems raised by the EEC agricultural policies and its prospective enlargement. I stated to their leaders my assessment of the seriousness of the problems, the likely consequences to world trade, and my thinking on an initiative by third countries to ensure that some balance should be brought back into GATT. While GATT has been successful in freeing trade in industrial goods, it has been largely ineffective in the field of agricultural trade. Unless there are some modifications of the restrictions on agricultural products, some countries affected may feel they must no longer be bound by GATT obligations preventing increases in industrial tariffs. I was received at the highest level in both Canada and the United States. I am sure that the Governments of those two countries are seriously concerned at the situation confronting all of the agricultural exporters which could be affected. I am sure that my visit and the discussions it provided were quite valuable in focussing thought on their future courses of action. 
There are a number of other countries which could similarly be concerned about the whole future of world trade. The establishment of new preferences with various developing countries must be of concern to a country like India, which is outside the EEC's new preferential areas. The threatened exclusion of agricultural products must be tremendously damaging to Argentina and other developing countries which are relying heavily on agricultural trade. I am most strongly of the view that persuasive arguments pointing out the damage to Australia and other agricultural exporters are absolutely ineffective if directed, as I did direct them, to the members of the European Economic Commission. The policies and practices of the Common Agricultural Policy are too well entrenched within the Six to be susceptible to alteration by persuasion from outside. For this reason I could not hold any hope of achieving effective alterations in these policies even by addressing persuasive arguments one by one to the six governments responsible for the development of the Common Agricultural Policy. 
Therefore, any stand Australia takes must be on the ground of impairment or threatened impairment of our rights under GATT. 1 believe our rights have already been impaired by the policies of the EEC in respect of both predatory dumping and the proliferation of special preferential deals with many other countries not really part of the Common Market or members of its customs union. Furthermore, our rights are threatened with even more serious impairment from the likely terms and conditions of the proposed enlargement of the Common Market. It is this that has brought me to the conclusions which I most strongly hold: Only by a confrontation in GATT where we and other third countries similarly affected have clear rights could there be any chance of getting such modifications of the Common Agricultural Policy and other practices as would preserve fair trading opportunities. In accordance with GATT, the barriers to trade which determine trade opportunities must be comparable with those which we faced when the Community was created, and before the Common Agricultural Policy was devised. We must make it clear that those of us who have submitted ourselves to obligations within GATT are determined not to have our trade rights eroded away. This attitude is most validly based both upon the spirit and upon the actual Articles of GATT. 1 have reached the conclusion that recourse to GATT provides the only prospect of avoiding serious damage to the trade of Australia and many other countries, should the EEC be enlarged to include Britain and other applicant countries. Recourse to GATT of course may not be successful. But GATT was designed to be the international instrument to achieve fair trading opportunities. Whatever the outcome, I believe we and others must try and put GATT to the use to which it was intended, even if this stretches GATT to breaking point. Therefore, Australia's course of action in regard to the proposed enlargement of the Common Market must be to do all it can to obtain the co-operation of countries outside the enlarged Common Market, as well as individual members of the Common Market, to ensure these points: 
Adherence to the principle, laid down in the GATT, that neither the formation nor the enlargement of a customs union should increase barriers to the trade of third countries. 
Recognition of the need so to modify the restrictive elements of the Common Agricultural Policy that agricultural trade is not obstructed and exporters of agricultural products denied the benefits of trade liberalism which have been obtained by exporters of industrial products. 
Support the negotiation of practical commodity arrangements, perhaps of the kind put forward for beef during the Kennedy Round, to ensure reasonable access to the markets of the EEC for products subject to the vagaries and restrictions of variable levies. 
Support for international commodity arrangements where these can assist orderly marketing of bulk agricultural commodities. 
Agreement on action to ensure that the interests of third countries will be protected against predatory dumping of surpluses arising from within the enlarged Community. 
Action to ensure that exports from the Territory of Papua and New Guinea are not placed at a disadvantage relative to imports into the expanded Community from other developing countries receiving preferential treatment 
Action to ensure that the EEC, having formed a Common Market, does not expand its sphere of trade influence by various means, such as the creation of new preference areas or entering into various discriminatory associational arrangements based on either political or economic grounds. 
The need for a special very high level ministerial session of GATT to be held to consider these matters before the negotiations for the enlargement of the Common Market have reached a definitive stage. 
These are the conclusions I have reached from my visits and my discussions in the various countries that I have mentioned. I present the following paper: 
Consequences for Australian Trade of British Entry to the European Economic Community - Ministerial Statement, 20th August 1970. 
Motion (by  Mr Nixon)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
I am sorry, but I would have to refresh my memory in order to answer the honourable member. I will do so. I will ascertain the facts and I will report to the honourable member or to the House. 
This very serious and important proposal is not before the House merely because the 3 Labor Party members who are to speak to it - no doubt more would speak if the opportunity were available - thought it was a good idea to have a discussion. Such a tremendously important proposal can come before the House only with the authority of the Labor caucus and it represents the present policy of the Australian Labor Party - the withdrawal of all Australian forces from Vietnam. Today that is Labor's policy. Labor's policy is based on international action to end hostilities - which may or may not bring results - and rehabilitation in Indo China. Note carefully, that no discrimination is made between rehabilitation of our allies, the South Vietnamese, and rehabilitation of our enemies, the North Vietnamese. This is the policy of the Labor Party as stated here today. What is occurring outside the House today, and what is occurring inside the House - perhaps as a distraction from what is occurring outside - reveal the Labor Party as having 2 major points of policy. The first point of policy is for action at home to approve, to encourage and to incite the forceful defiance of governmental policy. 
The whole democratic system of government is based on the fact that although there are differences of opinion within a community, free elections are held, a government is elected by the majority and the laws that the Parliament passes prevail. They are not supported by all, but they prevail. Now the left wing of the unions with the left-wing leader,  Mr Hawke,  and the left-wing-dominated Australian Labor Party with  Mr Whitlam  as its voice, all combine, forcefully, by demonstrations outside, which on occasions are quite violent, by strikes and threats of strikes, to defy elected government and defy the laws of Parliament. It is clearly the policy of the Australian Labor Party today in respect of affairs at home to swing democracy from accepting the rule of the people through elections and the rule of the Parliament through laws. Instead we are to have the rule of the mob. Do not ever forget that a mob never collects spontaneously; there are always leaders at the back of the mob - the dictators, the inciters and the provocateurs. It is time today to look at those who are behind the demonstrations which, quite often, bring violence in the streets and, as one of my colleagues can testify, violence even in the homes of Australian citizens. 
An attempt is being made to undermine the will of the people to continue resistance to Communist aggression. 
The constant theme of the Labor Party, whether by using the Parliament for such a debate as is provoked today or by inciting the people as is being done outside today, is violent opposition to democratic government - the rule of law and the authority of the Parliament. I think there are moves, desperate efforts, to embarrass the Government and to give effect to the urgent ambition of some who, for the passing advantage of destroying a Government and changing sides in this House, are willing to pay the price of sacrificing all respect for Australian democracy. That is the purpose of this attempt. That is the policy of the Labor Party at home. 
This motion gives us an opportunity to view the policy of the Labor Party on international affairs - the withdrawal of all Australian forces from Vietnam. The Labor Party, with more than a smell of Communist influence within it, urges an act discreditable to Australia's tradition as a reliable and a staunch ally. Men in our community have, through turmoil and tears, built our reputation as a staunch and reliable ally. This motion comes from the same stable as a resolution passed under the chairmanship of  Mr Crawford,  the Leader of the Australian Labor Party in Victoria, calling upon our troops in the field to mutiny. The proposal we are now debating is the same thing put in different words. Today the fact is that by treaty and de facto we are an ally of the United States of America and to withdraw our troops and abandon our allies would be an act of shame in the eyes of the United States, South Vietnam, South Korea, New Zealand and others with whom we stand. This motion, if passed, would be a decision to walk out and leave our allies in the field. Do honourable members think that our treaty with the United States would remain unimpaired? The proposal before us is calculated to destroy that treaty. Who in the world wishes to destroy the treaty with the United States? I am not accusing the Labor Party of wishing to destroy it. Who but the Communists wish to destroy it? I am saying that there are many who are unwittingly acting as tools of the Communists. The Communists wish to destroy our alliance with the United States and to end the trust iri which we are held in South East Asia - the trust and respect which South Vietnam has for us; the trust and respect which Malaya, Singapore and South Korea have for us. 
With one stroke, Labor's proposal that we withdraw our forces from Vietnam would make Australia a shameful object of derision internationally. Most important, it would draw the attention of the world to the fact that Australia, by its own choice, alone in a lonely part of the world, had thrown away its alliances. Could we turn to another ally? Where is there another powerful ally in the world to whom we could turn if we threw away the alliance with the United States? We would bo presented as a neutral country, and that is what we would be. It is the purpose and intention of the Opposition to convert Australia, a rich and empty continent, to a lonely neutral. Australia in an emergency would have no ally to turn to, no friend, and no entitlement to have its word respected and trusted. Who is prepared to say that this is a state to which we should reduce the Australian nation? I say to my friends in the Parliament on both sides that there is nothing in the recorded history of man which shows that a rich, undefended country will not be the subject of aggression. God knows we all hope that it will never occur but there is no instance in thousands of years of history which entitles anyone to believe that this will be the state of affairs. 
Nothing could more jeopardise the survival of the Australian nation than the kind of proposal which the Labor Party has put before the House today. Labor, influenced by ambition and by sinister leftist forces, would leave Australia friendless internationally. It would put a label on Australia: 'I am a lonely, remote, rich, helpless country; come and take me'. Labor's policy is to destroy the authority of Parliament at home and to spurn alliances abroad. There has never been a more tragic policy in the national interests of Australia and her survival than the policy that Labor is propounding today. 
The Tariff Board has certain authority of its own which enables it to take its own initiatives. 1 would think that perhaps on a matter so broadly based as that indicated by the words used by the honourable member the Tariff Board might request references from the Minister. I am sure that any request by the Tariff Board that references should be made over certain sections of industries would be acted upon by the Government through the Minister. But as a matter of fact there is a very large section of the tariff schedule - I forget the terminology which would describe it - which has already been referred by me to the Tariff Board, and this might be regarded as a commencement of a review of those items of tariff which have not been reviewed for some considerable time. 
I have been keeping in touch on the question of when the annual report of the Tariff Board might be presented to me. 1 learned just as the bells were ringing for the assembly of the House that during lunch time the annual report of the Tariff Board was delivered to the Department of Trade and Industry. The procedure now will be to send the report to the Government Printer immediately. In my experience it has not been the practice of the Government to seek to do any more than present the report to the Parliament. Indeed, it is my understanding that the Tariff Board is reporting not only to the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Government but also to the Parliament. As soon as the Government Printer is able to print the Board's report I will table it in the House. The law requires me to table the report within 15 sitting days of its receipt, but when I am in possession of the printed report I will table it as soon as practicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In its report the Tariff Board recommended ad valorem duties on a range of man-made fibres and yarns. It also recommended a floor price on one area of production for a period of 18 months. 
The Government adopted the recommendations of the Tariff Board. The question of a further inquiry by the Board would be considered if and when the circumstances of the industry and the import situation warranted such action. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The grant was made during 1968-69. It was given in relation to expenditure by the company on industrial research and development in 1967-68. I understand that the company has stated publicly that its research and development expenditure in 1967-68 involved the development of a new and improved process for the extraction of resin from natural hops. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Eighteen Australian trade missions have been . organised or sponsored by the Department of Trade and Industry in the past5 years (June, 1965 to June, 1970). 
The names of the members of the delegations, the organisations represented and the countries visited are as follows: 
1 can confirm the figures that the honourable member mentioned, but they do not necessarily indicate as highly prosperous a circumstance as they may seem to do. The Australian Chemical Industry Council has put forward some figures showing that in 1969 the total sales were valued at $287m, an increase of 12.6% on the previous year, and the export sales included in this figure were $16m. representing a rise of 27.1% on the previous year. Percentage-wise these figures indicate highly satisfactory growth but when one examines the profitability of the industry the figures show, on the calculations adopted by the Tariff Board to indicate profits, that the profits after tax in 1968 represented 3.2%, which is a highly unsatisfactory level of profitability. In the succeeding year, 1969, the profits rose to 6.6%, which is certainly not an extravagant level. On shareholders' funds the profits, after tax, in 1968 represented 3.6% and, in 1969, 7%. There is a satisfactory indication of growth but certainly not an excessive level of profits. To the extent that the question is based upon the results of certain Tariff Board recommendations adopted by the Government I think there is no indication that these have resulted in excessive profits. 
Questions that I have read that have been raised on other occasions, and not those raised by the honourable member, have related not to profits or proportional increases but to the quantity of chemicals produced. These chemicals have included fertilisers, which are not included in the figures I have quoted, and alumina, which is classified for statistical purposes as a chemical, but which is not included in these figures. Speaking quantitatively I point out that there has been an increase in the production of alumina by the created capacity of about 3 million tons per annum in Australia. To say that the Tariff Board recommendations adopted by the Government had produced a tremendous spurt in production of chemicals, as measured by the inclusion of alumina, would lead to a wrong conclusion altogether. 
I am not familiar with the facts to which the honourable member refers. I will make myself familiar with them and see what action, if any. is called for. 
In reply on 21st August to a question asked by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr Cairns)  about reduction of tariffs on man-made fibres 1 undertook to ascertain the facts and report to the honourable member or to the House. 
Firms in the industry, and the Textile Council of Australia, have made representations to the Government expressing concern about a number of issues raised by the adoption of this Report in April of this year. The industry believed that the lower rates of duty which followed the adoption of the report could be damaging to the entire textile and apparel industries. 
I indicated to representatives of the industry that the Government could not consider taking action merely on the expressed disquiet of the parties involved. There was an obvious need for the Government and the industry together to watch the effect of the new duties on the Australian industry. If it could be shown from the evidence available that serious damage was occurring, or was likely to occur, then an application could be made for a reference to the Special Advisory Authority. The Authority has the power to recommend temporary duties. 
A Liaison Committee consisting of members of the Textile Council and officers of the Department of Trade and Industry was established shortly after the new duty rates were introduced. Special arrangements were made to supply the Textile Council with advanced statistics on imports and these figures have been regularly discussed with the Committee, along with trends within the Australian industry. I am informed that to date there is no evidence of any upsurge in imports, but the position will remain under close watch. 
I stated the position earlier when the honourable member asked me the question to which he has referred. I inquired yesterday of my Department as to what the situation is and I was advised that the printing had been put in hand immediately, as I told the House it would be, and that the Government Printer had said the earliest date on which the printing could be completed is - my memory is not certain - 28th October. This I am informed is I day before the statutory limit set by the Parliament for the tabling of the report. The Government Printer was asked from the outset to attend to the printing of this document with all haste. 
Last week, in replying to the honourable member for Corangamite. I did not say that the profit earned by the chemical industry was inadequate. From memory, I pointed out that, according to the calculations of the Tariff Board, in 1968 the profit of the industry had been just over 3 per cent, which could not be regarded as satisfactory, but that in the next year it had been at the level of just over 6 per cent, a rate upon which I offered no comment at all. lt is true that the chemical industry as  a  whole  - not  that section to which I referred statistically last week - has been expanding. In terms of tonnage, fertilisers and alumina represent the biggest production of chemicals. I could not concede for a moment that it is not desirable to have fertilisers produced in Australia  or  that it is not desirable to have alumina produced in Australia. T do not wish to offer offhand  a  general comment on the desirability of the remainder of the chemical industry. But 1  am  sure thai the honourable members profound interest, which T respect, is an interest related to the cost of chemicals to agriculturalists - farmers and graziers. I am able to say in respect of the cost of these chemicals that T had published in Hansard some time ago a list of chemicals. That list I shall  make  available to any honourable members who are interested, lt contains 60 or 70 chemicals and pharmaceutical preparations used by agriculturalists and pastoralists. Tt also sets out details of price movement over a period. My memory is that the upward price movement of chemicals in the list was very limited. Over a period the price of a considerable number had fallen and the once of many had stood still. From the viewpoint of agriculturalists as opposed to the general note  in  which the Question was nut to me, T say that agriculturalists "suffer no disability be'".'!'"'" of the expansion of the chemical »rH pharmaceutical industries in Australia. In fact. T know of an occasion when phenothiazine, a very important pharmaceutical product, was cheaper in Australia produced under a tariff duty than it was in New Zealand where it was admitted duty free. 
May I be permitted to correct a mistake that I made in replying to the Leader of the Opposition? I inadvertently said that I had been informed that printing of the Tariff Board's report would be completed on 28th October. That was a slip of the tongue. The correct date is 28th September. 
 Mr Speaker,  I would like to inform the House of the following ministerial arrangements. The Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  left Australian on 7th September to attend the high level meeting of the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which is being held in Tokyo on 14th and 15th September. He will then go to New York to attend the early stages of the United Nations General Assembly debate and he will later participate in the first Australian-Canadian consultative talks in Ottawa. During his absence, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  is Acting Minister for External Affairs. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  left Australia on 12th September for Cyprus to attend the annual meeting of the Commonwealth Finance Ministers which is being held in Nicosia during this week. He will also visit Copenhagen to attend the annual meetings of the Board of Governors of the International Monetary Fund and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Affiliates. He is expected to return to Australia on 10th October and during his absence the Prime Minister is Acting Treasurer. 
The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  left Australia on 14th September for Fiji to lead the Australian delegation to the South Pacific Conference.  Mr Sinclair  is expected to return to Australia on 19th September. During his absence, the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  will act as Minister for Shipping and Transport and the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  will represent the Acting Minister in this House. 
The Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  left Australia on 12th September to visit the United States of America at the invitation of the United States Travel Service. He is expected to return to Australia on 20th September and during his absence the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  is Acting Minister for Works.  Senator Wright's  absence will also necessitate some changes in ministerial representation in the Senate. The Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  will represent the Acting Minister for Works, and the Ministers for Labour and National Service, Education and Science, External Territories and the Attorney-General. 
The Government has devoted itself very fully to the matter of promoting Australian trade around the world. But the Government itself does not own anything for sale. What we do is lo promote the product, put buyers and sellers in contact with each other, negotiate to obtain access to markets on the best conditions possible, and in all respects lo aid those who have property for sale. But as I have said, we are not the salesmen. I would not claim for a minute that those within the Trade Commissioner Service would be as competent to explain the advantages of a certain product as those whose business it is to produce and to merchandise that product. It should be understood that it is not the job of the Trade Commissioner to effect sales. He is not in a position to do so. It is his job to provide every facility that he can in order to see that prospective buyers understand what is available from Australian markets and then to attract the attention of Australians who are in the business of selling particular products to where there are markets. I do not carry certain figures in my mind which I would like to recount, but the Government does produce regularly publications - which are produced in, I think, more than a dozen languages - and periodicals which constantly bring before the notice of those in foreign countries what Australia has to sell and the advantages of this market. 
I have no knowledge of this report and I do not know whether the honourable member can vouch for its accuracy. It is not for me to attempt to interpret the mind of the Japanese Ambassador, but I can say quite clearly that there is no view reached by the Australian Government that Japan should become a military power. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
State Tourist Ministers and the Commonwealth Minister meet annually at the Tourist Minister's Council to discuss tourism matters of mutual interest. This year the Meeting was held at Mildura in July; by custom each State is host to the Council in turn. The Commonwealth has participated in these discussions since the appointment of a Minister with specific responsibilities for tourism, in December, 1966. 
Ministers take the opportunity to engage in  a  full and frank exchange of views on a wide range of subjects affecting the growth and development of the tourist industry. 
Proceedings of the Tourist Minister's Council are confidential; however, press statements covering major items discussed by the Council were issued and I am sending a copy of these statements to the honourable member. 
Australian Army: Base in Western Australia  (Question No. 1522) 
I am not in possession of all the facts on this matter but I understand that there is some ground for believing that the great uranium deposit recently discovered in the Northern Territory by Queensland Mines Ltd  may become the subject of a takeover bid. The Prime Minister has informed me that he has an appointment to meet in his office tomorrow morning a gentleman who probably wishes to raise this matter with him. I can say - and in this I repeat what the Prime Minister himself said in this House a year ago - that if a foreign takeover bid should ba judged to be in respect of a matter of vital importance to Australia the Government will not permit that to go through and will take whatever steps are necessary to preserve the Australian ownership of something judged to be vital to the Australian national interest. 1 
My age is such that  1  remember quite vividly the activities of the so-called popular fronts in Europe - mass demonstrations, inspired violence disruptive to governments, and in the case of France, a contributing factor to the political instability of that country in the years leading up to the Second World War with consequences with which we are all familiar. I do see a similarity in such activities here as the encouragement of mass demonstrations particularly in the case of the so-called Vietnam Moratorium. My attention was captured this morning by an article in a newspaper. I have taken steps to endeavour to confirm the authenticity of the article and I have been assured by  2  newspapers that it is an authentic report of what  Dr Cairns,  the honourable leader - the honourable member for Yarra I should say- 
It was a slip of the tongue when I referred to him as the honourable leader. I should have said that he was nearly the honourable leader, because he ran well in the last contest and may have become the Leader of the Opposition and the alternative Prime Minister of Australia. He is quoted in the newspaper as having said: 
I sincerely hope that authority has had its day. We won democracy by breaking laws, by demonstrating in the streets, by cutting off the heads of kings. 
It is true that a good deal of what  Dr Cairns  is reported to have said was part of the campaign to achieve democracy, but we have achieved democracy. There now appears to be a campaign to destroy it. There is a real threat to democracy in this country in a continuation of this determined effort to inspire people to break the laws or to defy the laws and to terminate all respect for authority. What is the alternative to a working democracy? What is the alternative for a country where there is no respect for law and where authority is not allowed to survive? The alternative is anarchy. This is the kind of thing that is planned. It is not just a plan for the ultimate ignoring of authority; it is an attempt to replace the authority established by the people with an authority established by violence. 
by leave - 1 wish to inform the House that the Government intends to introduce amending legislation during the present session to permit it to pay a temporary additional bounty to local manufacturers currently producing bountiable tractors. This is an urgent short-term measure, pending a review and report by the Tariff Board on the question of longerterm assistance for the industry. Bounty assistance has been afforded the Australian tractor manufacturing industry since 1922. Assistance is currently given to the production of agricultural tractors under the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act 1966, which was introduced following a Tariff Board report in September 1966. 
The decision to introduce amending legislation followed an urgent review by the Government of the position of the Australian tractor industry. The Government received evidence from the 2 Australian manufacturers of tractors eligible for bounty - Chamberlain Industries Pty Ltd of Western Australia and International Harvester Co. of Victoria, which indicated that the industry was facing serious damage from import competition, and that this situation would continue unless urgent action was taken to assist the local industry. 
The investigations carried out by the Government indicated that there had been a substantial downturn in total sales of agricultural tractors in Australia, and that imports of tractors had significantly affected the local industry's share of this reduced market. Normally when an industry faced serious and damaging competition from imports it would be referred to the Special Advisory Authority for consideration of temporary protection, pending report by the Tariff Board. However, the Special Advisory Authority is not empowered to recommend on bounties which, as indicated earlier, have been the traditional method of assistance for this industry. 
The Government, in the light of the information before it, therefore proposes to provide short term additional assistance to the industry pending investigation and report by the Tariff Board. This will be done by payment of a temporary additional bounty on sales of tractors eligible for the existing bounty, equal to 100 per cent of the scale of bounty payments currently payable under the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act 1966. The cost of this additional assistance is estimated at $1.25m to the end of the 1970-71 financial year. Investigations indicated that this was the level of assistance which was required by the Australian tractor manufacturing industry in current circumstances. The level of the additional temporary bounty will be reviewed by the Government prior to the 1971-72 Budget. 
The temporary additional bounty will be administered by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp),  and will be payable on sales made of bountiable tractors on and from 1st July 1970. The additional assistance will be given only in respect of tractors manufactured at premises registered under the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act 1966 as at 1st July 1970. Enabling legislation will be introduced in this session of Parliament, and a reference to the Tariff Board will be made shortly. It is proposed that the Act, when amended, be extended to 30th June 1972, subject to earlier termination by proclamation if appropriate. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: (1), (2) and (3) Australia has taken action under the powers of Article XIX of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade on 15 occasions. On only 4 of these occasions were developing countries principal or substantial suppliers of imports. The following table shows the imported goods concerned on these occasions, the date of restraining action, the nature of the action, the principal and substantial suppliers, the value of import clearances for the relevant financial year, the number of persons employed in the domestic industry and the tariff applied against imports at the time action was taken. 
ACTION TAKEN UNDER ARTICLE XIX OF G.A.T.T. 
TIMBER (CERTAIN TYPES) 
Date of Restraining Action: 9th July 1962. 
Nature of Restraining Action: Quantitative Restrictions. 
Import Clearances 1961-62. 
The existing contracts for general cargo with the AustraliatoEurope conference expire at the end of September. The situation at the moment is that the conference has sought a 10 per cent increase in freight on general cargo other than wool and fruit. The shipper body - the Australia to Europe Shippers' Association - is meeting in Sydney today to consider the Conference's claim. New contracts, when agreed upon, will operate as from I October, but that of course depends on the AESA decision today. I am not able at the moment to answer the latter part of the honourable member's question. 
I had discussions with  Mr Rippon,  as did other Ministers. I have to say that I received from the principal negotiator for the United Kingdom no assurances that were of significant importance to me. He seems to take the view, and has stated this view publicly, that as our economy is strong we should have a capacity to live through, without serious consequences, the entry of Britain into the European Common Market, even under the terms of the common agricultural policy which at present applies to the Six. I have, of course, strongly pointed out to him, as I did in London, in Europe and in North America, that to have economic strength through great mineral resources does nothing to help a dairy farmer who has lost his market. I have pointed out that there are scores of thousands of dairy farmers in Australia who are dependent upon Britain as a market for many of their products. Sixty-seven per cent of all of our butter goes to Britain, and no other nation in the world is a significant importer of butter. No matter how strong our economy may be, if the market for 67 per cent of our butter exports were to disappear, I do not see how we could satisfy a dairy farmer who had been adversely affected even by sending him a cheque from the wealth of the economy. 
The same situation applies in varying degrees in respect of farmers in other industries. Britain has been importing one-third of our sugar exports. Of our canned fruits exports about 60 per cent goes to Britain. The policy of the European Economic Community in respect of canned fruits is not its policy in respect of butter. If a product can  be produced by the Community, its policies operate to establish a virtual embargo against the importation of that product from outside the Community. The situation which applies to butter also applies to sugar. In the case of canned fruits, we have duty free entry to -Britain. We have planted our orchards, invested in our irrigation schemes and built our canneries to service Britain in this regard because we have had for 40 years a right to free entry to Britain, a right to a preferred position as against other suppliers. We have paid Britain heavily for that right in the way of preferential tariffs on industrial products, which we have established in this country in favour of British products. We have paid heavily for the right. 
In the case of canned fruits, the policy would operate to deny us free entry and to require the payment of a 25 per cent tariff while other countries which are progressively being associated with rights in the European Common Market, such as Spain, Greece, Turkey, Israel and practically the whole of North Africa, would be enabled to have duty free entry. Although we have had a preference for all those years, the preference would be against us upon Britain joining the European Common Market. A man who has no market for his orchard products and whose property has been reduced tremendously in value cannot really be compensated by sending him a cheque, This is a tremendously important question. I think that it is right and proper that I should attempt to give an adequate answer to it. There seems to be a complete indifference in -Europe, and I would say little less than an indifference in Britain, to the tremendous consequences for the Australian farmers in this regard. I have never put it that the loss of foreign exchange would be destructive of the Australian economy; it would be very weakening of the Australian economy. But it is a matter concerning people that I have been talking about, not a matter of money. 
I think there is a great deal of substance in what the honourable member for Lyne says. The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade really was born out of the experience of the 1930s when policies of economic nationalism and bilateral arrangements between countries made international trade completely unpredictable and caused great harm to traditional traders in the loss of their markets overnight by agreements between governments. That contributed to the tensions of the 1930s which led to war. It was out of an acute consciousness of this that GATT was created soon after the war for the purpose of bringing international trade back to a predictable basis so that countries engaged as international traders would know the basis on which they could plan their trading and their investment in trade. A fundamental point in GATT was that while the historical preferences such as British preferences could continue there should be no new preferences created between nations. That was basic to the whole concept. In the creation of the European Economic Community, its enlargement and the device of having associate members the principle of no new preferences is being completelyflouted. I will quote our own example. We, who have had access to Britain through all the years, will by a bilateral arrangement or arrangements between the Community and Britain have a new barrier to trade erected and in respect of many commodities it will be completely insurmountable. I mentioned the device of associate members. There will be the former French colonies in North Africa, Spain, Greece, Turkey and Israel. By this device a broad system of new preferences is being created. In my opinion this is completely invalid in relation to the provisions of GATT,, I do not see how GATT can survive if this practice is continued particularly by the great and wealthy nations ignoring the weaker nations. By comparison with the great and wealthy trading nations of the northern hemisphere Australia obviously falls into the weaker category. This will destroy GATT. 
I, frankly, do not know anything at all about the matter which the honourable member raises. But I will make inquiries concerning it. The policy of the Government is this: We want to have a book industry in Australia. But it is not thought appropriate by the Government to protect the book industry by  a  tariff and, to that extent, to raise a barrier between the community of book readers and the availability of books because they are made dearer by a tariff. This is the whole explanation of the policy of the Government. As to the extent that colour printing is a factor that would impinge on that policy, I, frankly, do not know, but I will make inquiries. 
There were certain proposals, and with my approval Department of Trade and Industry officials have conducted discussions with the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board to see whether he thought that there would be advantages, in respect of expedition and efficacy, in improving procedures for the handling of Tariff Board cases. At the moment I am not able to tell the Leader of the Opposition of the final decision. I will put myself in a position to do so and give him an answer. 
Pursuant to section 18 of the Tariff Board Act 1921-1966, I present the Annual Report of the Tariff Board for the year ended 30th June 1970. The Report is accompanied by an annexure which summarises the recommendations made by the Board and shows the action taken in respect of each of them. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Australian Tourist Commission Act 1967 I present the Third Annual Report of the Australian Tourist Commission for the year ended 30th June 1970 together with financial statements and the AuditorGeneral's report on those statements. 
Pursuant to section 32 of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Act 1956-1970, I present the Fourteenth Annual Report of the Corporation for the year ended 30th June 1970, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
The body to which the Leader of the Opposition refers is the designated body to negotiate with the shipping Conference in respect of overseas freights. This has been done unsuccessfully in the broad. But the bodies whichcomposetheAustraliantoEurope Shippers Association are not directly the responsibility of the Government. The Government's concern is with the total group of interested shippers who themselves select the negotiators to conduct the negotiations. As I understand the position, the ship owners requested a certain rise in freight rates. The shipper body refused to accept this and discussions proceeded with some interruptions. In the  meantime the Interlaine people in Paris met the ship owners and reached agreement with them for a 4 per cent increase in the freight on wool. This was entirely within their rights. It is unquestionably the right of the people who own the wool that is being shipped to make a decision on what freight they are prepared to pay. That was done. This undoubtedly to some extent undermined the status of the Australian shipper body in its negotiations. From memory, I think the ship owners had previously negotiated a 5 per cent increase in the freight on fruit if other rates moved by a greater amount. It is my understanding that that result has occurred because ship owners insisted on an increase of 10 per cent in the freight on other general cargo. This was not accepted by the shipper body. A counter offer at a lower rate was made to the ship owners. That was not accepted. The position reached a stalemate, with a negotiation which in the total sense has never reached any conclusion. 
The Australia to Europe Shippers Association has. I understand, now abandoned the negotiations and has announced that it is for the various shipper groups, such as the meat, dairy and canned fruit people, to decide whether they will accept the 10 per cent increase stipulated by the ship owners. The Trade Practices Act has enabled me as Minister for Trade and Industry to have an officer of the Department of Trade and Industry present at all the negotiations. He has kept me informed. He is present but he does not possess, from the Trade Practices Act or anything else, an authority to intervene or stipulate. He is there merely to inform the Minister for Trade and Industry who, of course, is the Government for this purpose. 
No. The Minister can refer to the Tribunal, not a dispute on freight, but the question of whether the ship owner authority is providing an adequate, efficient and economic service. It is on the basis that the ship owners provide an adequate, efficient, and economic service that they become free to be legitimate as a conference and not denounceable as a monopoly. This is inherent in the whole dealing of the Trade Practices Act with this body. It has not been suggested to me by any source that the ship owners' service is not adequate, efficient or economic. Therefore, I have not the grounds to refer the matter to the Trade Practices Tribunal. 
The honourable member referred to the use of 100 million bushels of wheat at a ruinously low price. No-one in the Chamber would know better than the honourable member that not a single bushel of wheat can be sold in Australia except on the basis of the stabilisation scheme which is operated under Acts of the 6 State parliaments and of this Parliament Within the price fixing provisions of the stabilisation scheme there is no provision whatever which would permit the sale of wheat at a ruinously low price. The honourable member made reference to an intended increase in the bounty payment on tractors and to tariff protection of producers of agricultural machinery. The policies in each respect arise from open hearings by the Tariff Board made at the request of the Government and a finding by the Tariff Board that it is necessary to protect certain Australian industries which comes as a recommendation to the Government. In one case perhaps a tariff will be increased. But in the case of tractors, the recommendation adopted by the Government to protect farmers from dearer tractors was that instead of a tariff a bounty should be paid, as has been the practice of this Government since it has taken office. I think it takes a fair flight of the imagination to argue that because the manufacturer of tractors will in due course have an increased bounty this money is being used to finance a campaign to establish power alcohol distilleries to use cheap wheat. I am bound to say that my mind will not really follow the logic of it. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I proceed to get the debate back to the matter before the House. The state- ment which we are debating is the verbatim report of a Press conference which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  voluntarily held and which eventually was tabled in the House. It is upon the content of that report that this debate turns. The incident, as 1 understand it from the Leader of the Opposition, arose from the fact that he was offering certain advice to the Labor Caucus; that subsequently he learned that a rumour, which was incorrect, was around the place, and he called a Press conference and proceeded to state publicly to the Press what he had been saying to the Labor Caucus. So the fact that we are in possession of the report is in fact an accident. 
The Leader of the Opposition had set out to speak, as one does speak, secretly in the Party room, but now what he said is a public matter. As the Leader of the Labor Party he was putting the view to the Caucus that the advice to be given to young men who objected to the Vietnam war was that they should disobey and defy military authority, put in the mildest terms, that they should break the law. Applying this as he did in one sense to hundreds of men and in another to thousands of men, an advice to break the military law is advice to mutiny. There is no doubt about that. That is the policy line that the Leader of the Opposition advocated, that young men who say that they hold a conscientious belief in respect of the Vietnam war, should be advised to break the law. We know that the law provides for the man who claims that he has a general conscientious belief against war. If this course, as advocated, is accepted by the Labor Party as policy - and the debate here today makes it clear beyond doubt to my mind that this course has been accepted as the policy of the Labor Party - then in the future every member of the Labor Party will follow it. the land is, you should set out to break it.' This totals up a complete picture of the attitude to law and order of today's Labor leaders and today's Labor Party. This is the constant thread running right through Labor Party's attitude all the time. Labor says: 'If you do not like the law - whether it is civil or military - break it.' This Labor Party is the alternative government of Australia. If it were to become the government, the logic of its present position is that even if it, in government, made laws, it would allow people to break them if they so desired. That is the pure, undeniable logic of it, and it is completely ludicrous for Labor- 
 Mr Speaker,  you know, 1 could observe that it would appear, on the honourable gentleman's hypothesis, to facilitate the manufacture of arms and ammunition for his friends. 
I think it can be said that the Australian tariff is continually under review. Since I have been responsible for the operations of the Tariff Board and tariff policies - about 14 years - there have been S13 references to the Board on individual items, a number of these references embracing whole sectors of Australian industry. So this does represent a continuous review. As a matter of interest, of those 513 references, 492 reports by the Tariff Board have been adopted by the Government, 7 have been referred back to the Board and only 14 in that period have been rejected by the Government. As a quick matter of interest to those who think that all tariffs impose a burden on the community, I point out that 56 per cent of the reports of the Tariff Board over that period recommended an increase in protection, 107 reports recommended decreased protection and 117 reports recommended no alteration in the tariff at all. The calculation that has been made in the article referred to - that is, that the burden of tariff on the community is of the order of $2,700m a year - can only be some sort of a calculation based on all industry taking the maximum advantage of the tariff, which is not the case, and assuming that this would be the burden compared with no protection at all. Surely everyone knows that with no tariff protection at all there would be practically no Australian manufacturing industry. The Tertiary industries - the civil service, transport industries, hospitals and education - are based principally on the earnings of the producing industries. 
I think it is quite ridiculous to say that this is a burden being carried by the community, for without this policy of protection there would be nothing of the fabric of Australian society. There would be no sizeable Australian nation at all. Protection is not confined only to' manufacturing industry. There would be no sugar industry in Australia and very little northern population if there were no tariff. The dairying and other industries would not be able to sustain uninhibited competition. In regard to the last part of the question relating to the test for protection entitlement of an economic and efficient industry, this has been the historical test. Most of Australian industry has been established during the time when competition in manufacture came from Britain, due to the operation of our trade agreement. It is one thing to judge an industry to be economic and efficient because it can compete on a fair basis, with a modest tariff, with Britain or another European country, but I would regard it as utterly ridiculous and untenable to decide the next day that the same industry was not economic and efficient because some competition had come in from a deplorably low wage country like South Korea or Taiwan. 
The Department of Trade and Industry certainly has taken no steps, using the words of the Leader of the Opposition, to open up this trade with China. Such trade as there is with China is conducted by the Australian Wheat Board in respect of wheat, and in all other respects, to my knowledge, by private individuals in Australia. It of course depends on the requirements of the Chinese government and upon the availability of material in Australia. I think it would be appropriate, if the House would be a little tolerant, ifI explained what the policy is on this highly important matter which so concerns members of the Australian Labor Party. Australia's policy towards trade with mainland China prevents the export of strategic goods, but the policy does not obstruct commercial trade in what are obviously non-strategic goods, for example wheat and wool, which constitute over 95 per cent of our trade. China can buy those products elsewhere. In common with many Western countries, Australia prohibits the export of strategic products on what is called the COCOM list. In addition, in respect of mainland China and North Korea, Australia maintains control over exports of a large range of additional items of potential strategic significance. To export these items, prior approval of the Minister for External Affairs is necessary. Only the United States, which prohibits direct trade with mainland China, goes further than Australia does in this matter. 
In other words, Australia is more strict than- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As Leader of the Australian Country Party throughout the period mentioned by the member for Kingston my Policy Speeches have always been prepared in consultation with my Country Party colleagues in. the form and with the content 
I  determine. In the preparation of my Policy Speeches I obtain from officers of my Department whatever factsI require. 
On 1st September the honourable member for Robertson asked if I was aware that the only basic industrial pharmaceutical research organisation in Australia, Riker Laboratories Pty Ltd, had received over $500,000 in research grants since 1967 and had been closed down after being taken over by the Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, thus placing thirty highly qualified Australian scientists out of work. I was asked if it was proposed that the company refund these grants to the Commonwealth. 
I undertook to familiarise myself with the facts and see what action, if any, was called for. I am informed that the facts are that the research facilities of Riker Laboratories Australia Pty Ltd have not been closed down. However, the company has decided that a significant reduction in the level of its research effort should take place, and 11 members of the staff with graduate qualifications were dismissed last July. Riker Laboratories Australia Pty Ltd claims to be still conducting the largest industrial pharmaceutical research effort in Australia although it is not the only company engaged in this field. The company is now owned by Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing who recently acquired it, along with the other companies of the world-wide Riker Group, from another American company. 
The decision to reduce the level of I.R. &amp; D. activities was based, I understand, on a commercial assessment of the costs and benefits associated with the Australian research activities. The Managing Director of Riker Laboratories Australia Pty Ltd has informed the Department of Trade and Industry that the decision was in no way connected with the change in ownership. Riker Laboratories Australia Pty Ltd has received from the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board the sum of $213,283 in relation to research undertaken in 1967-68 and 1968-69. 
The company received these grants because it had in those years increased the level of its total industrial research and development expenditures above the level of these expenditures in 1965-66 and was eligible for a grant under the provisions of the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act. These grants are only required to be repaid if it is shown, subsequent to the grant being received, that the eligible expenditure on which the grant was assessed was overstated. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There could not have been a better occasion on which to compare the durability of carpet made from Australian wool with that of carpet made from synthetics. It has been recorded that 11.2 million people went through the Australian pavilion at Expo 70 and that15 million people went through the American pavilion, which was just slightly more. In June, the American synthetic carpet was worn out completely, was taken out and was replaced. Now, at the termination of Expo, the American synthetic carpet replacement is worn out completely and, I am advised, is of no further use. On the other hand, the Australian wool carpet which sustained the traffic of more than 11 million people is in such good order that it is regarded as completely satisfactory, when the pavilion is moved - it having been given by the Australian Government to a city in Japan - to retain the carpet therein for future use. This is a clear example of the superiority of pure wool over the synthetics for use in carpet making. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker,  I would have great pleasure in receiving the petition from the honourable member. As honourable members will know. I am assisted in the administration of the tourist activities of the Department of Trade and Industry by  Senator Wright.  I will consult with  Senator Wright  on what might best be done. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The Commonwealth Statistician does dot publish statistics ' of production specifically for. dry cleaning machines. 
See answer to (1). 
The answer  to  the  honourable  member's question  is  as  follows: 
I have been advised by General MotorsHolden's Pty Ltd that it is not correct that General Motors of the United States of America has successfully negotiated with the Government of Indonesia for the establishment of an assembly plant at Tjilatjap. The initiative concerning vehicle assembly in Indonesia has in fact been taken by General Motors-Holden's. Holden vehicles are Assembled in Indonesia by 'P. T. Udatimex at Sourabaya, and units have been sent to Indonesia in a knocked down condition for assembly since 1938. 
See answer to (1). 
In view of the facts given above I do not see any necessity to confer with General MotorsHolden's on this matter. 
The Government has made clear that it wishes to see overseas-owned subsidiaries based in Australia able to operate without any restriction on their export activities. 
J assure the honourable member that I am conscious of the potential of the Australian tourist industry. Of course, the Government has displayed its consciousness of this by providing increasing amounts for expenditure in promoting tourism overseas, in establishing the Australian Tourist Commission and in having, as there is in fact, a separate Minister for Tourism, lt is true that, departmentally, the activities of tourism are within the jurisdiction of the Department of Trade and Industry, but  Senator Wright,  as the Minister assisting the Minister for Trade and Industry in respect of tourism, acts completely separately from myself except on matters of high policy when we do consult. He has an adequate support from the staff of the Department of Trade and Industry. 
We look forward to an increasing growth of foreign exchange. One needs to remember that tourism within Australia is not merely tourism from overseas. But it is only tourism from overseas which earns additional foreign exchange. It would not be reasonable to suggest that, for the purpose of catering for tourists from overseas, the Commonwealth should involve itself in substantial expenditure for accommodation and so on, as the honourable member mentions, when in fact it would so happen that most of the accommodation was being occupied by Australian tourists moving within the country. This is a matter on which the States and the Commonwealth keep in close contact. I am sure that the honourable member will find that both the Commonwealth and the States will move with the times in this respect. I cannot feel that there is a very broad base of relationship between the prospects of tourism and the present deteriorated circumstances of rural industry. 
The planned demonstration outside Parliament yesterday which was, 1 think, organised centrally by the honourable member for Riverina and others associated with him, was to those who observed it, as I did, and to those who read the reports in the newspaper, a complete frost. It was a frost, of course, because of the Country Party - not because the Country Party took any steps to persuade people not to come but because the policies on which the Country Party, in conjunction with our colleagues of the Liberal Party, has operated in respect of wool, wheat, dairying, the search for markets overseas and concessions and assistance to primary producers obviously produced such a consciousness in the minds of primary producers that their wellbeing was safe in the hands of the Country Party and our Liberal colleagues that they stayed away in their thousands. 
The record of the Government shows that there has been a very adequate protection of Australian industry during its period of office, for 14 years of which I have been the responsible Minister. There can be no evidence more incapable of contradiction than the sheer growth of Australian industry over that period and the base of investment and of employment that has been provided over that period. That reflects the policy of the 
Government and it is a policy which the Government having pursued in the past will pursue in the future. 
It is not for me to try to reconcile a statement of mine with whatever the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board might have been reported as having said, but I have no trouble in again stating that, if an Australian industry has been assessed as economic and efficient by the Tariff Board and by the Government and has been accorded an appropriate protective duty, it would seem to me to be completely ridiculous that one could discover it to be inefficient the next day, not because there had been any alteration whatever to the industry itself but because imports were offered to us from some low cost country. Such imports could be from a country where wages are tow or a centrally controlled economy country - a Communist country - where there is no basis of assessing costs of production but where it is not uncommon for goods to be offered for sale for no other reason than to earn foreign exchange. Australian industry is entitled to be protected if it is efficient in our own environment. If it is efficient in our own environment it is entitled to be protected in the future as it has been in the past and I have no doubt it will enjoy that protection. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The tariff changes followed adoption by the Government of a Tariff Board report on manmade fibres and yarn. Firms in the industry, and the Textile Council of Australia, have made representations to the Government expressing concern about a number of issues raised by the adoption of this Report in April of this year. The industry believed that the lower rates of duty which followed the adoption of the report could be damaging to the entire textile and apparel industries. 
I indicated to representatives of the industry that the Government could not consider taking action merely on the expressed disquiet of the parties involved. There was an obvious need for the Government and the industry together to watch the effects of the new duties on the Australian industry. If it could be shown from the evidence available that serious damage was occurring, or was likely to occur, then an application could be made for a reference to the Special Advisory Authority. The Authority has the power to recommend temporary duties. 
A Liaison Committee consisting of members of the Textile Council and officers of the Department of Trade and Industry was established shortly after the new rates were introduced. Special arrangements were made to supply the Textile Council with statistics on imports and these figures have been regularly discussed with the Committee, along with trends within the Australian industry. I am informed that to date there is no evidence of any upsurge in imports, but the position will remain under close watch. 
The industry also sought a review of existing and proposed by-law procedures. As you know, the administration of by-laws is a matter for my colleague, the Minister for Customs and Excise. I am informed that the Liaison Committee has had useful discussions on this issue, and as a result by-law entry has been accorded until the end of this year on yarns which were previously dutiable at non-protective rales or admitted under by-law. This decision was welcomed by the industry, and discussions are continuing to determine the longer-term position under the by-law situation. 
I should not like this occasion to pass without registering on behalf of my Party, the Australian Country Party, that we wish to join with the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in the expression of deep concern and deep sympathy in respect of those who have lost their lives, those who have suffered, and in particular the families and relatives of the men involved in this tragedy, and at least to have the survivors and dependants understand that all Parties in the Commonwealth Parliament have expressed deep distress and sympathy. This happening has drawn once more to the attention of the appropriate authorities the great necessity for the most intimate scrutiny and watching of all safety precautions in regard to these engineering projects. 
I make it clear that I accept the primary responsibility for having advised the Government and the Parliament in respect of participation of the Government in the container shipping service. Let me remind the Australian Labor Party that this was warmly applauded by that Party. There are factors in respect of shipping services that are beyond the control of the Government. For instance, there was an industrial dispute in respect of the container terminal at Tilbury in London which led to the whole Australian-British container service having to go to Rotterdam and Antwerp for, I think, almost 18 months, and bearing the cost of the tremendously expensive terminal at Tilbury which was not in use for the whole of that period. But within the freight rates of that period was absorbed the cost of transporting the container cargoes from the Continent to London or to other British ports. That matter was quite beyond the control of this Government or, as far as I know, any other government. I am informed that seamen's wages have increased over that period by 40 per cent. 
There is no container service to America. So I do not know what the Leader of the Opposition thinks he is talking about. There has been an increase of 31 per cent, I am informed, in stevedoring costs in Australia. The increase in seamen's wages and the increase in stevedoring costs are primarily to the advantage of those whom the Labor Party believes to support it. I do not know whether the Labor Party believes that these tremendous expenses can be incurred without being reflected in the charges made by those who have to pay the higher rate. The truth of the matter is that higher wages have a vastly lesser impact upon a container ship than upon a conventional ship in the carrying of cargo, because we know very well that the proportion of manpower to tonnage is very much less in a container ship than it is in a conventional ship. 
It is not for the Government to say whether it enjoys the higher freight rates. The Government knows that the higher freight charges substantially are a reflection of the costs of the shipping companies. It was not the Government which approved of the freight rate increase; it was those who, to a large extent, owned the freight, thai is, the wool, the fruit and so on. It is true that the owners of general cargo did not approve the 10 per cent increase. I think it would be useful if on an early occasion, possibly today or on the next day of sitting, I were to make a short explanatory statement of the factors that bear upon the container service to Australia, the costs, and the advantages which have come or which we are sure are still in prospect 
The Government does aid in maintaining a constant trade publicity campaign in the United Kingdom and, from the United Kingdom, largely in Europe. I do not recall immediately the amount that is set aside 'in this year's Budget to support this campaign, but it will be found to be of the order of some hundreds of thousands of dollars. The campaign is conducted by a committee known as the Overseas Trade Publicity Commitee. The funds provided by the Government, which, as I say, will amount this year to some hundreds of thousands of dollars, are supplemented by very substantial sums provided by the statutory marketing boards such as the canned fruit and dairy boards, and further supplemented by funds provided by either private commerce or expenditure by private commerce tailored to fit into the total publicity campaign. On the whole, this is an immense and very effective campaign. It is directed to drawing attention to the existence of goods and Australian food products and to the value of the food products. By and large it has been very successful. 
I would think it improper for the Government to appear to be trying to influence a political decision in the United Kingdom by canvassing the fact that if Britain should join the Common Market food products there would be dearer. There is not the slightest doubt about this. They would be dramatically dearer. But that is a matter of controversy in the political field in the United Kingdom and it is not a matter in which we have sought or ever would seek to intervene and participate. We express our views, as I am expressing my own now, in this place. 
I do not know of the product to which the honourable member refers. I do know, of course, of the qualities of wool in respect to inflammability and heat resistance. They are very high indeed. To that extent it is turned to very much by the aircraft and other industries. It is really not the function of government to take the initiative in persuading industry and business to use a new product. It certainly is part of the function of government to see that every opportunity is made available for there to be knowledge of these products and then for business to make its own judgment in its own sphere on whether they should be used. 

 - Mr Speaker, could I now quote a figure which I did not have available when I answered the question asked by the honourable member for Mitchell. The funds provided in this year's total budget for the Overseas Trade Publicity Committee amount to $1,350,000. In accordance with the work that I have been doing over the years, this fund provided by the Government has attracted to it for associated expenditure from the statutory marketing boards a further sum of $1,250,000. This year that Committee will spend in Britain and the Continent $1,600,000 in promoting Australian food products. 
by leave - In response to questions by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  on Friday, I said that I would make a statement on the operation of the container ship service between Australia and the United Kingdom and Europe. The Government in its support for, and participation in, the introduction of the container system between Australia and the United Kingdom and Europe believed that the new system seemed likely to reduce costs and enable either freight reduction or greater stability in freights than in the past, where there has been a history of constant freight increases. This belief was consistent with the commercial investment decisions made by the private shipping companies who had to face the hundreds of millions of dollars of investment required. It was not expected that the impact on costs, and hence the impact on freights, would come about on the first Tuesday that a container ship entered the trade. 
The introduction of something as revolutionary as the door to door concept of freight handling obviously would take a considerable time for its operations to be perfected. But nothing has transpired since the commencement of the introduction of container ships to cast doubt on the superiority of this system over the conventional ships and methods. So far as the advantage to Australia of having a window into container costs by virtue of Australian National Line participation, I am equally confident that this will justify itself. As foreshadowed, the groupings of shipping companies have become larger and larger. With the introduction of European container ships all our container trade will be in the hands of one organised group of companies. More than ever Australia needs to know in sufficient intimate detail the costs and efficiencies of those who carry our cargoes. The new door to door system has extended the coverage of the shipping operation to the point where shore based facilities and shore operations at both ends of the trade have become every bit as important a part as the operations from wharf to wharf. But it is essential to keep in perspective the impact of the costs of the door to door system and the costs of the conventional system now being phased out. 
The recent increase in freights to United Kingdom/ Europe was the first since 1966. In that period, I am told that the weighted average increase of freights over all cargoes from Australia to the United Kingdom and Europe has increased only by about 41 per cent or roughly at a rate of 1 per cent per annum. In this same period, costs of all kinds outside the control of the Australian Government or of shipping companies have risen markedly. For instance, I am informed that in the United Kingdom there have been very large increases in wages of stevedores and seamen, 40 per cent increase in the case of seamen's wages. Again, for example, costs of bunkers have increased dramatically in the same period. And, of course, similar increases have occurred over the whole range of costs associated with operating a shipping service - for instance, in Australia, stevedoring costs, I am informed, have increased by over 30 per cent. Now, if we had still to rely only on conventional ships where something like 40 per cent of the freight rates used to comprise the cost merely of loading and unloading, the increase in freights justified could have turned out to be about 20 per cent instead of 4i per cent as has actually occurred. 
I said that nothing had occurred to alter the belief that the container system would mean lower costs and bring greater stability to freight rates. When I said this I was, of course, aware of the great number and variety of complex problems that would be associated with introducing the revolutionary concept such as the door-to-door method of transport - problems of new technology; problems for management; problems for labour; problems for shippers; problems for land transport and the like. But already, apart from the fact that freight increases have been relatively small over the period, there is developing strong evidence that the original economies which it was felt the container system would offer are in fact achievable. The experience now behind the operators of terminals and the improved planning and management procedures being implemented, combined with a reasonable spell of industrial peace over the last couple of months, has led to a quite dramatic improvement in operations and in delivery. I am told by the largest operator that in the last month the average time from the arrival of the container ship to the cargo being available to the consignee at the depot was 6.4 days. For full containers moving door-to-door the average time has been even less, where the consignee was prepared to take delivery promptly. This can be compared with an average pf something over 12 days for a conventional ship. I am told that the actual performance of taking containers off and on the ships has also improved tremendously. Currently at one terminal, I am told that up to 3,000 containers are being handled in a week. This is equivalent to 60,000 tons of cargo. The norma! conventional wharf shed could handle only 3,000 tons per week. These improvements in cargo handling are in addition to the improvement in voyage time. I am told that the round voyage time between Australia and the United Kingdom is getting down towards 70 days for container ships compared wtih between 100 days and 120 days for conventional ships. Turnaround times for ships have improved tremendously. Ships are now going through Sydney and Melbourne in about 50 hours, averaging 1,500 to 1,600 container changes per ship compared with 800 to 1,000 in America and elsewhere. 
I repeat that nothing has transpired, since the first plans to introduce container ships, to bring doubt upon the conclusion that this system of transport is far superior to the conventional ships. Indeed, since that time, shipowners in every major trade in the world are moving to container ship services and special ships for unitised cargoes. Shipping companies cannot, any more than other companies, be expected to absorb endlessly the quite dramatic cost increases that have come about in the last 2 or 3 years without some adjustment in the element in the cost of their services. For instance, a completely unexpected incident, such as that which occurred at Tilbury in London that added over the period of the strike more than £Stg3m to the cost to the shipping companies in this route, is not something that should be looked at as bringing into question the efficiency of the container system in comparison with the conventional system. There have been, and there will be, industrial troubles. These have been, and these will have to be, paid for as matters entirely aside from the normal costs of operating this system. 
Far from being pessimistic about the nature of the problems that have been experienced, and the time it is taking to overcome these problems, I believe that the achievements, to date and the demonstrable scope for further improvement offer every prospect that by the use of this system we can stabilise our freights and hold back the constant freight creep which historically our exports have had to bear. I present the following paper: 
Introduction of Container Ships to the Australia to UK and Europe Trade - Ministerial Statement, 19th October 1970. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The whole basis of the price stability achieved under the International Sugar Agreement is that each exporting country shall have a basic export tonnage entitlement, which may be reduced -in certain circumstances. From the commencement of the Agreement each- country has been enduring some reduction in' its basic export tonnage. It is also provided -that there shall not be held in store more than a prescribed quantity of sugar. This is basic to the Agreement, and I am sure that the -honourable member for Dawson understands quite well the mechanics of its operation. The Australian Government is a party to this Agreement, but the actual management of the sugar industry, as the honourable member knows, is very tightly controlled under Queensland legislation. What acreage a grower may plant, what tonnage he may deliver and what tonnage the mill may receive and so on are all controlled by Queensland legislation. I could understand the very simple logic of the point that the honourable member makes that under the operation of this international scheme in conjunction with the provisions of the Queensland sugar legislation it could be that a farmer, prevented from delivering more than a certain tonnage, would have recourse to destroying the unharvested portion of his crop and then, pursuant to his business as a cane grower, he may plant more forthwith. This does seem a paradox. This is the point the honourable member is bringing out but it is completely beyond the control of the Commonwealth Government to effect the conduct of this and it is totally within the control of the Queensland Government and the Queensland sugar industry to handle this situation. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are: 
Australia commenced making reductions in tariffs on selected products from developing countries on the following dates: 
12th April 1966 for specified handicraft items; and 
1st July 1966 for selected manufactures and semi-manufactures. 
The products on which preferences are granted are selected from requests received from the developing countries themselves and from other interested persons, such as Australian importers. All requests for concessional entry are examined carefully on the basis of allowing reasonable access where the Australian market can absorb the imports without significantly affecting the protection accorded to Australian industry or disrupting the position in the market held by Australia's established overseas suppliers. Sensitive items are excluded. 
When it is decided that a particular product can be accorded a preference, annual quotas are determined for each manufactured or semimanufactured product (or group of related products) by reference to the total value of current imports of the product from all sources. The level of preferential duty is determined by reference to the existing protection accorded to Australian industry. Selected handicrafts are admitted duty free without quota. 
It is, of course, open to any Australian industry which considers that any particular concession is affecting its protection, to seek to have the situation reviewed through the established machinery of a Tariff Board or Special Advisory Authority inquiry. 
and (5) The, details of the reductions, including the nature and value of the imports in the year 1968-69, the levels of tariffs and the extent of the reductions have been set out in schedule form. The schedule is too lengthy and complex to be published in Hansard. Copies are available at the Table Office of the House of Representatives. 
Where imports of scheduled items front developing countries have entered Australia at preferential rates of duty and those goods are classified for tariff purposes under an item which imposes protective rates of duty, the imports are in competition with Australian manufactures. The duties which are regarded as protective have been indicated with an asterisk in the above schedule. 
Statistical information on Australian industry, including the size of its workforce and the value of production, is not available from the Bureau of Census and Statistics in a form which enables a detailed reconciliation to be made with the product classification used in the Tariff and the Developing Countries' Preference schedule. 
See answer to question (2). 
Housing Loans from Trading Banks (Question No. 1873) 
 The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has read from what is obviously a carefully prepared speech designed to be as offensive as the words can be constructed to be offensive. It is a poor contribution to the debates of the Parliament The main thing that comes out of listening to the speech of the Leader of the Opposition is that he either does not understand the shipping arrangements or he is trying to misrepresent them. It is one or the other. Let me repeat in broad terms what the shipping arrangements are. They are that a container service is being introduced to Australia^ - I am speaking now particularly of the British-European trade - which will from its early initiation consist of 9 container ships and eventually, taking into account European-owned ships. 14 ships. These 14 ships as against about 100 ships previously in the conventional trade - will carry the great bulk of Australia's cargo between Britain, Continental Europe and Australia. 
So as to get the major efficiencies out of this very efficient device of shipping, these ship turn around at only 3 Australian ports, Fremantle, Melbourne and Sydney, lt is uneconomic to send these great container ships to the small outports, so it is part of the whole arrangement that the outports shall be serviced by conventional ships, either to carry the cargo the whole distance or by ships or other means to bring the cargo to the container port, lt was the intention, it is the intention- 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Mallett)  - Order! It being 11 p.m. and in accordance wilh the order of the House of 26th August I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
Part of the arrangement, which clearly should be recalled, was that whatever kind of ship the cargo was being carried in between Europe and Australia, the freight rate would be the same. If it was carried from Fremantle in a container ship or if it was carried from Cairns at much greater expense by conventional ship the freight rate would be the same, lt is completely obvious to everyone that if the container ship is more efficient, and there is no doubt in the world that it is more efficient than the smaller conventional ship, the costs being different but the freight being the same, what is happening is that the container ship is being paid rather more than its costs and the conventional ship less than its costs in freight rates to bring about this average - the same freight rates for all purposes. That is the concept. 
Tremendous, unexpected and unpredictable costs have been added to the shipping costs of this trade. There was the industrial unrest, caused, I understand, by a dispute between land based unions in Tilbury which rendered this tremendously expensive container terminal completely inoperative for, I think, about 18 months. During that period all Australian cargo that went in container ships was landed in European ports and carried separately to Britain with no additional charge. That was a burden that just cannot be laughed off. The calculated cost of that industrial dispute, in which the shipowners were not involved, the seamen's union was not involved and no one in Australia was involved - it was an inter-union dispute on the land at Tilbury in London - was more than £Stg3m. This, of course, is a matter that one cannot escape having taken into consideration when freights are being determined. In addition to this, I am informed that the wages of British seamen have increased by 40 per cent in this period. Stevedoring costs in Australia have increased by more than 30 per cent in this period. The significance of stevedoring costs is to be seen when I remind the Committee that before we had the container service freight rates were determined on the costs of the conventional- shipping service and it was clearly established that about 40 per cent of the total cost of shipping to Europe by conventional ships represented stevedoring costs on the wharf. I repeat, there has been a 30 per cent increase in those costs. I am not complaining about it. I am stating it as a matter of fact which has to be taken into account in determining the freight rates. 
What has happened is that the additional costs that I have mentioned indicate a justification for a freight increase of 20 per cent in respect of conventional ships. If the container service had not been introduced and if all our cargo was still being carried in conventional ships to Britain and Europe, my advisers say - and no-one has challenged this figure - that those additional costs would have indicated a 20 per cent increase in freight rates. What has happened is not a 20 per cent increase in freight rates but a weighted average increase since 1966 of  4i  per cent - 4 per cent on wool, 5 per cent on fruit and 10 per cent on other general cargo. My advice is a weighted average increase of 44- per cent, but the indication for conven tional ships was for an increase of 20 per cent. But they have not had an increase of 20 per cent; they have had an increase of  4i  per cent which means, clearly, that the lower costs of the container ships have been subsidising the freight charges of the more expensive conventional ships. There is not the slightest doubt that a breakup of the present freight charges would indicate that there should have been a much higher increase on conventional ships and perhaps no increase, or even a reduction, in the freight rates of container ships. But under the policy, which I hope no-one will challenge, of charging the same freight rate from Australia for our cargo to Britain and Europe irrespective of what type of ship it is carried in, the result has not been a reduction or standstill in freight rates for container ships and a great increase for freight rates of conventional ships, but an average 44 per cent increase overall. This quite clearly indicates the efficiency of the container service. 
Some problems have arisen from the initiation of such a tremendous innovation in shipping as the container service. I am told, for example, that there has been a problem with refrigerated cargoes. There was a problem of taint in containers. This is the sort of thing that does occur when there is a great new innovation. That added to costs, but I understand that the problem has been overcome. There have been other problems. For example, I have told honourable members, and I repeat it. that it was intended to lift cargo from Hobart and bring it to Melbourne at no charge to the shipper, but I did not say, and I have also said this in this chanber before, that that would operate from the first day that the container services were introduced, because it involved a negotiation with the Australian shipping interests which were to carry the cargo from Hobart to Melbourne. This was a negotiation where obviously the Australian shipping interests were in a very strong position to demand a high freight rate because the policy intention had been revealed and the contract had not been negotiated by the container interests with the Australian shipping line. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
 Mr Deputy Chairman,  I shall now take my second 10 minutes. I agreed to this course when the Leader of the Opposition was speaking. There have been delays in the arrangements that were intended, that still are intended, to lift the cargo from what are called the outports and bring it to the container ports at no charge to the Australian shipping interests. I hope that no honourable member will be so unreasonable as to think that in spite of this grand design to have the benefit of the high efficiency of containers, the benefit of a single freight rate no matter where the freight originated and the benefit of not having an extra charge for the cost of the conventional ship bringing the cargo from the outport, there is cause for a serious complaint because we could not wave a wand and bring this in in one day. Indeed, it is not the responsibility of the Government to do it. It is not within the power of the Government to do it. There is only one class of government which would dream of simply ordering private enterprise about - telling it what it will charge and what it will do. I was in this House when a Socialist government was in power - when it was selling the wheat growers' wheat to New Zealand at less than its value. Whatever it was, this is the mind of the Socialist government - it just decides what it would like to be done and, irrespective of the rights of private citizens, sets about compelling them to do it. We make no bones about the fact that we do not operate in that way. 
I do not retreat an inch from Che statement that eventually - and I am told this can be expected next year - arrangements will be in operation which will bring cargo from the outports to the container ports along the lines that were originally intended. I think I have said enough to make it quite clear that notwithshtanding £Stg3m loss on the Tilbury incident, notwithstanding the 40 per cent increase in seamen's wage on this trade and notwithstanding the 30 per cent increase in stevedoring costs in Australia, over a 4-year period the increase in the cost of Australian shippers' freight to Europe and Britain has been, on the average, just a margin above 1 per cent per annum. Can anyone name any enterprise in Australia - whether it is in relation to the selling price of goods in the shop or the selling price of goods from the manufacturer, or wages or salaries - in which there has been an increase in charges of only 1 per cent per annum? 
The truth of the matter Ls that as a result of the introduction of the container service, Australian primary producers and exporters have undoubtedly been saved from what would have been a very severe increase in freight charges. The speech of the Leader of the Opposition was designed to be politically offensive and, as I said when I rose to speak, it reveals either that he does not understand the facts of this combined conventional ship, container ship, one freight, shipping service - and he ought to understand it - or something much more serious. If he does understand it, then he stood up in the Parliament and misrepresented the position. 
Progress reported. 
I naturally do not do my own accountancy work in arriving at these figures. But my own Department has been responsible for concern with overseas shipping matters historically and it is the people within my own Department who are the specialists in this matter who furnished me with the figure which I quoted. This is a customary state of affairs, naturally, for all Ministers. I quoted the figure of a freight increase of  4i  per cent on the weighted average since 1966. I believe that figure to be right. But in the light of the point which the honourable member raises, I will feel obliged to have a scrutiny made of what other counter statement has been made and discover whether the figure I quoted does stand up. 
35-HOUR WORKING WEEK 
 Mr Speaker,  1 answered a question the other day in which I think the words 1 used might inadvertently have left a wrong impression. I was asked about the carpet in the Australian pavilion at Expo in Japan. The questioner used the term 'Australian wool carpet'. On examining my answer 1 found that I used the term 'carpet made from Australian wool'. What I was doing was extolling the value of wool as a fibre for carpet making as against synthetics. I do not wish to alter the impression that I had intended to leave. But the fact of the matter is that the wool carpet at Expo was made in Australia of wool that came from Australia, New Zealand, Britain, India and Pakistan. The great fame that Australia has as a wool growing country is in the production of apparel  wool.  Apparel wool when used exclusively in a carpet tends to felt, and it is necessary to mix some coarser imported wools with the Australian wool Wool, as a product for carpet making, stands unexcelled. 
by leave - For the information of honourable members I present the text of a trade agreement dated 21st July 1970 between the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia and the Government of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. 
This Agreement, signed by me on behalf of the Government on 21st July iti Belgrade, will come into force on the date on which the two countries notify each other that their respective constitutional and other requirements necessary to give effect to the Agreement have been complied with. The Agreement is further evidence of our efforts to diversify Australian export markets generally. Amongst other things, these efforts are designed to alleviate potential problems associated with the possible entry of Britain into the European Economic Community by broadening the basis of our trade. 
This has, of course, been the policy of the Government for many years. Australian exports to Yugoslavia in 1969-70 were in excess of $I7m and there are further export prospects in this very promising market. 
The economy of Yugoslavia is growing at a strong rate and market forces are allowed to influence purchasing decisions to an increasing extent. Australian businessmen will, therefore, be operating in a market with many familiar Western characteristics. In addition, the recent establishment of a direct Australia- Yugoslavia shipping service will be of further assistance to those exporters interested in this market. Yugoslavia is of interest not only for its market but also because of the unique status it has in relation to both the European Socialist countries and the Western countries. Whilst it has Associate status in the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance, generally referred to as COMECON, it is also a member of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, commonly known as GATT, the International Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This unusual cross-roads position gives Yugoslavia trade access to both eastern and western Europe and some triangular trade is already developing. 
Australian traders could be well advised to look into these aspects. The special position that Yugoslavia holds in relation to eastern Europe could be significant because of the potential which exists for the expansion of international trade with that area. Trade between eastern Europe and the Western countries has been expanding at about 8 per cent per annum in recent years. The area offers openings for wool and wool tops, wheat, meat, hides and skins and other raw materials, fresh, canned and dried fruit, dairy products, footwear, coal, iron ore and pellets, and other items of export interest to Australia. Trade is a twoway street and if our exports to Yugoslavia are to increase we must expect increases in imports from Yugoslavia. 
I discussed these matters in the course of my visit to Belgrade and I would anticipate that Yugoslavian exporters will make increased efforts in the Australian market. The basis of the Agreement with Yugoslavia is a simple exchange of mostfavourednation tariff treatment. Its existence is expected to benefit trade between the two countries as it gives a stable and secured basis for the expansion of mutual trade and provides a concrete indication to traders that it is the wish of the two Governments that trade be expanded. The Department of Trade and Industry stands ready to assist businessmen in their endeavour to increase trade with Yugoslavia and other countries in the area. 
by leave - Last night the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced the intention of the British Government to introduce a system of levies on the imports of a number of agricultural commodities. I received advance notice of this late on Monday. The products concerned are beef and veal, mutton and lamb, cereals and milk powders, condensed milk and cream. These products now all enter the United Kingdom free of duty as a right under our trade agreement with Britain. The Trade Agreement is terminable by 6 months notice by either side. The British say that the main objective in imposing a levy system on imports is to reduce the claims on public expenditure caused by their present subsidy system for supporting their agricultural industry. It is clear to me that this is a deliberate move to adapt their arrangements in view of their prospective membership of the European Economic Community when they would be adopting the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC. Indeed the British have said that this is one of the reasons for the introduction of the system of levies. 
I need not remind the House of my views on the variable levy system of the Common Agricultural Policy as a disruptive element in international trade. The British have asked us to join with them in talks on the commodities of interest to Australia. I have arranged for a Deputy Secretary of the Department of Trade and Industry, suitably supported, to go to London immediately to attend these talks. The British Government will introduce the new measures when their discussions with overseas suppliers have been completed. In any case the objective is to bring them into operation at least by 1st April next year. 
The British proposals have very important implications for our future trade and trading relations, so I will briefly describe them as I understand them. The British Government proposes to impose variable levies on imports of fresh, frozen and chilled beef and veal. In the case of mutton and lamb, it is the British intention to impose a specific rate of duty. The final impact of these new levies on trade will, of course, not be known until the details of the British proposals have been worked out and are in operation. In the case of cereals initially it is proposed that the present minimum import prices will be raised as soon as possible by some 25 per cent. 
Under the present arrangements any individual country which supplies wheat below the specified minimum prices attracts a levy. However, it is also now proposed by the British that on 1st July next their cereals system will be brought into line with the variable levy mechanism of the EEC Common Agricultural Policy. This will mean that all wheat landed in Britain after that date will attract a levy based on the lowest price on offer for sale in that market irrespective of the country of origin. In other words, our wheat could attract a levy as a result of the marketing policies of countries such as those in Eastern Europe, or other minor producers, which come into the market only periodically to dispose of surplus production. In the case of the powdered and condensed milks and creams, the British intend to set up minimum import prices supported by variable levies. Our present trade in these products is small but the British proposals represent a further restriction on the already difficult dairy produce market. 
There is one thing which stands out starkly when looking at the British proposals. This is that for the first time the Australian products concerned will be faced with real barriers to trade in this traditional market outlet. The British action will cut across the trade agreement that Australia has with Britain. This agreement is the very basis of the trade relations between us. Under this agreement, first negotiated in 1932 and reviewed in 1957, the British Government undertakes to give free entry to imports from Australia for these and most other products. As soon as a duty - be it fixed, as will be the case of mutton and lamb, or variable, as will be the case for the other products - is struck against imports from Australia this will be a breach of the undertaking for free entry. 
The Australian Government will be carefully studying the implications of the British proposals as we now understand them and as they are elaborated during the forthcoming talks in London. We will, of course, be taking a hard look at the balance of benefits under our trade agreement with Britain. We will assess at the appropriate time what adjustment to Australia's obligations under the agreement is required to restore the balance of advantage. I present the following paper: 
United Kingdom: Levies on Imports of Agricultural Commodities - Ministerial Statement, 28th October 1970. 
Motton (by  Mr Snedden)  proposed: 
That the Mouse take note of the paper. 
The calculations of the Department of Trade and Industry from sterling to Australian currency of the amount of the levy - in this case it is a straight out duty - which the British Government has announced it proposes to impose on Australian mutton and lamb is, I am advised, fractionally more than 3c Australia a lb. It is my belief that I stated that amount in my statement to the House. If I am wrong I invite anyone to contradict me, but I think I stated that amount. So I think that the honourable gentleman takes his policy from the front page of the 'Australian Financial Review'. This is how it is brought in. 
I told the House that ! had heard of these proposals late on Monday, when they were given to me on a confidential basis by the office of the British High Commission here and, having been given them on a confidential basis, I could not reveal them. When the British High Commission furnished me with the text of the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, I then, at the very first opportunity, came into the House and stated the attitude of the 
British Government on this matter. 1 am touched by the concern of the Leader of the Opposition for Australian rural industries, as revealed in his question. 
Last night the Leader of the Opposition made his very full and very considered policy speech, describing the attitude of the Australian Labor Party to all the problems of Australia at the momment.  His  speech included these words: 
Our 2 greatest rural industries - wool and wheat - have suffered disastrously from this lack of leadership. 
That is the policy of the Labor Party as enunciated in the full, considered policy statement of the Leader of the Opposition, and not another syllable in the whole policy speech of the Leader of the Opposition deals with the rural industries. Of course, there is not a syllable in it of constructive suggestion. It is just a backhanded slap at the Government and the Australian Country Party. 
I well remember the speech of the honourable member for Lalor; he opened by alleging that I was the harbinger of bad news. I take no offence at it. I thought it was rather gratuitous comment unless by any chance it was to be read to indicate that the honourable member for Lalor thought that if the news was bad 1 should nol communicate it to the House. I simply came in and told the facts of the situation. But what I remember best of the speech of the honourable member for Lalor is that he read out categorically the list of countries with which we had tremendously increased our trade sales - Japan, the USA and various others around the world. I interjected to say that he was telling my success story, and that is really the position. If people want to know how we have succeeded in diversifying our trade since Britain made the first attempt to join the European Common Market I commend to them the speech of the honourable member for Lalor. As to the second part of the question, I am looking forward with great enjoyment to the prospects of farming in northern Victoria. 
This is a question  -  I do not say this offensively - which clearly is calculated to gain some political advantage from a situation which I concede is troublesome to many Queensland sugar growers. It does, of course, appear to everyone to be a regrettable thing if a man, having grown a crop of cane, has to destroy some of it. But this fact has been implicit in the Queensland legislation, which has had the total approval of the Cane Growers Council and the Australian Sugar Producers Association for 20, 30 or 40 years. It is part and parcel of the industry. The sugar industry is one industry in Australia which is geared to produce for the market that is available, and it is geared and committed not to produce in excess of the market that is available. The market that is available is that which requires for home consumption some 650,000 tons of sugar, some 335,000 tons which is contracted to be sold to the British Government, and Australia's basic export quota under the International Sugar Agreement, which is of the order of 1 million tons. 
Under the Agreement it can be stored to a point. It must not be stored in excess of that point. Under that Agreement it must not even exist in excess of a certain point. The Agreement, the confidence in it and the meticulous observance of it have given to the whole international sugar world - I speak not only of producers but also of consumer countries - a confidence that sugar will not be poured on to world markets in excess of demand and that the Agreement will produce the result in sugar values that was aimed at. Some 3 years ago Australian sugar had to be sold on world markets at £St&amp;12 10s - less than lc per lb f.o.b. on the assumption, for the purpose of calculation of freight, that that sugar was in the West Indies. That price moved up, after going backwards and forwards, to £Stg17 10s a ton at the time when this Sugar Agreement was signed, and the very basis of the Sugar Agreement was that all sugar producing countries committed themselves, through Acts passed through their respective parliaments, not to supply to. world markets a greater quantity than was provided for in the Agreement. 
The outcome of this Agreement has been simply marvellous for the interests of the Queensland sugar grower and the Queensland sugar industry. It has resulted in prices of not £Stgl2 10s a ton, not £Stg 17 10s a ton but £Stg43 and £Stg44 a ton. I do not retreat from the fact that under Queensland legislation some cane shall be destroyed; on the total balance of advantage there is not the slightest doubt that scores of millions of dollars will be put into the pockets of Queensland sugar cane growers by reason of the terms of the commitment which leads to them occasionally destroying some of their cane. 
 Mr Speaker,  let me first offer my good wishes to you and thank you for the manner in which you have discharged your duties. I should like to express the thanks of myself and my Party to all those whose work enables the Parliament to function. This is the most difficult speech I have ever made in my  36  years here and I think all my friends and colleagues knew that I hoped there would be no reference to myself and that I would be allowed to pass out quietly, but they would not have it. First of all, I thank the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  very deeply for the words that he used in referring to myself and my service. I endorse completely and gladly your reference to the friendship that has developed between us and the relationship of mutual trust and respect without which a coalition government could not work, but which has developed between us and has enabled the coalition Government from that point on to work and to work successfully. I will always remember the tribute that you have paid to me. 
I am most grateful to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  for the manner in which he has spoken. He is a bonny fighter himself and we have exchanged many verbal blows in all the years we have been in this place. He might think I am uninsurable but I felt some of the hits. The thing is not to disclose it. I do appreciate the tribute the honourable member has made. I accept the explanation for the unavoidable absence of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitiam).  There is a relationship between myself and the Leader of the Opposition, and between my wife and the Leader of the Opposition, that is curious. When I first got a job in the Commonwealth Public Service at the age of  15  it was as a young clerk in the Crown Solicitor's office and my boss was Gough Whitlam's father, Fred Whitlam. And many years later when my wife, who was a stenographer in the Crown Law Department in Adelaide, came to Canberra Gough Whitlam's father was her boss. On many occasions I have been to the home of the Whitlams senior. I have been unrestrained, as was my duty and as I conceived it to be, in hitting out at the Leader of the Opposition across the table in this place as the occasion required but I have always had a little notch in the back of my mind remembering that I was unfortunately hitting at the son of a man whom I had very greatly respected. Fred Whitlam was a man who enjoyed enormous respect. 
My  Deputy,  the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony),  has spoken most generously of me and spoken on behalf of our colleagues. And Doug, I cannot express how deeply I appreciate what you have said - very deeply do I appreciate it. I thank the other honourable members who have spoken. The honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope)  explained that he was glad to have been with me and more glad to see me go. I took that in good part. I treasure the remarks of the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  who speaks always from his heart. He and I are close friends, have been for a long time and always will remain close friends. I thank you very much, Winton, for what you have said. To the Opposition Whip, the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie),  I say that I appreciated his remarks. He painted me in a very dark black - not in a light black, but in as dark a black as you could get. He turned back to the days when I sat on the other side in Opposition. I think what he said is true but I have no regrets. I thank the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  very much for his tribute and particularly, Ian, for your tribute to my wife. I thank the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  for the rather unique experience of a new member who knows little of me standing up and speaking as generously as he did. 
To ruminate for a moment, I would like to say that it is a good thing to have something to guide you. I once had the privilege of talking to Winston Churchill and he said: 'If you are going on a journey it is a good thing to have a map.' It was another way of saying: 'It is a good thing to know where you are going.' I believe I have had a guiding star. I try to believe I have observed it. It is that the first thing always is the good of the country. The good of the country is at present tremendously important. The survival of the country in the long run is absolutely dominant over every other consideration and I believe this has never been out of my mind for one moment during my political life. It has given me a guiding star. 
I have great devotion to my Party. I am tremendously proud of it and tremendously indebted to it. I have said before that all the opportunities I had arose because the Country Party allowed me to carry its brand. It was as a representative of the Country Party that I stood for Parliament, that I went into the Cabinet, that I am Deputy Prime Minister, and I am never unconscious of the fact that the Country Party is the basis of all that I am and have been. Of course, it has always been my duty and my privilege to work for the Government of which I am a member and it is quite a wonderful thing for any person to have the opportunity of being a member of a government and so have the opportunity to influence great events related to the well-being of the community or sectors of the community. Of course, I have carried the banner of the special interests and requirements of the rural industries but this has never been an exclusive responsibility; the whole well-being of the country has been in my mind at all times 
I am an extraordinarily lucky person to be able to say that not only have I known but I have worked as a Cabinet Minister with  Mr Joe  Lyons who was himself a great man; with Menzies, whom we all know was and is a great man; with Harold Holt who was a charming man and a very, very solid citizen and Prime Minister. I have said, and I repeat, that I have the privilege of serving under and working with my coalition partner, the Prime Minister, in my own Party 1 have worked with a mass of good fellows over the years and I do not attempt to mention them all. But to have worked with  Sir Earle  Page in his earlier years was to work with a man who would bear comparison with any man in the public life of Australia. He contributed greatly to it. Many will remember Artie Fadden as a great man, a great parliamentarian and a great Leader of the Country Party. I have sat in Opposition in the House in the days of the Prime Ministership of John Curtin. I do speak and ever will speak with respect for John Curtin. He came to office as Prime Minister in the blackest days of the war. He had not the advantage of having been a Minister before. He had only one man in his whole Cabinet who had been a Minister before and he had to take up the responsibilities in an hour of black crisis. He did it and he did it well. I never hesitated to recount this. Chifley was a great man too and a great man to his party. I have seen a number of Leaders of the Opposition in my day. I go back to Jim Scullin who was a magnificent debater in this place. Curtin, as Leader of the Opposition, was a magnificent debater. Chifley, although not so articulate, was certainly a very powerful man. I remember  Dr Evatt  who wore himself out working for his Party and for the causes that he sponsored. Another leader of the Labor Party was Arthur Calwell, who is a man to be relied upon implicitly and who has followed the flag of the Labor Party with absolute devotion. And now I have been sitting with the present Leader of the Opposition, Gough Whitlam. 
Through all of this I have enjoyed a most wide experience. Difficulties: Yes - there have been very great difficulties. Opportunities: Yes - there have been very great opportunities. I do not propose to ruminate on those other than to say that in my view I am a very, very lucky man to have had the opportunities that I have had. I have been very lucky to have had the opportunity to take a part in doing things which, according to my light and judgment, I have thought to be right. All I want to say of my own efforts is that I have always put the best that I have into what I have done. In the course of this long life one makes many friends. I have many friends in my own Party and in the Party of our coalition partner. My friendships are not confined to this side of the House. I have had opportunities to enjoy friendships overseas which have arisen because of my political opportunities to travel as a Minister. Twenty-four years, 25 years - whatever it is - as a Minister is a long time and I confess that recently I have found the exacting duties and the sheer physical pressures of office increasingly onerous. But there it is: One works for the nation and works for his Party to the best of his ability. 
I have worked in the field of overseas trade. I have availed myself of the opportunities I have had since 1956 of trying also to strengthen greatly the fabric of Australian manufacturing industry because here is a tremendous base of our strength - the base in which most employment is to be found and therefore the base upon which our immigration policy depends. I want to thank all of those with whom I have worked. Firstly, I thank my Cabinet colleagues. I could allow myself to start naming members of the Cabinet but I will not do so. I thank not only my Cabinet colleagues but all of the members of the Ministry. I have had great pleasure and satisfaction out of working with such fine colleagues. I have made a great many friends in my own Party of course. But enough of politics. 
Before resuming my seat I would like to comment on the very generous things said of me by honourable members. No-one can work in the fields in which I have worked without valuable advisers. I have been extraordinarily fortunate in having the benefit of  Sir Alan  Westerman, at present the head of my Department, and before him  Sir John  Crawford. They are very, very great Australians; they are 2 very able and dedicated men. We who work hard in the political field like to feel that we are dedicated. I would like to put it on record that you find nowhere dedication of a greater degree than you find in the Commonwealth Public Service. I pay this tribute to those men and to the many other officers who have been my advisers through the years. May I offer a spot of advice to Ministers and those who may become Ministers: Whenever a man comes into my room for the first time to offer me advice I say: 'If you do not tell me that I am wrong when you think I am wrong, you are no good to me as an adviser. You must press your point.' In this way you get the benefit of the total strength of the Public Service. 
Turning from the level of the great advisers, no busy Minister could carry out his duties without the benefit of a competent personal staff of secretaries and stenographers in his office. I pay a tribute to the very few people who over this long period of years have comprised my personal staff. They have served the country through me magnificently. Whatever I have been able to achieve I could not have achieved without that assistance. 
In retirement it is my intention, of course, to observe the political scene with interest. Politics is so much in my blood that it would be impossible for me not to observe the scene with interest. But I have no intention ever to think of interfering in the scene or in my Party or any other Party. I have done my piece and I go away. However, this is not to say that if my advice is ever sought I will not give it. The best advice that I can give will be available. Now, like the Roman senator of old, Cincinnatus, I return to my Sabine farm. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My words were 'Australian industry has available to it and is increasingly using the best, most up-to-date technology in the world. More than that we must strive to add original, Australian creativity, through more and deeper industrial research, development, invention and design. These things are needed to keep costs down and to enable Australia to provide its own needs and to win an increasing share of world markets by being first on the market with a new or better product'. 
The contribution to efficiency which a greater involvement in research, development, invention and design brings with it can affect prices of manufactured goods in a number of ways. It can enable improved quality and performance to be provided without an increase in price or enable increases in costs, such as wages, to be absorbed without the necessity for a rise in price. In other circumstances it may reduce the extent of the price increase which otherwise would be necessary. In other cases an actual reduction in price can be made. The Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board, in its Annual Report for 1969-70, has included (Appendix D) a range of actual examples of successful industrial research and development and resulting improvements in efficiency. For example, assembly labour costs of one firm were reduced by 30 per cent through improvements to an automated process. An item of equipment developed by a steel company for its own use costs only one-quarter of the price previously paid by the company for similar equipment. The development by another company of the use of new materials in its products has allowed price reductions of about 10 per cent despite increases in other costs. 
On 15th September the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  asked, inter alia, whether I would appoint efficient and accredited salesmen to travel overseas and continually engage in finding markets for our primary and secondary products. In outlining the role of the Trade Commissioner Service I commented that I had available figures on the publications which the Government regularly produces to bring before the notice of those in foreign countries products available from Australia and the advantage of buying from this country. I can now advise the honourable member that the Department of 
Trade and Industry conducts the trade publicity campaigns overseas which include the production and circulation of trade publications in  100  countries and  14  foreign languages. The major publications are: 
Austral News', a monthly trade promotion journal,  92,000  produced each month in 6 languages for distribution in  34  countries. 
Australian Products for Import' is a quarterly trade bulletin aimed at commercial and import circles in European and United States markets;  40,000  published quarterly in 6 languages. 
All the Best from Australia' is a commercially orientated journal circulated in the United Kingdom, lt is published  5  times yearly and is aimed at the promotion of food products to retail buyers, wholesalers, agents and the trade press. 
Australia' is a quarterly trade information journal published in  5  languages with a circulation of  50,000  in  15  countries. 
Australian Horizons' is a general trade publication to inform buyers and the general public of Australia's way of life and range of products. To date  1,250,000  copies have been produced in  1 3  languages. 
Australia's Trading Economy' is an exposition of Australia's trading and economic structure as a background to trading attitudes. Its purpose is to develop an understanding of trading policies. It is for selective distribution in government, business, industrial and trade and financial media in overseas countries. 
Manufacturing in Australia' gives an outline of Australia's capacity and performance as a manufacturer, lt is for general distribution among potential overseas buyers of manufactured products. 
Buyers Guides' are reference brochures providing information on the standards of Australian primary products. They are distributed to importers of Australian primary products in many countries. They are printed in English and foreign languages. 
Newspaper supplements are produced in conjunction with the overall promo tional programme. In  1969-70. 54  supplements were produced in  19  countries.  (Question No. 1073) Civil Aviation 
