The first thing I want to do is explain to the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  just what goes on in the House. He does not seem to be aware of. it. The Minister Assisting the Treasurer is my colleague, the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch),  who has been sitting in the House. He has not been sitting at the table simply because I was working away, as I do in the House, studiously attending to my departmental business. The Minister Assisting the Treasurer has been here right throughout the debate, taking a great deal of interest in what the honourable member for Dawson has had to say. I thought that the honourable member for Dawson would have been aware that the Minister for Immigration is also the Minister Assisting the Treasurer. He has taken a great deal of note of what the honourable member had to say and particularly the reference to the fact that next year the Australian Labor Party may take a different view entirely of the validity of the Bill. This means that, as we expected, the farmers are very unlikely to receive the assistance from the Labor Party that they have received from the Government. I just want to draw that matter to the attention of the Committee in passing. As to the terms and conditions, I will leave it to the Minister Assisting the Treasurer, who has the full authority of the Treasurer, to answer that question himself. 

 - Mr Chairman, I cannot help but be struck by one factor in this debate. I heard the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  make the claim that he raised this question in the House and that he was the first to do so. In fact he was not the first member to raise the ques tion in this House today. 1 know the honourable member likes to strut the stage but the question was first raised by his colleague, his leader in this debate, the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  It is all very nice for the honourable member for Riverina to claim credit for first raising something. I know the honourable member would like to share the credit but it was first raised by the honourable member for Dawson. I am just getting this matter in proper perspective. The honourable member for Riverina was not first. Let us be accurate about this. 
As my colleague, the Minister for Immigration and Minister assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has pointed out, the fact is that the interest rate is 5%. The Minister went on to say that he was unable - and I certainly am unable - to forecast or to project, or to tie down the Reserve Bank of Australia in any shape or fashion. It is not practicable so to do. What we propose to do is to refer this matter to the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  and get him to clarify the situation in his own words. I trust that that will satisfy the honourable member for Dawson and other honourable members who are worried about this question. 
The House may recall that last session 1 indicated that I had a Bill containing several amendments to the Electoral Act going before the Government. In view of the election, I have had to recommit the Bill to the Government. I expect it to go before the Government in the next week or two and I will keep in mind the representations made by the honourable member relating to both the mobile polling booths and the how to vote cards. Mobile polling booths are already an established fact in Queensland, Western Australia and 1 think New South Wales and no doubt the Government will consider this. 
I do not think that anybody in this Parliament could but agree with the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  when he expresses regret at the loss of life during the course of cyclone Ada. I have shared the experiences, as apparently the honourable member has, of natural phenomena, and I am not inclined to forget them. I had an experience when I was quite young where a meteorological bureau forecast coming in late had a devastating effect on my particular circumstances at that time. When I learned about cyclone Ada and the devastation that it caused I had the directors of the meteorological bureaus in Melbourne and Brisbane come here and we discussed all the details of the cyclone. I have prepared a document which demonstrates on paper the accuracy of the forecasts. I notice that the honourable member for Dawson does not challenge the accuracy of the general forecast of the bureau except in one area upon which 1 will comment in a moment. 
I think it is true to say, and it is borne out in fact, that the forecasts made by the bureau were accurate and people in the area should - and I use that word advisedly - have had plenty of warning. The honourable member for Dawson has touched on what is presently the weakness in the system. He stated strongly that the Government was not doing anything about it, but that is not true. The fact is that the Government is doing something about it. Cyclone Ada was first noticed on 5th January by the satellites. Ten days later on 15th January, we named it cyclone Ada. The satellites had covered the course of the disturbance up until that time. On 17th January between 1 a.m. and 4 a.m. the cyclone passed over an automatic weather station at Marion Reef. At 5 a.m. on 17th January the meteorological bureau issued its first public warning that there was a cyclone in the area. I can detail for the honourable member the bureau's forecasts from that time until the end of the cyclone. They show that the bureau was on top of the situation in respect to forecasting. The criticism made by the honourable member was that the bureau was unable to forecast with accuracy the velocity of the wind in the centre of the cyclone, and this is so. It was a most peculiar cyclone even in the history of cyclones in Queensland, in that it had a centre of about only 20 miles whereas a normal cyclone extends over some 100 miles. 
There was no ship within 300 miles of the area. When the cyclone was first noticed the people in the area refused to believe - and said that they did not believe - that there was a cyclone present. Reports show that people on some of the islands that were badly affected were not believing the warnings coming from the bureau right up until a few hours before the cyclone. That was one of the circumstances which made things more difficult. When the cyclone finally hit Hayman Island the people had been informed and knew of the force of the cyclone. But unfortunately there is no technical way of measuring the centre of  a  cyclone unless there is an instrument in the area over which the cyclone passes. Cyclone Ada passed right over the top of the Marion Reef automatic weather station and we received an accurate reading of the wind at that point of time. 
We experienced trouble in the honourable member's area because there was difficulty in the dissemination of information. I do not blame the Postmaster-General's Department for this, as does the honourable member for Dawson. In fact, the Postmaster General's Department did a very good job. Communications which go from the Bureau to the Postmaster-General's Department, which is our distributing authority, were all sent by telephone or by telegram. In point of fact, as this cyclone struck on a Saturday afternoon, many of the people who are employed as our local recorders were not in their normal places of duty. These are the people who normally set the alarms going in places such as Mackay. I think thai one fellow was playing bowls and the Post Office was unable to raise him. These are the difficulties which we experienced with the cyclone striking during the weekend. I have asked the Bureau specifically to deal with this problem. At the present time the bureau in Queensland is trying to make better arrangements for weekends so that there are no gaps in the dissemination of information. 
The honourable member for Dawson criticised the radio stations. It is true to say, unfortunately, that at weekends radio stations either do not answer their telephones or they do not have anyone on duty to answer their telephones. As I understand it, one radio station broadcast the Bureau's forecasts many hours after they had been made. Not only that, but a local inspector of police - and this is a very serious matter - who did not believe there was a cyclone in the area rang a radio station and asked it to add his own forecast to that of the Bureau. I think it was the local inspector of police who described it as a fleabite cyclone and said that there was no cause for alarm. This was one of the great difficulties which we experienced. A man of some substance or position in the area took it unto himself to denigrate the forecast made by the Bureau. These are the complications which arise when people who are not directly connected with the Bureau's staff put their own interpretations on fore casts. That is why the cyclone was described as being a small one. I have forgotten the other criticism which the honourable member for Dawson made. 
The right honourable member for Melbourne knows enough about life to realise that this is a very serious subject and that the honourable member for Dawson is quite right to raise it. I am trying to give the honourable member some replies to the questions he has raised. I conclude by pointing out that the Bureau's forcasts were accurate but that we experienced trouble in the dissemination of information because the cyclone struck at the weekend. The Bureau has embarked on a programme now to try to overcome this problem concerning the dissemination of information to all those people who are spotters in the area so that more accurate information is given out locally. We have a programme to strengthen the forecasting system on the Queensland coast by the provision of more automatic weather stations. Some announcements have been made regarding these stations. I do not suppose that the system will ever prove to be perfect. 
The honourable member for Dawson asks about an aeroplane. The Bureau is investigating this question, and will report to me again by the end of this month. If it submits a worthwhile and practicable proposition I will go to the Government on it. I cannot answer the other point raised by the honourable member for Dawson, but I repeat that no-one was more concerned than I was at the devastation which was caused by cyclone Ada. I join with the honourable member for Dawson in expressing sympathy to the people in the area. I repeat that the Bureau of Meteorology certainly did a great job and did its best during the course of cyclone Ada. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at  12.1  a. in. (Friday) 
As 1 understand it, reports did appear in the London Press and reappeared in the 'Northern Territory News' that the British Government was exhibiting an interest in obtaining parts of Arnhem Land for establishing a base. Now, I wish to point out to the House that, whilst the Australian Government has a very keen interest in facilitating the British staying east of Suez, immense difficulties would arise with such a proposition. In fact no proposals have been put to me as Minister for the Interior or, as T understand it, to the Minister for Defence or to the Department of Defence on such a proposition. 
The proposal is not for memorial fountains, I might point out to the honourable member,  Mr Speaker.  The proposal is for a memorial jet. It is patterned on the jet that many honourable members more fortunate than I have seen at Geneva. The cost of the operation of the jet depends on the number of hours it is functioning, but the cost per hour, when using full power, is approximately $15. The honourable member will be interested to know that the Government did consider many propositions when deciding what form the Captain Cook memorial in Canberra ought to take. 
Associated with the jet, we have a hemisphere built out of brass in a style that conveys the journey which Cook took from England to Australia. There is no point in just simply looking at the jet and saying that this is the totality of the Commonwealth's performance. I know that this has been described as the greatest bidet in the world, but the fact is that an association exists between Cook and water. AH I can say is that it will add some grace and beauty lo the city of Canberra and will delight tourists for many years to come. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2). 
House of Representatives. 
Senate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government is unlikely to consider the question of a re-distribution of the States into electoral divisions until after the next census to be taken in June 1971. 
Any disparity in the number of electors enrolled for the several electorates consequent upon a reduction in the franchise age will be considered in relation to the timing of the next redistribution. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that it is not possible to predict the result of past elections under a system of first-past-the-post voting. Any such predictions would be purely hypothetical as there is no way of knowing how electors would vole under a different system. 
Immigration  (Question No. 374)  "  Mr Scholes  asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Has a decision been made on the proposal to establish a permanent immigration office in Geelong. 
If so, when is it anticipated that this urgently needed facility will be available. 
I would like to add my tribute to that of other honourable members who have spoken. As Minister for the Interior I came into constant contact with Jim Fraser over the many problems affecting the people of the Australian Capital Territory. He exhibited a humaneness, an interest, a patience, a real understanding and genuine concern for people and for their worries. He achieved a great deal for individuals and for families in Canberra. When it was not possible to obtain satisfaction for a constituent he did not just blame the department or the Government but would patiently explain the reasons to his constituent until that person had a proper understanding. This honesty won the respect of the officers of my Department and the public of Canberra. 
Jim Fraser had a real understanding of the difficulties of administration but at the same time fought with zeal to uphold the rights of individuals and was tireless in his endeavours. He brought to the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory an invaluable local knowledge. He served the people of Canberra and their Parliament with distinction. It was for all these reasons, and for many others, that a mass of people turned up at the funeral service and lined the roadway to pay a last tribute to Jim Fraser. 
For my part, I enjoyed a rare understanding and friendship with him. I join with other honourable members in extending sympathy to  Mrs Fraser  and Andrew, to Allan and to the rest of the family in their great loss. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. I can see no justification for declaring a public holiday in the Australian Capital Territory to commemorate the two hundredth anniversary of Captain Cook's discovery of Botany Bay. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1st September 1964. 
Thirteen, located as follows: 26 Antill Street, Dickson 28 Antill Street, Dickson (telephone betting) 6 Furneaux Street, Manuka 30 Jardine Street, Kingston 44 Northborne Avenue, Canberra City 
My attention has not been drawn to a statement by Inspector Crowley relating to police behaviour at demonstrations, but I think implicit in the honourable member's question is a criticism of the Australian Capital Territory police and their behaviour at demonstrations during the visit of the Vice-President of the United States. I want to say publicly here in this House that in my view the police acted with a great deal of restraint and in fact ought to be congratulated for the restraint that they showed in the face of some provocation on the day of the visit. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In addition to the list supplied to the Honourable Member on 24 September 1968, the latest available information indicates that the citizens of the following countries or provinces under the age of 21 years have been granted the right to vote at elections: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. In order to satisfy himself whether a vote was recorded prior to the close of the poll, a Divisional Returning Officer takes cognisance of the date added to the certificate by the Authorised Witness before whom the elector records his postal vote. The Post Office date stamp is not the determining factor. 
See (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member will know that I am awaiting a report from the Director of Meteorology who is making an inquiry into the effects of the cyclone in Queensland in all its aspects. Until I get that report T do not want to make too much comment about it other than to say that the point raised about an aircraft has been raised with me before. I have been looking at the implications of this proposal. I am awaiting some further information from the Director of Meteorology before I do anything more about it. 
A lot of mis-statements have been made about holidays granted because of the visit by the Queen. The facts are that Tasmania is the only State to have granted a holiday for the purpose of the Queen's visit. New South Wales has granted a holiday to celebrate Captain Cook Day on 29th April. Victoria did not grant a holiday at all, nor has Queensland. 
As far as the Australian Capital Territory is concerned, might I say that, when the Queen comes to Canberra, the majority of events at which she will be present and which will be public will be held on a Saturday or a Sunday. It is felt, therefore, that the people of Canberra will be given ample opportunity to see the Queen while she is here. I might add one further thing: School children of the ACT are receiving a holiday because of the Queen. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My public statement on the North Queensland cyclone made on 27th January resulted from very long discussions with the Commonwealth Director of Meteorology, the Secretary of my Department and the Queensland Regional Director of Meteorology when the latter became available after Cyclone 'Ada' was spent. 
Commonwealth Departments in Bunbury, Western Australia  (Question No. 409) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no aircraft available in Australia either military or civil which are appropriately instrumented for the accurate measurement of pressure and wind in tropical cyclones or which could withstand the stresses in the extreme turbulences which they would encounter in Penetrating the cyclones. 
Meteorological Report on Cyclone 'Ada'  (Question No. 262) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Department of the Interior, Commonwealth Parliament Offices, Department of Labour and 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member for Calare has raised this question on two or three different occasions. Discussions took place with the United Arab Republic after it had intimated that it would like the war graves removed from Alexandria. A decision was taken that if the United Arab Republic was to press this point the war graves would be removed to El Alamein. It was also decided by the countries represented in the discussions that the cost of such removal should be borne by the United Arab Republic. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The meteorological radar equipment located along the North Queesland Coast was never intended to provide accurate information on the wind velocity of cyclones. In fact, no radar could ever give this information. 
The radars which have an operational effectiveness of some 100 miles and ' up to 150 miles in some circumstances, are designed to detect the extent and structure of rain clouds. Once a cyclone is within radar range, the cloud patterns are used to track its development and movement and to provide special radar warnings including: 
the location of the eye; 
the range of the spiral rain bands from the outer edge of the eye and the boundary of heavy rain; 
the direction and speed of movement over the past three hours. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: lt is not a fact that the official warnings issued by the Tropical Cyclone Warning Centre for the Eastern Australian Region in Brisbane, either before or after Hayman Island and other tourist resorts had been devastated, did not forecast winds greater than 40 to 50 knots. Indeed, continual updating of warnings in the light of data and information as it became available took place. 
The Bureau issued the first warning on Cyclone Ada' to the public at 5 a.m. on Saturday, 17th January 1970. It took into account reports received from the automatic weather station, Marion Reef, between 1 a.m. and 3 a.m. 
At 4.15 p.m. on 17th January 1970 the cyclone's position was first located by radar at the Mackay Meteorological Office, 
Following the first report of winds stronger than 60 m.p.h. from Hayman Island at II p.m., a warning of wind gusts to 80 m.p.h. was issued, 4MK Mackay being amongst the addressees. 
The next warning, issued at 5 a.m. on Sunday, f 8th January, referred to wind gusts reaching 100 m.p.h. Again, 4MK was included in the addressees. 
The P.M.G. has advised that warnings issued at 9.50 p.m. and II p.m. on Saturday, 17th January 1970 were nol cleared to 4MK Mackay because there was no answer to telephone calls from Brisbane. The last warning received from the Bureau by 4MK that night was the 7.15 p.m. issue. 
The Manager 4MK states that after 10 p.m. on Saturday he broadcast an item from Queensland radio news service which stated that wind gusts reaching 100 m.p.h. could be expected wilh the cyclone. 
The first warning received by 4MK Mackay from the Bureau on Sunday, 18th January was received al 6.20 a.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Tropical Cyclone Warning System for Queensland is based on the Bureau of Meteorology's Regional Office in Brisbane to ensure that a co-ordinated service is provided to the public, thus avoiding misleading advice. The Bureau's offices at Cairns, Townsville, Mackay, Rockhampton and Gladstone play their part in the 
Tropical Cyclone Warning System by making observations of tropical cyclones using radar and other means. The information is instantly transmitted to the Regional Office in Brisbane which analyses this information and prepares warnings which are transmitted without delay to all cyclone threatened areas. 
Cyclone 'Ada': Wind Velocity Forecasts (Question No.  261) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There were no seriously incorrect weather forecasts during Cyclone 'Ada' which resulted in boats being taken to sea and men losing their lives. Forecasts of average winds of 40 to 50 knots (46 to 57 m.p.h.) should be a sufficient deterrent for even the most hardy sailors in small boats, particularly in waters where big seas can be generated very quickly and particularly when a cyclone warning had been issued for the area. lt is understood that warnings issued by the Bureau of the existence of a cyclone and winds to strong gale force were not always disseminated quickly by recipients at certain Barrier Reef resorts who did not believe the forecasts. 
Cyclone 'Ada': Civil Defence Services (Question No.  264) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Bureau of Meteorology provides warnings of dangerous weather conditions to all relevant State authorities, including the police department, which are responsible for civil defence. Warnings regarding Cyclone 'Ada' were delivered in good time to all responsible State authorities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Department of Customs and Excise, PostmasterGeneral's Department, Department of Labour and National Service and Commonwealth Taxation Office. 
All of them. The Australian Broadcasting Commission also has studio and office accommodation in the Commonwealth Offices, Albany. 
Nil. 
CaptainJames Cook Memorial Jet  (Question No. 534) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The estimated cost of the Captain Cook Memorial Jet is $340,000. 
The estimated annual cost of operating and maintaining the Jet is $47,000. 
The cost advised In (1) includes spare parts but no auxiliary plant. There are 2 pumping units to operate the jet to a full height but the jet may be operated on 1 unit only to a height of about 300 feet. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read  a  second  time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to remove a doubt whether ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory may have extra-territorial effect. The need to remove this doubt has arisen in connection with proposals to make certain amendments to the Uniform Companies Acts, and in particular the Companies Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory. The amendments to the Companies Acts will give effect to recommendations by the Company Law Advisory Committee, consisting of  Mr Justice  Eggleston, as  Chairman, Mr J.  M. Rodd, C.B.E., and  Mr P.  C. E. Cox. This Advisory committee was appointed by, and reports to, the Standing Committee of Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General. 
The Advisory Committee has recommended amendments which, amongst other things, will require the disclosure of substantial shareholdings in companies and improve the effectiveness of the takeover code. The provisions requiring disclosure of substantial shareholdings will require a person having a beneficial interest in not less than one-tenth of the voting capital in a company listed on an Australian stock exchange to disclose that interest, thereby preventing concealment by means of nominee shareholders. The new takeover provisions will prevent circumvention of the code by means such as first come first served offers. The Company Law Advisory Committee specifically directed its attention to the need for this legislation to extend to overseas shareholders, and in paragraph 6 of its second interim report the Committee made the following statement: 
We think it is important that the legislation should be so expressed as to leave no doubt that the obligation of disclosure is intended to apply to persons resident, or companies incorporated, outside the jurisdiction, as well as to persons or corporations within the jurisdiction. 
The Standing Committee of AttorneysGeneral has decided to give effect to this recommendation and has agreed upon a draft of the proposed amending provisions. There is, however, some doubt, as the matter stands at present, whether the proposed amendments to the Companies Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory can be given an extra-territorial operation. It is desirable that this doubt should be removed so as to facilitate the making of this proposed companies legislation, and also other legislative measures that may from time to time require similar treatment in the future. The High Court of Australia has held that, as a matter of constitutional law, laws for the government of a territory can operate wherever territorially the authority of the Commonwealth runs. But there is a doubt whether, as a matter of statutory construction, the ordinancemaking power conferred by section 12 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1965 enables an ordinance to be given such an extra-territorial operation. The present power in section 12 is to make ordinances 'having the force of law in the Territory'. This Bill provides instead for a power to make ordinances 'for the peace, order and good government of the Territory'. 
The form of words proposed by the Bill is a time-honoured one. It is used in the Northern Territory (Administration) Act, Cocos (Keeling) Islands Act, Christmas Island Act, Norfolk Island Act, Papua and New Guinea Act, the Constitution Acts of the States and, in respect of specified subjects, in the Commonwealth Constitution. It has been held by the. courts to permit the making of laws having extra-territorial effect. The opportunity has been taken in the Bill to attend to one other matter of a statute law revision character. Section 11 of the principal Act, which confers certain jurisdiction on inferior courts in Jervis Bay territory, is no longer necessary because the jurisdiction is now conferred by the Court of Petty Sessions Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory. The present Bill accordingly provides for the repeal of section 11. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Daly)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Royalties are payable on all bauxite mined in accordance with the arrangements set out in Clause 3 of the Special Mineral Lease appended to the Agreement which was approved by the Northern Territory Mining (Gove Peninsula Nabalco Agreement) Ordinance 1968 and which is published as a schedule to that Ordinance. Mining of bauxite is expected to commence in 1971. 
The Aborigines Benefits Trust Fund - see section 21 of the Northern Territory (Administration) Act 1910-1969. 
Moneys standing to the credit of the Aborigines Benefits Trust Fund may be expended: 
for any purpose that (he Minister for the Interior considers to be for the benefit of - I'D Aborigines in general; 
a particular class of Aboriginal; or 
a particular Aboriginal; and 
to meet the expenses of administering the Fund. (see section 21, Northern Territory (Administration) Act 1910-1969). 
In approving grants or loans from the Fund, the Minister has the advice of a Committee, which includes live Aboriginal members. The intentions for the use of the Fund were explained in the House of Representatives on 16th September 1969, see Hansard page 1408. 
 The answer lo the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(D- 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. As the Wall Street Journal article of 9th February 1970 specifically deals with the Northern Territory,  1  assume that the Right Honourable Member's question refers to the Northern Territory. 
The position in the Northern Territory is greatly exaggerated by the article. In the Top End of the Territory, roughly north of latitude 16°, American interests hold 20 pastoral leases comprising approximately 50% of the area held under pastoral leases. Only 3 of these leases were purchased during the past 2 years, including 1 by an American immigrant who has settled in the Northern Territory. 
No. Government policy is to encourage Australian participation in developing the pastoral industry rather than on limiting overseas investment. The Crown Lands Ordi'nance provides that if an applicant for a new pastoral lease is a resident of the Territory, the Land Board shall, in making recommendations, give due weight to the fact that he is such a resident. On the other hand, the Government would 'not want to see a position created whereby the owner of a pastoral lease in the Territory who wished to sell it was prevented from doing so simply because the prospective purchaser came from overseas. 
The lease of Coolibah Station has not been transferred to the Gunn Land and' Exploration Partnership. However, it is understood that some transactions have taken place in the shares of the Coolibah Pastoral Company. 
It is understood that  Sir William  Gunn was active in the negotiations. The Northern Territory Administration has sought details of any recent share transactions concerning Coolibah Station but these have not yet been received. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Any person who, throughout the hours of polling on polling day, will not be within the Slate for which he is enrolled, may make an application for a postal vote any time after the tenth day prior to the issue of the Writ for an election, although ballot-papers cannot be issued in response to an application until after the hour of nomination. An elector outside the State for which he is enrolled who has not applied for a postal vote prior to polling day may, on polling day itself, attend personally at the office of a Divisional Returning Officer and there and then record a vote. The number of interstate electors who fail to avail themselves of the postal voting facilities before polling day and then find that they are unable to attend at the office of a Divisional Returning Officer for the purpose of voting is unknown. 
When the Commonwealth Electoral Act is next being amended, consideration will be given lo extending voting facilities so that Presiding Officers may issue voles on polling day to electors absent from the State for which they arc enrolled. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In April, 1967. 
The primary reason for the substantial period of lime taken to finalise the Land Kent and Rates (Deferment) Ordinance was the solution of a number of complex legal and technical problems involving the protection of the rights of anyone associated with the subject land. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Because of the various factors which might influence movements in enrolment statistics no accurate projection of the electoral population of each Division as at October 1972 can be made. However, the following table, which sets out the enrolment as at March 1969 and March 1970 in respect of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, Tasmania, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory and as at July 1969 and March 1970 in respect of Queensland, is indicative of the variations which have occurred during those periods and will provide some indication of possible future variations. 
I have not seen the article referred to by the Leader of the Opposition, which was apparently written by the economist of the 'Canberra Times', nor have I calculated the effect of the increased interest rate on housing loans in the Australian Capital Territory. If this can be mathematically easily done I shall endeavour to do so and shall supply the Leader of the Opposition with the figures. If, on the other hand, it is mathematically difficult, I shall have my Department turn its mind to obtaining the information. The simple fact is that the interest rates were increased and that the new rates apply only to new applications lodged after 5th May. The increased rate follows the increase in the interest rate for housing loans made by the Commonwealth Savings Bank after 1st April. 
1 am not sure about the Northern Territory. 1 shall obtain that information. 
The only information that I have about a telegram is what I read in the Press. 1 am not able to say whether a telegram has been acknowledged. I shall endeavour to discover from the Prime Ministers office whether it has been acknowledged. The Government has considered the resolution carried by the Legislative Council, but certain aspects of it are to be studied further. Until these aspects have been further studied and a report is made back to the Government I am unable to convey any decision of the Government to the Legislative Council; but I hope to be in a position to do this within the next few days. 
I am not aware of the matter that the honourable member raises. I will have a study made of it and convey the information to him. 
by leave - I have to inform honourable members that the Government has made certain decisions regarding the siting of important buildings within the parliamentary triangle. Following consideration of proposals presented by the National Capital Development Commission, Cabinet has approved the siting of the High Court and the National Art Gallery in the north eastern sector of the parliamentary triangle - that is, in the area between the Administrative Building and the lakeside. In making this decision, . the Government is satisfied that these 2 buildings have a status befitting this location within the triangle and that they would appropriately flank the open areas between the Parliament House and the lakeside. 
As a result of this decision, design studies will be put in hand for the National Art Gallery, which, as honourable members will be aware, has already been the subject of an architectural design competition. Preliminary planning will also proceed in respect of the High Court building. The timing of construction will be considered by the Government at a later stage. I present the following paper: 
High Court and National Gallery SitesMinisterial Statement, 13th May 1970  and move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Where residential accommodation for intellectually handicapped children of residents of the Australian Capital Territory is required, private centres or mental hospitals in New South Wales provide the necessary facilities depending on the individual circumstances. A social worker of the Handicapped Children's Association of the A.C.T. assists parents in making these arrangements. A subsidy to meet the salary of the social worker is provided by the Commonwealth. In the Northern Territory a hostel accommodating 10 children is attached to the Slow Learners Centre in Darwin. The more severely handicapped children in need of intensive care are accommodated in institutions in South Australia. 
The plans of the Handicapped Children's Association of the A.C.T. include the construction of a hostel at Page in the Belconnen area to accommodate twenty handicapped children up to the age of 16 years. Negotiations are being conducted between my Department and the Association on the establishment of this hostel. There is no proposal at present for additional hostel accommodation for mentally handicapped children in the Northern Territory. 
The honourable member has been very persistent in relation to this matter of electoral changes. All I can say to him is that there are about 57 Bills and ministerial statements on the notice paper. Therefore, I would need to have urgent discussions with the Leader of the House to see whether it would be possible to have the proposed electoral amendments introduced into the House and debated during this session. 
I would be prepared to convey that message to my colleague the Minister for Supply but for the fact that many of my friends living in country areas in the electorate which I represent of their own free will choose to own black cars.  V  am sure they are not soft in the head. When 1 am buying cars for use in Canberra the first thing I take into account is the economics of the deal. If a manufacturer places before me a proposition which incidentally includes the provision of air-conditioning in the car and it is an attractive proposition which means that at the end of the car's departmental life I can sell it at a higher price than I otherwise would. I am interested in the deal. The Department is buying 37 new cars and they will bc equipped with air-conditioning, lt so happens that I am making a better deal for the taxpayer in this way. 
As far as the colour is concerned, it seems to me that around the world, including every tropical country I have visited, ceremonial cars used by governments are black. The basis on which the honourable member makes his judgment that there is some advantage in not having black cars cannot altogether stand up. I am sure that people who live ia the tropics are equally as sensitive to driving conditions as people who live in the bush from where the honourable member comes. I think honourable members will agree that in Canberra we are very fortunate in having a good team of Commonwealth drivers. Having regard to the shortage of labour and the difficulty in obtaining good drivers I must consider not only passenger comfort but also the comfort of the drivers if we are to maintain a good driving force. 
 The House is debating a want of confidence motion which has been brought about by the reply of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  this morning to earlier statements made by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  on the off-shore mining legislation. The 
Opposition has moved, as an amendment to the Prime Minister's motion that the paper be noted, the following motion: 
That the following words be added to the motion: and that the Prime Minister and his Cabinet lack the confidence of the House because they failed to honour a commitment made to the States by the previous Minister for National Development, acting for and on behalf of the Commonwealth Government, that there would be further consultation with the States before the Commonwealth Government introduced any legislation on the territorial sea and continental shelf.' 
I, as Minister for the Interior, am a member of the Australian Minerals Council. I have been associated with the honourable member for Farrer at meetings of the Council for some  2i  years. I do not doubt the integrity of the honourable member for Farrer one bit. What I do doubt is his memory of the events that have taken place. I think that time and events have moved in such a way since the honourable member for Farrer was Minister for National Development that his memory of these events is clouded. For that reason I hope to prove that the Opposition motion is quite fallacious. 
The essence of the matter is as follows: In February 1969 Cabinet made a very clear decision that the Commonwealth would legislate to assert total rights over the sea bed outside the 3-mile limit. In that decision Cabinet specifically rejected a proposition in the paper brought up by the then Minister for National Development - the honourable member for Farrer - that the basis of this scheme should be the offshore oil agreement. The decision went on to request the Minister for National Development to seek to bring the States amicably to this arrangement. The Prime Minister is quite right. This is not an offer to the States; it is and always was intended to be a clear Government intention. I might say that the States reacted, as I think the honourable member for Farrer expected - I do not want to put thoughts into his mind or words into his mouth - certainly as I expected. They reacted with some display of shock and dismay. Nevertheless, they were completely and totally aware that the Commonwealth intended to legislate and in my view there never has been any misunderstanding on this vital point. 
Let us look &lt;it the other part of the decision, that is, the request to bring the States amicably to the decision, because I believe that this is the paragraph of the decision which has' created the difficulty for the honourable member for Farrer. As I have said, the States displayed shock and dismay and it was quite apparent to me that they could never come amicably to such an arrangement. They said - they made it quite clear - that they wanted to base any arrangements on the off-shore oil agreement, a basis which had been specifically rejected when discussed by Cabinet in February, prior to the March meeting, lt was certainly obvious to me - I cannot speak for the honourable member for Farrer - that there was no chance of bringing the States amicably to such an arrangement. I think the attitude of the State Ministers since that time proves that point. 
Another matter that arises is the reason for further discussions. There is no doubt in my mind that the reasons for further discussions related to the interim arrangements and the administrative arrangements to be followed during and following the legislation. The States were never given an understanding by the previous Minister that the course the Commonwealth wanted to take would not be taken. The proposition brought forward by the States at the 26th September meeting was based on the possibility of obtaining dual legislative content and a dual administrative scheme. But the former Minister must have had clearly in his mind at that time the Cabinet decision of February 1969 that the Common wealth was not interested in legislating on a similar basis for off-shore oil and had specifically rejected that proposition. 
 Let me turn now to the September meeting. Nowhere is there mention at that meeting of an understanding by one State Minister of a belief expressed that agreement was reached that the Commonwealth would not or could not legislate without further dicussions once the propositions put to the September meeting were dealt with by Cabinet. The understanding to hold further discussions given only at the March meeting and, I repeat, not repeated at the September meeting can be related therefore to administrative arrangements only. Before the September meeting, the honourable member for Farrer had this decision con firmed in a letter from the Prime Minister. It specifically said: 'Do not reassure the States that legislation will not be introduced'. As a result, the honourable member for Farrer at the September meeting of the Australian Minerals Council did not do as he had sought to do in his letter and that was to reassure the States again that the Commonwealth would not legislate. He had to know that, when the propositions of the States put in September were discussed again by Cabinet, it was likely that the Commonwealth would reaffirm its previous decision to reject the off-shore oil legislation as a basis for the new agreement. 
In my view, the honourable member for Farrer had a clear responsibility to convey the implications of the letter of the Prime Minister, written before that September meeting, to the State Ministers. If he was not prepared to do this, he, on receipt of the letter from the Prime Minister, should have gone back to the Prime Minister and informed him of any arrangements that he, the honourable member for Farrer, believed that he had entered into with the States. The fact that he did neither of these things confirms my own understanding of the events. Once Cabinet had considered the views put at the September meeting by the States as it did in February 1970 - this time with another Minister for National Development - the Commonwealth was immediately in a proper position to legislate. Further discussions, of course, can, must and will take place on the interim arrangements. So, I submit that the very point that the motion of want of confidence is based on is in these questions. There is no doubt that the position of the Commonwealth is proper and that its obligations have been met. I submit therefore to the Parliament that the Opposition's case falls to the ground. 

 Mr CONNOR (Cunningham) [2.331-  Mr Speaker,  one of the most interesting features of the debate is not just who is here or what is being said but what is happening behind the scenes. I refer to the comings and goings of different Ministers. The movements of those within Cabinet have been duly noted by the Opposition. It is particularly obvious, right now, from the absence of a considerable number of the leading members of the Government, that something is being done in some way to try to compromise the situation. Those persons believe that what the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  has suggested might be their only let-out. There are desperate messages being sent out to ensure the return of members to the Government who have absented themselves. For that reason, the Government at this stage is not prepared even to precipitate a vote. 
It is equally notable that the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon),  who has just resumed his seat, sat down very abruptly because obviously he was given the tip that something was about to happen. Events will decide whether that is so. But it would appear that something will be concocted in the nature of a suggestion that the matter be stood over for a period of 6 months. In other words, the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  the former Attorney-General, will be left high and dry. To use the vernacular the rug will be pulled right from underneath him. 
This debate was precipitated by a statement made in the Governor-General's Speech of the intention of the Government to legislate on the territorial sea and continental shelf. The debate is not one on the merits of that legislation. But it is worth noting that most vehement protests were made by the various State Ministers for Mines at the cursory, short notice given to them by the Government of its intentions to legislate. Those' protests speak for themselves. Would the various State Ministers be protesting if they had not reason to believe that the Australian Minerals Council would have been continuing its discussions in February? 
In this case, to put it in ordinary terms, it is a matter of Fairbairn versus Gorton. The honour of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and his Cabinet has been challenged. The indictment is contained in the terms of the statement made in this House on Friday last, 8th May 1970, by the honourable member for Farrer. He said: 
I was authorised by Cabinet to make an offer to the States at that meeting. 
He refers there to the meeting of 3rd March. His statement continues: 
That offer was that the States should retain control of the mineral resources of the territorial seabed, that is, from low water mark to the 3- mile mark off-shore, while the Commonwealth legislated to take over total rights outside the 3- mile limit to the edge of the continental shelf. 
The honourable member for Farrer goes on to say that he undertook to refer the counter proposals made by the States to Cabinet. He claims that he committed the Government. He did not speak as David Fairbairn. He spoke as the then Minister for National Development. 
The scathing part of his indictment is to be found in these words: 
I  flatly refuse to accept that argument  He refers there to the argument that no commitment was made. He continues: 
Has public morality in this country declined to such a degree that an agreement entered into by the Commonwealth is not binding unless it is legally enforceable? If that is the position, we have come to a pretty despicable state of affairs. Is it believed in Australia today that the word of the Commonwealth Government means nothing unless those to whom this word is given have some legal means of enforcing it? 
To back up the honourable member for Farrer, I quote the remarks of  Dr Delamothe  of Queensland. He is also a member of the Australian Mineral Council.  Dr Delamothe  said: 
There has been an arrant and,  I  believe, a considered breach of faith on the part of  the  Government. 
Who is the honourable member for Farrer? He took unprecedented action. Can it ever be said that it was not unprecedented, immediately after winning an election for a former Minister of the Crown, quite deliberately and sanely, to say that he was not prepared to serve in the same Ministry or in the same Cabinet as a victorious Prime Minister? It is unparalleled in the history of this Parliament. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of the Interior did not operate any home finance scheme in the Northern Territory 20 years ago. The Housing Commission, established in 1959, commenced its scheme in 1963. 
See table below. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Section 10 of the Representation Act 1905- 1964 specifies the procedure to be followed in ascertaining the quota for the purpose of determining the number of Members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in the several States but this Section does not apply to the Territories. Section 122 of the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act provides, in part, that the Parliament may allow the representation for any Territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit. The average enrolment for the Electoral Divisions of the States was 53,494 as at April 1970, while the enrolment for the Australian Capital Territory at that time was 64,780. The Government has not yet formally considered the division of the Australian Capital Territory into two electorates. 
The suggestion that any additional electorate for the Australian Capital Territory be named Fraser' will be carefully considered if an additional electorate is created. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) In May 1965 a Conference on Electoral Law (referred to as a 'Speaker's Conference') was established under the chairmanship of the  Speaker  of the United Kingdom House of Commons. The Conference submitted its report in February 1968. 
The New Zealand Electoral Act was amended in 1956. After the Bill to amend the Act was introduced it was referred to a Select Committee appointed for the purpose of inspecting it. This is common practice in New Zealand. There have been other minor amendments since 1956, including the 1969 amendments which reduced the franchise age from 21 years to 20 years. No special committee has been appointed in recent years to investigate the New Zealand electoral laws. 
(a) The method of voting in United Kingdom Parliamentary elections is 'first-past-the-post and the Speaker's Conference decided that there should be no change in the existing law in relation to the method of election. A new Register of Electors is compiled each year by Registration Officers sending notices to all householders requiring them to give a return of every person over 21 years of age resident in the household on a specified date. The Speaker's Conference agreed that there should continue to be one annual Register of Electors as at present. Voting is not compulsory in United Kingdom Parliamentary elections and the Speaker's Conference decided not to recommend any change in the existing law in this respect 
In New Zealand the method of voting is first-past-the-post'. Enrolment is compulsory while voting is voluntary. There has been no move to change the electoral law in respect of these matters. 
It is not proposed to amend the Commonwealth Electoral Act to bring it into line with the United Kingdom or New Zealand legislation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No report was called for. However, at my direction my Department prepared a proposal for the introduction of legislation to establish a consumer protection authority in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The recommendation is that a consumer protection organisation be established for the Territory along the lines already established in New South Wales. 
No report will be published. However, in accordance with long standing procedure I have advised the A.C.T. Advisory Council of the proposals. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Transfer criteria: 
Overcrowding (including married persons in bed-sitting room flats). 
Medical necessity. 
Hardship (transfer to lower rental accommodation). 
Tenant from dwellings located! in redevelopment areas. 
Transfer to a smaller dwelling. 
Mutual exchange between tenants. 
Transfers from one form of government housing in the Australian Capital Territory to another. 
I move. 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable the commemoration at the Australian War Memorial of all Australians whose deaths are attributable to any war or warlike operations in which Australian forces have participated. The present Australian War Memorial Act  1962-1966  does not enable the Board of Trustees of the War Memorial to commemorate non-service personnel, as section  6  of the Act states that the War Memorial established by the Australian War Memorial Act  1925  is continued in existence as a Commonwealth Memorial for Australians who have died on or as a result of active service. These existing provisions of the legislation are restrictive as they do not permit the commemoration of those Australians who served Australia either in non-service occupations related to a war or warlike operations in which Australian forces have participated or in other forces allied to Australia. 
Representations in support of the proposal were received from members of Parliament, and from merchant seamen's associations. The Board of Trustees of the War Memorial supports the amendment to the Act which will enable the commemoration, in particular, of members of the Australian Merchant Navy, civilians who served with Australian forces, Australians who served in the forces of other Commonwealth countries and Australians who served with allied forces. The form of words proposed by the Bill would amend section  6  of the Act by extending the defined purpose of the War Memorial to cover all Australians who have died in or as a result of activity connected with any war or warlike operations in which Australians have been on active service. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Daly)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are two separate Commonwealth housing assistance schemes. 
The  answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2), (3) and (4) A member of the Victorian Housing Commission was asked by my predecessor as Minister for the Interior to provide advice on economic and efficient housing administration in the Australian Capital Territory. No report was requested by or made to my Department and the Department therefore has no report to publish. As a consequence of the advice tendered by the member of the Victorian Housing Commission an Interdepartmental Committee is at present examining the best ways and means by which the government housing function can be economically and efficiently administered in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Prior to September 1961 rents of Government dwellings in the Australian Capital Territory were calculated without reference to either the bond or bank interest rates. 
From 1st September 1961 rents have been calculated on a rental formula which includes components for capital and operating costs. 
Capital cost is calculated by amortising the construction cost of a dwelling over 53 years at an interest rate which is 1% less than the long-term bond rate operating at the time of the dwelling's construction. 
This is a similar procedure to that adopted under the Commonwealth and States Housing Agreements. 
The following interest rates have been applied to amortisation of capital costs: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since the tabling in Parliament of the paper Self-Government for the Australian Capital Territory - a Preliminary Assessment' by my predecessor in May 1967, my Department has continued further investigations into matters associated wilh self-government for the Territory. 
In 1968 the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council initiated an inquiry into selfgovernment, for which I made available two officers. The Council however has not proceeded to finality in the inquiry. 
Over the last couple of years a major study has been made of municipal accounting and its possible application to Canberra. This has been a long and detailed task which will culminate in the publication this year of the municipal accounts for Canberra. 
Other aspects of possible forms of selfgovernment in Canberra have been under study and these studies are continuing. 
The answer to the honour able members question is as follows: 
Registration for bed sittingroom and onebedroom flats by single people nas suspended on 11th February 1970. 
At (hal time the waiting time for a one-bedroom flat was 62 months and for a bed sittingroom flat 53 months. These times have since increased to 67 months and 59 months respectively. The suspension will remain until the wailing times are considerably reduced. Ii is not possible at this stage to forecast how long this will be. 
, (3) and (4): 
Australian Capital Territory: SelfGovernment (Question No. 748) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A reply was forwarded to the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council on 28th January 1969 indicating that there was a lung way to go lo clarify many of the complexities involved in drawing up a broad framework of (government best suited lo the Territory. In my view it was essential thai an acceptable framework bc produced before the Government could consider the matter in principle, and I indicated to Council thai I could not approach the Government without that framework. The Government was therefore nol in a position lo direct Ministers in (he terms of the Advisory Council resolution. My view was that Council had a real and independent contribution lo make lo the question of self-government for the Territory and I suggested to Council that acceptance by the Government of the principle of self-government was not a condition precedent lo the development of an appropriate and acceptable framework. 
No. Council advised me that it had resolved in suspend any consideration of self-government issues until the end of February (1969)  or  earlier at the discretion of the  Chairman. 
See answer to question (1). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Capital Development Commission has made preliminary investigations into an extension of the proposed Molonglo River Park system, to follow the Mumimbidgee River. The N.C.D.C. has made preliminary investigations into the provision of scenic driveways to link the proposed extended park system. 
The honourable the Leader of the Opposition will be aware that an area of 11,500 acres has been set aside and is being developed as a nature reserve in the Tidbinbilla Valley, which lies in the southern portion of the Australian Capital Territory. 
The Department of the Interior at present has under consideration the establishment of a wilderness park in the Naas-Gudgenby catchment, sometimes known as the Mount Kelly area. 
These various proposals, when developed, would provide a series of major park areas which would be linked by roads running into the southern part of the Australian Capital Territory. 
The answerto the honourable member' s question is as follows: 
(a) Successive Ministers forthe Interior have exercised authority under the A.C.T. Public Parks Ordinance 1928- 1956 to declare unleased land to be a public park or recreation reserve on the following occasions: 25th October 1961 - declaration of 12 public parks. 1st December 1961 - declaration of 5 public parks or recreation reserves. 9th October 1962 - declaration of 16 public parks or recreation reserves. 12th October 1963- declaration of 17 public parks or recreation reserves. 1 0th May 1968- declaration of 13 public parks or recreation reserves. 
Trustees have been appointed to control two reserves in the A.C.T. These are the Williamsdale Recreation Reserve and the Hall Recreation Reserve. These trusts have been in existence for many years, the Williamsdale Trust for example was created by the government of New South Wales in 1904. 
The Government in November 1962 approved the use of an area in the Tidbinbilla Valley for the purpose of a reserve. 
The Tidbinbilla Nature Reserve Advisory Panel was established by the Minister for the Interior in July 1965. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The use of the lands of the Australian Capital Territory including areas set aside as reserves is governed by a wide range of Ordinances. Those which have particular application in areas set aside as reserves are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Each State is responsible for its own civil defence and emergency services. The matter of coverage for workers' compensation of volunteers engaged on civil defence work during an emergency and compensation for loss or repair of vehicles, craft, etc., is determined by the respective State Governments. 
In all States except Victoria civil defence volunteers are covered by an insurance policy which provides for payment for accidental injury and loss of income resulting from participation in organised civil defence training or operations. 
In Western Australia and Tasmania the insurance policy is extended to cover personal property. In South Australia, Queensland and New South Wales property is not covered by the policy, but in New South Wales where damage or loss of property has occurred ex gratia payments have been made in all cases to cover damage sustained. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A preliminary draft of the new conservation legislation has been prepared a'nd is at present under consideration by officers of my Department. 
No advice has been sought from the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council. However, when the terms of legislation have been drafted they will be referred to the Council for  comment. 
On various occasions in 1968, the Department sought advice concerning the proposed legislation from the Commonwealth Scientific Industrial Research Organisation, and' several scientists connected wilh the National Parks Association (A.C.T.), and the A.C.T. Branch of the Ecological Society of Australia. It is also intended to obtain the views on the draft legislation from these organisations, the Australian Academy of Science and any other A.C.T. organisation interested in this field. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought by the honourable member is set out in the table below. Returns are influenced by such factors as climate, average consumption and the proportions of different consumer classes (e.g. commercial/industrial, domestic). Without detailed knowledge about these factors it would be difficult to make valid comparisons between the returns received by the electricity undertakings in the cities listed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Total floor space occupied by the Commonwealth in Temple Court is 40,363 square feet, occupied by the Attorney-General's Department and the Minister for Education and Science. 
The total annual rental for the space is $205,356. 
The cost of the building is not known. 
It is understood that the owner of Temple Court is Lend Lease Development Pty Ltd. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. No survey has been made to establish this fact, or otherwise. 
To my knowledge no such offers have been made to me or 'to my Department. 
The report on the local milk industry by the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory has just been tabled and I propose to study this rather than set off on a new investigation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Legislative Council was informed on 26th May of the Government's response to the Council's resolution requesting the appointment of an independent person to inquire into the administrative and political arrangements for the Northern Territory. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The required information is nol held by my Department, but the following particulars have been furnished by courtesy of the National Librarian. 
There is great variety in types of ballot-papers, candidates' lists associated with the voting procedures, and the manner of voting. However, the following list includes those countries where the arrangement of lists or ballot-papers, or the method of voting, involve identification of the candidate by party. It should be noted that the information for several countries does not indicate clearly whether symbols allotted to candidates are those representing a party or whether they are symbols peculiar to that candidate. These countries are: Ghana (Gold Coast), Jamaica, Malaysia, Pakistan, Sudan and Uganda. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3). See answer to Question 949. 
1 am pleased to see that some sympathy is being extended to those honourable members who represent large electorates. The matter raised by the honourable member has been discussed from time to time. It has been brought up at different times by backbenchers on both sides of the House. The Government has given consideration to it on occasions. I will make sure that the next time the emoluments of members of Parliament are being considered this will be one of the points considered. 
The situation is that I have received a request from the Aboriginals at Roper River for land on which to commence a cattle station. I have been in touch with my colleague the Minister for Primary Industry and have secured the services of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, which will make a study of the feasibility of this proposal. When that study is completed I will get in touch with my colleague the Minister for Social Services ind Minister in Charge of 
Aboriginal Affairs about whether a capital grant is possible, and the matter will proceed for normal consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There were no building societies operating in the Australian Capital Territory 20 years ago. The first terminating society was formed in Canberra in il959 and the first permanent society in 1960. 
Of the 27 terminating societies, 20 operate with Commonwealth funds and 7 with banks funds. The 7 privately financed societies are backed by Commonwealth Guarantees under the Housing Loans Guarantee (A.C.T.) Act 1959. There are 5 permanent societies. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (The Minister for Education and Science has provided information in respect of community and private schools in the Northern Territory. Persons of part-Aboriginal descent only are not included in the figures for Aborigines except where these people normally live in Aboriginal communities. The information provided relates to the 1970 school and academic year.) 
Number of children of school age (at least 5 years and under 16 years) living in the Northern Territory: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information relating to Departments which have employed private practising surveyors during the last 10 years is set out as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (I), (2) and (3) It is not practice to disclose interdepartmental activities. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Committee recommended: 
That the Government endorse, as a basic minimum, the 5 years residential land development programme of the National Capital Development Commission, and that funds be provided to finance any acceleration of this programme found physically possible, in consonance with the provision of essential community services. 
That the aim of the Government should be to ensure that, as rapidly as possible, the supply of serviced residential sites should be brought to a level adequate to meet the needs of private builders in all categories as well as to permit a substantial increase in Government home construction for rental. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I pointed out in answer to the honourable member's previous question on this subject, it is difficult to make rigid comparisons of development costs between cities, as these costs vary accordingly to terrain, scale etc. However recent figures for broad average comparative costs of providing the services specified are given below. 
In addition to the cities for which information was previously given, data is now available from the Tasmanian Housing Department, the Campbelltown City Council (New South Wales) and the Waverly City Council (Victoria). Not all authorities which were approached for appropriate information, have been able to provide details. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
and (3) The Interim Development Orders made by the Shires of Yarrowlumla, Goodradigbee and Gunning under the Local Government Act of New South Wales, contain provisions for the Councils concerned to seek the comments of the National Capital Development Commission on a'ny proposals for subdivision or development adjoining the Federal and Barton Highways. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Several land surveys were undertaken on and adjacent to Richmond RAAF Base during 1969. 
No. 
The survey carried out in connection with RAAF future planning at RAAF base Richmond. The Department of Air has advised that there is at present no proposal by RAAF to construct  a  new runway at ihis base. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No members of the Australian Capital Territory Police Force are employed in Commonwealth Offices. 
Plain-clothes members of die Australian Capital Territory Police Force do not enter Parliament House without the knowledge of the Presiding Officers or without the authority of senior and responsible officers of the House of Representatives, the Senate, or the Joint House Department. 
Yes, four contracts are currently held by private security organisations to protect Commonwealth buildings and property in the A.C.T. 
The total cost to the Commonwealth for these services in the A.C.T. is $13,193.84 per annum. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Commonwealth Bureau of Meterorology, which at present gives information or advice on the atmospheric dispersion of pollutants, is currently co-operating with several Authorities in pollution control problems in particular areas of Australia. The scope of activities of the Bureau is at present under review and consideration is being given lo an increase in manpower and finance to enable an expansion of the Bureau's activities. 
 The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
(a) $84,370. 
$140,111 (Not finalised in respect of 1969 House of Representatives Elections). 
(2) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am unable to state the position in respect of the States. 
No prison services are provided in the Australian Capital Territory. In respect of the Northern Territory the following information is provided. 
(a) 54 male prison officers - 32 in Darwin, 22 in Alice Springs. 
4 female prison officers - 2 in Darwin, 2 in Alice Springs. 
Civilian prison staff NIL. Administrative services are provided by the Northern Territory Administration. 
(a) Expenditure on salaries, including overtime for the year ended 30th June 1969- $134,903. 
Expenditure other than salaries for the year ended 30th June 1969- 894,997. 
 At the outset I must confess at being somewhat surprised at the way the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  dealt with this very important measure. I am sure that Hansard had no difficulty in taking down his speech because if one looks at Hansard of 7th November 1968 one can trace very accurately the speech that has been made here today. 1 refer to page 2583 of Hansard of 7th November 1968. ] am doing this only to assist Hansard, of course. At the bottom left hand side of page 2583 the Leader of the Opposition is recorded as having said what he said today. He quoted accurately from that previous speech with hardly any interpolation. Perhaps I may trace his speech because it was rather garbled in its presentation on this occasion. He next quoted from page 2584. He proceeded to give a further run down. The Leader of the Opposition then swung back to page 2582 for his next little excerpt. He went then to page 2585 for the next part of his speech. 
lt proves that the Leader of the Opposition has come in here and quite glibly has recounted a speech that he made 2 years ago with a few additions, including taking a sideswipe at the answers that I have given to him over a period in reply to questions on notice.It proves also the rather insincere approach of the Leader of the Opposition to a very serious question which ought to be looked at in some depth by this Parliament.I must confess thatI have a great deal of regret at the tactics of the Leader of the Opposition, who came in here so blatantly unprepared to speak on a matter such as this. 
I spoke in 1968 when this matter was before the Parliament. I followed the Leader of the Opposition. He misled me somewhat about the policy of the Australian Labor Party on this subject. I think that I said to him at the time:I do not understand why it is that you are pressing for senators when the policy of the Australian Labor Party is to abolish the Senate'. But the Leader of the Opposition said: 'Oh, it is in the Labor Party platform'. I asked: 'ls it?' He replied: 'Yes, at page 31'. Well,I have had a look at the policy of the Australian Labor Party. I can really understand why it is that the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party has difficulty in interpreting the platform, constitution and rules of the Federal Conference of the ALP. 1 say that, having read this document which sets out the platform, constitution and rules of the Labor Party and having heard the Leader of the Opposition give an interpretation of Federal Conference policy in respect of the abolition of the Senate. It is quite clear. 
I wish to check with the Leader of the Opposition to ensure that I am dealing with the results of the last Federal Conference, because these things happen to change so frequently, and I do not want to be caught in that way. I am quoting this time from the 'Platform, Constitution and Rules' as approved by the Federal Conference in Melbourne in 1969. I am not sure whether this section has been changed, but I ask the Leader of the Opposition to bear with me if it has been changed. The position concerning the abolition of the Senate is quite clear. Referring to the amendment of the Commonwealth Constitution, section IV3 (a) (ii) uses the words:   to abolish the Senate. 
We could not get anything less ambiguous. It is perfectly direct and clear. I do not think that anybody in this House would argue about its meaning. 
When I told the Leader of the Opposition 2 years ago that I could not find provision for the appointment of senators in ALP policy, he said: 'Oh, but it is on page 31 or something like that.I read some words. I said: 'I beg your pardon. I apologise for my misunderstanding'. After I left the House on that occasion, I had a closer look at page 31. I say that the Leader of the Opposition has interpreted certain words clearly to his own advantage on this occasion, unless the words were changed at the last Federal Conference. Following the 1969 Conference the words remained the same as they were at the time of the 1968 occasion. I refer to page 33 of this document. I ask honourable members to listen to the words because a clear distinction is made. Section XXVII. sub-section 5, states: 
Full voting rights for the representative of the Northern Territory in the House of Representatives - 
That is clear; it admits that there is a member for the Northern Territory in the House of Representatives and that he ought to have full voting rights. It goes on to say:   . . and full voting rights for the representatives of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory in the Senate. 
It does not admit that the Labor Party says that there ought to be Senate candidates at all. What it says, in effect, is 'if there are senators for the Northern Territory'. I can understand why the Victorian Branch of the Labor Party has had difficulties with the Federal Executive if that is the interpretation that the Leader of the Opposition is trying to place on that section now. No doubt exists about what it means. What it suggests is not that the Australian Labor Party will make sure that there are Senate representatives for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory but that if there are Senate representatives for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory they ought to have full voting rights. One can say only that the Leader of the Opposition misled me 2 years ago. I am disappointed that that happened because I thought that he was a man of greater stature and would not want to fall to the use of those sorts of tricks. I have pointed this out because it shows the complete difficulty that the Australian Labor Party has in interpreting Federal Conference policy. 
I am delighted to know that the member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  is to make his maiden speech on this occasion when he follows me. I do wish him the best when that time comes. I know that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  is desirous of speaking.  His  name is on the list of speakers. He supports the view, which he has expressed, that has been put forward by the Leader of the Opposition. We are fully conscious that the present member for the Northern Territory has somewhat outmanoeuvred the Leader of the Opposition concerning the political advancement of the Northern Territory since he entered this House. I know that the people of the Northern Territory are delighted to have him here; they returned him with a resounding victory as recently as last October. 
wish to deal with this question at some length. I do not wish to deal with it glibly or slickly. I believe that it is a question of some importance that ought to be dealt with in some depth and that I should take some time about it. I trust that the Leader of the Opposition will rest with patience while he listens to me. I have done a great deal of work on the subject, because the question is very important. It bears heavily on quite a few matters relating to CommonwealthState relations and also the Senate and the House of Representatives. 
I wish to say something about the Commonwealth Constitution and the Senate in the fi rst place. Section 7 of the Constitution provides: 
The Senate shall be composed of senators for each State, directly chosen by the people of the State. . . . 
The Constitution provides further that, initially, there should be 6 senators for each original State but, by virtue of section 7, the Parliament may make laws increasing or diminishing the number of senators for each State but so that equal representation of the several original States shall be maintained and that no original State shall have less than 6 senators. The Senate is probably the most important federal feature of the Constitution in the sense of uniting several co-equal political communities under a common system of government. It is not only a House of review, as it has often been termed, but also a chamber in which the States, as separate entities, are endowed with a parity of representation designed to enable them at the legislative stage to protect those rights reserved for the States. The composition of the Senate provides a visible demonstration of the independence and autonomy of the States, together forming an integral part of the federal union. Thus it may be said that, although the senators for a State are chosen by the people of that State, representation in the Senate is based upon representation of the States, not numbers of people. 
As I have indicated already, the functions of the Senate are basically of a dual nature - firstly, as a House of revision and review in general legislation matters and, secondly, as a guardian of the interests and rights of the States. A principle of representation in the Senate is therefore State representation. In the Senate chamber of the Federal Parliament, each of the States, although not equal in territory or population, maintains its political status and relative equality. The Constitution ensures this equality in respect of the original States. Honourable members will know that an original State is defined as a State which was part of the Commonwealth at its establishment. 
By virtue of section 121 of the Constitution, the Federal Parliament: 
may admit to the Commonwealth or establish new States, and may upon such admission or establishment make or impose such terms and conditions, including the extent of representation in either House of the Parliament, as it thinks fit. 
It is a particular point of interest to note that, while an original State has a constitutional right to equal representation in the Senate, such right need not necessarily be conceded to any new States, thus indicating that the system is based upon maintaining the status of the original States as a condition precedent to the establishment of the Commonwealth. The admission of any new States and representation for them is accordingly unhampered by considerations of equality with the original States. 
I now turn for a moment to the constitutional provisions in respect of Territory representation. Pursuant to section 122 of the Constitution, the Commonwealth Parliament may make laws for the government of any territory surrendered by any State to and accepted by the Commonwealth, or of any territory placed by the Queen under the authority of and accepted by the Commonwealth, or otherwise acquired by the Commonwealth, and may allow the representation of such territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent, and on the terms, which it thinks fit. Any such representation accorded is Territorial representation, not representation as a State. Honourable members will have noted the difference in terminology between sections 121 and 122 of the Constitution. 
Section 121, dealing with new States, provides: 
The Parliament may upon admission or establishment of a new Stale, make or impose such terms and conditions, including the extent of representation in either House of the Parliament, as it thinks fit. 
This wording appears to recognise that representation in the Parliament is a natura] corollary of the formation crf a new State. On the other hand, section 122 dealing with the Government of Territories, by use of the words 'may allow representation of such Territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit* indicates that the Parliament may not only determine to what extent, if any, a Territory will be represented but also determine - at least in some degree - the character of such representation. Accordingly, in the case of a Territory it seems clear that the Parliament may, if it thinks fit, allow representation in the Senate by a representative or representatives who, although able to take their places and speak in the chamber, would not be senators in the true sense or be entitled to vote, except perhaps in a restricted way. 
Alternatively, the Parliament may, of course, under the provisions of section 122 allow Territory representation in the Senate by senators with full voting rights but the number of such representatives is wholly within the discretion of the Parliament. In this connection honourable members may be interested to hear extracts from the National Australasian Convention debates in Adelaide on 20th April 1897 where the Constitution was being framed. The speakers were dealing with an amendment which had been moved by  Sir Edward  Braddon, Premier of Tasmania, to the effect that Territory representation in the Parliament should be in accordance with the ratio of representation provided in the Constitution - that is, for the States. Those who spoke on this issue were  Mr W.  McMillan, M.L.A. for New South Wales;  Mr Alfred  Deakin, M.L.A. for Victoria;  Mr N.  J. Brown, M.H.A. for Tasmania;  Mr Edmund  Barton, Q.C., M.L.C. for New South Wales; and  Sir Edward  Braddon. Finally the proposition was defeated. 
I will now refer briefly to a further section of the Constitution which perhaps should be considered in conjunction with this Bill. I refer to section 24 which reads: 
The House of Representatives shall be composed of members directly chosen by the people of the Commonwealth and the number of such members shall be, as nearly as practicable, twice the number of senators. 
The Bill before the House seeks to increase the number of senators by 4, making a total of 64 senators in all. In accordance with section 10 of the Representation Act the Chief Electoral Officer is required to determine the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in the several States in the following manner: A quota is ascertained by dividing the number of the people of the Commonwealth as shown in the certificate of the Chief Electoral Officer, prepared in accordance with the Representation Act, by twice the number of senators. The number of members chosen in each State is, subject to the provision of the Constitution - which incidentally requires a minimum of 5 members for each original State - determined by dividing the number of people in the State as shown in the certificcate by the quota. If on such division there is a remainder, as there invariably is, one more member shall be chosen in that State. Where this results in an alteration in the number of members for any State, such shall take effect for any general election after a redistribution. 
In practice, at the present time, this involves dividing the combined population of the 6 States by 120 - that is, twice the number of senators for the States - to obtain the quota and it is probable that the same would apply even if senatorial representation for the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory was provided. This being so, the addition of Territory senators should not affect representation in the House of Representatives for the States. 
Although I have indicated that Senate representation is based upon representation of the States rather than the number of people in each State I will, for the purposes of comparison, now give the electoral population of each State and Territory on the latest available figures and at the same time indicate the average number of electors per senator in each State. They are as follows: 
New South Wales - 2,468,181 electors. 
Average number of electors per senator- 246,818. 
Victoria - 1,852,332 electors. 
Average number of electors per senator- 185,233. 
Queensland - 958,795 electors. 
Average number of electors per senator- 95,880. 
South Australia - 641,061 electors. 
Average number of electors per senator - 64,106. 
Western Australia - 496,595 electors. 
Average number of electors per senator - 49,660. 
Tasmania - 212,620 electors. 
Average number of electors per senator - 21,262. 
Australian Capital Territory - 65,385 electors. 
Northern Territory - 22,953 electors. 
While the electoral population of the Australian Capital Territory is appreciably below the average number of electors per senator for the Commonwealth, namely 110,493, it is in excess of the average per senator in South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. The electoral population of the Northern Territory is higher than the average per senator in Tasmania. However, it may be argued that Tasmania has 5 members of the House of Representatives as compared with 1 each for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. Perhaps therefore it will be of interest to have a look at the proportion of Federal representatives to electoral population in the States and Territories. New South Wales has 45 members of the House of Representatives and 10 senators making a total of 55 Federal representatives for an electoral population of 2,468,181. The ratio is therefore 1 member of this Parliament to 44,876 electors. Similarly, the ratio in each other State is: 
Victoria- 1 :  42,098 
Queensland - 1 : 34,243 
South Australia- 1 :  29,139 
Western Australia - 1 :  26,137 
Tasmania - 1 : 14,175 
In total the proportion of Federal representatives for the States - 183 - to electoral population of the States - 6,629,584 - is 1 :  36,227. If these figures were a basis for gauging representation for the Territories, the Australian Capital Territory with 65,385 electors would be entitled to 2 representatives in the Parliament. During the past 10 years the annual enrolment increase in the Australian Capital Territory has been in the nature of 10.5% per annum. During the twelve months from 1st August 1969 to 31st July 1970 enrolment in the Australian Capital Territory increased by 6,981. These figures do not bear out the clairThe Leader of the Opposition regarding ties in housing and other thingsinAustralian Capital Territory. lt was interesting to hear him quote figures for the Northern Territory and claim that it compares badly with the Australian Capital Territory. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)As it is now 2 hours passed the time fixed for the meeting of the House the debate on the motion is interrupted. 
Motion (by  Mr Nixon)  agreed to: 
That the lime for the discussion of notices be  extended  to 12.45 p.m. 
Might 1 interpose,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to say that no objection will be raised to a further extension at 12.45 p.m. The Leader of the Opposition cited some figures in relation to housing in the Northern Territory. I think he said that there was a delay of 15 months in the provision of a house and a delay of 9 months in provision of a flat, and he went on to say how badly the caravan capital of Darwin compared with the Australian Capital Territory. I know that people in the Australian Capital Territory have the advantage of good terms for housing when they can obtain it but they have to wait for up to 32 months for a house. The Leader of the Opposition may be interested to know, if he has not already read of this in the newspapers - he was away for several weeks enjoying a well earned trip overseas and returned just in time for the meeting of the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party so he probably missed the announcement- 
1 am not referring so much to the Minister as to what is being done for the people of the Northern Territory. I thought the honourable gentleman might be interested in keeping up his reading on matters of that nature. So that he will not miss out entirely on the information I inform him that the Government has approved projects worth $22m which are now before the Public Works Committee, I think, on housing, water supply and the provision of land in both Darwin and Alice Springs. I am sure that will delight the Leader of the Opposition. 
It shows that the efforts of my colleague the honourable member for the Northern Territory,  Mr Calder,  have borne fruit. During the 12 months from 1st August 1969 to the end of July 1970, as I said earlier, enrolment in the Australian Capital Territory increased by 6,981 and if the trend continues - there is no apparent reason to assume that it will not, in fact planning shows that it will - it can be expected that enrolment in the Australian Capital Territory will be in excess of 80,000 by December 1972. 
The electoral population of the Northern Territory is also increasing rapidly. The Leader of the Opposition will realise that this is because of the dynamic policies of the Government in encouraging the development of industry, mining, agriculture and the like in the Northern Territory. During the past 8 years the annual increase in the number of electors has averaged about 8%, and the projected enrolment of the Northern Territory as at December 1972 is about 29,000. If electoral population were the controlling criterion it could be argued that the Northern Territory, with about 23,000 electors at present, has adequate representation. Of course one has to add the qualification that with such good representation as the Northern Territory has at present in the honourable member for the Northern Territory, that statement is even more justified. I hasten to add, however, that the continuing growth of Darwin and Alice Springs, together with other important developmental projects in the Northern Territory, encouraged very much by the Government, indicate that the Territory comprising an area of 520,280 square miles has a substantial future in its own right and, together with the other northern parts of Australia, must be further developed and populated. 
We are constantly aware of the changing situation in the Northern Territory and recognise that as population growth and development continue in the future there will be need for increased representation in the Parliament. I will have been Minister for the Interior for 3 years on 1 6th October and I have been Minister in charge of the Northern Territory since February 1968. I can remember that pretty well every session there has been an urgency motion - certainly many questions were asked - about northern development. Despite the number of questions that the research team of the Leader of the Opposition put on the notice paper for me to answer I do not recall either myself or the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  who has a great responsibility in this, having been overly embarrassed by thosethings in latter years. That is an interesting point and I make it because it shows how successful the Government's polities in this regard must have been. 
If the Leader of the Opposition has a question I will take it up with him later. My time is my own. lt could be argued that if additional representation were being provided for either or both of the Territories it would be more just to provide such additional representation in the House of Representatives. The granting of representation in the Senate for the Territories could result in the case of a fairly evenly divided Senate, in Territory senators holding the balance of power. If that situation eventuated it might be claimed that the concept of the Senate as a House of review and guardian of the States rights had been thwarted, to some extent at least. The 6 States which first formed the Commonwealth may well hold a view on this matter, and indeed the people of the States might regard the election of Territory senators as a move by the Commonwealth to change the balance of power in the Senate. 
Effective and balanced Senate representation is a constitutional right of each original State. Honourable members will know that State rights provided by the Constitution have always been carefully preserved by each of the 6 States. Accordingly there might well be opposition by the people of the States to any situation in which their effective representation in the Senate could be diminished by minority Territory senators holding a disproportionate influence at the voting stage.I think the House would agree that having regard to the sensitivity of the States in these matters the people of the States would at least want to hold a discussion to see whether they agreed with the change in the balance in the Senate at this time. 
A further question which therefore might be a consideration is whether the granting of fragmentary Senate representation to Commonwealth Territories would effect an improvement in our system of government or, for that matter, provide the most satisfactory representation for the electors of the Territories. The election of senators is based upon a system of rotational retirement which preserves a measure of continuity in representation, and it may not be desirable to vary this practice specifically to meet the case of a Commonwealth Territory. On the other hand, of course, the principle of election under proportional representation as it is applied to Senate elections could be frustrated if provision were made for 2 Territory senators retiring on a rotational basis, thus necessitating the election ofI senator for each Territory at each election. 
The Leader of the Opposition is right. He leaves that open. I appreciate that, but surely he would not suggest that 2 senators should go out every 3 years. 
ThenI must confess that I would regard them as being second class senators. Every other senator faces a term of 6 years to provide continuity of representation yet the Leader of the Opposition is asking for Territory senators to go out every 3 years. He is classing them already as second class senators, and I think that they would object strongly to that. These are all matters which must be carefully considered and weighed before any decision is taken. Honourable members will be fully aware of publicity which has been given to suggestions for an additional member of the House of Representatives for the Australian Capital Territory. The proposition that the time is not appropriate to introduce senatorial representation by way of 2 senators for each Territory and that additional representation in the House of Representatives should be the first step is not without some justification. Certainly when one has regard to the rapidly expanding electoral population of the Australian Capital Territory it appears that the time is fast approaching when some additional representation for this Territory may be justified on the basis of the number of electors involved. 
I would now like to say a few words about the 1-vote 1 -value doctrine that we have heard so much about in the past, from the Leader of the Opposition and others, when it suits the occasion. It is quite apparent that today is not such an occasion. It does not suit the occasion today so we do not hear about it. It is a matter of changing one's clothes to suit the weather. Earlier in my remarks I gave to the House figures in relation to the average number of electors per senators in each State and the proportion of Federal representatives to electoral population. Let me repeat just a few of these figures to demonstrate once again that Senate representation has no regard to the 1-vote 1 -value doctrine. How could it when we have an equal number of senators for States but a considerable variance in the population between States? 
If the Leader of the Opposition had brought in a Bill that follows the Labor policy to abolish the Senate I would have had some sympathy for him. But when he brings in a Bill to provide senators for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory and it does not follow clearly and precisely what the Labor Federal Executive says is Labor policy in respect of the Senate, I have no sympathy for him on that score alone. I have less sympathy for him when he makes a speech now by reading from Hansard the speech he made 2 years ago. The average number of electors per senator in Tasmania is 21,262; yet in New South Wales the average is 246,818, or nearly 12 times as many. Again, let us look at the proportion of Federal representatives to electoral population in the States. In New South Wales with 2,468,181 electors there are 45 members of the House of Representatives and 10 senators. That is, 1 Federal representative for each 44,876 electors on an average. In Tasmania the proportion is 1 to 14,175. If there were 2 senators each for the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory in addition to the present member of the House of Representatives for each such Territory, the proportion of representatives to electoral population on the latest enrolment figures would be 1 to 21,795 in the Australian Capital Territory and 1 to 7,651 in the Northern Territory. Surely no-one would seriously suggest that these figures reflect the sacred cow policy of the Australian Labor Party of a 1-vote 1-value. Nor do I suggest that they should. I reiterate that the Senate is based on equal representation for the States and while ever that situation obtains there can be no good grounds for arguing about the value of votes between States in Senate elections. 
While no formal decision has been taken in the matter it can be said that the Government, bearing in mind the provisions of section 122 of the Constitution, favours the principle of providing representation for a Territory commensurate with its development and its population growth, but it considers that the present time is not appropriate to introduce senatorial representation for each Territory as proposed by the Bill. 
The Leader of the Opposition has challenged me because on the last occasion this subject was debated, in 1968, I do not think I had time actually to reach that conclusion. The Government believes that we may well have reached the time when there is a need for extra representation for the Australian Capital Territory. I trust that if the Leader of the Opposition brings in such a Bill again he will do himself better justice and he might well have a look at the words I have offered today as a basis for consideration. I think it is true to say that when I last spoke on a similar measure to this 2 years ago I did not have time to reach that conclusion. Similarly the Leader of the Opposition teased - I think that is a polite word to use - the honourable member for the Northern Territory who did not get a chance to speak on the previous Bill. As I said earlier the honourable member for the Northern Territory in my presence on a public platform in Darwin proposed this proposition long before the Leader of the Opposition ever brought into the House a Bill dealing with this matter. The honourable member's position is quite clear. He has heard my speech and he understands the reasons why the Government cannot proceed at this time. 
by leave - Replying to the last part of the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  I take first the point that he has registered and accept the fact that he may have misunderstood me. I appreciate his position in relation to that technical explanation. Insofar as the honourable member for the Northern Territory is concerned, I wish to say that he has explained his position quite freely and frankly about wanting senatorial representation for the Northern Territory. 
This is in relation to the amendment. During my speech I referred to the fact that on a public platform and in my presence the honourable member for the Northern Territory advocated senatorial representation for that territory. The Leader of the Opposition referred to the fact that the business of the House has been delayed today because of the presentation of a large number of petitions. The business of the House is such that, following discussions, the honourable member for the Northern Territory agreed not to press his wish to speak on this matter. I agree not to accuse the Leader of the Opposition on future occasions of teasing the honourable member for the Northern Territory, too. I accept the charge that I have done so. I appreciate the fact that the Leader of the Opposition has been generous enough to give the honourable member for the Northern Territory an opportunity to participate in this debate. The honourable member wished to speak but because of the pressure of the business of the House he agreed not to speak on this occasion. 
A photographer from the scientific branch of the police force was assigned to photograph a union march organised from Garema Place to Parliament House on Tuesday. Coincidentally with that, as the House will be aware, there was a demonstration of pensioners outside Parliament House. The photographer was not. specifically assigned to photograph the pensioners at all. He was assigned to photograph an organised march by the unionists who were campaigning against rising costs. The practice followed in the Australian Capital Territory in this regard is the practice followed by all State police forces. It comes out of court cases where defence counsel on previous occasions have used photographs and films to assist their cause. The police have found themselves in the position of having unofficial photographs being used to support the case of the defendants, and they therefore adopted the practice in their own defence of taking photographs themselves. I do not believe that reasonable people would object to the practice because the police have the responsibility to maintain law and order. They have the responsibility to care for people and their property.I might say that police in the Australian Capital Territory carry out this duty with a great deal of credit to themselves and to the force generally. I do not believe that people would object to the use of photographers. There is the old saying that the camera does not lie. There is no reason at all why people would object to seeing photographs of a demonstration if a court case ensues following a march. 
There would be no difficulty at all in relation to the enrolment of 18, 19 and 20 year-olds in the States which run their own rolls. The Commonwealth and several of the States do have joint rolls. I take it that it is to this part of the administrative problem which the Leader of the Opposition has turned his mind. As the Leader of the Opposition rightly said, the Commonwealth has made no decision in this matter. So far as the administration of the rolls is concerned, there would need to be an approach by the State governments to the Commonwealth to include 18, 19 or 20 year olds on the roll. 
I think only practice will find out. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Committee recommended that steps now be taken for the establishment of the following institutions in Canberra: 
A National Art Gallery. 
A School of Fine Art for the training of artists, the intention being that the Government should so endow the school to enable scholarships to be awarded to the most promising art students throughout Australia each year, 
A National Theatre, for presentation of drama, 
A School of Drama, established along similar lines to the School of Fine Art, 
A Conservatorium of Music, 
An Opera House, which should also be suitable for the presentation of ballet, 
A National Museum, and that appropriate sites be immediately chosen and reserved lor the various buildings that may be required in connexion with these establishments, and that special consideration be given to the site originally selected by Griffin for some of these institutions. 
In 1967, the Government authorised planning and design of the Australian National Gallery to proceed. In 1968 an Interim Council was appointed and an architect selected as a result of a design competition. A site for the Gallery was approved in April 1970, and planning and design is proceeding. Although no 'National' Theatre has been established, Canberra Theatre Centre, which was completed in 1965, was constructed on the authority of the Government and with Government funds. A Conservatorium of Music as such has not been established in Canberra. However, the Canberra School of Music commenced operations in August, 1965. 
In the planning of Canberra, special consideration is given to the siting of buildings of national significance, including those which would house institutions such as the ones mentioned in the Senate Committee 'Report. Space is available in the Central Area of Canberra, including the area selected by Walter 'Burley Griffin for the eventual location of such buildings. The timing of the provision of these institutions will be determined in the light of budgetary considerations, and the competing requirements for other buildings of national significance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The General Plan Concept which has been prepared by the Commission has taken into account advice sought from its consultant, Alan M. Voorhees and Associates. 
Yes. 
The extensions to the Russell offices are required to be located in close proximity to the existing complex. The integrated Campbell Park/Russell Defence complex will draw staff from the whole of the Canberra residential area. 
The estimated cost of roads and services to the planned area within which the Campbell Park offices are being constructed is $160,000. It is considered that the road system will adequately cater for the additional traffic. 
Answering the last part of the honourable member's question first, no, he cannot look forward to an early announcement that the Gurindji people will be granted land, because it is not Government policy to recognise traditional land rights. As for the first part of the question, the Vestey company has no jurisdiction over the allocation of land. It is the lessee of the land at Wattie Creek. Unfortunately the company seems to have become the meat in the sandwich. It is being used, quite unfairly, by Frank Hardy and other demonstrators. The Vestey company is the legal lessee of the land. The only way in which the land can be subdivided is for it to come back into Government hands. The Government alone can make a subdivision or an allocation of the land. Vesteys has no jursidiction to grant land directly to anybody. In other words control of the land lies with the Government. 
The Bureau of Agricultural Economics is making 2 studies for the Northern Territory Administration in respect of the establishment of cattle properties, one being at Roper River and the other further north in Arnhem Land. As to the proposition that the Gurindjis may establish cattle mustering teams, this has been considered. The facts are that in this modern age pastoral properties are doing more subdivisional fencing and, as time goes by, are using cattle mustering contractors to a lesser degree. So far as the Gurindjis are concerned, it is apparent that there are no opportuites available in the area for contract cattle mustering. The Government made it clear when this question was first decided that if cattle mustering were a practicable proposition help and consideration would be given to it. 
I am not at all sure of the reasons for the delay. I rather suspect that it had something to do with the activities of the New South Wales Government which had to nominate a senator. I will look at the question and give the Leader of the Opposition a considered reply. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2)- 
I certainly welcome the discovery of this bonanza of uranium in the Northern Territory. The discovery will mean a great deal to Australia in the first place and will certainly mean a great deal to the Northern Territory in terms of development and growth. The honourable member may know that an authority to prospect has to be granted before exploration may commence. This takes care of the concern of Aboriginals that people might march around their sacred areas. Indeed, an officer of my Department made a trip to this area to designate certain areas as sacred sites. Following the announcement of the discovery an officer has again gone to the area to confirm the sacred sites so that they may be declared as such under the Sacred Sites Ordinance. As far as revenue is concerned, double the amount of royalty will be paid  as  a result of the mine being found on an Aboriginal reserve. The royalties will go into the Aboriginal Benefits Trust Fund. Money from this fund is spent not only for the benefit of Aboriginals in the area of the discovery but also on community projects, small industries and the like which will benefit Aboriginals throughout the Northern Territory as a whole. I believe the Aboriginals will welcome the influx of this further revenue which will assist them in the establishment of their industries. I might say in passing that I read in a newspaper that Queensland Mines Ltd which has made this discovery has already stated that it will make every endeavour to find employment for Aboriginals in the area. I believe it said that it hoped to make sure that the Aboriginals were properly protected in the development of this mine. 
, other than to say that towards the end of my speechI will deal with some points he has raised. I will deal now with only one or two matters. It is quite obvious on the subject of wool marketing that the difference between the Opposition and the Government is that the Government has the responsibility for bringing into thisHouse legislation that will affect the lives and livelihood of wool growers into the future. The Government will bring in such legislation when it has fully tested and examined the possibilities and prospects of a changed wool marketing authority and not before. It will certainly not be hammered into this action by the emotive speech of the honourable member for Dawson. The Government will not - it would seem after listening to the honourable member for Dawson that he would - desert the farmers in their hour of need by making great emotive speeches and doing nothing to help them. The honourable member for Dawson even had the nerve to talk about rising costs. He is a member of the Labor Party and supported his Leader when  Mr Hawke  led the nation out the other day in another of his 634 strikes in 3 months. This is where our rising costs are coming from. If they are coming from any one single area they are coming from the flow on of costs caused by strikes and other disruptive action caused by  Mr Hawke  and supported by the Labor Party. 
I want to turn my attention to a matter that has been causing the Government a great deal of concern. There has been a good deal of misunderstanding throughout the community about it. It relates to the Aboriginal people at Wattie Creek in the Northern Territory. The picture most frequently presented is of a valiant band of people, united by tribal ties, fighting the all powerful Government and influential vested interests for the right to establish themselves in an area of land to which they have some tribal attachment deeply rooted in their ancient history. If they could only get title to this land, they would establish a flourishing enterprise, restore their dignity and confidence, and move forward to a glowing future. This picture is a misleading one. I am not going to suggest for one minute that I am satisfied with the conditions of the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory or that nothing more needs to be done for them, or that the wishes of the people themselves should or can be left out of account. But I do urge that the House and those many people in Australia who feel a genuine concern should resist the attraction of the easy way out. 
The Government believes that it is wholly wrong to encourage Aboriginals to think that because their ancestors have had a long association with a particular piece of land, Aboriginals of the present day have the right to demand ownership of it. There is the question whether establishing the principle that Aboriginals who can show some association with a piece of land and want to have it should be entitled to it as of right, is a help or a hindrance in achieving the best possible future for the Aboriginals and for all Australians. The Government believes that it would be a hindrance and no help. This does not mean that Aboriginals cannot own land. They can, and do. But the Government believes they should secure land ownership under the system that applied to the Australian community and not outside it. 
What future do we see for Aboriginals. There are perhaps 80,000 to 100,000 people in Australia who look on themselves as Aboriginals. There are 124 million Australians. It is impractical to imagine that we can put the clock back so that the Aboriginals can remain untouched by the immigrant civilization. They themselves want many things a material civilization provides, and have been increasingly drawn into contact with the wider society. All Governments in Australia reject the thought of 2 separate societies in Australia. The Government's aims are directed at helping the Aboriginal people to take their place in a single society, at the highest level of skill and attainment within their capacity and desires. This does not mean forcing our way of life on them, or trying to stamp out their culture. But it does mean making sure that economic opportunities and social and educational measures are available and that encouragement is given to people to move from the fringes of society to enjoy on equal terms the mainstream of Australian life. 
Would granting land at Wattie Creek assist the people who are living there towards this objective? lt might if, as sometimes seems to be inferred, possession of a land title somehow transforms people's personality and instantly develops in them initiaitve, confidence and capacity to advance themselves socially and economically. In practice, a land title of itself has no such magic effect. Experience in other countries where there has been a system of customary land ownership which has been recognised by the introduced legal system is that this recognition does not of itself solve problems of social, economic and cultural change, and sometimes hinders solutions. In Papua and New Guinea the complications o£ customary land ownership have been frequently referred to as one of the major inhibiting factors in economic development. The younger more progressive people are anxious to plant commercial crops, but the complexities of a communal land holding system frequently mean that the person who shows the initiative and makes the effort is not assured of receiving the reward. I found in discussions I had in Canada last year that the land rights which were accorded to the Indian bands there had had the effect, in practice, of encouraging divisions between the Indian people and the wider Canadian community. 
Measures which are based on racial qualification are divisive in any community. It is important for Australia's future that we work towards minimising race consciousness and avoid steps which tend to emphasise divisions on a racial basis. Of course, where there is need for special educational, social or economic measures to help a section of the community which requires assistance, appropriate assistance should be provided. In this sense a grant of land might assist the people at Wattie Creek if there were an economic activity which the people could carry on as thenown. Cattle is one possibility mentioned, and an area of SOO square miles has been referred to. The smallest cattle properties in that region cover about 1,000 to 1,500 square miles of land, with herd sizes of 2,000 to 3,000 head. To establish such a property as a new enterprise would involve capital investment of the order of $300,000, on which a very low return could be expected and it would provide a living only for one owner-operator and one full-time employee. 
Numbers camping at Wattie Creek vary considerably. In the stand-down on the cattle stations during the wet seasons numbers of people go to Wattie Creek from the stations. There is also movement between Wattie Creek and the Wave Hill welfare settlement. Those with a continuous attachment to Wattie Creek seem to number from IS to 20 men and their wives and children. Some of the men are beyond working age. All the public emphasis has been on the people at Wattie Creek. But there are no sharp, distinctions between the communities at Wattie Creek and Wave Hill which would warrant those at Wattie Creek being given preference in an economic project to the exclusion of those at Wave Hill. An unknown factor is how many people might be attracted to move permanently from employment on the surrounding cattle properties to Wattie Creek if a cattle project for the Aboriginal people were started there, ft is quite fanciful to think that a cattle property of 500 square miles in that country could support an Aboriginal community at Wattie Creek at a reasonable standard of living. Government measures for Aboriginals are sometimes criticised as demoralising hand-outs. Yet the people at Wattie Creek have been living almost entirely on handouts. A cattle property of 500 square miles would not eliminate this. 
Another possibility of economic activity which has been mentioned is contract cattle mustering teams. A team employing, say, 25 people would need 200 horses requiring 20 square miles of land. Capital investment is estimated at about $42,000 with an operational budget each year of about $63,000, based on an average return to the participants of $2,000 each, or less than they earn now as employees on cattle stations. The Government is not opposed to such a possibility, but the facts are that it is most unlikely that sufficient work would be available. The industry in this area is relying more on subdivisional fencing and there is less large mustering required. Most larger stations in the district have their own plant and employ enough staff or recruit the extra people required. It is in any case not really in accordance with the facts to represent the people at Wattie Creek as a vigorous group with capacity and determination, needing only land and finance to prosper by their own efforts. I do not want to seem critical, but they have not made great efforts on their own behalf. A concrete brick hut built by a party of supporters from Melbourne earlier this year was unoccupied when I went there in July. A second partly built hut had had no work done on it after the working party left. 
We see Press references to an orchard area and a market garden. I know from previous visits that there has been very little activity of this kind. There is now a small garden on the creek bank about half way to Wave Hill settlement. It is however a family size vegetable plot rather than a market garden, and it is the work of one family only. The houses being built by the Government at Wave Hill have been severely criticised, as to location and purposes. They are not being built as an inducement to the people at Wattie Creek to move. They are available for application by people in the area, including those at the Wave Hill settlement as well as people of Wattie Creek. Their location was largely determined by the position of a road through to Western Australia to be built in the next few years. They are suitably located to form the nucleus of a small township, with employment opportunities associated with services to travellers. It is said that in building the houses at Wave Hill the Government rejected the tribal attachment of the Gurindji people to the Wattie Creek site, which is referred to as the place of their dreaming'. 
The best information available is that the Wattie Creek area has no more special traditional significance than the Wave Hill area in general including the commonage area on which the new township is being established. In any case it is not correct to describe the group at -Wattie Creek as 'the Gurindji'. Not all of the people at Wattie Creek are of the Gurindji tribe. Nol all the Gurindji are at Wattie Creek. As stated above, numbers fluctuate from time to time but generally there are more Gurindji people at Wave Hill- centre and the Wave Hill station than there are at Wattie Creek. There is an area of tribal significance at Seal Gorge which is about 10 miles front Wattie Creek. As part of a programme to delineate sites of special significance and protect them under the relevant. Northern Territory legislation, I have instructed that this area should be delineated. The lessee has agreed to surrender it so that it can be protected under the relevant legislation. My belief is that the Wattie Creek issue has attracted a great deal of support from people who feel, quite genuinely, that a great injustice has been done to the Aboriginal people by dispossession of their forebears when Australia was settled from Europe, and there is great attraction in proposals to recognise so-called traditional land rights, or to set up a compensation fund. 
I certainly do not defend all of the treatment of Aboriginals in our past history. But as compensation, I would rather see measures taken which are related to the best future we can see for the Aboriginal people. Measures of this kind by governments have been gaining momentum over the last 20 years, both by direct action and by increasing assistance to church missionary bodies which were endeavouring in a practical way to make up for past neglect long before there was any widespread interest and concern in the community generally. This is the positive side of Aboriginal advancement. Very little is heard of it. There is plenty of public attention directed to the negative side. In a sense this serves a purpose by drawing attention to what still remains to be done. We ought, however, also to look at what is being done and the real progress that is being made. 
Progress should be looked at against the reality that where social and economic progress is involved time is required, not only on the side of the capacity of the Government to expand its efforts and programmes but also and perhaps more importantly on the side of giving the people the time to adjust to change and time for the educational and training programmes to have their effect. We would all like to make up overnight for past neglect, and eliminate The Aboriginal problem*. In real life it does not happen that way. Not every Aboriginal person wants to make the sustained effort involved in responding to the opportunities now open to them. Indeed I have been struck by the agreement among those with long experience of social work amongst Aboriginals in the Northern Territory that strains are being imposed because the people are being expected to change too quickly. What can be done and what is being done is to ensure that the range of opportunities is extended and that more and more assistance and encouragement and support is made available to the people to take advantage of those opportunities. 
Let me now mention briefly some of the achievements in Aboriginal welfare in the Northern Territory. There has been a major expansion of educational facilities for Aboriginal children. In the last 5 years enrolments in primary schools have risen from 3,200 to 4,100. More than 90 per cent of the children of primary school age are now attending school regularly. Problems of moving populations and remoteness have been met by the imaginative solution of using caravans for schoolrooms, for accommodation for the school teacher and for ablution and laundry facilities. Post-primary education was commenced in 1965. There are now 600 pupils enrolled including 140 at Kormilda College which includes transitional courses to prepare Aboriginal pupils for secondary work in the normal community schools. The number of aborigines in secondary schools has risen from 7 in 1967 to 63 in 1970. The training of Aboriginal teaching assistants has been upgraded considerably and there is now a 2-year course. In the last 2 years the change has been made on settlements and missions from a 'cash and kind' basis to a full cash payment for those participating in the work training scheme. 
Total expenditures on Aboriginal welfare in the Northern Territory have risen from S6.7m in 1965-66 to an estimated SI 5.7m in 1970-71. Award wages for Aboriginals in the pastoral industry are now an established fact. Communities on settlements and missions are being encouraged to do more for themselves. In most places they now have their own council and also their own incorporated association or cooperative society which runs the store and organises community activities. These stores are substantial businesses, often with quite high turnovers with the profits going to general community purposes. Aboriginals are sharing in development projects on reserves in 2 ways. I pay tribute to the special efforts made by the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Ltd in its manganese project at Groote Eylandt in providing employment opportunities and special training which have produced good results there. Programmes for similar training and employment opportunities in the operational phase of the Gove project are being developed by the operating company. Already at the Yirrkala Mission the Gove mining project has enabled an expansion of market gardening and the establishment of a brickworks, plant nursery, and a laundry operated by the Aboriginal people. A prawn processing factory on Groote Eylandt has very successfully employed up to 36 Aboriginal women, a party of whom made a visit to Perth for a holiday under arrangements made by the factory owners. The employment of women in industry in this way represents a significant change in outlook by the Aboriginal community concerned. 
The second way in which Aboriginals benefit from these enterprises is through the Aborigines Benefits Trust Fund. AH royalties and rents from these projects are paid to the Trust Fund. Following the amendments to the legislation agreed to by Parliament last year, an advisory committee with a majority of Aboriginal members was set up to advise the Minister on the expenditure of these moneys. This committee has operated very successfully and the contribution to its deliberations of the Aboriginal members has been outstanding. Grants and loans totalling $354,200 have been approved on the recommendation of the committee and these have gone to such varied purposes as fishing project at Umbakumba, assistance of mineral prospecting in the Docker River area, establishment of a kiosk and other tourist attractions at Stand ley Chasm and grants to the Yirrkala and Maningrida communities for the construction of council houses with the people also contributing substantially through voluntary labour. Funds available in the Trust Fund will increase markedly over the next few years with the expansion of manganese production at Groote Eylandt and the commencement of bauxite mining at Gove. 
All of these many and varied measures have the ultimate objective of helping people equip themselves to stand on their own feet in the wider community so that they can take advantage of the opportunities it offers. Some will go on the land, and there is provision to assist them with capital for viable propositions; they are eligible for leases under the normal laws and leases can now be granted to Aboriginals of land in Aboriginal reserves. Some will go into other occupations including trades and, in time, the professions. Let us help those of them whose future is on the land gain access to land, but under the system that applies to everyone in the community. Let us intensify efforts to help others whose future is not on the land to take advantage of the opportunities which the Australian community offers in their chosen field. Let us not, by recognising so-called tribal land claims, encourage groups and families to attach themselves more firmly to isolated and inadequate plots of land, so that those whose future by inclination and aptitude ought to be away from the land are impeded and hindered in realising the best that they can achieve in a single Australian community. Let us rather concentrate on making equality of opportunity in a single Australian community a reality for the Aboriginal people. 
This Budget debate, like all debates of this kind, produces a stream of economic pronouncements, heart-wringing stories of hardship in most areas of Government spending, and oratorical cures for the many ills as seen by expert and layman alike. The Budget is seen as the cornerstone of the financial and economic policy of the Australian nation and total financial expenditure has to be made against the background of the state of the Australian economy. High public expenditure, added to an economy already suffering from over-employment, heavy demands on services and materials, increases inflationary pressures. This leads further to insufferable rising costs of production for our export earning industries and hardship for people on fixed incomes. 
There is one area of activity that adds to the problem of cost increases that the Australian public should begin to count, and that is industrial activity. There is no doubt that there has been a step-up in the number of strikes and industrial stoppages for all sorts of reasons in recent months. The costs of these continued stoppages, in loss of production and man hours at work, must now be astronomical. Very often the stoppage is accompanied by an increased demand for wages which is sometimes given without any increase in productivity. The end result of such action is for any real benefit to the workers to be frittered away, and the continuing rise in costs of production placing severe strains on the farming industries. Australia has been going through a period of industrial anarchy lately, unequalled in years. 
I suggest that if the honourable member for Dawson is sincere in his wish to stop costs rising he should bring pressure to bear on his colleagues in the Labor Party with a view to asking  Mr Hawke  not to cause industrial stoppages across the nation. In the March quarter of last year, when  Mr Monk  was  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions there were about 490 stoppages but the figure has increased to 643 in the March quarter this year since  Mr Hawke  . became  President.  I suggest to the honourable member for Dawson that industrial stoppages are the greatest single factor causing rising costs throughout the community. 
The ACTU leaders, with the support of honourable members opposite, are doing as much to damage the rural industries by forcing costs up as are drought and production problems. This is doubly dangerous to the wool industry, so badly effected by drought and low prices. The Government understands the problems of the people engaged in the industry and will assist in the short term with $30m for emergency relief. This, of course, falls short of the desired assistance, but as the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  said, the Government is examining debt restructuring as a long term means of assisting the industry. This, along with the necessary marketing reforms, will be a positive step in the rehabilitation of the great wool industry, still so vital to vast areas of Australia and to the economy as a whole. 1 have been staggered at the course of the debate so far as primary' industries are concerned. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  spent I hour and 4 minutes addressing himself to the Budget and dismissed the rural industries in less than 1 minute. Nowhere through the debate has there been any practical solution offered by the Opposition to the problems of the farming industries; rather, a mass of generalisations  that  fail to recognise the realities of our world, along with such extravagant claims for more Government expenditure in  Other  fields that can only lead to further inflation. 
The unreality of believing that trade opportunities through preferences can be so blithely exchanged from the United Kingdom to other countries shows the naivete of the Opposition. The suggestion ignores the fact that Britain remains the only market for some of our biggest industries. Such an approach will bring no solace to the dairy industry, the dried fruits industry, or the sugar or wheat industries. Tt also ignores the positive work being done by the Australian Meat Board, the Australian Wheat Board and other selling agents who are expanding markets in other areas throughout the world, and the industries themselves for the great endeavours they are applying to diversification of products. 
The fact is that the continual talk of depression in the rural industries is causing a loss of confidence by banks and commerce houses resulting in a depreciation of values of properties and thus causing greater financial problems for rural people in general. The Government has a positive approach to these questions, as can be seen by the real measures taken or to be taken in the near future. These include guarantees of 34c a pound for 222.000 tons of butter; $62m for the wool industry in this Budget; a guaranteed price for 200 million bushels of wheat sold overseas and for domestic sales: preferred bank interest rates; and subsidies on fertilisers at a cost of $56m. The list is endless. 
The Opposition has not told this Parliament of one positive step it has to assist the rural industries. 1 rather suspect that it has only platitudes and generalisations to proffer. 
During his speech the honourable member for Dawson quoted what he said was the policy of the Australian Labor Party. I can recall a speech he made not long ago about the wheat industry. He threatened that the Labor Party would look at the guaranteed first payments by the Reserve Bank of Australia to the wheat industry. That is how sincere the honourable member is when talking about the wheat industry. 
Yes, you did. In his speech the honourable member for Dawson challenged the Government about its dairy policy. 
I want to inform the honourable member for Dawson that the dairy policy of this Government is of great help to the industry. I referred to it a moment ago. Our policy guarantees the sale of 222,000 tons of butter at 34c a lb. This represents a subsidy of $46m. The dairy farmers are aware of this and they appreciate it. I doubt whether the honourable member for Dawson understands, the policy. So far as the speech by the Leader of the Opposition is concerned, one can only say this: In the main it is selective in approach, in criticism and example. It carries with it the innuendo that if the Leader of the Opposition were in power the Budget would be radical and different. 1 think it would be different - it would be more expensive and inflationary, as can be realised from hearing the supporters behind him. It would be socialistic, as will be realised by a single reading of ALP policy. 1 have to confess that the ALP policy changes from year to year. One cannot always be sure what it is. As for its policy on rural industry, I have known the honourable member for Dawson to have 3 wool policies in his hand at the one time. The ALP policy would cramp the initiative of the Australian people by introduction of restrictive capital gains tax. It would lead to centralisation of authority by a Labor government and the destruction of the States and. the Federal system. I ask the House to reject the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition and support the Budget. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The policy followed by my Department in respect of land held by the Commonwealth within the States is simply this: That land is used perhaps by 1 department or another. If the department using the land declares that that land is no longer required by it, my Department then circulates other Commonwealth departments to see whether there is any Commonwealth interest in the land. If other Commonwealth departments do display an interest, the land remains with the Commonwealth Government. But if other Commonwealth departments declare that they have no interest in the piece of land, the policy followed is to see whether the previous owner is interested in reacquiring the land; if not, then to offer that land by public auction. If the land has been acquired in the first place from a State Government, the land is offered back to the State Government concerned. 1 do not carry in my mind the details of the piece of land which the honourable member has mentioned, but T will have a look at the details about which he has asked and 1 will give him a considered reply. 
Pursuant to section 24 of the National Capital Development Commission Act 1957-1960 I present the thirteenth annual report of the National Capital Development Commission for the year ended 30th June 1970, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Except in respect of the United Kingdom,I am unable to add to the answer that I gave to Question No. 141 which appears in Hansard dated 10th June 1970. 
Under the United Kingdom Representation of the People Act (as amended in 1969), a description of a candidate, not exceeding six words in length, may be stated in the nomination paper and printed on the ballot-papers. As the Act does not now prohibit reference to a candidate's political activities, the description may include the candidate's political affiliation. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act do not provide for the political affiliation of candidates to be shown on the ballot-paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The only building society in the Northern Territory commenced operations in June this year. 
The interest rates charged on its loans then and now are: - 81/2 per cent on first mortgage - 81/2 per cent on second mortgage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I remember the honourable member's question and I am aware of bis great interest in this matter. I must make sure that the next time he visits the Northern Territory as the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee we give him an old, battered Land Rover or something like that and not the comfortable black car in which be now travels. I must look at the records to see how long the honourable member enjoyed the privilege of driving around his electorate in a black car when he was a Minister. 
The honourable member interjects to remind me, that he in fact sought to drive a white car when he was a Minister. I think that when he was driving around one day in a black car one of his constituents told him that people thought he was being a bit plush and that this did not suit his personality. So the honourable gentleman made representations to the Minister for Supply to obtain a white car. I can only repeat what I said before: The purchase of cars at any time by my Department is a matter of economics and what I keep in mind is simply to obtain the best deal I can get. On the occasion of the last purchase that is exactly the situation that obtained. 
Pursuant to section 38 of the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act 1967 I present the third annual report of the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
I ask leave to make a brief statement in connection with the report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 I am not aware of the allegation referred to by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory, but I will have a look at it and give him a considered reply. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Electoral Divisions are not classified as country or metropolitan. The List of Members, which is available from the Bills and Papers Office, House of Representatives, lists the Divisions and shows the political affiliation of the respective Members. 
 The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The application was refused on the grounds that  Mr Gardiner  had no authority, licence, or lease to graze stock in the Wave Hill area. 
There is no suitable Crown or common land available in reasonable proximity to Wattie Creek. Crown land in the area is limited to 780 acres at Wave Hill and this is insufficient for  a  viable enterprise. 
Because of the low carrying capacity of land at Wattie Creek which is also highly susceptible to soil erosion, particularly if intensively grazed by goats, any proposal for  a  goat farm would be regarded as an unacceptable use of the land. 
 The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
The site on the corner of Watt and Erina Streets, Gosford has been acquired primarily for Post Office purposes. Consideration is being given to it being used also for the construction of Com. monwealth offices; however, this will require additional land and action to acquire an adjacent site is under consideration. 
It will not be possible to indicate when Commonwealth offices will be constructed at least until the question of acquiring additional land is resolved. 
At this stage it is too early to indicate which departments would be accommodated in any new Commonwealth offices; however, it is expected that provision could be made for all departments which are currently located in the area or wish to be located there. 
See answer to question (3). 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) In a search of records since 1966 at Police Headquarters no case was found where a person who had been acquitted of an offence with which he had been charged and had no previous convictions was refused an application for the destruction of fingerprints and photographs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Rt Hon. J. G. Gorton 
Rt Hon. J. McEwen. C.H. 
Rt Hon. W. McMahon 
I am unable to give the honourable member that assurance forthwith because I simply do not know whether in the process of time there may or may not be some court case. The honourable member will recall that on the previous occasion when I answered a question along these lines I said this practice had arisen simply because demonstrators themselves had their assistants taking photographs of them in certain postures during the course of these demonstrations to try to prove that there had been violence or that the police had acted in a rather rough manner, and for their own protection the Australian Capital Territory police, following the practice of States, adopted the policy of having their own photographers present to support any case before the court. Implicit in the honourable member's question there seems to be some suggestion that for some reason or other the police photographs will show something different from photographs taken by any other person present. I really do not understand why the honourable member should object so much to a police photographer taking photographs as many other photographers do on the day. There seems to be no basic difference whatsoever. Insofar as the future of the photographs is concerned, I have said that I am unable to give him any assurance. I do not know what is going to come out of any demonstration until the process of time has passed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Mr R. Beaver, a formersecurity guard  employed  at Gove in the Northern Territory, did make allegations that police officers had assaulted 2 Aborigines taken into custody. 
Yes. 
Details of the allegations have been published widely in the press. It would not be appropriate to release, the report of the investigating officer; apart from any other possible factors, there have been press reports that  Mr Beaver  was considering the possibility of initiating some legal action against the police officers concerned. 

 Mr Beaver was not interviewed - he had left the Northern Territory before the police investigation commenced. Another person formerly employed at Gove as a security officer was subsequently reported in the press as supporting  Mr Beaver  in his allegations. This person was interviewed in the course of the investigation. 
Yes. 
It is usual practice where allegations are made of misconduct by police officers, that the Commissioner of Police orders an inquiry into the allegations in the first instance for report to the Government concerned. 
All that has happened this morning demonstrates the need for proper evidence to be presented to courts in civil cases before civil courts. I say that to the honourable member for Henty in answer to his question. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Seat of Government (Administration) 
Act 1930-1963, I present a statement of moneys received and expended during the year ended 30th June 1970 by the Commonwealth in the administration and development of the Australian Capital Territory. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
No. I want to explain to the House the point that I was making this morning. During question time this morning it was said that I had stated that the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  was present at the May march in Canberra. I have read closely the Hansard version of the discussion and the first sentence that refers to the honourable member for Lalor could give the impression that 1 believed that the member for Lalor had attended the march in Canberra. This thought was never in my mind as it was well known that the honourable member for Lalor bad been leading the march in Melbourne on that day. But the construction put on those words led to the suspension from the House of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  This 1 regret. 
] think that some members of the public are genuinely interested in finding out what becomes of films and photographs taken at such demonstrations. But I suspect that some members of the Opposition realise that in respect of one or two demonstrations they have made a grave error of judgment. 1 really suspect that the Leader of the Opposition himself, being the man of destiny he claims to be, will realise that many thousands of Australian people are genuinely concerned that the Leader of the Opposition and some of his supporters should, while making antiVietnam speeches, be seen to be so patriotically attached to the Vietcong flag that they should make speeches under the Vietcong flag. 
On the point of order, this is simply a matter of fact; it is not a matter of argument. I am referring to something that, in my memory, I saw from my window in my office at the May demonstration of the Moratorium - that members of the Opposition, 1 think the Leader of the Opposition included, were speaking and seen to be speaking not only by me but by many others under the banner of the Vietcong Bag. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I do not want to be unparliamentary in this but the Leader of the Opposition, in his usual extravagant fashion, apparently did not hear me reply during question time this morning- 
I was in my office in May. I said so at question time this morning. The Leader of the Opposition is either deaf or does not want to hear. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Dr Cairn's  amendment) be so added. 
1 wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker. 
I have been misrepresented by the Leader of the Opposition on 2 points. My office was in the front of the House. I came to work to the front of the House on that day anyway, and I saw the Leader of the Opposition in the position in which I stated him to be. I should like to say something about what was said previously by the honourable member for Dawson. 
I expressed my regret to the honourable member for Dawson in this House last night. Before doing so I showed him a copy of the words I proposed to use. They are in Hansard as a record of what I said. I said that I was talking about the May demonstration. That appears in Hansard as being said last night. In point of tact, the honourable member for Lalor was at the May demonstration. The honourable member for Lalor was, if not deceitful then very close to it in not informing the House when I raised the point during question time yesterday. It can be confirmed by looking at any newspaper of 7th May 1970 that the Leader of the Opposition spoke to the May demonstration and that  Dr Cairns,  Labor, Victoria, also spoke to the May demonstration. I regret that the honourable member for Dawson was named in the circumstances in which he was named yesterday. No-one regrets it more than I do. I think he should look very closely at the honourable member for Lalor. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Baptist Church has been given a lease of land in the Wave Hill residential area for the erection of a Church and residence. The social club at Wave Hill has given notice of its intention to apply for a lease of land for the erection of a store and possibly a service station and motel. Other community facilities including school buildings and additional houses will be provided, within the limits of funds available, to meet the growth and development of the area. A tree planting programme will commence in the near future. 
Present developments can be wholly contained within the Crown Land on which the residential centre is sited. 
 The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  during the course of his speech, said that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  had said that he had seen from his office window Vietcong flags at the demonstration. Honourable members will recall that at question time last Thursday I also said - I think I used the words - that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  was speaking under Vietcong flags. But, of course, I was referring to the May demonstration rather than to the September demonstration, and I made that point clear as the day passed. There have been 2 demonstrations, and there have been Vietcong flags at both demonstrations. The Leader of the Opposition said in the House that at the May demonstration there were no Vietcong flags 'anywhere in my vicinity or in my sight'. The Leader of the Opposition is not a man who normally goes around with his eyes closed. He is very conscious and very aware of what is in his vicinity at all times. He is most astute at recognising dangerous political practices. I suggest to the House, in the first instance, that the whole of this activity today has arisen because the Leader of the Opposition has recognised that Friday was the most damaging day that he has suffered since he became Leader of the Opposition because the Australian people knew for once that he had given misleading advice and indeed damaging advice to the servicemen of this country. 
We had combined with this the fact that just a few days earlier the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  had urged that authority had bad its day; that there were other ways of taking authority, such as in (he factories and so on. The Leader of the Opposition received such bad Press publicity about this matter over the weekend that he. the man of destiny that he is, could see that the position was going to slip from his grasp because of some stupid thing he had said. Honourable members opposite are trying to interject. What I am saying is factual. He advised young servicemen to mutiny. I suggest that the whole of today's activities are aimed at trying to colour people's minds about all the facts. The Vietcong flag was one matter. The question whether the Leader of the Opposition advised men to mutiny is certainly another and a more serious matter. I think that the Leader of the Opposition is very conscious of it and he very much regrets the position in which he now finds himself. But, nevertheless, he gave this advice. He advised young men to mutiny. This is the alternative Prime Minister setting the stage where, if he were Prime Minister, he would accept as a matter of course mutiny by servicemen. 
The honourable member for Grayndler said that the Prime Minister had said he had seen Vietcong flags from his office. I have here photographs which were tabled in the Parliament today which show quite clearly that there were Vietcong flags within very close reach of the Leader of the Opposition. There is no doubt about that. We are arguing about facts. Were there Vietcong flags there or were there not? These photographs were taken, apparently, by the 'Canberra Times' at the May demonstrations. The 6rst photograph I have is a photograph of the Leader of the Opposition, and within a few feet to his left is a Vietcong flag. The Leader of the Opposition rose and took a point of order. He said that that is not the same flag as the one shown in the photograph of the September demonstration. The only difference between the two flags is that one flag on one occasion - 1 do not know which occasion - is upside down. I think that the Leader of the Opposition would be well advised next time to tell his supporters which way to carry the flag so that they carry it properly without insulting the Vietcong. 
It is not a trivial matter at all if the alternative Prime Minister of this country is prepared to speak on a platform when there are Vietcong flags in the crowd and he does not demand that they be removed. In bis own words, on television the other night - 1 do not want to misquote him - he said: 'While ! was speaking to 2,500 people in the Sydney Town Hall the other night there was a Vietcong flag put on the balustrade.' He told the people this while he was on television. But why did he not go on and say: 'As alternative Prime Minister of this country I will not speak under the aegis of the enemy flag. Have that flag removed.1? Why at the demonstrations this month and in May did he not say that as the alternative Prime Minister he would refuse to speak while the enemy flag was there? Why did he not say: 'I ask that that flag be taken down.' There is no question that the flag was there, lt is a fact. It is noi only a fact because it is shown in photographs that all members of this Parliament have seen, but because there are many witnesses in this Parliament who saw that there were Vietcong flags there. 
I think that as the alternative Prime Minister the Leader of the Opposition is discredited by the very fact that he is prepared to speak on a platform on which the enemy flag is predominantly placed.  I  say that advisedly because the photograph of the May Moratorium shows a flag to the left of where the Leader of the Opposition is standing, to the left of the microphones. Bui there is a more damaging photograph thai shows another flag in front of the microphones, not yards but mere feet away from him. This photograph shows a flag with the Leader of the Opposition looking almost directly at it and, of course, the honourable member for Lalor is in a similar position. 
If the honourable member for Lalor had been in the House earlier he might have heard what I said. The only difference between that flag and the other flag is that it is upside down. The honourable member might tell his supporters how to carry a flag properly. 
I accept without question that the honourable member for Lalor would well know better than I an NLF flag. But that does not absolve the Leader of the Opposition from responsibility because he said on Sunday night there was a Vietcong flag in the Town Hall. He said it not only to me when I was watching television but to thousands of Australians who I hope were watching on that night. He said that there was an NLF flag on the balustrade of the Sydney Town Hall. Why did not the Leader of the Opposition demand that the flag be removed before he spoke? The simple reason is that he was quite happy to speak under the aegis of an NLF flag. 
The whole of this debate arose because the Opposition moved a motion of no confidence in the Prime Minister because he asked the Australian News and Information Bureau to photograph the September Moratorium in case there was a disturbance. Again, I think we need to look at the facts. The Prime Minister has said in the debate that he had a message rung through by his officers asking for information as to whether a photographer would be present. The simple fact is that the Bureau, which is part of my own Department, has, as part of its charter, the right to take photographs of this nature. There is no question about this. I make the point that there is no doubt at all that the ANIB, which is part of my Department, has within its charter the right to take photographs of any demonstration whether it be a demonstration like the Moratorium, a public gathering like Moomba, the Melbourne Cup or the grand final. It can take photographs of anything it likes and this is shown quite clearly in the functions of the Bureau as set out after the revision in 1960. 
With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate them in Hansard. They read: 
to produce as required, publicity and information material for dissemination abroad with the object of making Australia as a whole more widely and more favourably known; of helping the people of other countries to understand Australia's outlook, endeavours and potentialities; and of helping to foster good relationships in all Australia's dealings with oilier countries. 
in consultation with and as required by the Department of External Affairs, to prepare or assist in the preparation of publicity and information material designed to help achieve the political objectives of Australia's foreign policy. 
in consultation with and as required by Ihe Department of Trade and Industry, to prepare or assist in the preparation of publicity and information material designed to support the execution of specific trade publicity and promotional campaigns, including the attraction of private capital investment from abroad. 
in consultation with and as required by the Department of Immigration, to prepare or assist in the preparation of general publicity and information material to serve as a background against which specific campaigns to attract and inform immigrants can be carried out. 
to provide, as may be required for attachment to Australian missions abroad, specialist Information Officers to pursue the above objectives in the field. 
within Australia to act as a common service agency for the supply of specialised publicity and information services to Departments and instrumentalities requiring them. 
to be responsible for film production for Commonwealth purposes and for the administration of the Australian National Film Board. 
I would like to quote paragraph (f) for the benefit of honourable members. It reads:  within Australia to act as a common service agency for the supply of specialised publicity and information services to Departments and instrumentalities requiring them. 
The fact is, of course, that it is not only the right of the Bureau within its charter to take photographs but it has been its practice to take photographs of many demonstrations within Australia and I secured a list of those today. 
I had no knowledge of the activities of the Bureau in this field and I find that there is a whole variety of demonstrations, public gatherings or public functions - Moomba is not specifically mentioned, I must say - mentioned in this list. But nevertheless the Bureau can, if it wants to do so, take photographs of the Moomba festival. It has taken photographs of the Sydney Stock Exchange at work, a surf carnival, a Hyde Park concert and other gatherings. It has taken photographs of demonstrations when Vice President Agnew was here. It took photographs for its own purposes - I did not inspire them - of the nurses demonstration, lt took colour pictures of nurses for the use in possible future publications. There is a demand overseas for photographs of this sort of activity from Australia and the Bureau is charged with the responsibility of supplying them. There is a request before it at the moment from (he NHK. which is the Japanese equivalent of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, for photographs of demonstrations of this type. It has already sent some photographs which were taken in Sydney last year outside the Commonwealth offices. So it is quite common for the Bureau to take photographs at demonstrations. 
The Bureau produced a book entitled Two Centuries' and I was generous enough to send every honourable member of the House a copy. If honourable members look at it they will see a photograph of a demonstration. If they look again at another book which the Bureau produced entitled 'Opposite Earth' they will see again photographs of demonstrations - anti-war demonstrations. We do not censor. This Government makes no attempt whatsoever to censor the activities of the ANIB and lo fell the world that we will not permit photographs to be taken of such demonstrations. We are quite open about it. We encourage it. Let the Bureau take as many photographs as it likes. Let it send them overseas. We have nothing to hide. We still have a record immigration inflow compared with that of any other country. 
The Prime Minister has said that his office was in touch with the 
Bureau to see whether there was to be  a  photographer present. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  made the claim that there was an unusual number of photographs taken. 1 am surprised that he made this claim because the Leader of the Opposition even used the evidence of photographs taken by the ANIB to support his case. He said: There were 70-odd photographs taken and there is only one of me with a Vietcong flag'. I think this rather points to the fact that there was nothing malevolent in the activities of the ANIB photographer who was there. The Bureau was not interested only in the Leader of the Opposition and the Vietcong flag. Certainly he could well consider himself unlucky that it was proven again there was a Vietcong flat in his presence, because there was such a photograph. But the ANIB proved by its record that it was not out to show thai the Leader of the Opposition was speaking under a Vietcong flag, lt took 70 photographs - all types of photographs. 
We come to what is probably the most important part of the charge, lt is important because the charge has been made that the photograph is faked. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  and all previous speakers - even I think the Leader of the Opposition in Brisbane - said that the photograph is faked. I understand from officers of my Department that a photograph that is faked is one that has either had something superimposed on it or which, by some trick in developing, produces a different result from that on the negative. 
Or deletions from the central part of the photograph. I accept that. The only difference between the photographs is that there has been an enlargement of one for clearer presentation. There is no superimposition in the critical part of the photograph of some outside matter that makes the photograph a fake. There is no faked photograph. It is a simple enlargement which is made by the Press on thousands of occasions in their every day activities. Another photograph I supplied to the Leader of the Opposition I find was trimmed in the same fashion, but this time the Vietcong flags have been cut out. I do not know whether the Leader of the Opposition will charge me with faking the photograph. This is a wider print and for the purpose of easier working in the Bureau it has been trimmed to the one size. The Bureau kept 2 Vietcong flags out and here they are leading the march. The simple fact is, as is known by any photographer, that the photograph is not faked. It is a simple enlargement to show more clearly that it is a Vietcong flag and, without doubt, it is the Leader of the Opposition. I have been involved in this matter. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition quoted from a newspaper report - I have a copy of it here. The report quotes me as saying: 
The Bureau operates under its own charter and neither I nor "anyone else in the Federal Government tells it what to do, restricts it or censors it. 
I had a fleeting Press interview at the Melbourne Airport on my arrival there and I made a statement to a reporter. When he asked me whether I instructed the ANIB to cover the Moratorium, I said: 
No. It is not my practice to restrict, inhibit or censor in any way the activities of the ANIB. It is quite legitimate for the ANIB to take photographs of the Melbourne Cup, or Moomba or the Moratorium. So far as the Moratorium is concerned, as I understand it, there was a call from the Prime Minister's office to the ANIB asking if a photographer would be present at the march. 
I made that statement on Monday morning on arrival in Melbourne. The very significant parts of my statement were not in the Melbourne 'Herald'. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has tried to put me at odds for some reason. The honourable member for Lalor even suggested that I might vote with the Labor Party because of my position in this matter. There is no ambiguity about my position. What I said to the Melbourne 'Herald' reporter is perfectly clear. I rang through to my office on getting to Melbourne and instructed my Press Secretary to put a copy of my statement in the Press Gallery so that everybody would know what I said. The simple fact is this: On Friday the alternative Prime Minister - it hurts me to call him that but he is still the Leader of the Opposition - was discredited; totally and completely discredited for the advice he gave to our military men during the caucus meeting. He was totally and completely discredited not only in this Parliament but in the eyes of the people of Australia, and he knows it. When the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  tore him apart on facts the only reply he had was a charge based on personalities. It is not often I have seen the Leader of the Opposition sink so low in public debate as to attack the  Deputy  Prime Minister about his age and other things, because he could not refute one fact in what the  Deputy  Prime Minister said in the debate last Friday. It stands on the record that the Leader of the Opposition wants national servicemen who are in Vietnam to mutiny. It is very clear and the people of Australia should know it. It is equally clear that there were Vietcong flags at the march. It is equally clear that under the charter the ANIB had a right to be there. It is equally clear that the Prime Minister, if he so desires, can check to see that the ANIB was there. The motion before the House falls to the ground and, indeed, stands condemned. 
I cannot call to mind whether design studies for the High Court are proceeding but design studies for the National Art Gallery certainly are proceeding. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Yes. 
I  am  not in a position to comment  on  this statement. 
The National Capital Development Commission receives many requests of this type but it is  not in  a position to engage  in  this type of work. However I would be happy to make arrangements for Gosford Shire Council  if  they wish,  to  have discussions in Canberra with the N.C.D.C. which could adivse them on the method of approach  it  adopts  to  some of  its  own planning work. 
The  answer  to  the honourable member's question  is as  follows: 
There is considerable soil erosion on parts of Mistake Creek Station. 
Yes. 
and (5). The Government is concerned about the need for soil conservation in the Territory and the Soil Conservation and Control Ordinance, which was passed by the Northern Territory Legislative Council during November 1969, received the Governor-General's assent on 25th. March 1970. Erosion reclamation work on Mistake Creek Station is being carried out under the provisions of the Ordinance by the Northern Territory Administration with the cooperation of the lessee. Reclamation works include erection of fencing, including subdivision of some of the affected paddocks; contour furrowing and seeding; de-stocking of paddocks according to Government requirements. The lessee is bearing half share of fencing costs and is responsible for the maintenance of the fences erected. 
No. 
Laws in Commonwealth  Properties (Question No. 1730) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government's policy was explained in my statement in the House of Representatives on 3rd September 1970- see pages 967 to 973 of Hansard. 
Aborigines can and do own land. As mentioned in the statement referred to in (1) above, the Government believes that they should secure land ownership under the system that applies to the Australian community, and not outside it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (i) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Government's view is unchanged. 
At the present time there is no law enabling the control of sub-division and use of freehold land but work is nearing completion on the preparation of an appropriate Ordinance. 
Action leading to acquisition of freehold land in the Tuggeranong area exceeding 20,000 acres has been commenced. The landholders involved have been informed. 
The Government's attitude to the acquisition of the remaining freehold, including land already offered to the Commonwealth, will be announced when it has had opportunity to consider the results of an investigation recently completed by the Department of the Interior which has had regard to all aspects of future land use needs and planning and economic implications. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Bureau of Census and Statistics has released the following preliminary results of the population count of the Greater Darwin Area at 30 June 1970: 
The honourable member for McMillan has referred to a whole milk biscuit that was developed by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. There is no doubt that the development of this biscuit is a real break through in the diversification of the use of milk products. Insofar as the Army is concerned, I would be delighted to take up with the Minister for the Army, the possibility of having this very nutritious biscuit included in Army rations. I believe it is a very worthwhile suggestion that the honourable member put forward. Insofar as the parliamentary dining room is concerned, I agree with the honourable member that it would do a lot of good for some of the members of this Parliament to have this biscuit, particularly at morning or afternoon tea time. I will raise this matter with  Mr Speaker  at a later hour this day to see if it is at all possible to have this very nutritious biscuit added to the list of things that are provided for us in the dining room. I trust that  Mr Speaker  will give favourable consideration to that very worthwhile suggestion. 

 - Mr Speaker, 1 have received a telegram from the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Industry Conference saying that the Conference welcomed and accepted the Government's offer concerning the establishment of a statutory wool marketing authority. At a dinner in Sydney last night I learned - and I am sure the honourable member will be pleased to know this - that members of the constituent bodies of the Australian Wool Industry Conference spoke in high praise of the efforts of our colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry, in obtaining both Government and industry acceptance of the proposal. Indeed, the praise was very lavish and all the more deserving because it was the Minister who brought the matter to a conclusion. Insofar as the legislation is concerned there may well be some difficulties in preparation, but the honourable member can be assured that my colleague is making every endeavour to have the legislation expedited so that it can be introduced in this session of the Parliament. 
 The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  has proposed the discussion of a matter of public importance, namely: 
The failure of the Federal Government to take positive action to halt the seriously deteriorating condition of Australia's export meat trade. 
It is important that we understand and know properly the history of our meat trade with the United States. We need to know the role of the Government in this history in order to make a judgment on whether the honourable member for Dawson has made his point. We need also to know whether there is any discrimination against Australian meat in comparison with other countries and also in comparison with United States domestic meat. We also need to know where the responsibility lies for the implementation of the regulations on health in these abattoirs. The first thing that needs to be made perfectly clear is simply that the Australian Government does not control the health regulations covering the entry of meat into the United States. This is within the purview of the Wholesome Meat Act which is part of the Meat Inspection Act which was brought down by the United States Congress and lays down the regulations and conditions covering the entry of meat into America. 
I think the first thing we have to understand is that there has been a great change in consumer demand in respect of health regulations covering pure foods not only in America, to which country this discussion is directed, but throughout the world and certainly in Australia. I think it fair to say that as an Australian I certainly would not ask the people of Australia to accept a lesser standard than I would expect to apply to meat sold in the United States. The people of Australia have every right and justification to expect that the health regulations that govern the supply of meat to the Australian people set as high a standard as the health regulations in any other country. The facts are, of course, that we are selling meat on the United States market and the people of the United States would expect the Australian Government therefore to meet the health regulations designed by the United States Government covering the sale of meat in that market, and we have to be sure that when we are selling meat in that market we do in fact meet those regulations. I do not think any of us has the right to challenge the proper protection of consumers in this regard. The question arises of whether there is any discrimination against Australian abattoirs. Are we being picked on politically? The simple answer to that question is: 'No, we are not'. The truth is that the United States is not making any demand on Australian abattoirs that is not making on other exporters to the United States market, such as New Zealand, or indeed on United States domestic abattoirs. lt is interesting to note that the honourable member for Dawson referred to reports made to the United States Congress. A report, which was made to Congress for the year beginning on 1st January 1969, showed that of a total of 51 plants in New Zealand 7 have been deregistered and that of a total of 193 Australian plants there was a net loss of only 8. So one cannot say that Australia is being picked on for some vague political reason. The fact is that New Zealand is undergoing the same difficulties as Australia in meeting the continually improving requirements of the American meat authorities, it is also a fact that the United States authorities are cracking down on United States abattoirs. During the past 1.2 months 79 American plants have been withdrawn through Federal inspection. I think this proves the point that the American authorities are equally determined to bring their abattoirs up to a proper standard to meet the health requirements that are demanded by Congress as they are to make sure that Australian, New Zealand or any other export abattoirs that supply the American market maintain proper standards. 
The honourable member for Dawson has alleged that the Government is not playing its part. What is the Government's role? 1 think we need to understand perfectly clearly what the Government's role is in this matter. The Government's role is to provide an inspection service covering the meat that is exported to the United States and other markets. This service gives a certification that the meat is prepared and packed in accordance with the requirements of United States legislation. The honourable member for Dawson drew to the attention of the House the fact that meat can be loaded and be half way across the water before it is declared as not suitable for entry into the United States. Of course, in changing circumstances where health regulations could be altered it is a simple fact that because of the distance between the point of export and the market this can happen. It is unfortunate but it is a fact. However, this does not give us the right not properly to inspect and certify meat under new regulations that might come in. We have to meet the demands that the United States sets down. We are exporting to that market and its consumers want this protection. The least we can do is to make sure that we give them that protection. 
The Australian Government assists abattoirs in obtaining a proper understanding of what the Americans want. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, for example, is running schools on such subjects as sanitation services so that employees of abattoirs may gain a proper understanding of what is required by the United States inspection service. They are learning and sturying proper practices of abattoir efficiency and health standards. The CSIRO is giving this assistance for one reason - so that people in our abattoirs might know what is required of them. The Australian Meat Board is running a quality control service advising abattoirs about the method* that ought to be followed. This service is being offered in an endeavour to overcome any problems, misunderstandings or misrepresentations about the regulations. So I think it can be seen that we are playing a proper role. 
The United States market is a very valuable one. Last year 245,000 tons of beef and mutton valued at more than $240rn was sent to the United States market. This represented 70 per cent of our total beef exports. The one thing we cannot afford to do is to jeopardise that market, lt is true that difficulties are created by changing demands of the consuming public which wants to be assured that it is being protected. We have to give the consuming public that assurance; we have to meet these requirements. The difficulties that have arisen are of concern to us. Nevertheless, if we want this market we have to comp ' with the requirements laid down by Congress for Australian abattoirs, United States abattoirs and any other abattoir exporting to America. Therefore, I do not think the charge that the honourable member for Dawson made that the Australian Government is falling down on the job is justified. We are handling abattoirs with a great deal of sympathy and understanding. We are trying to get proper communication between the meat inspection service, the abattoir controls and the United States authorities so that there will no: be any misunderstandings and so that meat can h killed under proper regulations and sent to the American market. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second  time. This is a short Bill, the principal effect of which will be to permit the States to enact legislation requiring  the  licensing  of  premises used for processing fish for either domestic consumption or export.It also omits Nauru from the scope  of  the Fisheries Act following the granting  of  independence  to  that country. The Government believes that the effects  of  this Bill have significant importance  for the  Australian fishing industry. In particular, it will provide a path not at present available for the Commonwealth and States to cooperate in the rationalisation  of the  secondary sector  of  the industry in  so  far as  it  will clear the way for any State  to  enact legislation requiring the licensing of premises used for the processing  of  fish. This process of licensing would not be possible without  the  enactment  of  this Bill for reasons  to  which I shall  refer  later in this speech. 
The need for rationalisation  of  fish processing facilities is particularly indicated in the more lucrative fisheries, such as prawns, rock lobsters and scallops etc. where the creation of a total processing capacity in a particular area in excess of the ability of the fishery resources  to  supply would lead to overcapitalisation. Indeed, two prawn processing companies in northern Australia have already failed because of their inability to secure a share of the total catch sufficient to make their operation economically viable. An important consequence of rationalisation  of  processing capacity will be to reduce the risk of excessive pressures being placed on the resources in situations where processors are urging fishermen to increase their catches at any cost in order to keep the processing facilities in operation. In many of our fisheries, the sustainable yield from the resources is not yet fully known and the Government is taking all possible steps to carry out research with the objective of providing this information. Under these circumstances some pragmatic management decisions have had to be made and the Commonwealth has taken action in the Northern Territory to limit the number of prawn processing opportunities and has held regular consultations with the Queensland fisheries authorities on the desirability of extending this kind of control to the Queensland sector of the fishery. 1 believe it is appropriate to emphasise to honourable members and the fishing industry, that the Commonwealth is not by this Bill proposing itself to enter the field of licensing fish processing plants for reasons of fishery management. Whether or not processing plants are to be licenced will depend entirely on decisions by the several State governments to enact suitable legislation for this purpose. I should also make it clear that the operations of the Exports (Fish) Regulations which provide for standards of hygiene, sanitation and product quality in respect of plants processing fish for export and for registration of plants meeting those standards, will not be affected in any way either by this Bill or by any State legislation that may subsequently be enacted. The Bill has a secondary purpose connected with the Government's decision to establish under the Fishing Industry Research Act 1969, a matching fund for research education, extension and development for the benefit of the fishing industry. 
At the time that negotiations were proceeding with  the States on the  establishment of this fund it was agreed that each State would collect the contribution from the fishing industry in which ever manner was considered most suitable to the structure and organisation of the fishing industry in the State concerned. Queensland authorities took the view that in that State the most suitable form of levying the contribution would be by way of fees collected from the licensing of fish processing plants. However, the Queensland Government felt  some concern for the  validity of legislation to give effect to this proposal in view of the judgment in O'Sullivan versus Noarlunga Meat Pty Ltd, where the High Court held that State legislation requiring the licensing of premises used for processing meat for export was invalid. Accordingly, in1969 fisheries and legal officers of the Commonwealth and Queensland conferred with a view to devising a legal course of action which would offset the effect of this judgment. The result of this conference is embodied in the Bill now before the House. It has the concurrence of the Queensland Government and of the Australian Fisheries Council. 
Accordingly, the Bill has a secondary importance for the development and conduct of research into our fisheries by making the way clear for any State, which desires to employ the device of licensing premises used for the processing of fish as a means of collecting money from the fishing industry to be matched by the Commonwealth under the Fishing Industry Research Act, to do so without fear of the legislation concerned being ruled invalid in the light of judgment in the Noarlunga case. The provisions of the Bill are brief and to the point. I believe that I have adequately outlined them in my opening sentences. This Bill is part of an overall review of Commonwealth fishery legislation which has been undertaken in the Department of Primary Industry and which will form the basis of more extensive amendments of the Fisheries Act and Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Act during a subsequent session of the Parliament. I commend the present Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Stewart)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following is a list of Senators appointed by the Governor of a State with the advice of the Executive Council thereof, under Section15 of the Constitution, to hold the place of a  Senator which  has become vacant: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (4) Section 18(1) of the Workmen's Compensation Ordinance 1951-1970 compels an employer to take out an insurance policy to cover liability independent of the Ordinance to the extent of not less than $50,000. 
and (3) The circumstances of  Mr Maljevac's  case have been investigated and it appears that  Mr Maljevac  has received part of the damages awarded him by the Supreme Court and that arrangements are being made regarding the balance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since I became Minister for the Interior the Australian News and. Information Bureau has taken photographs of the following open air meetings, other than those sponsored by the Government: 
Pursuant to section 33 of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Act 1962-1966, I present the Seventh Annual Report of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority tor the year ended 30th June 1970, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Movie film was taken of the visit to Canberra of the Vice President of the United Slates of America on 13th and 14th January 1970 and of the procession and demonstration conducted is part of the Moratorium Week activities on 18th September 1970. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Police Regulations empower the Commissioner of Police in the Australian Capital Territory to grant permission for a member of the Police Force to engage in remunerative employment other than in connecton with his duties in the Police Force. I discussed this matter with representatives of the Police Association of the Australian Capital Territory in May last and no further action is contemplated. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No date can be given at present for the introduction of comprehensive factories and shops legislation for the Australian Capital Territory. The Department of the Interior is studying various legislative and administrative arrangements. Proposals will be made public as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Waste water from the Australian Capital Territory is discharged into the Molonglo River and Ginninderra Creek, being tributaries of the Mumimbidgee River, but only after treatment at the Weston Creek and Belconnen Water Pollution Control Centres. Solid wastes are not discharged into streams but are disposed of by sanitary land fill within the Australian Capital Territory. 
No complaints have been received. I have seen news reports of discussions by Shire Councils adjoining the Australian Capital Territory. The New South Wales Water Conservation and Irrigation Commission has been given the opportunity to inspect A.C.T. water pollution control centres and streams. 
Treated waste water would be a significant proportion of the total flow during periods of low flow in the Mumimbidgee. 
There are no such communities between the Australian Capital Territory and the Burrinjuck water storage. I have been advised that having regard to the nature of the run of the river upstream of Burrinjuck and the extent of the Burrinjuck water storage, use of the water downstream from that storage would be acceptable given normal controls as generally apply to town water supplies. 
The increasing volume of treated waste water to be discharged into the Murrumbidgee or its tributaries would not be dependent on where the new Water Pollution Control Centre is to be located, but on the growth of population in the Capital. 
An interdepartmental committee is investigating aspects of the quality of water in the Murrumbidgee River. It has already been announced, however, that the most modern treatment plant is to be constructed in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Special studies by experts of world repute are being undertaken. This should ensure that the standards adopted will safeguard the ecology of the Murrumbidgee River. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commissioner of Police in the Australian Capital Territory has prepared a manual of guidance for Police dealing with members of the public in different stuations. This booklet is a confidential document prepared for use by members of the Police Force only. It contains instructions for the protection of persons and property. I am of the opinion that it would not be in the public interest to reveal all details of Police techniques used in providing this necessary protection. I have a copy of this manual however, and I shall be pleased to make it available for the confidential perusal of the honourable member if he so desires. 
The instructions were designed to meet local conditions based on a number of situations during recent years. While the Commissioner had regard in its preparation to information gathered from other law enforcement bodies both in Australia and overseas, the document stands by itself and does not relate or refer to instructions or advice given to other Police Forces. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I did not claim that photographs are only taken to help court proceedings but I did stress their value for evidentiary purposes. 
In the circumstances I am not prepared to give the assurance sought. 
I shall deal first with the honourable member's question concerning whether a referendum should be conducted. The question whether a referendum should be conducted on any subject at any time is always a matter of policy. Now 1 come to the second part of his question. If the electors are aware of the policies of the parties nominating candidates at the election there is an opportunity for those electors to register a vote on the question whether or not they want a Socialist state. I think the policy of the Government in this regard is well known. We respect both free enterprise and the rights of individuals. We certainly respect the proposition that initiative should be rewarded. It is a little difficult to tell these days what the policy of the Opposition is, as there seems to be a bit of a smokescreen. But 1 can say that when the right honourable member for Melbourne was the Leader of the Opposition he made no secret of the fact that socialisation was the most important plank of the Labor Party's platform. Even at this moment I hear some honourable members opposite saying 'Hear, hear* to that proposition. That first plank of the Labor Party's policy still exists, I understand. It was renewed at the last Federal Conference, and the socialisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange remains the most important plank of the platform. Therefore, it is true to say that if electors are aware that this is the Labor Party's policy they will have an opportunity to cast their vote on the question at the Senate election. There is one other point that needs to be made. It is a little difficult to tell which way Labor would achieve socialisation. When one hears the honourable member for Lalor getting up in public places and saying- 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The premium recommended by the Third Party Insurance Premiums Advisory Committee for motor cycles over 250cc was calculated by taking the net premium for the private car, multiplying it by a pre-determined relativity factor and then adding $3.75 for administrative expenses, li per cent for profit and 2) per cent for contingencies. The calculation was as follows: $40.27 (net premium for the private motor car) 
X 2 (the relativity factor) = $80.54. $80.54 + $3.75 (administrative costs) =$84.29 $84.29 + 5 per cent of gross premium $84.29 
=- = $88.73. 
95 
The $88.73 was rounded to $88.79. 
As the Third Party Insurance Premiums Advisory Committee recorded in the conclusions to its report published in November 1968: 
The scale of relativities used was determined as a result of investigations made into the relationship between the average cost of claim in respect of different classes of vehicles in the A.C.T. and in certain States to the average cost of the claim for private cars;'. The relativity factors relating to all classes of vehicles are currently under review by the Third Party Insurance Premiums Advisory Committee. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
There was a request by the authorised insurers for a general review of third party insurance premiums. The request was not opposed. 
The Committee had before it: v the annual statistical returns lodged with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles by the authorised  i  insurers under Regulation 8 of the Motor 1 Vehicle (Third Party Insurance) Regulations; and : a information supplied by the N.R.M.A. Insurance Limited relating to their overall third parly insurance experience in the A.C.T. This  f  information was considered by the Committee when lt recommended the margins for profit, contingencies and administrative expenses. The information was studied by the Committee with the benefit of advice from the Commonwealth Actuary. The Commonwealth Actuary is a member of the Committee. 
No. 
There are two representatives of consumer interests on the Committee. These are: 

 Mr J. H. Pead; Nominee of the A.C.T. Advisory Council representing private motorists; and 

 Mr S. G. East ; Nominee of the Chamber of Commerce representing commercial vehicle owners. 
 The answer to . the honour able member's question is as folows: 
The Prime Minister did nol foreshadow any amendment to the Land Valuation Ordinance. He did, however, announce changes in the system of charging for land in the City of Canberra. 
Since the proposed changes mainly affecting the City Area Leases Ordinance were announced, some bodies have made representations and indicated concern that the planning and development advantages of the Canberra leasehold system could be compromised. I do not think it necessary to table these. The changes will in no way affect the present effective control of planning, development and redevelopment embodied in the Canberra leasehold system. 
The Government's decisions were preceded by an extensive study by officers of the responsible Departments. 
The functions of the National Capital Development Commission are to carry out the planning, development and construction of the City of Canberra as the national capital of the Commonwealth. Its functions do not include the administration of the leasehold system. Views expressed by the Commission were, however, taken into consideration. 
Yes. 
No. A change of purpose will still require an application to the Supreme Court. At present if the Court grants a change of purpose the rent is reassessed. Under the proposed system a lump sum payment to the Commonwealth will be required, of a fixed proportion of any increase in value resulting from the change of purpose. 
No. Canberra lessees currently pay land rents fixed by the lease conditions at 3 per cent of the unimproved value subject to reappraisement every 20 years. In practice significant inequities as between leaseholders are inseparable from this system and further the reappraisement provisions are very onerous in a period of rising valuations. In addition to lease rents, lessees pay rates fixed annually by the Minister on the basis of a rate in the dollar applied to a valuation made for rating purposes. The power of the Minister to fix rates will not be changed when lease rents are abolished. The municipal accounts which are to be published will demonstrate that the Minister's determination of rates will bear a relationship to municipal costs, and will not be arbitrary. While the Minister formally determines valuations for both lease rent' and rating purposes, in practice he adopts valuations determined by qualified valuers. The valuations are subject to review by an independent Board and also appeal to the Supreme Court. 
No. The Prime Minister announced that at the changeover, municipal charges will be increased, but that total revenue from municipal charges will not be increased above what would have been paid in land rent and municipal charges. On a broad estimate the indications are that about two-thirds of the residential lessees will pay less than at present; about one-third will pay more, these being mainly lessees whose due date for reappraisement of rent under the existing system is approaching. 
Reserve prices will ensure that the Commonwealth recovers its outlay on acquisition of the land and providing services to it. In this respect Canberra home builders will be in a similar position to home builders in other capitals, the majority of whom purchase land at a price which covers the land costs. The reserve prices for 
Canberra will not, however, include any element  of  profit  on  the land sub-division operation. Under the present system there is no relationship between land costs and leasehold rents, which  are  fixed on the basis of 5 per cent of the valuer's assessment of the unimproved value, the value being subject to reappraisement every 20 years. 
Not necessarily. Liability for land rent and for municipal charges is no doubt 1 factor which influences bidding at auctions of leases, just as liability for the higher levels of municipal charges will be a factor under the new system. 
There are of course other factors also. At recent auctions some purchasers have secured blocks for a premium lower than the cash payment that will be required at the expected level of reserve prices; in other cases premiums have been higher than the level of cash payment expected to be required under the new system. As stated above, however, the reserve price will be set at levels which do no more than recoup the Commonwealth for the costs of providing the serviced blocks of land. 
and (12) These bodies have expressed concern about the present system of valuations for land rent, the rate of land rent and redevelopment problems. The Government believes that  the  introduction of the new method of land charging will remove present inequities, will ensure that Canberra citizens pay  a  reasonable amount for the use of land and contribute towards the cost of municipal maintenance and services  on a  basis which will enable comparison with similar charges applying in other Australian cities. 
Teaching Hospital, Westmead, New South Wales (Question  No. 1942)  Mr Whitlam  asked  the Minister for 
Education and  Science, upon notice: 
To what extent has the Universities Commission been consulted on the planning and financing of the projected teaching hospital at Westmead, New South Wales. 
The situation in respect of the granting of a hotel licence at Nhulunbuy is that the matter is presently before the court at Nhulunbuy and the decision whether or not a hotel licence will be granted will be made by that court. It really would be quite improper for me to say anything about it at this time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Air-conditioning units are provided by the Commonwealth in the electorate offices of the members' for Boothby, Grey, Kalgoorlie, St George, Stirling, Northern Territory and Wimmera. 
Refrigerators are provided by the Commonwealth in the electorate offices of the members for Farrer, Kennedy, Capricornia and Northern Territory. 
An area of 350 to 400 square feet is regarded as adequate for a member's electorate office. 
Electorate offices comprising more than 400 square feet have been provided for the following members: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Six properties are currently leased for Commonwealth use in Bendigo. These, together with the required information in respect of each, are: 
Comer of Queen and Mitchell Streets (part of first and ground floors). 
AMP Society, 425 Collins Street, Melbourne. 
Accommodation for District Telephone Officer and District Radio Inspector (PMG). 
Rental $9,968 per annum plus $312 per annum for 3 car parking spaces from 9th May 1969. Term 3 years from 9th April 1969 with an option of renewal for a further 3 years at a rental to be agreed upon. Lessor is responsible for cleaning of common areas, payment of rates and all other outgoings, operation and maintenance of services within the building. 
The Commonwealth is required to pay for electric light and power consumed, arrange cleaning and ensure that the accommodation is maintained in good repair (fair wear and tear excepted). 
34 View Street (part ground floor). 
Bendigo Trades Hall Council, View Street, Bendigo. 
Accommodation for the Federal Member for Bendigo. 
Rental $364 per annum. Lease is on  a  month to month basis. The lessoris responsible for rates, taxes and all outgoings, and any repairs resulting from fair wear and tear. The Commonwealth is responsible for light and power consumed and office cleaning. 
238 Hargreaves Street (part of ground floor). 

 Mr R. V. S. Beck, Crown Hotel. 238 Hargreaves Street, Bendigo. 
Accommodation for the Divisional Returning Officer for Bendigo. 
Rental $1,300 per annum. Lease is for a period of 3 years from 1st November 1969 with an option of renewal for a further 3 years at the same rental. The lessor is responsible for rates and all other outgoings and the cleaning of common areas. The Commonwealth is responsible for cleaning of the leased area, payment for light and power and maintenance of the interior in good repair (fair wear and tear excepted). 
25 Pall Mall (shop premises). 
Bendigo Advertiser and Independent Pty Ltd. 
Accommodation for Hearing-aid Centre for Pensioners (Department of Health). 
Rental $1,452 per annum. The lease is for a period of 3 years from 1st May 1968 together wilh an option of renewal for a further 2 years at the same rental. The lessor is responsible for rates and all other outgoings. The Commonwealth is responsible for light and power consumed, cleaning of the accommodation and is required to maintain the interior and its fittings in good repair (fair wear and tear excepted). 
37 Pull Mull (ground floor). 
Hume and Iser Pty Ltd, 35-37 Charleston Street, Bendigo. 
Accommodation for District Employment Office (Department of Labour and National Service). 
Rental $1,278 per annum. The lease is for a period of 1 year from 1st August 1970 with an option of renewal for a further 1 year al the same rental. Hie lessor is responsible for the payment of rates and other outgoings. The Commonwealth is responsible for light and power consumed, cleaning of the accommodation and is required to maintain the interior and fixtures therein in good repair (fair wear and tear excepted). 
Clinic Laboratory and Animal House, 
Bendigo Base Hospital. 
Bendigo Base Hospital. 
Accommodation for Pathological Laboratory (Department of Health). 
Rental $31 per annum. The lease is on a month to month basis. The lessor is to pay all rates, taxes and outgoings. The Commonwealth is required to maintain the interior in good repair (fair wear and tear excepted), to paint the interior wood and ironwork every 5th year and the exterior wood and ironwork every 3rd year; also to maintain all electrical equipment in  a  sound and proper condition. 
and (3)- 
I heard the honourable member for Eden-Monaro mention this matter the other night on his weekly television programme in which he said that he would raise it in the House. Consequently, I have asked my Department for a report on this matter and I hope to be able to give the honourable member some information fairly shortly. 
The  answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Capital Territory Police Report will be tabled. However, since there is a Legislative Council for the Northern Territory, it would be appropriate for the Northern Territory Police Report to be tabled in the Northern Territory Legislative Council rather than in this House, and 1 am arranging for this to be done. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2), (3) and (4) At present Vetsey's interests in the Northern Territory total 16,965 square miles and are held tinder six pastoral leases by five separate companies. The areas, annual rentals and expiry dates of these leases are tabulated below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2), (3) and (4) In accordance with the powers conferred on him by Section 5A of the Fire Brigades Ordinance of the Australian Capital 
Territory, the Minister has made an arrangement with the Board of Fire Commissioners of New South Wales for the manning by employees of the Board of the fire brigades established under the Ordinance. Close consultation is maintained at all times between the Board and the Department of the Interior about this fire fighting service. 
In addition, the responsibility for preventing the outbreak or spread of fire in any part of the Territory other than a built-up area is vested in the A.C.T. Bush Fire Council which is appointed by the Minister each year and is responsible to the Minister. 
All fire brigade officers are employees of the Board. 
All Board employees serving in the Territory are highly trained in modern techniques of fire fighting. The training is gained, for the most part, in the Sydney fire district where the Board's employees are required to undertakefirefighting in all types of buildings, factories and other establishments with hazardous contents of varying degrees. The Board ensures that the equipment used in the Territory is of the highest order and is consistent with world standards. The present system of providing fire fighting services, judged by results, can be regarded as highly satisfactory. 
It is the Board's opinion that fire fighting services in the Territory compare most favourably with those at Newcastle and Wollongong. The fire risks in the Territory are very much less than those at Newcastle or Wollongong, where there are large industrial complexes and ports which contain a large amount of shipping. There are also oil tank farms and particularly at Newcastle, a shopping area considerably larger than that in Canberra. The character of the dwellings (many of them weatherboard) in these two predominantly industrial cities is such that they present much greater risks of fire than dwellings in Canberra. 
Yes. 
and (8) The Board recently reviewed the minimum manning of the 3 brigades in Canberra and decided to make increases at the 3 stations. The new manning scale is considered to be adequate for the discharge of the duties of the Canberra fire fighting service. 
The present arrangement for the provision of fire fighting services for the Territory is considered to be satisfactory and there is no proposal to make any changes in it at this stage. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Northern Territory for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
 The answer to the right honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) These questions require answers providing or based upon legal opinions. 
Such action is not contemplated. 
Some lime ago when I was in the Northern Territory I went to Croker Island and to Oenpelli. While I was at Croker Island the Aboriginals expressed to me their concern that a large tract of land had been granted to Union Carbide under an authority to prospect. They asked whether they could secure an area to prospect in that total area. I said that I would look at the question when I returned to Canberra, and I have since examined it. The facts are that in 1967 Union Carbide was granted an area of 5,680 square miles in which to prospect, lt was, in fact, an application for a renewal of an authority to prospect which was before the Mines Branch in the Northern Territory that was raised with me. The application for renewal shows that the area of 3,680 square miles has been reduced, under the regulations, to 1,838 square miles. I sent officers of the Mines Branch out to have discussions with the Aboriginals about the whole matter, particularly the application by Union Carbide for renewal of the authority to prospect. I believe that a happy agreement has been reached. The Aboriginals agreed that Union Carbide should have the prospecting authority tenewed. They have sought an area of about 500 square miles for themeslves. This has been approved by the Mines Branch, and the Aboriginals will be able to prospect in the area. I read with some interest in this morning's Press that a  Mr Guiness  of Melbourne is getting a solicitor to go to the Northern Territory to challenge this approval in the court. I do not really understand why this is so. I certainly do not believe that it is being done with the knowledge or the agreement of the Aboriginals concerned. 
Pursuant to section 23 of the Australian War Memorial Act 1962-1966 I present the annual report of the Board of Trustees of the Australian War Memorial for the year ended 30th June 1970, together with financial statements and the report of the AuditorGeneral on those statements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
A draft of the proposed legislation has been prepared and is being examined. At this stage no date can be given for the introduction of the legislation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No special arrangements are made with the States to enable prisoners to vote at federal elections. Unless an elector is able to attend at a polling booth or is qualified and able to make an application for a postal vote, he would be unable to record his vote. 
and (3) The required information is unavailable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3). The following particulars have been furnished by courtesy of the National Librarian. 
Countries in which elections for the Central Parliament are conducted under the firstpastthepost system of voting: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Each mining lease in the Northern Territory, whether held by overseas controlled companies or otherwise, is subject to basic covenants and conditions set out in the Mining Ordinance, including covenants to pay rent and royalties, to use the land continuously and bona fide for the purpose for which it is leased, not to assign or underlet without the consent of the Administrator. All mining leases are subject to covenants and conditions requiring the working of the lease, the protection of Aboriginal rights, restoration of land and such special conditions as are deemed necessary. Pastoral leases are similarly subject to basic covenants and reservations set out in the Crown Lands Ordinance, including reservations of entry and inspection, reservations of all minerals, reservation of a power of resumption, reservation of timber, reservations in favour of Aboriginal inhabitants of the Northern Territory, covenants to pay rent, to use the land for the purpose for which it is leased, to stock the land in accordance with the provisions of the lease, to destroy vermin and noxious weeds, to allow free passage of travelling stock, to avoid pollution of streams and water channels. The Administrator may impose such additional conditions as are considered necessary in particular cases. 
Special mineral leases which are granted by the Minister under Division 2a of the Mining Ordinance are subject to the provisions of the 
Ordinance and contain such conditions as the Minister determines. 
Individual title documents may be inspected at the offices of the Mining Registrar and Registrar of Titles in Darwin. (a), (b) and (c) See table attached. 
(a) Twenty per cent of total leases, (b) Seven per cent of total leases. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has advised that the population of the Australian Capital Territory increased from 86,300 (approximately) at 30th March 1965 to 130,600 (approximately) at 30th March 1970 which represents an increase of 8.64 per cent per annum compound. 
During the debate on the Territory Senators Bill on 20th August 1970, 1 said, in part: 
Certainly when one has regard to the rapidly expanding electoral population of the Australian Capital Territory it appears that the time is fast approaching when some additional representation for this Territory may be justified on the basis of the number of electors involved.' 
and (4) The matter is under review. 
Pursuant to Section 41. of the Commonwealth Railways Act 1917- 1968, I present the annual report on the operations of the Commonwealth Railways for the year ended 30th June 1970. The financial statements of Commonwealth Railways operations for the year ended 30th June 1970 were tabled on 22nd September 1970. 
lt is not envisaged at present that the Bureau will have anything to do with civil aviation. 
1  am not sure of the amount that the ANL is 'paying back' to the Conference with which it is engaged in the Eastern Searoad Service, but certainly it is true to say that the ANL is able to carry more than the share which is allotted to it under the agreement of the Service. The  Chairman  of the ANL is proceeding to Japan to have discussions with other members of the Conference to see what can be done about the inclusion in the service of another ship also so that the ANL can obtain a better share of the trade. That is about all I can say at this point of time. I have no doubt that when the ANL has put its case to the Conference I will get a report in due course. 
I was just saying to my colleague that I have no idea. T am sure that the honourable member will bear with me when he realises that 1 have held this portfolio for about a week and I do not know all the details of it. However, I am able to say, in respect of the design rules, that whatever, the situation put forward by the honourable member the facts are that we are receiving the greatest co-operation from the motor companies themselves in implementing the design, rules. One factor that affects this matter is that it seems that Australian people, who should be very conscious of the problems of road safety considering that we have- one of the worst accident records per capita in the world, are not keen to pay more for a car because it is safer. The necessity for this must be brought home to them. 
I am sorry to disappoint the honourable member who interjected but a great deal of progress has been made in the subject raised by the honourable member who asked the question. The House will recall that the Prime Minister announced in a policy speech last year that the Government would set up the Bureau of Transport Economics. Already  Mr R.  W. Cole, an economist, has been appointed director of that organisation. At present  Mr Cole  is interviewing people with a view to filling his establishment which will consist of engineers, people skilled in transport operations, statisticians and the like. These people will act in the way the honourable member expects. They will study the coordination, rationalisation and efficiency of transport throughout Australia. One has to recognise that a body of this nature, able to look at the whole scene of transport across Australia, has not existed previously, although there have been many separate State and Commonwealth bodies which have made a part-time study in this field. I am sure that after the Bureau has been operating for a time it will become a nationally respected body which will add a lot to transport efficiency and will help in reducing the cost of transport throughout Australia. 
.1 am aware of the tragic road accidents that have taken place on the Eyre Highway but I am also aware that, under the last Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement, South Australia was given specific grants - in one case $13. 67m - for rural arterial roads. A supplementary grant of $9m was made on top of that. The South Australian Government has within its power and jurisdiction the right to take the decision to seal the 300 miles of the Eyre Highway or to commence sealing it. I notice that on the Western Australian side of the border the Western Australian Government has managed to seal its section of the road, and while it is to be deplored that these road accidents do take place I think that the Commonwealth Government has been fairly generous to the South Australian Government and it ought to be up to the South Australian Government to upgrade the priority of the sealing of that road against other demands. 
Because of the importance of the conference system to our export industries one of the first things I have been doing since becoming Minister for Shipping and Transport has been turning my mind to the problems of shipping as it affects Australian exports. The House will know of the Government's interest in overseas shipping. We have now involved the Australian National Line in shipping services to the United Kingdom, Japan and, of course, to the west coast of America. It is easy to recognise the advantages of a conference system when one looks at the problem quickly because a number of ships in a conference can provide rationalisation both of services and of freight rates from port to port. It is not so easy to recognise the disadvantages until one comes to study the problem more closely. I propose to discuss with my colleague the Minister for Trade and Industry at an early date the conference system and shipping practices in general. 
The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  thinks that he will be very clever and speak after  I  have spoken. I will be delighted to hear what he has to say. The 2 previous speakers in this debate, the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  and the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  showed that they are under a misapprehension. The honourable member for Grey made some play of the fact that Western Australia had received money under the beef roads programme. He apparently overlooked the fact that South Australia is also receiving money under that programme. The honourable member for Hawker said that I have not done my homework and that the grant to South Australia under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act had been reduced in the last allocation. I hope that after I cite the relevant figures he will be generous enough to correct any wrong impression he may have given. In the period from 1959 to 1964 the grants to South Australia totalled $57.344m: in 1964-69 the grants rose to S85.965m; and in the period from 1969- 1974 the grants will total about $129m. I am sorry if those facts destroy part of the honourable member's argument. 
It has also been argued that the Eyre Highway is not an arterial road but a major highway. All honourable members will recognise that they have major highways in their home States, of equal importance to the Eyre Highway, despite the opinion held by the people of South Australia to the importance of that road. The other State governments have sealed their highways either from funds from their own resources or through assistance by Commonwealth aid road grants. The other State governments have recognised the importance of those highways and have given them a priority high enough to make them part of the road building programme. 
South Australia has not recognised the Eyre Highway as having sufficient importance to rate a priority equal to that granted highways that have been sealed in the other States. Even Western Australia, with very long roads throughout the State, has gone to the trouble and expense of sealing the highway to the Western Australian border. In respect of finance one cannot say that South Australia has not been treated generously by comparison with the other States. For the purposes of the Commonwealth aid roads programme roads like the Eyre Highway are termed rural arterial roads. I remind honourable members that the Prince's Highway which runs a great distance around Australia is termed a rural arterial road as are the Hume Highway and the Stuart Highway. For the purposes of the Commonwealth aid roads grants each of those highways is defined as a rural arterial road. There is no difference in this respect between the Eyre Highway and any other highway in Australia 
In specific terms, the South Australian Government has in its programme $1 3.67m for rural arterial roads plus a special grant of $9m, making a total of $22. 67m, as well as the money that it spends on roads itself. We should keep in mind that the Commonwealth Government provides about one-third of the money spent on roads throughout Australia. I do not think that proportion would be much different in South Australia. The Government does not lay down any conditions as to how the South Australian Government should spend its own tax raisings or its own finance on roads. The simple fact is that, whilst every other State in Australia has seen fit to seal the highways for its own benefit, South Australia has not seen fit to seat the Eyre Highway. 
Today the Labor Government of South Australia sent a request to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  saying that it is now prepared  te  divert $3m from the special allocation to the Eyre Highway if the Commonwealth Government will give a $6m grant. 1 do not think that honourable members from New South Wales. Victoria, Queensland or Western Australia would think that that was fair when those States have had to allocate money and take responsibility for the setting of priorities for their roads and for sealing the highways. 1 regret to say that the Commonwealth at this point of time must leave the responsibility for the Eyre Highway where it rightly belongs, and that is in the lap of the South Australian Government. There is little else I can add to the case other than to say that the Commonwealth certainly recognises the importance of the Eyre Highway as a link, bin it is not alone in that. The South Australian Federation of Chambers of Commerce recognises the importance of the Eyre Highway as a link. lt has been asking the State Government to do something about it. It believes that the number of tourists who would go through there and spend money in South Australia would increase from 79,000 in 1970 to 500.000 in 5 years. The Federation believes that there would be an increase in capital inflow of about 300 per cent in that period, lt believes that the industries of South Australia would benefit a great deal if the South Australian Government were to seal the Eyre Highway. 
All I can say is that it is the responsibility of the State Government of South Australia to lay down the priorities for the construction and the sealing of roads. If the South Australian Government does not believe Ihe Eyre Highway is of high enough priority and it wants to spend money m other areas, that is its business. 
-1 am very conscious of the importance to Darwin of the Western Australian State - Shipping Service. Indeed, I believe that Darwin is the second major trading port in the operations of the Shipping Service.1 But the facts are that the costs of retaining the service to Darwin are becoming very heavy. Indeed, as I understand, it, these costs are recognised by the Western Australian Treasury as being insurmountable and too great. If the honourable member can assist the Western 
Australian State Shipping Service by using his good offices and talking to the Darwin waterside workers, which 1 understand he does occasionally, he might be able to bear down on them to act with a sense of responsibility in assisting a quicker turnround of ships. I am sure that, if this could be brought about, it would encourage the Western Australian Shipping Service to stay in the Darwin trade. The only other factor involved is this: We must recognise that the last national wage rise of 6 per cent has meant additional costs of Si. 2m to the Western Australian Shipping Services. These additional costs have added considerably to its losses. The position at the moment is that the Government of Western Australia has been giving consideration to this question, lt is still under consideration. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that the New South Wales Government has received such a report and has decided not to release it at this time. 
Following the fire on the Amanda Miller' last year; the Commonwealth Fire Board, with a: senior officer from my Department, visited Whyalla in July and inspected the fire fighting services and the fire fighting practices at that shipyard. The Board submitted a report to my predecessor, the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  at the end of September and, at the same time, sent a copy of the report to the . authorities in Whyalla seeking information as to what practices had been improved in their fire fighting services. My advice Ls that since the receipt of that report much has been done at Whyalla to meet the requirements of the Commonwealth .Fire Board and to protect the Commonwealth Government's interest in such services., For example, they have reorganised the fire fighting service and they now issue quick reports on even the smallest fire. They have instituted a training system and have replaced wooden equipment with steel equipment. As a result of the fire at Whyalla. a: survey has been made of other Commonwealth shipyards and I am advised that the Commonwealth Fire Board is now satisfied that the Commonwealth Government's interests are now protected. 
I have seen a report of a statement alleged to have been made by  Sir William  Gunn that he would like to see some of the smaller wool selling centres closed. As I understand it, his view is that this rationalisation would save some wool growers some of the cost involved in selling their product. I recognise the importance of Portland to the electorates of the honourable member for Mallee, the honourable member for Wannon and the honourable member foi Wimmera. The method by which wool is shipped from Portland is a matter for the shipper and the shipowner. The Government has been able to play a part in bringing about an agreement in the European trade so that wool transshipped from Portland to a container port in Melbourne is charged at the basic service charge. In regard to the provision of containerisation facilities at Portland, as it is a Victorian port the matter falls primarily within the responsibility of the Victorian Government. My predecessor last year inaugurated a meeting of State Ministers in charge of ports so that matters of this nature could be discussed. There will be a meeting of those Ministers within a couple of months when I will see whether this matter can be discussed. As to the suggestion that I might visit Portland, I would be very happy to make a visit at the first available opportunity. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An investigation was undertaken by my predecessor into the circumstances regarding the cartage of cement to New Guinea. 

 His understanding of the position was that the rates quoted by the honourable member were substantially correct except that the Japan-New Guinea rate was 'free-in'. Stevedoring costs in New Guinea were therefore additional to these rates. Of the some $16 per ton Australia-New Guinea rate, the Australian stevedoring cost component was of the order of $9. 
The Japan-New Guinea rate was set by Conference against competition from nonconference operators. These shipowners are able to offer marginally costed rates on positioning voyages. The Australian National 'Line, however, was not a member of the Conference when these rates were set. 
The Australian and New Zealand Eastern Shipping Conference does not cover the AustraliaNew Guinea trade. Rates in this trade are set by individual shipowners. Additionally as New Guinea is outside the tariff system there is no protection for Australian manufacturers. 
It was true to say that Australia is not in the New Guinea cement market. In 1968-69, for instance, 72,000 tons of cement were imported into New Guinea. Of this, 66,000 tons came from Japan while 200 tons came from Australia. 
While the Australian landed cement costs are higher than the Japanese, the freight rate difference is not the sole cause for this position. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Coastal Shipping Commission operates in the Eastern Searoad Service with the Flinders Shipping Company Ltd of Australia and Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd of Japan. The agreement under which the service operates of course must provide for adjustments between the partners to reflect their respective shares of Conference trades. 
In this operation the Commission is working with two private shipping companies. The disclosure of the financial details sought would rightly be regarded as a breach of commercial confidence. In these circumstances I am not prepared to supply the information. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The inter system goods traffic conveyed throughout over the Trans-Australian Railway from the inception of Sydney-Perth direct services to 16th January 1971 compared with a similar period in 1969-70 shows an increase of 7.37 per cent in west bound traffic and an increase of 1.6 per cent in east bound traffic with an overall increase of 6.65 per cent. 
None. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The line was open to traffic on 3rd January 1962. Tonnage of goods carried has increased by 160 per cent over the period 1962-63 to 1969-70. 
No proposals have been made to the Commonwealth by either of the States in respect of these sections of railway. 
 The answer  to  the honourable member's question is  as follows: 
My Department is represented on an interdepartmental committee which was set up to examine the adequacy of commercial dry docking facilities. A survey of docking facilities was carried out by my Department to assemble information for the committee. 
and (3) The committee has not yet completed its work. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No doubt the question refers to the proposed motor vehicle safety standard 'High Speed Warning and Control' which was recently circulated for comment in the United States by the National Highway Safety Bureau. 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council has not specifically examined this proposal. However, the Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design, a Committee of the ATAC, is kept informed of the future programme of the United States Safety Bureau and will examine this proposal along with a number of other safety standards prepared by the United States. 
As above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This information is not available from my Department. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not the practice for Leaders of the Opposition to be members of Councils such as the Australian Transport Advisory Council. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics are not compiled on an Australiawide basis relating to the number of accidents on particular roads. 
The ship 'Henna' came to Australia in the first place to load grain from South Australia. My Department inspected the vessel under the provisions of the International Safety of Life at Sea Convention and found the ship to be unsafe to carry a cargo of grain. It instructed the owners of the ship that a great deal of work would be required before it could put to sea. The owners took the ship from South Australia to Western Australia and loaded it with a cargo of ilmenite. This was the first we had heard of what had become of this ship. The Harbour Master at Bunbury reported the ship's presence there and after an inspection of the ship he reported that the ship was still unsafe. Some repairs were made to the ship at that point to meet the provisions of the Convention and the people who were finally responsible for the ship agreed that it should be allowed to sail to sea. As it met the provisions of the Convention my Department had no further objection and it sailed to sea. As the honourable member has stated, the ship finally broke up at sea. The ship's crew was removed satisfactorily apart from one man who was slightly injured. The ship is still adrift at sea and there is very little known of what has become of her from that point onwards. A watch is being kept for her to make sure the vessel does not create any danger to international shipping. 
SIR JOHN McEWEN 
The Western Australian State Shipping Service has recognised the problems it has with its ships in servicing the coastal run to Darwin, lt recently sought tenders for the purchase of some LASH type ships. / understand that, unfortunately from their point of view, the tenders were considered to be too high. The net tender price per ship was something of the order of $9m and the Service had been hoping to purchase these ships for a net price of about $6m. The Service has not yet confirmed this with me officially but this is the understanding that I have. The Commonwealth has made it plain that it is prepared to assist the Western Australian State Shipping Service to overcome its problems and in fact we have put the Service in touch with some ship brokers who may be able to supply modern conventional ships that would more satisfactorily handle the trade to Darwin. The honourable member may be assured that we are interested in seeing the trade to Darwin maintained, lt represents something of the order of 20 per cent of the total trade of the Western Australian State Shipping Service. I think I saw a report recently that the new Premier of Western Australia had indicated that it is his desire to see the State Shipping Service continue trading to Darwin, so I think there may well be a joint effort by the Commonwealth and the State Government to try to overcome the problem. 
The Maritime Services Board presently is handling between 6 million and 7 million tons of coal per annum from the area mentioned by the honourable member. I understand that further facilities have been provided at Newcastle in order to increase this to 10.5 million tons and that the Martime Services Board believes that this will cater for the situation as it is at the moment. I believe the 
New South Wales Government has got together a consortium of companies which are interested in the export of coal to see whether it will be prepared to install further facilities to take care of the growth of the coal industry, and negotiations are under way at this point of time. The Commonwealth has previously assisted the New South Wales Government financially. That Government received $5. 3m, S2m of which came from the Joint Coal Board Coal Industry Fund and the balance from this Government on a term loan. No request has been received up to this point of time from the New South Wales Government for further financial assistance. 
I move: 
The the Bill be now read a second  time. 
This Bill seeks the approval of the Parliament for the construction by Commonwealth Railways of a new single spur railway line from Knuckey's Lagoon on the north Australia railways to the East Arm of Darwin harbour. In a report dated 27th October 1970, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works recommended a plan to develop the port of Darwin, including construction of a new port and industrial area at East Arm. The proposed line is an integral part of this development. The new line will serve a bulk cargo handling facility at East Arm, which will replace the existing bulk loading installation at Fort Hill. The new berth will accommodate larger vessels and will be equipped to provide for an increased ship loading rate. The new line will also enable future development of an industrial area on unused land in the East Arm area. 
Construction of the line will be handled by Commonwealth Railways. It also will operate the line as an integral part of the existing north Australia line. The railway will be constructed to a gauge of 3 feet 6 inches. However, construction will be carried out in such a manner as to permit ultimate conversion to standard gauge with a minimum of cost. The line will be 4 miles 49 chains in length and a triangular connection is proposed at Knuckey's Lagoon near Berrimah, to facilitate train movements. I might also say that provision has been made for a grade separation for the Stuart Highway, where it otherwise would be crossed by the new spur line. Whilst the grade separation is not covered by this Bill, it is an essential part of the overall scheme. The current estimated cost of constructing the line is about Sl.5m. As required by section 61 of the Commonwealth Railways Act, the Bill provides a limitation of cost to $ 1.75m. This amount allows for any cost rises or unforeseen expenditure. It is planned that earthworks will commence in the second half of this year. Tracklaying will be done in 1972 and the line will be completed by the end of that year. 
The Bill defines the route of the proposed railway in 2 parts - the 1st is the new spur line proper, and the 2nd a crossing loop some 1 mile 7 chains long parallel to the existing railway running east from the proposed junction at Knuckey's Lagoon. There also will be a further 50 chains of railway on Quarantine Island, which will have the status of a private siding because it will be built on land not controlled by the Commonwealth Railways Commission. Accordingly this section of line is not covered by the present Bill. To illustrate the proposals, I have circulated 2 maps. One shows the overall re-arrangement of the port, and the other shows more precisely the route of the new railway. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question of effective collection and use of Australia-wide statistics on road traffic accidents is under consideration by my group of expert advisers on road safety. Nevertheless, 1 shall take up the matter of reporting procedures in the Territories with my colleague the Minister for the Interior. 
Yes. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A comprehensive code of trafficlaws known as the National Road Traffic Code was endorsed by the Australian Transport Advisory Council in 1962. The Code is used as a model for traffic legislation by the States and Territories and with some exceptions, State legislation generally conforms to the Code. The Code is kept under review and amended as necessary. 
The enactment, enforcement and administration of road traffic laws are the direct responsibility of State Governments. When the Code was approved in principle by the Australian Transport Advisory Council it recognised that it would not be adopted in its entirety by all jurisdictions in Australia. Council expressed the hope that individual States and Territories would, as opportunity offered, accept its provisions. 
See answer to (2) above. 
 The  answer to the  honourable member's question  is as follows: 
Yes. Australian Design Rules as endorsed by the Australian Transport Advisory Council apply to all new cars registered  in  Australia. 
Fire in Road Accidents (Question No. 2752)  Mr Cohen  asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report by the New South Wales Traffic Accident Research Unit entitled 'Fire in Road Accidents'. 
If so, does this report show that (a) between 1 January 1965 and 30 June 1969 there were 59 fatal motor vehicle accidents in which vehicles caught fire and (b) Volkswagen 'Beetle' sedans and Morris Mini sedans have been involved in  a  disproportionate and significantly large number of fatal fire-involved road accidents in New South Wales. 
Will the Government take steps to (a) encourage the respective manufacturers to redesign these sedans so as to remove this potential hazard and (b) make known to the car-buying public, by way of advertisement or pamphlet, the apparent danger of fire which may occur at the time of an accident in these types of sedans. 
The answer to the honourable member's question  is  as follows: 
Yes. The report has been referred to the Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design for study. 
(a) Yes. 
The report includes in its conclusion that: 
Volkswagen "Beetle" sedans and Morris Mini sedans have been involved in a disproportionate and significantly large number of fata) fire-involved road accidents in New South Wales.' 
The report also states that further investigation is necessary in both cases. 
Commonwealth action will be in the light of the report by the Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council is a forum at which Commonwealth and State Ministers concerned with transport discuss matters of common interest. Consideration is given to many detailed recommendations of specialist committees of the Council which, if endorsed, may result in legislative or administrative action. 
Proceedings are of a confidential nature; however, press announcements are made during Council sessions concerning the decisions of Council. The items which may involve legislative and /or administrative action on which press releases were made are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of persons killed and injured in road accidents in each State, and in Australia as a whole, are set out in tables below for the years 1960 to 1969. 
Preliminary figures are available for 1970 on the number of persons killed but not on the number of persons injured. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Available evidence indicates that heart attacks do not constitute a major factor in road accidents. No statistics directly applicable to this matter are available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The variety of assumptions and methods of analysis, particularly as to the value of human life, have led to wide variations in the results of studies in relation to the cost of road accidents. 
An authoritative statement provided for the Senate Select Committee for the year 1957-58 set the figure at $138,850,000. This figure was updated to 1968 to $230,900,000 using similar cost components, as follows (1957-58 estimates in brackets): 
The Government's policy in this regard is well known. It is simply to try to maintain in operation efficient shipbuilding yards. The Australian Shipbuilding Board has before it a number of tenders for ships to be constructed in the near future. I am not able to say when I will be announcing the decisions. 
The present line between Marree and Alice Springs, as the honourable member says, is a 3 feet 6 inches line. It is very prone to flooding and creates a great deal of difficulty for the Railways 
Commissioner. Because of that, the Commonwealth Government has agreed to the construction of a new line about SOO miles in length and of the standard gauge. We have informed the South Australian Government of that decision and we are now negotiating about that. The honourable member can rest assured that the Railways Commissioner will keep the safety standard of the present railway at the best possible level in the meantime. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
and (2) The year 1969 is the latest full year for which figures are available. Only figures covering 'accidents involving casualties' are compiled on an Australia-wide basis. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Hie introduction of road safety education programmes into the school curricula is of course a matter for the State education authorities. 1 am not aware of the number of schools throughout Australia which have introduced the subject into the curricula. 
The Commonwealth produces printed material which is used in schools throughout Australia. This material includes the kindergarten kit, Children's Highway Code, Teacher's Manuals, Parents folder together with posters. Commonwealth road safety expenditure is set out in my answer lo your question 2745. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as  follows 
In most Commonwealth departments staff are either directed or encouraged to .ise safety belts when travelling in official vehicles. With the exception of a few special purpose vehicles and some service vehicles, it is policy that new vehicles be filled wilh adequate safety belts. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth has contributed a total of $3,350,000 during the past 10 years, made up of Grants to State Governments for expenditure on road safety public education and Commonwealth Appropriations for the promotion of road safety practices. Details of annual expenditure under these two headings are: 
This matter has been raised from time to time both inside and outside this House. On previous occasions I have given the answer to honourable members who have raised the question that the Commonwealth provision for the sealing of roads is made through the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act. The honourable member refers to that portion of the Eyre Highway that is in South Australia. The South Australian Government has had assistance to the extent of about $125m from the Commonwealth for roads purposes. The initiative for sealing any particular road and setting the priorities for the sealing of roads lies with the State Government. So in this case it is a matter for the State Government to decide for itself - as other State Governments have had to do - what roads it wants to seal and in what order those roads will be sealed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department knows of no such analysis apart from results of sample surveys on topics such as fire in road accidents as recently reported by the Traffic Accident Research Unit in New South Wales. 
See answer to (1) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
To date the Australian Motor Vehicle Certification Board has approved the following laboratories: 
Ford Motor Co. of Aust. Ltd, Geelong, Victoria. 
British Leyland Motor Corporation of Australia Ltd. Waterloo, New South Wales. 
Smiths Industries Pty Ltd, Guildford, New South Wales. 
Approval is restricted to particular safety standards. 
Yes. 
Native Members of the Forces Benefits  (Question No.  2412) 

 Mr Whitlam on 16th February 1971 asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
How many claims have been met, and how many arc still (a) outstanding and (b) anticipated under the Native Members of the Forces (Papua and New Guinea) Benefits Regulations (Hansard, 21st May  1970,  page  2619). 
What steps have been taken to publicise the regulations among indigenes. 
Has information been sent to the Rabaul Native Ex-Servicemen's Association. 
 The one point that is important in the speech of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  is that he has  just  made in his examples of pollution an indictment of 40 years of Labor government in New South Wales, because the only examples he quoted came from New South Wales. The LiberalCountry Party Government in power there now has to face the problems left by 40 years of Labor government. That shows the sort of stagnation that occurs under a long term of Labor governments. The only other point in his speech worth mentioning is that his interpretation of what the Office of the Environment can do in the Commonwealth field is really a rehash in his own words of the policy speech of the former Prime Minister delivered last year. So in fact the honourable member has told us nothing new. 
Having heard the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  explain the Commonwealth's activities in connection with pollution and environment across a very broad field, one has to come to the conclusion that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  today in moving this resolution is jumping on one of his usual band wagons. It is a sad commentary on the affairs of the nation that this has to be so, but the Leader of the Opposition is a famous band wagon jumper and he is using the forms of the House to jump on another band wagon. One other thing that was revealed by the speech of the Leader of the Opposition is that he also ignores the States and local governments and shows that even in the handling of garbage he would adopt a very centralist approach and ignore the sovereign rights of the States and local government. The people of Australia ought to be very aware of the approach that the Leader of the Opposition takes in all of these matters. 
The Leader of the Opposition mentioned the activities of the Australian Transport Advisory Council, which is made up of Commonwealth and State Ministers of different political colours and includes a couple of members of Labor governments. That has been the traditional makeup of the Council over the years. The Leader of the Opposition believes that the Australian Transport Advisory Council is not adopting a firm enough approach in the matter of air pollution from motor cars. He went to some pains to point out that the standards adopted in Australia are, in his view, lower than those adopted in America. Of course, conditions are quite different in America from Australia, lt was recognised by the advisers to the Australian Transport Advisory Council that the conditions in Europe were more similar to those in Australia. We do not have the density of motor cars in Australia that exists in Los Angeles or Chicago. We do not have the density of 8-cylinder motor cars for a start. The whole standard of motoring is on a completely different basis. We have adopted the standards laid down by the Economic Commission for Europe. It is believed that in London, where the size of motor cars is more comparable with that in Australia, this standard is satisfactory. The fact is that the Australian Transport Advisory Council has made a move, and the Leader of the Opposition is a bit late. 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council has moved to overcome the problem of emissions from exhausts of motor cars. It has moved fairly satisfactorily in the view of the advisers from the health departments of the different States. The move has been made in co-operation with the States and with the petrol and motor industries. The introduction of these new regulations will make a difference to air pollution in Sydney, for example, where it is said that 60 per cent of air pollution comes from motor cars. 
Another area of Commonwealth involvement is oil pollution at sea. Honourable members will recall that last year, following the grounding of the 'Oceanic Grandeur', my predecessor very quickly moved an amendment to the Navigation Act to cover that situation. At that time he foreshadowed further long term amendments to the Act to update it. He introduced a Bill which contained some new provisions. The 5 main provisions were that it provided for the Minister to take action when he was satisfied that oil was escaping, or likely to escape, from a ship and cause pollution, lt empowered the Minister to require the owner, master or agent of a ship to take whatever action he felt necessary or appropriate in relation to the ship or its cargo, and failing action by such a person the Minister could cause action to be taken. 
Furthermore, any costs incurred by the Minister in taking action could be recovered from the person on whom the notice was served, and the Commonwealth's cost of cleaning up any oil that escaped from the ship by reason of the notice not having been complied with could also be recovered from the person on whom the notice was served. Penalties of up to $2,000 were applied in respect of each day on which a notice was not complied with and the oil continued to escape. The legislation applied to all vessels to which the Navigation Act applied, but it was specifically provided that the Act did not apply in relation to a foreign registered ship unless the ship was in Australian coastal waters. The former Minister made further changes to the Act so that the charge would be laid against the ship owners and not against the master of the ship, as was the previous case. In the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory where the Commonwealth has sole jurisdiction there are proper measures to control pollution. Strict mining regulations control the establishment of mining companies in the Northern Territory. 
I suggest that the problem goes further than was spelt out by the Opposition. I have no doubt in my mind, and it can be seen from the world studies, that the continuing build up of population in high density housing must inevitably lead to problems of pollution. One has only to look at the problem of New York with its 12 million people and the problems of London and Tokyo to recognise and accept that fact. In London, studies have been made of the problems of pollution. There has been much activity in the field of controlling pollution of the air and pollution of water. At the same time the policy has been to develop new cities. It has been found that not only by encouraging the establishment of factories and service industries but also by providing proper sports grounds, theatres, schools and all of the other amenities that go with a big city - after all people want more than just a job - people have been attracted out to these places. Twenty-seven of these cities have been successfully established or are in the process of being set up in Britain. As a result the population of Greater London has been reduced. One of the things the Opposition ought to be turning its mind to is a problem of that nature. To be able to attract people out of our big cities in that way would have a bigger bearing on the quality of life than simply considering the problems of the emission of exhaust fumes from motor cars or the handling of garbage. The Opposition has jumped on to a convenient bandwagon. Opposition members could have turned their minds to some other problems about which they believe the Government is not active. However, this happens to be one field in which the Government has been very active. The Postmaster-General drew attention to the fields in. which the Commonwealth is active. I have detailed 3 or 4 fields in which I, as the Minister for Shipping and Transport and formerly as Minister for the Interior, have had some responsibilities. Therefore I say to the Opposition: Get on with the business of the House and stop wasting the time of the Government and the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Railway construction and standardisation projects being carried out are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following orders have been placed with Australian shipyards for the construction of ships since I July 1969 - 
I am aware that the lamb market in Japan is of growing significance to the Iamb industry and to exporters of lamb from Australia. I think that the honourable member's question turns on the point as to whether the dipping of sheep in the Yarra may resolve some problems of smell associated with the cooking of lamb. I have to say this: As the honourable member represents a Sydney electorate I think it would be far better to dip sheep in the Yarra than to dip them in the sea off Sydney. 
There is no doubt that there is a great lack of understanding - and I have struck this in a couple of countries that I have visited - about how to simply grill a lamb chop or how to grill a lamb chop simply, whichever way one likes to put it. I would like to tell of an experience I had in Canada which may well be like the experience of the housewives in Japan. When I was in Canada I was told that Canadians did not like old cracker mutton. Apparently this was a bit of a hangover from the days of the war when it was a fact that those who were in the Canadian Air Force either in Canada or serving overseas were often fed Merino cracker mutton. I think that all of us who know the taste of Merino cracker mutton would agree that it is not delicious. I am pleased to say that the sheep breeding industry, knowing this, has faced the problem and is. producing lambs of a breed and quality that give meat of a far better flavour than that. I think that the Australian Meat Board could well encourage the Japanese housewife to learn how to cook a lamb chop from the new breeds of sheep that have been developed over the years. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
I have to say at the outset that I do not really believe that either the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  or the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  has any basic understanding of what is involved in these ordinances. I am sure that if they did and if they had the good of the Australian taxpayer and the Canberra community at heart they would not have raised this matter. It is true that there has been a mild controversy carried on in the letters-to-the-editor columns of the Canberra newspapers between some very worthy organisations and people who have been engaged in a pro and con crossfire with each other. Despite some misunderstandings, it has been a constructive debate, and I think it fair to say that as time has passed there has been acceptance of the Government's actions as a rational course. But the Opposition's attitude largely reflects the misconceptions and uninformed criticism spread by opponents of the legislation who do not live in Canberra, and who are bound by outdated or impractical philosophies. Those changes which have occurred are essentially simple. The point which opponents of the legislation tend to ignore is that there has been no change in the Government's adherence to a leasehold system. Its integrity remains intact. Planning and land use will still be controlled by the planning covenants which are in use at present. So the leasehold system remains. Only the method has been changed, to protect the people of Canberra from inequalities, to ensure that the development of the national capital proceeds in a financially viable manner, and by so doing to protect the Australian taxpayer. I am amazed that there could be any objection to these aims from the Opposition. 1 was the Minister for the Interior when the changes now being debated were drafted and put into practice. In early 1968, shortly after 1 came into the portfolio, I began to form an opinion that there were gross inequities and problems in the old system, and that action must be taken to seek solutions. The old system, simply, was that blocks of leasehold land were auctioned without any reserve premium to cover the cost of providing services to the land, and leaseholders were obliged to pay land rent at the rate of 5 per cent per annum on the unimproved value of their lease. It was only every 20 years that reappraisals of the unimproved value were made. Even to the most naive, it was obvious that in a city developing at the rate of Canberra that reappraisal of unimproved value after such a long period must result in dramatic increases in the value and the land rent thereby due. A classic example occurred in July 1968. Esmonds Motors Pty Ltd in the city had for 20 years been paying land rent of SI 55 on unimproved value of $3,100. Reappraised in July 1968, their unimproved value was put at $400,000, which meant that their land rent bill would be $20,000 a year. 
There are many examples of unrealistic increases in land rent on dwelling sites. One block leased in 1948 was assessed then at an unimproved value of $750 which meant the lessee paid land rent of $37 a year for the next 20 years. In 1968 the block was reappraised to an unimproved value of $3,980 which meant the land rent increased 500 per cent to $199 a year. Another house block acquired in 1950 had a land rent of $38 on an unimproved value of $750. The block was reappraised in 1970 at the end of the 20 year period, resulting in a new annual land rent charge of $300, an 800 per cent increase. Such increases were bad enough for wage and salary earners, but there were examples involving pensioners and retired people. 
Apart from my own inclinations, we came under strong pressure during my period as Minister to do something about the unfair situation which permitted examples such as I have just outlined. The Advisory Council of the Australian Capital Territory wanted something done. Despite what was said by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory the fact is that the  Chairman  of the Advisory Council,  Mr Pead,  has gone on record as asking for the abolition of land rent. The Chamber of Commerce wanted something done and many other thinking people wanted something done. We looked through all the alternatives to land rent, including the reduction of the 20 year reappraisal period, and the reduction of the 5 per cent land rent figure, but it became obvious that each of these alternatives would be only an expedient. To lessen the time and percentage factors would lessen the cost and shocks suffered by leaseholders on reap.praisement but it would also retain the problem, by pushing the crunch further into the future, by perpetrating the anomalies, and by delaying justice to leaseholders and the Australian taxpayer. 
What was needed was a cure, a cure that could be promptly and fairly instituted. So we looked at the whole- system. It was a leasehold system which provided fully serviced blocks by auction, so that people could acquire the lease of a block of their own choice, with only the intensity of freely competitive bidding dictating what a leaseholder should pay in premium for his lease. There were, and are, of course, those who argue that under a pure leasehold system there should be no premium paid by the leaseholder for his block and that land rent should be the only charge. But that argument depends on the arbitrary distribution of blocks by a- central authority, with little or no choice on location available to leaseholders. Such a system, of course, would go against the grain of every Australian who wants to build his family home on a block of land of his own choice, in a suburb of his own choice. 
Obviously, the old system of paying a premium for a block was, and under the new system still is, preferable to the argument advanced by the purists. But there was a problem in this. While a number of leaseholders were acquiring their blocks a: premiums which returned, to the Government the cost of providing the road and services for that block, there were people acquiring leases of blocks for as little as $1. Because of this, in many instances the Government was not recovering in premiums the cost of servicing the block. Obviously if a person could acquire a lease for $1, and the cost of providing services to that block was, say, $2,000, then the difference had to come from revenue. Although some rents were becoming unbearably high the general income from rent and premiums was not formally planned to provide a guananteed return on land investment. In good periods premiums helped, but in bad periods of very low premiums the return from land rente was not enough to pay the interest on the land development investment. 
In short, the Government was unsure at any given time that premiums and land rent would meet the land development charges which had been financed by the Australian taxpayer. 
A rent of 5 per cent of unimproved value may sound fair enough, but the fact is that it does not pay interest on original outgoings, let alone repay capital and provide a payment for land use. Some may argue that after 20 years, land values rise and the quantum of rent increases. That is so, but by then the loss of the first 20 years has been aggravated by accruing interest and higher cost investment, and repayments are chasing each others tails. And just at that point in the future when the leases shed a stream of money the system would run into trouble because very, very few people could afford land rent after re-appraisment. That is a point that is totally and completely ignored by the honourable member for Reid. 
In looking at the overall scene there was yet another problem. Land rent had been a dominant part of the total outgoings of a leaseholder and general rates had been held at artificially low levels because land rent had to be recognised as part of the family budget. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later hour. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was discussing a motion for disallowance of the City Area Leases Ordinance and Leases (Special Purposes) Ordinance moved by the Opposition. I had been pointing out to the Opposition and to Parliament the difficulties faced by the Government in looking at this question. The continued rise in land values was recognised by the decision to peg valuations, for reappraisement purposes, at the 1962 levels. Even so, in term of individual home-owners, who make up the vast majority of leaseholders, land rents continued to reach alarming levels. Canberra home-owners have no special sources of treasure, and obviously they could not be thrashed for fully economic general rates as well as high land rent charges. So it was impossible to establish a proper rate for municipal services and charges and, therefore, it was impossible to arrive at sound municipal practices. In simple terms, there was no way of balancing the books. 
Another possibility canvassed in seeking a solution to the problem was that of removing the 1962 valuation peg. But this would have meant to a home-owner an annual cost increase of perhaps several hundred dollars. Obviously, this would be more than the average man could bear. And, like all the other alternatives, it would do nothing to remove the anomaly of two householders in the same street, with no physical difference in their blocks, paying amounts of land rent differing by as much  as  $100. Anomalies like those I have mentioned in the last few minutes abounded under the old system. There were obvious inequalities for leaseholders in Canberra, and the Australian taxpayer was never sure what municipal costs amounted to nor how much the taxpayer was subsidising municipal services. So several decisions were taken and simple changes made in the method of the system. 
The first decision, which removed the inequalities besetting leaseholders - and which perversely has most aroused the ire of out-of-town critics - was to virtually abolish land rent. Then we protected the taxpayer of Australia by instituting on land at auctions reserve prices sufficient to cover the costs of providing the roads and the services to the blocks for auction. We have struck a rate which will return no less than the same revenue that would have been received from land rent and rates had the charging system not been changed. In fact, under the new charges only one-third of leaseholders can expect to pay more and two-thirds can expect to pay less. 
The big question is whether the leasehold system has been impaired by these changes. I say categorically: No, it has not been impaired. The integrity of the system remains, protected by lease covenants and these and other ordinances. Further, the interest of the Government in retaining leasehold is evidenced in the announcement of plans to resume the remaining freehold land in the A.C.T. There has been some emotional confusion about these changes and about the Commonwealth's role as landlord in the A.C.T. The lack of understanding and knowledge of this subject was demonstrated by the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  who made the claim that the Kingston-Narrabundah RSL Club may have to pay $44,000 as a result of the change in the rating system. This is  a  typical example of the lack of study made on this whole question. The simple fact is that the Club will have to pay an increase of 50c  a  week in rates. 
Fifty cents  a  week, not $44,000 as the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory said. The Government does not see its role as that of a rackrenting landlord set up to maximise the profits from the Canberra land system. The essential quality of the Canberra land system is that it can now be used to provide good quality land at very reasonable prices without cost to the taxpayer, and it can be used to create a national capital which, through the wise application of planning and development controls which remain intact, will stand as a monument to advanced thinking about urban development. 
The decisions I have outlined were not taken lightly or expeditiously, but only after 3 years of continuous study of the system and problems by the Department of the Interior and with advice from the Attorney-General's Department and the Department of the Treasury. I am proud to have been the ministerial instrument responsible for these changes. I believe that justice has not only been done but also is palpably seen to have been done. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
To obtain certification of compliance with Australian Design Rules seat belts must conform to Australian Standard E3S for Seat Belts. 
The methods of test set out in Australian Standard E35 are extremely detailed. They include tests for the following: 
Compliance of webbing material to specification Corrosion resistance of metal parts Strength of the assembly Slip of webbing under load Buckle release force 
The test procedure for the assembly is carried out with a dummy representing the wearer and a test rig for applying a load. Gauges for measuring belt slip and the displacement of the dummy are installed. 
After a pre-loading, a test load of 4,000 lbs is applied and maintained for 30 seconds. With the load reduced to 2,500 lbs the buckle release force is measured, and must not exceed 25 lbs. The total bell slip through the securing buckle, adjusting device and belt anchors must not exceed 2 inches. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the honourable member will appreciate, a considerable amount of research will be necessary to furnish him with the information he seeks. However, he may be assured that an answer to his question will be given as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The interdepartmental committee, set up under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister's Department, includes the Departments of the Treasury, Defence and the Navy, as well as representatives from my own Department. 
The establishment of the committee was approved by the Prime Minister on 27th July 1970. 
Port Augusta to Whyalla Railway: Bridges  (Question No.  2961)  Mr Wallis  asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: ls it intended to use the labour and facilities of the Commonwealth Railways workshops at Port Augusta to construct the steel bridges in the construction by Commonwealth Railways of the new rail connection between Port Augusta and Whyalla. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not intended to use the labour and facilities of the Commonwealth Railways workshops at Port Augusta for this purpose. In accordance wilh Government policy, public tenders were invited for construction of bridges on the Port Augusta-Whyalla Railway. 
A major bridge over Spencer Gulf is involved and a contract for this work was let to a private contractor on 17th November 1970. The bridge is due for completion in October 1971. A further contract covering earthworks, fencing, culverts and two minor bridges was let on 9th December 1970 and is due for completion in December 1971. 
The facilities of the Commonwealth Railways workshops could handle the steelwork for the two minor bridges. But fabrication of the steelwork for the major bridge would present some difficulties. In any case, the workshop resources are already heavily committed for maintenance work. 
 I am unable accurately to answer the last part of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition's question. However, 1 will obtain this information and forward it to him. I think that there has been right from the start a misunderstanding in the mind of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition on the Omega project. He has attributed some defence significance to an item that is purely and simply a navigational system that is in use in quite a number of parts of the world today. He asked what merchant ships are known to be fitted with Omega receivers for day to day use. I can tell him that the 'Queen Elizabeth II' is fitted with it, as arc the Norwegian cruise ship, the "Oslo Fiord', the British Post Office cable laying ship, the 'Alert', and the British cargo ship 'Prominence'. There is no doubt in my mind at all that the Omega navigational aid unit can play a very major part in the safely of ships at sea and that the Australian shipping companies will make their decision about fitting it in their own duc time. 
Earlier in the debate I raised a point of order about whether this despicable debate could be stopped. I believe it to be the most despicable debate I have heard since 1 have been a member of this Parliament. The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  is in New Zealand having discussions about the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. The moment he left the country the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  rose in his place and moved this motion about him. 1 am getting used to this sort of thing being done by the honourable member for Dawson. I remember that one day last year when the Minister for Trade and Industry - he was then the Minister for Primary Industry - was absent the honourable member for Dawson bravely rose in his place and condemned the Minister about the condition of abattoirs. 
 It is a fact. If the honourable member doubts me he should look at the Hansard record. It is typical of the honourable member for Dawson to wait until the Minister for Trade and Industry is out of the chamber before he is game enough to tackle him because the honourable member for Dawson does not have the intestinal fortitude to wait until the Minister returns. 
The point of order is as empty as the honourable member. I should have expected that the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  from whom we are used to getting half truths and misrepresentations, would have taken part in a debate of this nature. I should have expected that the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)- 
 I withdraw the remark I made in respect of the honourable member for Riverina if that is your wish,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Insofar as the honourable member for Lalor is concerned, we are used to seeing him hiding behind the skirts of university girl.s in some of his activities so we can expect him to take part in this debate. But I must express some surprise that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  would lower himself by subscribing his name to a debate of this nature. For raising this matter when the Minister is not in the Parliament, he should bc thoroughly ashamed of himself. 
The Minister is not in the House simply because he is doing the nation's business in New Zealand. The Opposition could have waited a few days until he returned. The debate does not do credit to the Opposition but it does a lot of damage to the activities of the Wheat Board, lt may do a lot of damage to the wheat growers themselves. Do not think the wheat growers will not be a wake-lIp to the Opposition. They are aware of the political opportunism of the Opposition in these matters. They have a long memory of the history of the Labor Party insofar as the wheat industry is concerned. They can go back as far as the time when the Labor Party was last in government, when it sold wheat at 5s 9d a bushel to the then Labor Government in New Zealand when the international price was 14/-. Wheat growers only have to look back to last year when there was a re-negotiation of the wheat stabilisation plan and the Labor Party tried to rubbish the recommendations of the Wheatgrowers Federation, the representative voice of the wheat growers. They can go back to the speech of the honourable member for Dawson in which he hinted that the Labor Party would not support the allocation of more money from the reserve credits section of the Reserve Bank to pay the $1.10 to the wheat grower. So the wheat grower is fully aware of the Labor Party's approach to the wheat industry. He is fully conscious of it and knows full well that the speech of the honourable member for Dawson today was full of political opportunism and nothing else. 
What is the matter of public importance? It is: 
The attitude of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Leader of the Austraiian Country Party towards Mainland China which has resulted iti the loss of Australia's mo.-.t important wriedt market. 
The honourable member for Dawson did not produce one scintilla of evidence about what the Minister for Trade and Industry has said. So I will quote to him the only 2 statements the Minister has made since he became the Leader of the Australian Country Party. The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party quoted them earlier but I will repeat them so that the Opposition might understand them. When the Minister was asked a .question about the recognition of China, he said that there were difficulties. He continued: 
It's a complex question. I would hope we  cm  clear some of these problems in order that Mainland China might be recognised in time. Hut f would not sell my soul just to benefit trade, and ( don't believe it's a significant factor in selling wheat to Mainland China. 
He went on further to say: 
I am not taking an absolute point of view. I am saying that if some of these questions c:tn he resolved, and I hope they will bc. then we can recognise Mainland China.  ls that what the Minister for Trade and Industry has said which has brought this matter of public importance into the House? What brought this matter into the House was some gossiping in a cocktail bar in Hong Kong which was repeated in this House by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  when he asked the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  a question. It was said that a British diplomat had conveyed information in Hong Kong that the Minister for Trade and Industry had been named as somebody who had upset Mainland China. Evidence has now come to hand that the British diplomat has' never heard of  Mr Anthony.  The fact that a British diplomat has never heard of  Mr Anthony  might be a reason for members of the Opposition to laugh but it makes its proposal to discuss a mutter of public importance look as silly as they are. 
Despite earlier advice the Chinese concern was with a statement attributed to  Mr Anthony.  From inquiries made by the Department of Foreign Affairs it now transpires that the British diplomat who conveyed the message had never heard of  Mr Anthony.  It seems the local High Commission merely assumed  Mr Anthony's  television interview might have been a source of irritation, and it is now admitted that nobody really knows what ministerial statement was made, if any, which could have been responsible for the Chinese concern. I think the honourable member for Dawson and other Opposition members ought to stand up in their places and apologise for their whole approach to this matter. They ought to apologise to the Parliament and, when  Mr Anthony  returns next week, they ought to apologise to  Mr Anthony.  The next time they have an attack to make on the Minister for Trade and Industry they should at least have the personal courage to wait until he is in the Parliament to defend himself. What is the Opposition's objection to  Mr Anthony's  statement anyway? What are you worried about in  Mr Anthony's  statement? Are you taking exception to the fact that he said twice that he hoped Australia might be able to recognise Mainland China? Are you taking exception to that? 
There are no papers. I have quoted all there is to know about it. That is how silly it is. Are you concerned that  Mr Anthony  said we should not base our foreign policy on trade deals? 
I have been somewhat provoked. Does the Labor Party object to the fact that  Mr Anthony  said we should not base our foreign policy on trade deals? Is it so expedient? Does it sell its country's foreign policy as short as that? Might it not be nearer the truth to say that the real damage was done a few months ago when we were at a very delicate stage of negotiations and waiting to hear from the Chinese and the honourable member for Dawson and the honourable member for Riverina were going around the countryside making mischievous statements which severely embarrassed the Wheat Board and may well have done irreparable damage? That is far more to the point. I hope that the honourable member for Dawson has the courage to stand up in his place when I resume my seat and apologise to the Minister for Trade and Industry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2&gt;- 
Standing Committee nf Advisers 
Function: To advise Ministers of the Australian Transport Advisory Council. 
Advisory  Committee on  Safety  in Vehicle  Design 
Function: To advise on safety standards in respect of the design of motor vehicles. 
Advisory  Committee on Vehicle  Performance (Weights,  Dimensions and  Operating Standards) 
Function: To advise on the on-road standards and equipment of motor vehicles and* their loads. 
Advisory  Committee on Road  User Performance  and Traffic Codes 
Function: To review and advise on the ways of achieving improvement in road user performance and to advise on the uniform National Road Traffic Code. 
Advisory Committee (in Transport  of  Dangerous Goods 
Function: To advise on the Model Code relating to the transport of dangerous goods. 
Publicity Advisory Committee  on  Education in Road Safety 
Function: To advise on publicity and education in road safety, (vii) Study Team on Transport Costs 
Function: To investigate the costs of transporting goods in Australia. 
(3)- 
STAND1NO COMMITTEE OF ADVISERS 
(Members of the Committee are nominated by Ministers of the Australian Transport Advisory 
Council.) 

 Chairman, Mr 
 M. M. Summers, Secretary. Department. 
Department of Shipping and Transport.  Mr K.  J. Troll, Under Secretary, Ministry of Transport (N.S.W.).  Mr G.  Meech, Director of Transport (Vic).  Mr K.  Nevin. Assistant Under-Secretary, Chief Secretary's Department (Vic).  Mr K.  M. Seeney, Commissioner of Transport (Qld).  Mr T.  P. Andersen. 

 Deputy Commissioner of Transport (Qld).  Mr W.  Hansen, 
Deputy Commissioner of Main Roads (Qld). 

 Mr M. C. Johnson, 
Secretary, 
Minister of Roads  and  Transport (S.A.). 

 Mr A. K.  Johinke Commissioner of Highways (S.A.).  Mr W.  H. Howard, Commissioner of Transport (W.A.).  Mr J.  E.  Knox, 
Director-General  of  Transport (W.A.).  Mr A.  Pybus 
Administrator of Road Transport (Tas.). 

 Mr C. Douglas, 
First Assistant Secretary, 
Department of the Interior. 

 Mr L. Crowe, 
Director of Traffic (A.C.T.). 

 Mr D. P. Lampe, Assistant Director, 
Local Government and Community Services (N.T.). 
ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON SAFETY IN VEHICLE DESIGN 
Chairman:  Mr C.  W. Freeland, Assistant Secretary Land Transport  Branch,  Department of Shipping and Transport 
Members  Nominated  by 
Ergonomics Expert, Road Research Board. 

 Mr R. W. Cumming. 
Medical Practitioner, National Health and  Dr J.  C. Lane. Medical Research 
Council. 
Research Engineer, Institution of Engineers 

 Mr p. N. Joubert. of Australasia. 
Traffic Expert, Conference of State 

 Mr J. D. Crinion. Traffic Control 
Engineers. 
Mechanical Design Chamber of Auto- 
Engineer. motive Industries. 

 Mr C. A. Paterson. 
Body Design Engineer, Chamber of AutoMr R. L. Youds. motive Industries. Production Engineer, Chamber  ut  AutoMr I. J. Higgins. motive Industries. Officer, Vehicle Structure  Mr A.  L. Fisher. Safety Branch. 
Department of Shipping and Transport. 
ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON VEHICLE PERFORMANCE (WEIGHTS, DIMENSIONS AND OPERATING STANDARDS) 
Chairman:  Mr R.  J. Barling, Controller, Land Transport Branch, Department of Shipping and Transport 
Members Nominated by 
Freight Operator, Australian Road TransMr N. J. Owen. port Federation (Goods Division). Passenger Operator, Australian Road TransMr R. J. Pollard. port Federation (Passenger Division). Motor Vehicle Design Chamber of AutoEngineer, motive Industries.  Mr C.  A. Paterson. 
Private Road User, Australian AutoMr W. S. Gaffney. mobile Association. Official, Society of Automotive  Mr R.  L. Youds. Engineers. Official, Transport Workers'  Mr E.  J. Harris. Union. 
Having regard to the honourable member's position as  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Labor Party, I would have thought he might have used any good offices he had to induce those taking part in the industrial action that is causing so much difficulty for Tasmania and other parts of Australia to do something about the situation. It appears to me quite apparent that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is impotent to act against the trade union movement which very strongly controls the whole of the activities of the Opposition in this Parliament. The situation is simply that on 23rd December last year an award was made for chief stewards of the coastal shipping lines and the Australian National Line granting them salaries which now amount to  $7,685.  An award which now amounts to  $6,095  was also granted at that time for assistant stewards. An appeal against the awards was dismissed in March. In April a stop work meeting was held and the stewards decided to go out on strike. The shipowners have been taking the necessary action under the industrial laws of this land and I have been holding conferences today with the Minister for Labour and National Service to see what can be done. 
J agree with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that employees of some of the major factories in Tasmania will suffer great hardship if the ships cannot get back to sea, but the difficulties will affect a much further area than that referred to by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Great difficulty will be created for many coastal industries throughout Australia if the ships cannot get back to sea. Indeed, the operations of the ANL itself may well be placed in jeopardy if we do not have a settlement of this strike. This situation opens up the question whether there is need for stewards on these ships at all, and if the stewards do not adopt a more flexible attitude further studies will need to be made of this aspect. There is no question at all that the whole of the coastal shipping of Australia is in jeopardy as a result of this strike. Some  80  ships are tied up - and the activities of the ANL, of which Government members at least in this house are proud, are being placed in jeopardy, particularly its operations on the Japanese route. It is a very serious question indeed. 
There is no doubt that the subject being debated is a matter of public importance, but I think the difference between the Opposition's stance and that of the Government is that the Government recognises the role of the States in this matter. We have a Federal system with sovereign States which have sovereign rights in respect of many matters. The Government has been co-operating and indeed giving a lead in the field which the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has raised today. He has ignored the leads given by the Commonwealth. I shall mention them in a moment. The majority of the areas affected in the matter of road safety are under the control of the States. Let me mention one or two of them. Road laws have to be passed by the State parliaments and there is very little that the Commonwealth can do unless it is to override the States. I do not want to be political about this, but I know that the Opposition has a tendency to want to see all power vested in a central government. I believe that in matters of this nature decentralised control is far better, and certainly people are much happier with it. But there has to be uniformity in the approach to the question. 1 shall set out in a moment or two exactly what the Commonwealth is doing in this regard. 
The same thing applies in regard to the policing of the laws. The police are under State jurisdiction, not Commonwealth jurisdiction. The honourable member spoke about seat belts. I had an experience when my wife and I, both wearing seat belts and sitting in the front seat of our car, were involved in a collision with an oncoming car on our way to Parliament House one day. I hasten to say that the other car was on the wrong side of the road, as was proven. The occupants of that car were not wearing seat belts. I suffered minor injuries and they had quite severe injuries, lt proved to me several years ago that seat belts were very important. Nevertheless the matter comes under State jurisdiction and I, as the Federal Minister for Shipping and Transport, cannot introduce Federal laws to make sure that the States encourage or enforce the use of seat belts. Similarly, the liquor laws are under the control of the States. 
The honourable member referred to road construction. 1 shall show later the great deal of research that is being done in that field, i draw to the attention of honourable members the recent announcement that an Expert Committee on Road Safety is being set up. The  Chairman  of that Committee is  Sir James  Darling. The members of the Committee who have been good enough to offer their services in this field are the  Hon. Mr Justice  Meares, who is the  deputy chairman,  Brigadier E. F. Campbell who is a consulting psychologist,  Mr P.  J. Kenny who is the  President  of the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons,  Mr P.  G. PakPoy who is a transportation planning and operations research consultant, Professor Robertson who is a professor of pathology,  Mr S.  E. Solomon who is a statistician,  Mr Murray  Sweeny who is a mechanical engineer and market researcher and  Mr Jack  Brabham who is a very well known figure in the car racing world. The Expert Committee on Road Safety will be studying the questions that have been raised by the honourable member for Newcastle such as the 'give way to the right' rule, the problems of alcohol, the types of road construction and angles on corners. 
The honourable member for Newcastle ignored the great work that has been done by the Australian Transport Advisory Council. He may not know that within the last couple of years ATAC has been thoroughly reorganised to meet the modern needs of the States and Commonwealth in all fields of transport, including the problems of road safety. Several new committees have been put to work. For the information of the honourable member I would like to spell out just what this work is all about. I think he would accept that one of the fundamental problems in road safety is the car itself. There is no doubt that some features of cars can cause accidents. The Australian Transport Advisory Council has set up a committee known as the Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design which has done a great deal of work in studying the problems of design safety in road vehicles. Some very significant changes to car design have been introduced to meet this problem. I mention things like reversing signal lamps; the placement of door latches and hinges which can be dangerous in an accident or can be the cause of an accident if a driver should bump his knee on a door latch; and seat anchorages for motor vehicles to ensure that the seat belt is properly anchored, has been tested and the strength is known so that we know exactly what the reaction will be in the case of an accident. The standards for seat belts have been defined. There are now proper controls and uniformity in all cars whether they be imported or of local manufacture in such things as direction turn signal lamps, which are a very important feature in road safety and one which has been accepted uniformly by the car industry and by the people of Australia. Uniformity of hydraulic brake hoses has been agreed to and a certain standard test is applied to them. In regard to safety glass and the controls for automatic transmission the same position applies. 
Regulations have been brought down to minimise the crushing or penetrating injuries to drivers caused by a steering column as a result of a frontal impact. Safety requirements have been defined for sun visors and rear vision mirrors, in regard to the placing, style and clearance they should have. A lot of work has been done in relation to the demisting of windscreens, as well as in relation to windscreen wipers and washers to ensure reasonable visibility through the windscreen in inclement weather. The location and visibility of instruments is also a very important matter. We have introduced a regulation relating to safety rims on motor vehicle wheels. I think the honourable member will agree that that is important. Similarly, consideration has been given to instrument panels, head restraints, anti-theft devices and the like. A great deal of work is being done. Presently this Committee is studying further changes that may need to be made to cars. 
In addition we have the Advisory Committee on Vehicle Performance, which draws up the draft regulations relating to standards of equipment for all motor vehicles and their loads. Draft regulations do not have any force of law, of course, until implemented by legislation in the individual States, and often this is not done on a uniform basis as at present. So the purpose of ATAC is to get the States to understand the need for this sort of action and then to get something done. This Committee prepares draft regulations such as those covering lighting equipment, trailer connections, safety chains, dimensions of vehicles, braking equipment, provisions for special vehicles such as omnibuses, tow trucks and the like. The ad hoc situation pertaining to implemention of draft regulations contrasts with that pertaining to design rules which, by agreement, the States pick up uniformly and co-operate in their administration through the Australian Motor Vehicle Certification Board. 
We also have the Advisory Committee on the Transport of Dangerous Goods. The honourable member for Newcastle may be interested to know that at the last meeting of ATAC on 26th February I issued a statement pointing up the agreement that had been reached on the need for uniformity of regulations relating to the carting of dangerous goods. All these matters are important in the field of road safety, so it is not true to say that the Commonwealth is not giving a lead to the States. I recall that the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  asked me a question about the Australian Motor Vehicle Certification Board, and I was able to point out to him in reply to his question that there are now several registered laboratories that do the testing on the safety design features. We have one at the 
Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd, one at the British Leyland Corporation of Australia Ltd at Waterloo and one at Smith Industries Pty Ltd. They all do this sort of work for us. 
Road safety, of course, is a matter of great concern. I believe, though, that the way through is not for us to dictate to the States, because we do not have the legislative power to do so, but rather to encourage the States to see the wisdom of what we have been putting forward. There has been no laxity on the part of the States in this matter. They all recognise the growing seriousness of road traffic problems and of road accidents. The honourable member for Newcastle quoted some figures on the number of accidents we have had in the last year. I think the figures 1 have agree with those he gave. There were something like 62,617 accidents involving casualties in the last year for which statistics are available. In these accidents 3,502 people were killed and 87,888 people injured. This is an illustration of the size of (he problem we face, lt is a real problem and we are very conscious of it. 
One of the matters that I believe will lead eventually to a reduction of this problem is the acceptance of uniform traffic laws. In 1962 ATAC agreed on a uniform traffic code. The States are very independent. They want to move in their own due course of time. I cannot legislate from here to force them to agree to uniformity. It would be a pretty high handed approach if 1 did. I think the honourable member will agree with me that the States have the powers and the responsibility themselves, and they also have an understanding of the problem. I do not know what the difficulties are that stop them reaching uniformity overnight. They may have political difficulties of their own. But the States that have not yet reached uniformity are of different political colours. Nevertheless, despite that, the facts are that all the States have moved very quickly since that time to obtain uniformity of road laws. So a great deal of progress is being made in that direction. 
The Commonwealth is expending more and more money in different ways on problems of road safety. It may be said that what it is spending is not enough. I would agree with this. One can say that there is not enough expenditure in many fields, but the facts are that through grants to the States we have over a 10-year period expended something like $3,350,000. As I have said in answer to a question from the honourable member for Robertson, the grants to the States are expended by the respective States under prescribed conditions restricting the expenditure generally to road safety education, and the Commonwealth appropriation is expended mainly in support of national public education campaigns in co-operation with State road safety councils and for the provision of road safety education material. It has to be remembered that of the $ 1,250m granted under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act $18m is to be expended on planning and research. So while I accept the seriousness of the matter of public importance raised here today I have to say in all fairness that I believe the Commonwealth is doing a great deal, first of all, in getting the co-operation of the States in this important problem and, secondly, in providing initiatives in the various areas that I hope will lead eventually to a reduction in the great problem of road accidents today. 
To take the last part of the honourable gentleman's question first, the stewards work under an award which was last considered by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in December last year. At that time they were granted a wage rate which, now including the 6 per cent increase, is $7,685 for chief stewards and $6,095 for assistant stewards. 
They work a 32-week year with 20 weeks annual leave. 
The only difference between the stewards and the senators is that the senators have to answer to the people of Australia for their actions and for the time they work. It seems to me that the stewards do not have to answer to anybody. I do not want to be provocative at this stage. Honourable members will know that the stewards are considering their position in talks with  Mr Justice  Franki. Let me reassure the House that this is a matter of some particular difficulty to many industries, not only in Tasmania but now reaching right down the Australian seaboard. Many great industries are in the position of having to consider standing down their employees. It is an incredible situation in which a small number of stewards - about 800, I think - are threatening a great deal of Australia's industry. All I can hope is that common sense will be brought to bear on the problem. 
Only recently I travelled from Sydney to Broken Hill on the IndianPacific train. It was a most enjoyable trip. When I was in Broken Hill the mayor of that city put to me the same problem as has been raised by the honourable member. I pointed out to the mayor, as I now point out to the honourable member, that the Indian-Pacific from the outset has been a most successful train and bookings are several months ahead. . The. Commissioners of Railways have found it impossible to accept bookings on that part of the line from Sydney to Broken Hill because bookings inhibit accepting passengers for the through run right across Australia. The Commissioners have had several meetings on this matter and I have recently approved the purchase of several more carriages to try to facilitate passenger travel. I am meeting other Ministers, who are members of the Australian Transport Advisory Council, in Melbourne in a couple of weeks. The Railway Commissioners of the. several States , will . be present. I will see that the matter raised by the honourable member is given further, consideration at that meeting. 
The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has moved that a select committee of this Parliament be set up to inquire into the development of major airports and harbours. I take it that he is talking about the House of Representives only. 
 I hope to prove that, despite all the allegations and statements made by the honourable member, there is no need at all to take up the time of members of this Parliament with such an activity. I hope to show that a great deal of activity is taking place in the very fields about which the honourable member has spoken. I hope to prove also that there is a recognition not only by the Commonwealth but also by the State governments of the problems facing harbours, and airports. I do not propose to deal in any detail with airports as they do not come within my ministerial responsibility. I propose to deal strictly with that area of my responsibility, which is the area of ports. 
My colleague, the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan),  and other colleagues will deal with other aspects of the matter. The whole tenor of the speech of the honourable member for Newcastle tended to highlight one fact, that is that he has a very centralised political outlook. I do not think that he was talking in terms of co-operation with the States but rather of dictating to the States. It is the same approach that we have heard previously from him and his colleagues on the other side of the House. The honourable member tends to ignore both the constitutional rights of the States and what I believe to be the States' wishes in this matter. Their wish is to retain some authority over matters which come within their jurisdiction. I hope to show that by co-operation between the States and the Commonwealth the very problems mentioned by the honourable member are being attended to. I am sure that the South Australian Labor Government and the Western Australian Labor Government would not agree with the approach made by the honourable member. 
There is no doubt that ports are the gateways to Australia's international markets and also to many of our internal markets. They provide the very lifeline for Australian primary and secondary exporting industries. The efficiency of these ports, their workings and their facilities greatly affect transportation costs. Indeed, the facilities themselves and the industrial activities of those engaged on the wharves can affect very vitally the turn-round of ships to and from Australian ports and thus affect Australian export industries with increased costs if there is inefficiency or industrial trouble. Australia is one of the world's largest per capita importers and exporters, and we rely largely upon sea transport and therefore on the adequacy of the port facilities for overseas trade. 
The ports are now handling about 60 million tons of exports and about 35 million tons of imports annually. This represents an incredible climb in total volume. It represents an increase of the order of 550 per cent in exports and a doubling of imports over the past 10 years. Similarly, on the domestic scene 30 million tons are being carried annually between the Australian ports by ships engaged in the coastal trade. This represents a 60 per cent increase on the tonnage 10 years ago. I would like to quote just one more figure. The 70 ports dotted around the 12,500 miles of Australian coastline now handle over 4,000 overseas ship visits annually, and that is an increase of 33$ per cent over the position 10 years ago. 
The cost of transport and export competitiveness depend on the ability to use new and larger vessels. This fact, of course, is recognised by the Government. My Department has sponsored university research studies into the turn-round time for bulk carriers at Australian ports. The aim of these studies is to reduce costs and provide a safe and fast system. But again 
I stress that it is important that we should recognise the State rights involved in the establishment and maintenance of ports. We do not have the right to charge in and say to the States: 'You build a port here or build a port there'. We have control only over Commonwealth areas. We have responsibility for shipping services both interstate and international. We have responsibility for the construction and design of ships, and it is interesting to note that we have built about 21? ships worth about $6 16m since the end of the war. We provide and maintain navigational aids of the order of 500 around the Australian coast, and the Commonwealth has a responsibility in relation to pollution of the sea and also safety at sea. So the Commonwealth has wide responsibilities. 
Nevertheless we recognise the fact that the States have a constitutional responsibility in the matter of ports and we seek to achieve the end result talked about by the honourable member for Newcastle more by co-operation than by dictation. We have in effect assisted the States on many occasions in the past when our assistance has been sought. We have provided $5. 3m for the export coal loading facilities in New South Wales, $400,000 to expedite coal loading improvements at Gladstone in Queensland, and $3.3m to finance harbour works at Weipa. We provided $1.9m for the Wyndham jetty and $3m for the Broome deep water jetty in Western Australia. We provided $1.6m for the new jetty at Derby in Western Australia. Additionally, as mentioned by the honourable member for Newcastle, the Commonwealth is redeveloping the port of Darwin. We provided funds there for the construction of the bulk iron ore wharf and will provide new facilities at the port at an estimated cost of $19m, including new land-backed berths for general and container cargoes and new bulk berths and facilities for small craft. 
There has been a great change in shipping and in the whole technology of shipping over recent years. In the old days we used to see drums, bags, bundles and boxes stacked on the wharf, with cranes on top of ships and men running everywhere - or walking everywhere, perhaps I should say. We have seen a tremendous speed-up in the handling of cargo. It is true to say that the roll-on roll-off ship and the container ship today can handle about  4  times the cargo handled by a conventional ship. This is because of its speed and quick turn-around. The Australian National Line has been a pioneer in the development of the roll-on roll-off ship. Not only has it led in the Australian context but it has led the world. Today we see not only rear-ramped roll-on roll-off vessels but ships of more sophisticated design such as the 'Parella' We see what are called quarter ramp vessels which can pull into a. standard wharf for cargo handling. We see also large scale bulk oil and ore carriers. I was present at the launching of the 'Amanda Miller', a vessel of 66,000 tons, at Whyalla recently. This is certainly the largest ship, we have built in Australia. Some people have plans and are giving consideration to building even larger ships. We may see container ships doubling in size to 60,000 tons, and we know of tankers of up to 300,000 tons being planned. 
These changes have necessitated improvements in shore handling facilities. Indeed, most shipping advances could not operate without port improvements. Shipping developments have been directed at facilitating, reducing and accelerating cargo handling. The operation of cellular container ships is dependent on specialised port facilities, including wharfage, cranage, terminal and depot facilities. So berths for these ships have been developed in the States at Sydney, Melbourne, Fremantle and Brisbane. Roll-on roll-off vessels also require their own facilities. The Australian National Line, the Government shipping line, has developed facilities of its own in 7 or 8 ports around Australia. Berths have been constructed at a whole gaggle of major and lesser ports around the coastline. Specific work has been undertaken to accommodate the problems of the huge bulk carriers. They need facilities such as large stockpile areas and conveyor equipment. These facilities have been provided because of recognition of the need by the Commonwealth, the States and other authorities. Port development work is continuing. Because of the need for ports to take larger ships, dredging operations are in progress at Bundaberg, Dampier, Port Adelaide, Thevenard, Risdon, Melbourne, Port Kembla and Townsville. So we can see that this work is going on in every State at the present time. More special wharves to handle roll-on roll-off vessels are being programmed for Albany, Stanley, Melbourne and Westernport. I have mentioned the Darwin port development, but there are also new developments going on in Botany Bay. The honourable member for Newcastle mentioned the problems of Sydney. He will know, of course, of a programme to expend $30m on bulk tanker and specialised general cargo facilities in Botany Bay, so Sydney will have a second major port. In addition to new works at Darwin and Botany Bay, it is estimated that $100m will be expended on other port development projects in the near future. 
That is the context of the situation about which we are talking, and in my view it reflects credit on all the authorities concerned. But with huge amounts of capital involved all the alternatives and the possibilities must be considered carefully before committing expenditure. It is fair to say that most port developments occur as reaction to needs, and the Commonwealth believes that the time has come when we have to anticipate needs. I see a role for the Bureau of Transport Economics in collecting data from around the world, watching the trends and informing the Government so that we know which way we are going. To make sure that there is some cooperation and uniformity State Ministers and Commonwealth Ministers with responsibility for. ports have now had a couple of meetings, and we are due to meet again in the near future. 
The Commonwealth considers the economics of national port development on 4 criteria. It considers whether a project has value beyond a State, is likely to contribute to Australia's development, will facilitate expansion of ports, and is beyond the normal resources of the States. We have to realise that ports have limitations in depth, harbour and wharf congestion, redundancy and obsolescence. I hope that the machinery that we and the State Ministers are endeavouring to establish will enable all Ministers with responsibilities for port development to meet on a regular basis to discuss these matters. I believe the machinery should enable us to report and recommend on matters of mutual interest in port development and marine affairs affecting development of ports and port facilities. In this way we can assist in maintaining continuous and comprehensive information programmes on port development. - So far as my ministerial responsibilities are concerned the honourable member for Newcastle suggests that a select committee be appointed to inquire into and report on the development of harbours. I believe that because of the way in which co-operation is being given by the States in this matter and because of the way in which there has been an exchange of information and views on what is needed for Australian port development and also in view of the possible activities of the Bureau of Transport Economics, now is not the appropriate time to set up a committee of the kind suggested by the honourable member for Newcastle. This is especially so when we consider that members of this Parliament are so busy performing many other functions that they would have difficulty in finding the time to be members of such a committee and that the points raised by the honourable member for Newcastle are being taken care of by other means. Co-operation with the States is one way in which this matter is being handled. 
I repeat that we all need to recognise that the States have constitutional rights in this field. Not only do they have constitutional rights but also do they wish to maintain those rights in this field. I do not believe that it is for us to dictate to the States. Rather we should seek their cooperation in order to achieve what is best for Australian shipping and Australian export industries. Therefore, I say clearly that I do not believe that now, when members of Parliament are so busy with their normal parliamentary activities, with their electoral problems and with other committee functions, is a proper or appropriate time to form a select committee on this matter. 
In reply to that section of the question asked by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition relating to the future of the coastal ships, I point out that on Friday the Press asked me what steps the ANL would take should the stoppage continue. I forecast that one of the few steps the Government would look at was the possibility of dispersing the coastal passengers ships. It certainly is not my wish so to do. Nevertheless, it had to be pointed but to the Press that because of the strike the ANL was running into great financial difficulties and the strike was costing up to $lm a week. So far as any freight rises are concerned, it is true that we discussed the ANL's financial situation. I will have to bring a paper on its financial situation before the Government when the strike is resolved. But until that is done I am unable to make any further statement. 
The Australian National Line has a 25 per cent interest in the company PAD Australia. The honourable member may know that the other interests are held by Elder Smith and the Swedish owned company Trans Austral. PAD Australia owns the ship 'Allunga' which is due to sail from its port on about 7th or 8th May. It is true that PAD Australia is paying the return air fare for the secretary of the Seamen's Union. The company issued an invitation to the secretary of the Seamen's Union in his personal capacity because the ship is a new concept - indeed, a new design, with new methods of cargo handling - and it was felt by the company that, as the ship is to be manned by an Australian crew, it was desirable that the secretary of the Seamen's Union should see the ship in operation at a very early date. I understand that this is a constant practice in the shipping world and that there are indeed precedents for it. 
I am able to inform the honourable member for Murray that the Commonwealth and State Railways Commissioners have carried out a detailed survey of the feasibility of standardisation of the 88-mile railway link between Tocumwal and Mangalore. Whilst it was recognised that there were some advantages to industry in the area, particularly the wheat industry which would be given direct access to the Geelong terminal, it was felt by the Commissioners that the cost of such a programme of standardisation was not warranted because of the small volume of traffic. It was felt also that other means' such as a bogie exchange could be used to achieve the same end. But there is a secondary problem. The Victorian Government has the statutory responsibility for the handling of wheat and it is believed that the extra flow of wheat that would come as a result of standardisation would put a burden on the Geelong terminal. I am unable, therefore, to give any encouragement to the honourable member because he will recognise that such a programme would require the support of the Victorian Government. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
I recognise the serious consequences that can arise from unsafe cars travelling along our highways and roads. But I have to say. to the honourable gentleman in all fairness that State governments have a responsibility in the registration of cars and in the recognition of this basic problem. I am not conscious of the statement to which the honourable member referred in respect to American regulations. I will have a look at the statement and if possible have it discussed at the next meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The air bag restraint system is one method of providing protection for vehicle occupants without any action on their part, as is the case with seat belts. Such a system is referred to as a passive restraint system. 
United States Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 208 requires the fitting of passive restraint systems from 1st July 1973. However this standard also provides for passive restraints as an optional system from January 1972 as an alternative to seat belt systems incorporating an automatic wanting of failure to secure the belts. 
Air bag restraints can be designed to fit in front of the occupant of the vehicle and to' inflate rapidly and automatically in the case of a collision. They then provide a large shock absorbent cushion to protect the occupants from injury. A well designed system can provide a high level of protection in a head-on collision, but further development is required before they can provide protection equivalent to that provided by seat belts in side impact and roll-over conditions. 
No. At this stage air bag restraint systems are in a state of intense development, as are also alternative means of meeting the United States Standard. As the United States proposals have been modified several times since their first publication it would be prudent to watch further developments there rather than attempt to determine Australian requirements at this early stage. 
The answer to the honour  able  member's question is  as  follows: 
Commonwealth Railways By-Laws Nos 61 and 68 provide that approved absence from duty, or absence on account of sickness or accident, in the course of a year shall not break continuity of service for annual leave purposes provided the total covered by such approved absence in respect of such year shall not exceed 3 calendar months. Where the approved absence exceeds 3 months, leave is granted only in respect of time worked during the year. 
The abovementioned by-laws are currently under review and amendment to the provision referred to above is receiving careful consideration. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Generally questions relating to the Tariff Board should be directed to my colleague the Minister for Trade and Industry. However, I know of the honourable member's interest in the Tariff Board report concerning shipbuilding because of the shipyards on the north coast of Queensland. So far as I am aware - I will have to confirm this with my colleague - the Tariff Board report referred to by the honourable member has not been received by the Government. 
The Prime Minister has confirmed that the report has not been received. Until it is received by the Government I am unable to offer any further comment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible, at this stage, to say which of the International Labour Organisation conventions enumerated by the honourable member, it will be possible for Australia to ratify after the current revision of the Navigation Act is completed. 
The possibility of including provisions in the proposed Bill for the purpose of allowing Australia to ratify these conventions will bc kept in mind. 
ILO Maritime Conventions (Question No. 3269) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible, at this stage, to say which of the conventions, enumerated by the honourable member, it will be possible for Australia to ratify after the current revision of the Navigation Act is completed. 
The possibility of including provisions in the proposed Bill for the purpose of allowing Australia to ratify these conventions will be kept in mind. 
IMCO Conventions  (Question No. 3270) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible, at this stage, to say which of the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organisation conventions enumerated by the honourable member, it will be possible for Australia to ratify after the current revision of the Navigation Act is completed. 
The possibility of including provisions in the proposed Bill for the purpose of allowing Australia to ratify these conventions will be kept in mind. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible at this stage, to say which of the conventions drawn up at the Diplomatic Conference on Maritime Law at Brussels 1967, enumerated by the honourable member, it will be possible for Australia to ratify after the current revision of the Navigation Act is completed. 
The possibility of including provisions in the proposed Bill for the purpose of allowing Australia to ratify these conventions will be kept in mind. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Expert Group has met on the following occasions: 17th December 1970- Melbourne 5th March 1971- Canberra 16th April 1971- Melbourne 
The Expert Group has intitiated a survey of the present state of knowledge regarding road safety in Australia and overseas where applicable This will form a basis for recommending effective road safety measures and pointing to areas which require further research. 
The Expert Group has no staff directly responsible to it. However, a Road Safety Research Section has been established in the Department to service the Expert Group, to assist in the formulation of road safety research programmes and to arrange for the carrying out of research projects. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The administration of the sale of motor vehicles is in general in the hands of the States. 
Yes. 
I am not aware of any requests to State Ministers. 
Two systems are in operation in Australia to ensure that unroadworthy vehicles are not operated on the roads. In. New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory compulsory annual inspections are carried out. In Victoria the owner of a vehicle is required to produce a Certicate of Roadworthiness when the vehicle is sold. I understand that similar legislation has been introduced into the Queensland Parliament. 
In addition enforcement authorities in all States carry out spot checks on any vehicles thought to be unroadworthy. 
The  answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Detailed information is not available on individual freight rate variations in Australia's inward trades. 
With the exception of the New Zealand trade, the basic sea freight component of the freight rate on Australian exports is the same for transport by conventional, roll-on/roll-off, or cellular container vessels, on the same trade route. 
General freight rate variations sometimes exclude certain commodities and it will be appreciated that it is only practicable to list the major groups of cargo. Rate changes with respect to these are as follows - 
The answer to . the honourable member's question is as. follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
It cannot be taken as a 'fact that the dumping of materials. at' sea takes place solely becausethe Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill remains, unenacted. The Beaches Fishing Grounds and Sea Routes Protection Act , 1932r1966, regu- . lates.the discharge of any garbage, rubbish, ashes", or organic refuse from ships within .  a prescribed, area off the coast of New South' Wales. To date it has not been found necessary to control such, dumping at other places off the coast. '' 
The report in the Perth 'Daily News' on 24th June 1970 has been brought to my attention. My Department was approached before this' dumping took place. The company involved was informed ,  the Department would not object to the material being dumped at sea providing the State Departments of Fisheries 'anil Public Health ' agreed and oh the condition that the dumping would take place in a recognised manner outside the limits of the continental., shelf. Subsequent: checks by - the Department - confirmed that the dumping was in fact carried out as required. 
My Department itself 'has no such experts but scientists and other persons expert in the field of. marine, biology . employed - by both the Commonwealth and State Governments are available to assist in determining whether any particular proposal to dump is or is not likely to be toxic to marines- ecosystems. 
Although, as mentioned in' (3) above, only one prohibited area for dumping has been proclaimed; ' those involved from time to time in disposing of waste materials at sea are generally" well aware of the need to avoid pollution of the ' ocean and obtain expert guidance before dumping chemicals. I am not aware of any case in which instructions given by the Department of Health or my Department as to how or where waste is to be disposed of at sea have been ignored and it has not been felt that at this stage further con-'' rols should be . imposed. 
I have asked my Department, in conjunction with other interested authorities, to undertake an examination of the problem of ocean dumping' in Australia ' with a view to the Commonwealth being in a position to take action1 as necessary in the future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No justification is seen at this stage for Commonwealth involvement in any further investigation into the matter which is primarily a responsibility of the New South Wales Government. 
In 1948 a conference of Commonwealth and State officials agreed that consideration of a road connection to Tumut should be limited only to local needs and advantages. 
, (4) and (5) Yes. 
A technical evaluation of alternative routes through Wee Jasper and Brindabella, which was received slightly more than 4f yean after the Governments had agreed to the joint examination, indicated that in either case the cost would be approximately $9m. Both Governments closely examined the report and some 12 months later jointly indicated that they accepted its recommendation that at that time construction of the road at the expense of other more urgent works was not justified, although there would be an ultimate need for a better road connection. 
As indicated in the answer to part (6), the report was not negative in that it recognised that a future need would eventuate and that the road may become a viable proposition in 10 or 15 years time. The matter has not been re-examined by my Department since that report. 
See answers to parts (1) and (7). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l)Yes. 
Yes. 
The Senate Select , Committee made no recommendation regarding the matters mentioned, but it did comment that State Governments should examine the problem closely when establishing road-sealing programmes. 
The Commonwealth Air Roads Act 1969 provides for the granting of financial assistance to the States for roads. Specific grants are made under the Act for construction and reconstruction or rural arterial roads- and for the construction, reconstruction and maintenance of 'other' rural roads. The actual allocation of the funds to particular roads within- classes, is determined by State authorities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A separate figure for occupants of motor vehicles is not published by the Bureau of Census- and Statistics. The figures for. drivers and' for. passengers of all road vehicles are. set out below. 
The answers to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The survey of the feasibility of standardising the railway link between Tocumwal and Mangalore, to which I referred on 4th May 1971, was carried out in September 1965. 
I am informed that in the opinion of Victorian Railways there has been no significant increase in transfer traffic through Tocumwal in the last 5 years sufficient to change the conclusion reached in 1965, namely that standardisation could not be justified 
The 1965 survey was carried out by the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner in conjunction with the Commissioner for Victorian Railways who are experts m matters of rail standardisation and who were and are fully aware of the transport requirements and problems in the area. 
lt is not considered that the survey was inadequate. It is the policy of the Government to consider proposals for standardisation on the basis of submissions by the State Governments. We have received no submission on this proposal and therefore I do not Intend to refer the proposal to the Bureau of Transport Economics. 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
As the honourable member will know I recently had a most useful discussion with the South Australian Minister for Roads and Transport concerning the provision of a standard gauge railway link between the Adelaide metropolitan area and the east-west standard gauge railway. As a result of those discussions I intend shortly to place certain proposals before the Government for consideration. The South Australian Minister will also submit the proposals to the South Australian Government for consideration. Pending agreement of both Governments to the proposals, it would be inappropriate at this stage to provide details. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2; No. A meeting of Ministers is scheduled to be held in Perth on 24th September. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No formal reference of power has yet been obtained or sought from any State of the Commonwealth. 
It is a fact that this morning I met with the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  and representatives of the Professional Radio Employees Institute of Australasia and other maritime unions whose members are employed on the 'Echuca'. The 'Echuca' has been a ship in dispute because it has not been carrying a radio operator. I met previously with  Mr Hawke  on 9th August and at that time I made an offer of certain conditions that I thought might overcome the problems being faced by the Professional Radio Employees Institute.  Mr Hawke  joined with me in a statement confirming that the offer was very fair-minded and, at that time, I think we were both led to the view that the problem would be resolved. In the event, it was not resolved. 
As I understand it, at an executive meeting of the ACTU  Mr Hawke  was unable to resolve the differences between one union and another, so I agreed to meet again with him. That meeting was held this morning. I am hopeful that the problem will be resolved on this occasion. I have issued a statement reaffirming the offer that I made on 9th August. I understand that the Secretary of the Professional Radio Employees Institute will take this offer to his federal executive. It has become apparent that the other maritime unions do not agree that a safety issue is involved, and I am hopeful that the 'Echuca' will sail tomorrow on its job of carting backwards and forwards the important import and export cargo of the beleaguered State of Tasmania. 
I should like to make one other comment. Last night, the Leader of the Opposition took an opportunity during the course of the Budget debate to describe the actions of  Mr Hawke  in some of these disputes as being similar to those of the gallant knight on a white charger, coming in to resolve industrial difficulties in the land. In his speech, he said that I was nodding my head in agreement on this matter. I think that if the Leader of the Opposition asks  Mr Hawke  he will find that  Mr Hawke  will agree that I was not unhelpful myself in resolving this dispute relating to the 'Echuca'. 
by leave - Honourable members will be aware that the standard gauge rail connection to South Brisbane was constructed as a result of an agreement between the Commonwealth and the States of New South Wales and Queensland. The Commonwealth statute approving the agreement, the Grafton to South Brisbane Railway Act 1924-1930, provided for Commonwealth financial assistance by way of loan and Commonwealth participation in any profits from the operation of the railway. The Commonwealth provided all the initial finance and was to be repaid 43.9 per cent of the total cost. The repayments were incorporated ultimately in the 1927 financial agreement between the Commonwealth and the States and now form part of the general debt of the respective States. The profit sharing provisions, the only portion of the agreement remaining operative, provided for any excess of revenue to be distributed in accordance with a formula which provided for the Commonwealth to receive an amount equivalent to the interest on the whole amount it provided and for the balance of any remaining excess to be shared between the States of New South Wales and Queensland in proportions mutually agreed by them. There has been no surplus since 1952-53, and it appears highly improbable that there will be a surplus in the foreseeable future. In the light of this and of accounting difficulties associated with capital works undertaken by the respective States on the railway, the Commonwealth Government has agreed to waive its rights to share in the distribution of any surplus revenue or profit from the operation of the railway, and thus has enabled the agreement to be wholly discharged. The Government's agreement to do this has been recorded by correspondence between the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Premiers, and I take this opportunity to inform the House of the action taken. In due course, we will seek repeal of the Acts involved by insertion of a provision in a statute law revision Bill. I present the following paper: 
Grafton to South Brisbane Railway - Ministerial Statement, 25th August 1971. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
It is the usual practice of the Government to keep the rates of pensions and allowances payable to seaman war pensioners under the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act in line with the rates of pensions and allowances payable to other war pensioners under the Repatriation Act. The purpose of the Bill before the House is to raise, in relation to seamen, various rates of pensions and allowances in line with the increases of corresponding rates being made in the Repatriation Bill just introduced. These increases are in accordance with the higher rates announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget speech. Clause 3 of the Bill increases the intermediate rate of war pension by $1.75 per week to $30.25. The intermediate pension is paid to seriously disabled persons whose war caused incapacities render them incapable of working other than on a parttime basis, or intermittently. Clause 3 also increases the pension rates in respect of the children of deceased seamen coming under the Act. The weekly rate for the first child rises by $1 «o $7, and the rate for each other child rises by $2 to $7, thus bringing the weekly rate of pension for each child of a deceased seaman to a uniform amount. Where the mother is dead also, the rate rises by $2 to $14 per week for each child. 
Clause 4 substitutes a new First Schedule to the Act to provide for an increase of $1.25 in the weekly rate of pension payable to widows of Australian mariners. The Second Schedule to the Act prescribes allowances for attendants for specially handicapped seaman pensioners. The weekly rate of S8.50 is increased to $9.50 and the $14 rate, payable where both arms have been lost, is increased to SI 6. The Bill does not have to provide for the increase of .$3.50 to S42.50 per week in the rate of TPI pension or for various increases in the weekly amounts payable in respect of the disabilities described in the Fifth Schedule to the Repatriation Act, as the increased rates under that Act will apply automatically to seaman pensioners by virtue of section 22a of the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. As usual, the increases in pensions and allowances will be payable on the first pension pay day after the date on which the Bill receives the royal assent. 1 commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Barnard)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks the approval of the Parliament to amend the Railway Agreement (Western Australia) Act No. 67 of 1961 by removing from that Act the time limitation on Commonwealth contributions towards expenditure by the Western Australian Government on the railway standardisation works in that State. Members will recall that the 1961 Act provided for both standardisation of the main line from Kalgoorlie to Perth and Fremantle and certain works of a developmental nature. These were to facilitate the development of an integrated iron and steel complex at Kwinana based on the iron ore deposits at 
Koolyanobbing. The Act also provided for a larger number of new standard gauge locomotives and rolling stock. The Act also provided that the Commonwealth would accept, as a charge against the rail standardisation project, expenditure incurred by Western Australia up to 12 months after the completion date and actually made within 24 months of that date. The completion date was 14th June 1969. That is the date when regular services commenced. This meant that expenditure had to be incurred bv 14th June 1970 and made by 14th June 1971. 
Although regular freight and passenger services are now operating on the line, the project is not yet complete. The main reason for this has been the necessity to re-design and expand the marshalling yards and freight terminals brought about by a more rapid increase in traffic than originally expected. Recognising the difficulties encountered by the State the Commonwealth agreed that it would bc reasonable to delete the time limitation and substitute an overall limitation on the cost of the project. Under the 1961 Act the Commonwealth undertook to provide 85 per cent of the total expenditure subject to the time limitation to which I have already referred. The current estimated cost of completing the project is S125m. Accordingly, under the new arrangements, it has been agreed that the Commonwealth contribution will be limited to 85 per cent of this estimated cost, that is, $106,250,000. The Bill before the House amends the 1961 Railway Agreement Act as necessary and ratifies the new agreement which incorporates the above principles. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
Dealing first with that part of the honourable member's question regarding the Western Australian State Shipping Service, the Commonwealth Government did consider a submission made to it by the Western Australian Government to subsidise the service from Perth to Darwin by something like $400,000 a year and also gave consideration to assisting the Western Australian ' Government in purchasing a fourth ship for the Darwin run at a cost of about $2.5m. The Prime Minister wrote to the Premier informing him that the Commonwealth was unable to agree to these 2 propositions mainly because the Commonwealth felt that the State had been well served at the time of the last Premiers Conference in terms of loans, grants and the reimbursement programme, and that the State Government, having in mind the S7m worth of trade from the manufacturing industries of Western Australia going out of Perth to Darwin, ought well to be able to finance and see reason for financing the service from Perth. That is the situation at present. 
Insofar as costs are concerned I imagine, although no studies have been done on this, that Darwin may. well be able to obtain comparable goods at equal or even lesser cost either from the eastern coast or perhaps from overseas. So far as the 'Darwin Trader' is concerned, I regret to say that along with 26 or 27 other Australian National Line ships she will be tied up following the action of the Professional Radio Employees Institute. The House will recall that the week before last I informed honourable members that the  President  of the 
Australian Council of Trade Unions, myself and the maritime unions involved met the Professional Radio Employees Institute on this question, and the ACTU and the maritime unions accepted that there was no safety issue involved in the sailing of the 'Echuca', which was the basis of the dispute. The ACTU carried a resolution instructing the other maritime unions that they were free to sail all ANL ships as well as the 'Echuca'. Unfortunately the Professional Radio Employees Institute has not accepted the resolution passed by the ACTU and has called its operators out on strike. I feel somewhat disappointed at  Mr Hawke's  inability to bring his affiliated union under control in the circumstances. 
When the House comes to order I will continue. It has to be remembered, of course, that on that occasion he did, as I put it to the Leader of the Opposition, come charging in on his galloper like the great white knight to settle the dispute and he failed so to do. I did try to get in touch with  Mr Hawke  last night when I learned that the ban was going to be reimposed by the PREI. But I found that unfortunately he was not available. He was somewhere in New Guinea and there was no point of contact that I could make with him. In the meantime, however, my Department along with the Department of Labour and National Service had discussions with the Australian National Line this morning. The Australian National Line is going back to  Mr Justice  Franki, where this matter all began, to seek a compulsory conference of the parties to the dispute. 
Insofar as costs are concerned, I believe that Darwin will suffer if the 'Darwin Trader' is tied up; so also will many industries around the coast of Australia as well as our trade to Japan. Whilst the PREI has exempted the 'Alunga' and, T think, the ship on the container run to the United Kingdom, it has not exempted the ship running to Japan. So not only will the coastal industries and bulk trade be affected but also our exports to Japan. 1 think that the action of the PREI is to be deplored. I am disappointed that  Mr Hawke  was unable to settle the dispute. He is the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. One would think that the small affiliated unions of this nature could be brought under control. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The 34th Meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council was held in Melbourne on 14th May 1971 and the 35th Meeting was held in Perth on 8th July 1971. 
Ministers who attended the 34thMeeting were: 
The  Hon.  P. J. Nixon, M.P., Commonwealth Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Chairman) 
The  Hon.  M. A. Morris, M.L.A., New South Wales Minister for Transport 
The  Hon.  V. F. Wilcox, M.P., Victorian Minister of Transport. 
The  Hon.  W. E. Knox, M.L.A., Queensland Minister for Transport 
The  Hon.  A. F. Kneebone, M.L.C., South Australian Acting Minister of Roads and Transport 
TheHon. R. E. Bertram, M.L.A.. Western Australian Minister for Railways 
The  Hon.  L. H. Bessell. M.H.A., Tasmanian Minister for Transport. Racing and Gaming  and Mines 
Ministers who attended the 35th Meeting were: 
The  Hon.  P. J. Nixon, M.P., Commonwealth Minister for Shipping and Transport..  (Chairman) 
The  Hon.  R. J. D.. Hum, M.P., Commonwealth Minister for the Interior 
The  Hon.  M. A. Morris, M.L.A., New South Wales Minister for Transport 
The  Hon.  V. F. Wilcox. M.P., Victorian Minister of Transport 
The  Hon.  F. A. Campbell, M.L.A., Queensland Minister for Industrial Development 
The  Hon.  A. F. Kneebone, M.L.C., South Australian Acting Minister of Roads and Transport 
The  Hon.  J. Dolan, M.L.C., Western Australian Minister for Police and Transport 
The  Hon.  L. H. Bessel, M.H.A., Tasmanian Minister for Transport 
The  Hon.  R. E. Bertram, M.L.A., Western Australian Minister for Railways (Observer Minister). 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council is a forum at which Commonwealth and State Ministers concerned with transport discuss matters of common interest. Consideration is given to many detailed recommendations of specialist committees of the Council which, if endorsed, may result in legislative or administrative action. 
Proceedings of Council are of a confidential nature. However as a general rule, public information statements are made by the Council during sessions concerning the progress of its work. 
The items which may involve legislative and/or administrative action, and on which public statements were made under the 34th Meeting, are as follows: 
Urban Railway Services 
Non-urban passenger and freight problems 
Railways equipment, facilities and administration 
Refund for unused portions of railway journeys 
Public statements were also issued during the 35th Meeting on the following items which may involve legislative and/or administrative action: 
Australian Design Rules for Motor Vehicle Safety 
Proposed Safely Design Rule for Motor Car Tyres 
Reduction of Glare in Driver's Field of View 
Urban Public Transport 
Uniform Liability for Road Carriers 
Third Party Property Insurance 
National Approach to Road Safety. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Vehicle emissions do, of course, contribute towards air pollution. Whether air pollution represents a dangerous problem would depend upon a number of factors the level and nature of the air pollution from vehicle emissions and other sources, climatic conditions, topography of the area and so on. 
In several capital cities of the world exhaust emissions from passenger cars have been shown to be the main contributors of carbon monoxide and hydrocarbons in the air. They also contribute significantly to the total of oxides of nitrogen in the air, as investigations undertaken in the United States have revealed. 
In Australia we are fortunate that air pollution has not reached the serious level found  in  many large overseas cities. At the same time high levels of carbon monoxide concentrations from vehicle emissions have, for example, been  found  in the heart of Sydney. 
In order to prevent any deterioration  of  the position the Commonwealth and State Governments, through the Australian Transport Advisory Council, have taken steps to deal with exhaust emissions in this country. Council has agreed  to  an 'Australian Rule for Vehicle Engine Emission Control' which is to apply throughout Australia from 1st January 1972  to  all new passenger cars. More stringent controls are  to  come into force from 1st January 1974. 
The Australian Rule  is  based on the European (ECE) rather than on the American standards. This is because the former is more relevant  to  Australian conditions  in  terms of car type and average journey. 
Meanwhile, Council is continuing to keep a close watch on air pollution caused by motor vehicles other than new cars.' 
The  answer  to the  honour able member's question is as follows: 
The Sea-Carriage of Goods Act 1924 applies the main operative articles of the convention for the unification of certain rules of law relating to bills of lading adopted at Brussels in 1924 (the Hague Rules) to carriage of good's by sea from Australian ports, except carriage between ports in one state. That convention was amended by a Protocol adopted at Brussels in 1968 (the Brussels Protocol). However, the Protocol has not yet entered into force (it is understood that no countries have ratified it as yet) so that the Sea-Carriage of Goods Act 1924 gives effect to the only currently operative international instrument on the subject of bills of lading. 
It is understood that the United Kingdom Government has not yet ratified the 1968 Brussels Protocol. 
At the present time a comprehensive examination of the rules and practices concerning bills of lading, including those contained in the Hague Rules and the Brussels Protocol, is being undertaken by the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) with a view to revising and amplifying the rules and, if appropriate, to adopting a new international convention under the auspices of the United Nations. This examination, in which the Australian Government is participating, is mainly aimed at the removal of existing uncertainties and ambiguities, and at the establishment of a balanced allocation of risks between the cargo owner and the carrier, with appropriate -provisions concerning the burden of proof. The Australian Government is awaiting the outcome of this examination before making a decision regarding ratification of the Brussels Protocol. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The rail to be used in the proposed Port Augusta-Whyalla railway, line will principally be second-hand 80 lb rail which has been inspected and accepted as in good condition. Some new 94 lb rail will be used in special locations such as points, crossings and over the new bridge at Port Augusta. 
 I am not aware of the report mentioned by the honourable member relating to a survey of road traffic accidents which estimated the cost to the community as $800m. I will make an inquiry of my Department to see how far it has progressed with a study that is under way. It may well be that the honourable member has some information that is not yet official, or not complete, or has not been presented to me. I will have a look at it and if there is any further information I can give to the honourable member, I shall do so. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
<para pgwide="yes">The survey programme being carried out by Commonwealth Railways on the proposed TarcoolaAlice Springs railway line has been estimated to take3½ years. To date the survey is on schedule and should be completed on schedule in 1973. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I am not aware of, nor has my Department carried out, any studies on the profitability of spare parts as compared with the profitability of complete vehicles. 
No evidence has come to my attention that supports this supposition. 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council, which comprises the State Transport Ministers, the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Shipping and Transport, has endorsed Australian Design Rules for Motor Vehicle Safety and Draft Regulations Defining Vehicle Construction, Equipment and performance Standards for Road Vehicles. 
The Design Rules, which apply to new vehicles submitted for registration in Australia, specify safety performance standards for a number of design features, but leave it to the manufacturer to decide how he will meet those requirements. The Draft Regulations, which are a model code recommended for adoption by the States and Territories, set out standards for vehicles, including their dimensions. They have not been uniformly adopted in the legislation that applies to such standards, although all States and Territories have, of course, legislated regarding the matter of vehicle standards. 
Other than the action referred to above, I am unaware of any steps taken to control the design of vehicles, which is after all basically a commercial matter, the same as with a vast range of consumer durable items. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought for the financial period, ending 30th June 1971 is not yet available. The honourable member will be supplied with the information when the reports for 1970-71 are available. 
I think that last night, after the court hearing, all parties to the dispute believed that a settlement had been reached. The Union itself, the Professional Radio Employees Institute, must also have believed this because radio operators were instructed to return to work. Most of the Australian National Line ships that had been tied up sailed. This morning I learnt to my complete astonishment that the union representatives had informed  Mr Justice  Franki that they did not agree that settlement had been reached and that they were instructing the radio operators, on the return of their ships to port, to leave the ships once again. 
Nobody knows what is behind the Professional Radio Employees Institute in this action. Its action is certainly not in the interests of the other maritime unions, and indeed none of the other maritime unions agrees with the stand taken by the Professional Radio Employees Institute. No one is able to get at the real reason for this latest action. It seems to bc quite inconsistent with the attitude taken by the other unions. Indeed I think all parties to the dispute, apart from the PREI, agree that the terms of settlement were reasonable and fair. I regret to say that the PREI has taken this stand. Fortunately I learnt just a few moments ago that  Mr Justice  Franki has instructed the PREI that its members must return to work. I can only hope that on this occasion - it is about the fourth occasion - they do return to work, because if they do not return to work the ANL will have no option but to stand all men down and tie the ships up. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Road Safety Council of New South Wales was disbanded recently. However, my Department has been advised, following consultation with former members of the Council, that such a declaration was not made by the Council. 
and (3) Safety standards for all the items mentioned are embodied in one form or another in Acts and/or Regulations of each State or Territory of the Commonwealth. In particular the Australian Transport Advisory Council, which comprises Transport Ministers of each State and Territory, with myself as  Chairman,  has endorsed rules for a number of safety requirements for motor vehicles. These rules are published by my Department in the volume, 'Australian Design Rules for Motor Vehicle Safety', and cover the following items: 
Reverse signal lamps 
Door latches and hinges 
Seat anchorages 
Seat belts 
Seat belt anchorage points 
Direction turn signal lamps 
Hydraulic brake hoses 
Safety glass 
Standard control for automatic transmissions 
Internal sun visors 
Glare reduction m field of view 
Rear vision mirrors 
Demisting of windscreens 
Windscreen wipers and washers 
Location and visibility of instruments 
Safety wheel rims 
Instrument panels 
Head restraints 
Anti-theft locks 
The dates of application and the classes of vehicles involved vary for each rule, but each Government has agreed to require compliance with the applicable rules before new motor vehicles are registered for the first time. 
The applicable legislation appears in the following Acts and/or Regulations made under them: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
, (2) (a), (b), (c), (e), (f), (g), (3) and (4). The attached list gives the details for vessels from 100 to 1,000 tons deadweight constructed through the Australian Shipbuilding Board since 1st September 1951 and vessels at present under construction. 
(d) As the details of cost of each vessel are confidential, this item is not available. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
, (2) (a), (b), (c), (e), (f), (g), (3) and (4) The attached list gives these details for vessels over 1,000 tons deadweight constructed through the Australian Shipbuilding Board since 1st September 1951, and vessels at present under construction. 
(d) As the details of cost of each vessel are confidential, this item is not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the honourable member was informed late last year, the Department of Shipping and Transport's inquiries into the possibility of establishing nautical training facilities in Australia have been extended to encompass the whole field of training and examination of all classes of seamen. A document on this subject entitled 'Training for Work at Sea', which was prepared by  Mr T.  Norris, a former First Assistant Secretary of my Department, has been circulated to shipowners, unions, educational establishments and other interested parties. When people have had a chance to look at the proposals contained in this document. I propose that the Secretary of my Department will convene a conference of interested persons so that the views and thoughts of people closely connected with this aspect of the Australian Merchant Marine can be taken into consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is' as follows: 
Considerable progress has been made on the question of the establishment of an Australian shipping register, and 1 hope to be in a position to make an announcement about this matter later in the year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2), (3) and (4) (a) and (b) The attached list sets out the details of overseas voyages made and cargoes carried by ships owned by the Australian National Line and Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Limited during 1970-71. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council has been closely concerned with motor vehicle exhaust emissions for the past two years. On the advice of a special committee set up to examine the problem of motor vehicle exhaust emissions the Council has endorsed the 'Australian Rule for Vehicle Engine Emission Control'. 
The Rule is divided into two parts. The first which takes effect from 1st January 1972 calls for the limitation of the emission of carbon monoxide to 4.5 per cent by volume of total exhaust emissions during idling. The second part, to be implemented on 1st January 1974 will control both hydrocarbon and carbon monoxide emissions during all phases of vehicle operation. 
The Rule applies to all passenger cars and station wagons manufactured on or after the dates mentioned above. 
The Council through its Advisory Committee on Vehicle Performance is also preparing Draft 
Regulations to control truck emissions. When Draft Regulations are agreed by Council on this matter, it is proposed they be then implemented by the States and the Territories. 
The Council is continuing to keep a close watch on exhaust emissions of other vehicles. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As promised, 1 arranged for this matter to be discussed at the meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council held in Perth, on 8th July 1971. 
The answer .to the. honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The give way to (he right rule was discussed in December 1968 by, 'the then Australian Road Traffic Code Committee. It was decided retention of this rule was warranted. The Advisory Committee on Road User Performance and Traffic Codes, the committee now dealing with these matters, is currently examining the application of the Australian Road Traffic Code to ascertain the extent it is being adopted by each of the States and Territories. 
 The answer to the honourable member's- question is as follows: 
Yes. The proposal to which you refer has been put to the United States automotive industry and other interested parties for comment. I understand the period for comment has expired but I am not aware of any decision on the matter being taken so far by the United States National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. 
The Advisory - Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design has not yet reported to the Australian Transport Advisory Council. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design is examining the matter of fuel systems in motor vehicles and is taking into account the risk of fire occurring when road accidents take place. It hopes to have a report completed in time for the next meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council. Commonwealth action will be taken on this matter in the light of whatever recommendations on this matter are made to the Australian Transport Advisory Council. 
and (5) Yes. However, 1 have not yet received a copy of  Mr Nader's  report When this is obtained and studied, I shall be in a position to decide what further action needs to be taken. 
No, nor does my Department have any proposals at the present time to undertake such studies. 
It is doubtful whether. comparative information could be presented in a manner which could be of real value to the consumer because of the difficulties in placing a rating on particular safety features either in isolation or in combination with other features. 
However, all new cars regstered in Australia are required to comply with various Australian Design Rules for motor vehicle safety and certain other legal requirements relating to safety, thus ensuring common safety standards as between different makes of new cars. The standard of safety will be progressively raised to cover additional safety features as further design rules become effective. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Companies manufacturing Omega receivers include: 
TracorInc., U.S.A. 
The answer to the onour- able member's question is as follows: 
Estimated electric power requirements are: 
for one Omega transmitter approximately 415 KVA 
for one complete Omega station approximately 800 KVA. 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
Comparative costs can really be given only  in  relation to specific sites. It is not possible to make cost comparison merely in principle. 
The cost of an installation depends to a significant degree on the earth system requirements, which in turn depend' very much on the terrain and the natural conductivity of the soil at the site. 
As  a  broad guide, overseas information suggests that  a  tower-supported aerial and associated earth system tends to be cheaper than valley-span systems. 
 The reference to an aerial mounted on  a  platform is not understood. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information is not available as to which particular shipping lines have installed Omega on their ships, although we do know that Cunard's QE2 is equipped and some hundreds of cargo, fishing and survey craft, mainly United States-based, are using the equipment. 
It must be remembered that so far only the North Atlantic region has reasonable Omega coverage resulting from the 4 experimental low-power transmitters. One cannot expect any significant proportion of potential commercial users to fit vessels and aircraft until the full system becomes operational on a global scale. 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
In the course of a preliminary study in 1968 
UnitedStatesexperts  assistedbyAustralian  Departmental officers inspected 2 sites. One of these was on the Nattai River, New South Wales; the other on the Forth River, Tasmania. These are the only potential sites inspected by United States representatives, but they by no means limit the possibilities which will be examined before a final decision is reached. 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council, which comprises Commonwealth and State Ministers with transport responsibilities, has for some years taken a very close interest in this matter. 
Council took positive steps in 1968 when one of its committees, the then Australian Road Safety Council, approached national advertising organisations regarding the content of certain publicity material which detracted from safe driving practices. These advertising organisations responded most favourable and since that time the emphasis in motor vehicle advertising has been more towards highlighting safety, comfort and reliability features of cars than either their power or speed. 
In addition, the major advertising organisations, in conjunction with the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, publish a guide to advertisers. This is a measure directed towards ensuring that the publicity content of material used by the various media conforms to certain standards and avoids the use of advertisements likely to influence drivers adversely. 
Air-bag Safety Device  (Question No. 4202) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Current U.S. Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards specify passive restraint systems as one of three alternatives for occupant protection for passenger cars manufactured after 1st January 1972. From 15th August 1973, a passive restraint system becomes mandatory for new passenger cars, that is, the 1974 models. 
The Air Bag is currently one of the most developed forms of passive restraint system and I understand that is is likely some 1973 model passenger cars in the United States may incorporate it. 
Although prototypes have been produced and demonstrated, I understand the development of mass production versions for use as original equipment by vehicle manufacturers has not been completed. 
Problems have been reported including noise hazard, injury to occupants from the bag, failure of the bag to provide protection unless occupants wearlap belts and failure to operate in situations other than a front end collision. 
Of serious concern also is the question of achieving complete reliability of the device when manufactured in large numbers. For example, it is necessary to avoid inadvertent operation when not required and failure to operate after long periods of storage in the vehicle. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There have been instances where advertisements featuring motor vehicles have emphasised the speed and power potential of vehicles as a means of influencing sales. Nevertheless, such advertising has always been deprecated by those people involved in road accident prevention. 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council, which comprises Commonwealth and State Ministers with transport responsibilities, has for some years taken a very close interest in this matter. 
Council took positive steps in 1968 when one of its committees, the then Australian Road Safety Council, approached national advertising organisations regarding the content of certain publicity material which detracted from safe driving practices. These advertising organisations responded most favourably and since that time the emphasis in motor vehicle advertising has been more towards highlighting safety, comfort and reliability features of cars than either their power or speed. 
There are no legislative measures to control or counter adverse advertising of the particular nature referred to. However, the major advertising organisations, in conjunction with the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, publish a guide to advertisers. This is a measure directed towards ensuring that the publicity content of material used by the various media conforms to certain standards. The guide is more than helpful in avoiding the use of advertisements likely to influence drivers adversely. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, through the Australian Transport Advisory Council, of which the Minister for the Interior is a member. The examination of this matter is being undertaken by Council's Advisory Committee on Road User Performance and Traffic Codes as part of its overall study of the system of reporting road accidents throughout Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

in reply - I would like to make one or two general comments before answering the specific questions raised by the various honourable members who have spoken to this Bill. Running through the speeches of the 3 honourable members of the Opposition who have spoken on this Bill has been the common trend of blaming the Commonwealth for all the ills of the railway system. As is usual, the Opposition is completely ignoring all the rights and the roles of the States. The Constitution shows that the railway systems in the States are in the control of and operated by the States. This does not mean to say that the Commonwealth does not take an interest. In fact. it has taken a very keen financial interest during the life of this Liberal-Country Party Government over the past 20 years, to the tune of investing approximately $240m in railway systems. It ought not to be forgotten, though, that if the States do not set high priorities in their own budgets, that must lead to the running down of the State railway systems. In fact, in some States that has occurred. 
We have reached a stage with our railway systems today when something more  must  be done. The Commonwealth recognises this. The Australian Transport Advisory Council, of which I am  chairman  and which is composed of all the State transport Ministers, has recognised this. Indeed, we have established a special committee to examine in some depth the problems with  which  the railways are faced. The resources of the Bureau of Transport Economics, which is part of my Department, will be called upon for expert advice in that field. We have gone one stage further than that to try to assist the States with their problem. At the recent Australian Transportation Conference it was recommended that  we  ought to set up a Transport Industry Advisory Council. This body is now in operation. It consists Of road transport operators, people with interests in shipping, as well as some of the commissioners of the railway systems. It is the intention of the council to report directly to me on the various transport systems of Australia. Of course, the members of the council will be taking a keen interest in the railway situation. 
Several direct questions were asked of me by the honourable members who had spoken. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  wanted to know whether,  if  the $125m mentioned specifically in the Bill was over-spent, the Commonwealth would be prepared to contribute a greater amount. Of course, the fact is that the Western Australian Government and the Commonwealth Government do not expect the amount to be exceeded. But naturally enough the Western Australian Government has a 
Fight  to come to the Commonwealth Government if that amount is exceeded. The Commonwealth will consider any submission that is made. 
I think there is a lack of understanding of what has occurred in the Western Australian railway system by honourable members who have criticised the financial arrangements made by the Commonwealth with Western Australia. An unfair comparison has been made between the standardisation .projects in New South Wales and Victoria and in Western Autralia, The fact is that when the Western Australian standardisation agreement was signed the Western Australian Government took the opportunity to renew a great deal of its railway system. It undertook more than just a standardisation programme. In fact, it rebuilt a number of marshalling yards; this cost millions of dollars. It spent $30% on new, modern rolling stock and locomotives, while only Sim was spent on rolling stock in the New South WalesVictorian arrangement It substantially upgraded a very critical section of the narrow gauge system east of Perth, replacing the old line through the Darling Ranges which had tortuous curves and steep grades. The Western Australian State Government provided for itself about 136 miles of extra main line to handle the new and diverted traffic. So the standardisation agreements really cannot be compared. The Western Australian Government, as a result of Commonwealth 'assistance, has been able to build for itself a modernised railway system. 
The question of funds has been raised by the 3 speakers who have spoken. For the interest and information of honourable members, I shall give them the figures in this regard. I think this illustrates the point that I have just been making about the development proportion involved in this agreement. The total estimated cost of the project is $125m, of which half - $62.5m - was for development of new railway systems in the Western Australian area. The remaining $62.5m was for the standardisation proportion of the programme. So it cannot be said that the Commonwealth has not been ungenerous at all. A proportion of money that is to be paid back for the development section of the programme is to be paid back mostly over 50 years. The Western Australian Government has not said to me at any time that it is unhappy about the financial arrangements that have been made. 
I think the 3 speakers raised the question of the Indian-Pacific run, claiming that it is far too slow and wanting to know what plans exist for speeding it up. Speed is not the only factor. I think this can be amply demonstrated by the demand for seats or beds on the Indian-Pacific express. In fact, bookings are 3 months ahead. So the people of Australia and the visitors who come here are not so concerned about speed as perhaps honourable members who have spoken. Nevertheless, when the Australian Transport Advisory Council met the State railway commissioners the question of increasing the speed of the service was raised. The State railway commissioners have returned and will try to overcome the problems experienced by the various States in linking up services so that the time of travel can be reduced. We are currently looking at the prospect of a third train for the service. We are hoping to be able to reduce the time taken for the journey on this particular service. But it has to be remembered that there are problems of individual State interests with the need to meet connecting services. There is the problem of arranging time tables so that a train does not arrive or leave in the middle of the night. We believe that the new tracks are good, and, as I said before, we are working out proposals so that a third Indian-Pacific train can run somewhat faster. 
The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  raised the question of the Kalgoorlie-Esperance standardisation claiming that it was in nature similar to the Western Australian project. Correspondence has passed between the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and both the present Premier of Western Australia and the last Premier of Western Australia about the possibility of the Commonwealth assisting with the standardisation of this line. Up to this point of time, we have adhered to the attitude that the private enterprise company itself ought to be encouraged to assist in the manner that private enterprise companies in the north west of Western Australia have done where substantial railway lines have been built by the iron ore companies. So at this point of time the Commonwealth has not agreed to assist with the financing of the Kalgoorlie-Esperance line. 
I think the final matter that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie raised was the fact that this line was referred to in the Clapp report. Studies that have been made in later years show that wholesale conversion of these sorts of systems is not entirely economic. Modern transfer methods, such as bogie exchange, bulk conveyors and containers have been developed which turn out to be far more economic than gauge conversion except in the case when very large volumes are transported such as for mineral traffic and main intercapital routes. I would like to thank honourable members for the interest they have taken in the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The first  speaker  on the Opposition side in this debate was the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  who spoke in general terms about railway problems in Australia. I would just like to make one or two comments on this before turning to the more local matters raised by other speakers. There is no question at all but that the railway systems of Australia as a whole face tremendous problems. This is known and understood by everybody in this Parliament. It has been debated at different times and various causes of and solutions to the problems have been put forward. The Commonwealth Government is fully aware of the problems of the State railway systems. It has in fact advanced a great deal of money to railway systems over the years, as was mentioned by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  under the railway standardisation programme in particular. Some $240m has gone into the railway systems. The simple fact is that for the period of years that the railways have been getting themselves into difficulty some of the responsibility has to be sheeted home directly to the States. The States chose to run the railways as business undertakings, and if they do not set a high enough priority for their railway systems over a long period of time, of course their railway system will run down and inevitably end up in trouble. 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council, of which I am  chairman,  has set up a special committee to study the problems of the railway systems of Australia. That is one positive step the Government has taken to try to overcome this long term problem faced by various States in their railway programmes. The ATAC sub-committee will have the use of the Bureau of Transport Economics, a part of my Department, and I am looking forward to seeing the results of the studies it presently has under way. 
The Government has also set up the Transport Industry Advisory Council, a body which will make recommendations to me about not only railway problems but also the transport problems of Australia in general. The Transport Industry Advisory Council consists of representatives of the different modes of transport - railways, shipping lines and road operators. It has the users represented on it as well as the trade union movement. I hope it will produce for me some recommendations to assist the people involved in the field as well as the users of railways and the people in the railway unions by producing a separate and distinct study from the sort of studies that the Commonwealth and State departments under ATAC are undertaking. I hope that in the long haul we will get some possible solutions to the general problems now faced by the State railways. The honourable member spoke with faint praise in many respects. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition commenced his remarks by saying that this Bill was forced on a reluctant government and that the terms imposed are far from generous. He used one or two other terms of that nature. He was followed by the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  who described me as a Shylock sitting at the table. I do not take umbrage at the honourable member's description of me. I have been called many things at many times. 
The facts are that there is a difference between the terms that we offered for the standardisation programme and the terms that have been offered for this particular programme. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was kind enough to pick out of the 2 papers he submitted for inclusion in Hansard the one programme that is in comparable terms with the Tasmanian programme. That is the Western Australian Railway Agreement. It is comparable because it is similar in the respect that the Western Australian programme and the Bell Bay programme are both developmental programmes that assist a particular State as distinct from a standardisation programme, which was given different terms because it was considered to be of national benefit. Different terms were struck for the 2 different types of programme. In all of the studies that have been undertaken the Bell Bay railway programme is seen to be a viable programme. The Commissioner for Railways in Tasmania would have welcomed the ability to finance it himself without Commonwealth intrusion, recognising its viability. But the State of Tasmania was unable to finance the commencement of this programme and so the Commonwealth has been generous in coming in to assist Tasmania to get the programme off the ground. 
There is no doubt at all, as the honourable member for Wilmot said, that this will be of immense benefit to Tasmania and particularly to the northern part of Tasmania. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition also raised the question of the problems facing the Tasmanian railway system. The Tasmanian Government is part of the ATAC sub-committee and is making its contribution to the work of that sub-committee. If anything comes of it I hope that it benefits along with the other State railway systems. As far as the Pak Poy report is concerned, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said- 
I made a note that the honourable member for Bass mentioned the Pak Poy report. 
I beg your pardon. The Pak Poy report was commissioned by the Tasmanian Government, and the Premier was kind enough to send me a complimentary copy for my perusal and for the perusal of my Department. There has been no discussion on the Pak Poy report between the Commonwealth and the State governments. There have been no requests from the Tasmanian Government for any action relating in any shape or form to the Pak Poy report. I think that a lot of water would have to flow under the bridge before any of the problems that the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  sees emerging in fact come to light. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition mentioned the possibility of further Commonwealth assistance in the provision of rolling stock. We have informed the Tasmanian Government of the assistance that we are prepared to grant at this moment. I think there has been an exchange of letters between the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Premier in which the Premier has raised the possibility of further Commonwealth assistance as the programme develops. This will be studied as the programme does develop. If it is found necessary or desirable the Commonwealth will no doubt consider further financial assistance. I thank honourable members for their contributions although, as I said to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, I had hoped that they would be far more generous to the Commonwealth. Without the assistance that we have given to Tasmania in this programme there would have been no way in which the programme could have commenced. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Public tenders are to be called for' tracklaying on the Port Augusta/Whyalla railway. It is understood Commonwealth Railways will be submitting a tender. The successful contractor will be chosen on his merits. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Railways have had discussions with the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd who have indicated that no firm commitment to rail their products from Whyalla could be given. 
However, the Company has consigned significant quantities of steel by rail from Port Augusta, after road haulage from Whyalla, to various parts of Australia. 
In relation to the first part of the honourable gentleman's question, I think he will realise that the Government took a policy decision to subsidise the shipping service to South America to develop trade between this country and South America. The subsidy to South America has been at a reducing level and is expected to disappear entirely because the service is becoming viable, which demonstrates that there has been a growth of trade between Australia and South America. As to the second part of the honourable gentleman's question, I think he ought to realise that the Australian National Line was forced to increase its freight rates because of the high cost problem that it has been meeting over recent months. The honourable member will recall the difficulties we had at one time in getting the ANL ships back to sea because they were tied up at the wharves over strike problems. The combination of strike problems and wage demands has of course led to higher costs and then to freight increases for the ANL. As I have said before, this has had a vital effect on the freight problem, particularly in the State of Tasmania. While I am sympathetic to the matter of a subsidy for the ANL, I am afraid that this has not been Government policy nor do I expect any change in attitude to the service to Tasmania specifically. 
I am informed by Caltex Oil (Australia) Pty Ltd that a dredge operating under contract apparently to the Maritime Services Board fractured some fuel lines running across the bottom of Botany Bay in the area described by the honourable member. Damage was done to fuel, kerosene and petrol lines and the like and, unfortunately, some 2,000 gallons of fuel, oil and kerosene escaped before the stopcocks could be turned off. The Maritime Services Board moved very promptly to overcome the pollution problem caused and sent a helicopter, 6 boats fitted with boom sprays and a team of men to treat the area. My understanding is that the major pollution problem which could be caused from such a spill has been overcome by this prompt action. I will refer the last part of the honourable member's question to my colleague in New South Wales, the Minister for Public Works and endeavour to obtain an answer for him. 
The answer to the first part of the question is yes; the answer to the second part is yes; and the answer to the third part is yes. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Wine Overseas Marketing Act 1929-66 I present the 43rd annual report of the Australian Wine Board for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
I read somewhere in the Press, I think at the weekend, something about this allegation. I have made inquiries of the Department of Primary Industry concerning it and, when I am in a position to do so, I will inform the honourable member of the results of my inquiries. 
There is today a strongly held view within the States that seat belts do aid in time of road accidents and I think they have taken as a basis for that the compilation of figures by the Snowy Mountains Authority on the accident rate within the Snowy Mountains. Personally, I am delighted that action has been taken by the States to legislate for the wearing of seat belts. Whilst there are as yet no clear proven statistics on the improvement in the road accident scene generally in Australia by the introduction of seat belt legislation, nevertheless I am satisfied that there is a greater consciousness psychologically among drivers, without taking into account the accident itself. For example, in Victoria there can now be seen a reduction in road deaths. The Victorian Government firmly believes that the introduction of seat belt legislation has had a little to do with those statistics. The Australian Transport Advisory Council has introduced a safety design rule for seat belts and seat belt fixtures. My Department is making a study of the accident rate since seat belt legislation was introduced in Victoria and I am hopeful that, by about June 1972, a paper will be prepared which will be the basis for a complete study and understanding of the use of seat belts in the future. 
The Australian Dairy Industry Council has been considering for some time the problems associated with the possibility of Britain entering the European Common Market and, rightly so, has been making a study of the effects it would have on the dairy industry. I, the Minister for Primary Industry and also my colleague the Acting Prime Minister have warned the industry that it ought to be making studies of the effect on the dairy industry of Britain's entry under adverse circumstances. The Australian Dairy Industry Council has now proposed for consideration by the industry a plan, which is termed a 2-price quota plan. In effect, at the commencement of a butter fat year an estimate is to be made of the total market available - 'total market' meaning the home market and the export market - and this is to be brought back to the States, on a production basis to achieve a State quota, and then through the factories to the farms. That is the basis of the proposal which was submitted to the Minister for Primary Industry and myself last Friday and which I discussed with representatives of the Australian dairy industry in Melbourne yesterday. 
I think that the burden of the honourable member's question is whether or not this proposal will lead to the development of the industry in low cost areas. I think that the proposal presently before the industry envisages State quotas based on production levels. So I do not think there will be any massive transference of production from ons State to another. It may well be that the authorities set up by a State can transfer a quota from farm to farm within that State. This is the proposal as it is presently being discussed by the industry. I think that when one studies it it can be seen to be a fair, equitable and reasonable proposal for all those engaged in the dairy industry. 
I have seen some interesting reports, which are somewhat speculative, on the possibility of the construction of a rail link between Port Augusta and Darwin, but they seemed to be a mixture of facts and speculation. The facts are, of course, that the Commonwealth Government has a commitment under the Northern Territory 
Railway Extension Act and, I think, also under the South Australian Railways Standardisation Agreement, to construct a railway link between Port Augusta and Darwin. The fact also is that the Commonwealth is committed, in the present programme, to the construction of a line between Tarcoola and Alice Springs. At present, surveyors are making detailed study of that particular part of the route. This will be a major portion of the line. I am fully aware of the honourable member's concern for there to be a proper transportation link between the mining town of Tennant Creek and Alice Springs and Darwin. I recognise the value he would see in a rail link from Alice Springs to Darwin. But in 1965 the Loder Committee said that there was no economic justification for the construction of the link at that time and that it did not see any economic justification for the proposal to build that link to be implemented in the foreseeable future. At the moment I am afraid that is where the matter stands. The Government has taken a decision on the Tarcoola to Alice Springs link. We will look at the other part of the line when developments occur. 
1 am not prepared at question time to speculate on the number of means that could be used to control the production of wool but I will supply the honourable member with a list of the number of alternative methods that have been speculated upon by people outside the Parliament as well as by people in this House. I have read with a great deal of interest some of the speculations. The wool industry itself is concerned with the situation relating to the price of wool, with the general circumstances relating to the consumption of wool and the effect all this is having on the price of wool. The Minister for Primary Industry has been having discusions with wool industry organisations about this matter. I can offer no other comment at this time. 
I can understand the concern of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Braddon when a freight adjustment affects the northern part of Tasmania vis-a-vis Hobart. The facts are that there has been a freight adjustment by Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd on its steel carried from Port Kembla and Newcastle to the northern ports of Tasmania. The reasons are that loadings to Hobart are greater, the steel is carried in bigger unit loads and the stevedoring charges are somewhat less. The situation that prevailed previously was that BHP had one landed price for steel for the whole of Tasmania and any freight adjustments which it made maintained that one price, thus giving the areas about which the honourable members are concerned an equal opportunity with Hobart. But the company is unable to justify this situation when there is a marked disparity in shipping costs to northern ports and costs to Hobart. It is a commercial judgment which has been taken by the company. On behalf of the honourable members I will ask the company whether anything can be done about the matter. 
Yesterday after I was asked a question by the honourable member for Braddon I sought information from the Australian National Line and was told that it presently has no ship available which could service this trade. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Pyrites Bounty Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions, may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. 1 suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
South Australian authorities have advised maintenance costs on the unsealed section of the Eyre Highway over the last 5 years were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of private motor vehicles accompanied by their drivers conveyed in both directions on the Trans Australian Railways in each of the last 5 financial years was: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (!) and (2) The following statistics have been supplied by the South Australian authorities: 
Details of medical costs relating to these road accidents are not held, and I am informed that it would be almost impossible to obtain any reasonable estimate; the figures for property damage are estimates of the cost of damage to vehicles and other items involved in accidents as provided by police investigating those accidents. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I do not propose to make an inspection myself as 1 am fully advised of the condition of the unsealed section of the Eyre Highway in South Australia. 
The Government has recently considered a request made by the South Australian Premier for a special grant to enable the remaining portion of the Eyre Highway to be sealed. 
The Government takes the view that the completion of the sealing of this part of the Eyre Highway is a State responsibility. To assist States in meeting their road commitments, considerable financial assistance is given in the form of Commonwealth Aid Roads grants. 
To take the last part of the honourable member's question first, I think the honourable member will have to recognise that if there is no reasonable price for wool there will be no wool growers. Turning to the substance of the question, it is a fact that a sample of core tested wool was sold at Yennora. It is also a fact - I am not sure whether the honourable member's figures are correct, but I do not challenge them - that the Australian Wool Commission bought in part of that sample sale. The procedure adopted by the Commission was to follow the policy adopted in the case of all wool sales, and that is to buy in wool that is put on to the market when it does not meet the price set by the Commission. This wool that was core tested and sold in this fashion was placed on the market in the usual way and in my view the manner in which the Commission dealt with it was a proper one. 
In the past the Apple and Pear Board has dealt with both the Conference line and with Salen and over a period of several years both the Conference line and Salen have carried the crops for the Apple and Pear Board. My understanding is that Salen operates on the principle of giving a rebate related to the portion of the crop that it carries. The difficulty with the Conference line is that at this time it does not have sufficient conventional ships to carry the crop. I am aware of an offer being made by an American group to carry part of the crop, but the difficulty facing the Apple and Pear 
Board is that the offer is for part only of the crop and the Board, therefore, would have to make arrangements for the carriage of the great balance of the crop. At present Board representatives are overseas negotiating for the carriage of the crop,  t  think the honourable member for Wilmot, the honourable member for Franklin and, for that matter, I can feel assured that tha Board will carry out the best negotiations possible on behalf of the growers. 
Pursuant to section 39 of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act 1956-1969 I present the annual report on the operations of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission for the year ended 30th June 1971, together with financial statements and the AuditorGeneral's Report on those statements. 
The first part of the honourable member's question relates to licensing of prawn trawlers. There has been no change in the policy announced by the Minister for Primary Industry in 1968 when the decision was taken that the number of trawlers to operate in the Gulf would be a matter for the fishing industry to decide for itself and that the Government would not legislate on this matter. Whilst from the point of view of conservation of the prawning industry the matter is kept under review, there has been no change in that policy. The second part of the honourable member's question relates directly to the Australian Government's policy on the use of foreign fishing vessels &lt;n the prawning industry. The Gollin Kyokuyo Fishing Company entered into an agreement with the Government to replace within 5 years, with Australian built vessels, the vessels the company brought to Australia when the agreement was signed. The 2 vessels about which the honourable member has spoken are being built to replace 2 imported vessels. 
In Cairns. It is a fact that there were 2 requests from Cairns to import vessels for use in prawning operations but because this was not compatible with the policy that had been announced those requests were rejected. The rejection, of course had the support of the Australian fishing industry. 
During question time I was answering a question asked by the honourable member for Leichhardt when he interjected to ask where the ships were being built. I replied that it was in Cairns. In fact the ships are being built at Fremantle. 
Last week the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  sought information from me about imports of wool from New Zealand and their effect on the Australian Wool Commission. 
I have seen Press reports alleging that because the Australian Wool Commission has withdrawn its support for carding wools the price of carding wools has risen. The report also suggests that the Australian Wool Commission has been keeping that information from the wool industry. Insofar as the first part of the honourable member's question relating to the allegation about carding wools is concerned, the situation is that at the commencement of the season the Australian Wool Commission withdrew support from carding wools and there was quite a substantial drop in the price for that quality wool. In the last few weeks there have been improvements in the price of carding wools. But to say that the Australian Wool Commission has kept this information secret is absolue nonsense. The Australian Wool Commission publishes a weekly report. If anybody likes to have a look at the report of 5th November he will see that the Australian Wool Commission reported that the price of carding wools was up by 4c in that week and was up about 3c and 2c respectively during the 2 weeks before. So the story is a lot of stuff and nonsense. 
I will not delay the Committee for long. 
I can assure the honourable member that I am not closing the debate. I propose to speak again at a later hour, but before the debate proceeds any further I would like to answer a couple of the points that have been raised. I think the first things I ought to talk about are the problems associated with the Australian National Line, both in the coastal trade and in the overseas trade. These problems have been raised by several speakers tonight. The first point that needs to be made, of course, is that whatever problems the ANL has faced over the last 12 months of operation, it has suffered a great deal of industrial difficulty. The honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  did run broadly across the problems as seen by  Sir John  Williams, but he failed to read the further comments of  Sir John  in respect of the concept of container shipping itself. One point that needs to be made quite plainly is that the trouble that Australia has in developing an overseas shipping line is based fundamentally on industrial strikes. We need a period of freedom from this sort of thing before anything can be done along these lines. 
Let me quote 2 or 3 examples from overseas experience. We have been plagued with strikes on the waterfront. The ANL lost $2m in one strike on the waterfront. Just compare that experience with the experience of the port of Hamburg, for example, which has not had a strike in 6 years, or the port of Bremerhaven which has not had a strike for 26 years. What chance have we of building up an overseas shipping line of any consequence when we are plagued with strikes as we are? What chance have we got of building up a shipbuilding industry with the industrial difficulties and demarcation disputes that we face? In the Mitsubishi yards in Japan when the workers go on strike they wear a red armband to work but they proceed to do as much work as they did the day before. Their through-put is the same as it was the day before. In the meantime the employers and the union representatives sit down and talk about the strike but the country does not suffer a loss. We just cannot compete with that sort of attitude, and until there is a realisation of this difficulty by a great number of union leaders the problem will not be overcome. 
In opening the debate tonight the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  raised several questions. First of all, he asked me would I make a policy statement about the activities of my Department. There is a great deal of activity going on within my Department at this time and the honourable member for Newcastle will be aware of some of it. But just for his information let me repeat some of the activities in which Australia is concerned in the transport field. He was present when we set up the Transport Industries Advisory Council at a transportation conference earlier in the year. He will be aware of the setting up of the Bureau of Transport Economics within my Department and he will also know of the reorganisation of my Department. He will know that the Bureau of Transport Economics is already undertaking a study of urban transport as well as a study of the rail systems of Australia. Many honourable members would know of the Department's activities in regard to road safety, particularly the increased activity over the last 6 or 8 months. This has included the setting up of an expert group to make not only a national study but also an international study of the problems of road safety. We propose to hold a seminar in March 1972 at which not only Australian but also international speakers will speak on the scientific, psychological and other aspects of road safety. Honourable members will know of the initiatives we have taken in regard to oil pollution. 
There is a great deal of activity going on within my Department. A lot of decisions will flow from the results of these activities within several months and I shall be happy to inform the honourable member for Newcastle and the Parliament when they come to fruition. One thing that amazed me was that the honourable member for Newcastle was unaware that  Mr Tom  Norris, who was a member of the Department of Shipping and Transport for many years and who is a very respected figure in the shipping world, is in fact reviewing the Navigation Act. I thought that was common knowledge. A working document has been circulated to the trade union movement, ship owners and many other interested bodies seeking their support for a working over of the Navigation Act. I would anticipate that the first section of that may get into this Parliament by way of legislation during the next sessional period. That is my hope. So that review is thoroughly under way with the co-operation of the trade union movement and the ship owners. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  again raised the problem of the Bell Bay railway placing, as he sees it, a financial strain on the Tasmanian Government. I have quoted figures on this before. The facts are that the Bell Bay Railway Agreement has been drawn up on exactly the same terms as the Western Australian Railway Agreement. The Commonwealth has agreed to provide S4.25m, $2.5m of which is by way of a loan over 30 years and SI. 75m of which is by way of grant. As I said when he raised this question on a previous occasion, if a proposition concerning the purchase of rolling stock for the Bell Bay railway is put up we will, of course, look at it. But no decision can be taken at this time. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition also mentioned the problem of ANL freight rates. Of course, we are all concerned about increased freight rates, but the facts are that high wage claims and industrial troubles have caused this increase in freight rates. But I would have thought that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, along with his Tasmanian colleagues, would recognise that in the application of freights to Tasmania by the ANL on this occasion Tasmania did fare somewhat better on a percentage breakdown than it did on an occasion some years ago when there was an across the board freight increase, whether the cargo was for Darwin or for Tasmania. In fact, the freight rates were applied by the Line to meet the cost of the separate activity. I believe that Tasmania was treated properly and fairly in that review. 
The honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  raised again the problem of the sealing of the Eyre Highway. I can only repeat what has been said before: The Western Australian Government found the money, out of the Commonwealth aid roads grant and its own finances, to seal its section of the road. The section that is not sealed lies within the borders of South Australia. The facts are that the Commonwealth aid roads grants to South Australia have increased by 50 per cent for the current 5-year period and that the total amount of money going to South Australia from the Commonwealth in this form in this 5-year period is Si 29m. The priorities for the sealing of the road are a matter for the South Australian Government. If it does not believe that the priority is high enough, of course, the road will not be sealed. All other State governments have sealed the highways they have considered to be of high enough priority. If the South Australian Government wishes to apply that money to other roads - either city roads or country roads - it can do so. Unfortunately, that is as far as I can go at this time. I agree with the honourable member on one point: It is necessary that the road be sealed. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  who always displays a very keen interest in the advancement of his electorate and certainly keeps fighting and probing to make sure that the Territory is receiving its fair share in the allocation of Commonwealth resources, raised again the problem of the Tarcoola to Alice Springs railway line. I understand his keen interest in having the reconstruction of that line proceeded with. The facts are that we have some 30 surveyors on the route at the moment, endeavouring to survey the route between Tarcoola and Alice Springs. I hope that as soon as the survey is completed the construction of the railway line will commence. I have answered one or two points. Some honourable members are still to speak. I propose to answer their points later. 
 The simple fact is that the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  has made my case for me. The case I put forward earlier was that industrial difficulties are making great trouble for the future success and operations of the Australian National Line. If we turn to the report of the  Chairman  of the ANL, who is an undisputed great figure in the shipping world, we will see that he agrees with what the honourable member for Sturt has said and what I have been saying all night. The fact is that industrial disputation is threatening the existence of the ANL and every shipping service, not only on the coast but also overseas. In his report the  Chairman  said that industrial unrest was causing delays to vessels and he mentioned that Tilbury closed for almost  18  months. I do not suppose there is much difference between . a wharf labourer in the United Kingdom and one in Australia. Neither has any respect for our national flag line and this is obvious from the way they have been treating it. The  Chairman  went on to say that considerable unrest on the Australian waterfront is disrupting terminals. I am pleased that the honourable member for Sturt agrees with the point I was making earlier. 
I want to come now to more serious matters raised by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies).  He stated properly that the Commonwealth now provides a subsidy of  $3.35  a ton to ensure the continuation of the service of R. G. Houfe and Company Pty Ltd from King Island to Melbourne with the 'King Islander'. The reason for the change in the estimates is as the honourable member said himself: 'This subsidy will cease on the introduction into the service of Houfe's new vessel, the Straitsman'. It is expected that the 'Straitsman', now being built in Cairns, will be delivered in about February  1972.  When the 'Straitsman' is introduced the 'King Islander' will remain in service to take stock from the Island to the mainland. 
Although the 'Straitsman' will be operated without subsidy, Houfe's expect the rates to be comparable with those of the ANL. It is not expected that the new Grassy port will be operational in time for this ship. That is the reason for the change in the figures mentioned by the honourable member. 
The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and, the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  raised the question of rust in motor vehicles. My understanding is that this matter was examined by an Australian Transport Advisory Council committee some years ago. It was called the Australian Motor Vehicles Standards Committee which has been replaced by the Vehicle Performance Committee. The Committee concluded that the problem in Australia was not as serious as it was in the northern hemisphere where there is snow for some 6 months of the year and the streets are sprayed with a saline solution. The rust problem is, therefore, of much greater consequence in the northern hemisphere than it is in Australia. The answer to the honourable member for Dawson is that it is a matter of consumer demand. I suppose that if people keep on changing their cars every couple of years in order to keep up with the Joneses, or perhaps I should say the Smiths, then the motor car manufacturers will not be encouraged to build with a material that will last much longer. The fact is that this matter is totally in the consumers' hands. If they choose the sort of car mentioned by the honourable member for Angas that is a matter for them. 
I agree that there is a great deal of waste, but nevertheless there is consumer demand, and that is the only way in which the demand can be met. The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  referred to the Australian Labor Party's policy. I have no wish to comment on Labor's policy other than to say that many of the things which it puts forward are presently being implemented by the Government, and it seems that Labor's policy is more or less a parallelling of the Government's policy in most respects. The honourable member for Robertson no doubt would be aware, as would the honourable member for Newcastle, that both the National Association of Australian State Road Authorities and the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads are studying the operations of the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act and will give close attention to the needs of the community before they come back to the Government with their report on the present operation of the Act and any changes which might be desirable. 
As regards road safety, I reiterate to the Committee the names of those associated with the expert group which has been established. Originally the group was under the chairmanship of  Sir James  Darling, but he has retired recently, and it is now under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Meares. Also in the group are Brigadier Campbell, a consulting psychologist;  Mr P.  J. Kenny, a surgeon;  Mr P.  D. Pakpoy, a transport planning and research consultant; Professor Robertson, a pathologist;  Mr Solomon,  a statistician;  Mr Sweeney,  a mechanical engineer;  Mr Jack  Brabham, a racing driver and designer; and  Mr Cosgrove  of my own Department. As I said earlier, I am expecting a lot from this expert group. It is to hold a symposium next March which both national and international experts will attend, and out of this will come some recommendations which I can take to the Australian Transport Advisory Council for consideration. The Committee will also be aware of the money which we have spent in the road safety field on several projects and on publicity. In fact, a few weeks ago we launched a series of films built around the 9 lives of Hector the Cat. These films have a great impact on children of a very young age, and I would advise any honourable members who have the time to go to the local schools in their electorates when these films are being shown and have a look at them. I think that they are a credit to the producer, and I am hoping that a great deal will come out of them. 
The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  referred to the problem of apple and pear exports. He will know that the Australian Apple and Pear Board has negotiated a capacity for the shipment of 4.7 million bushels of apples and pears at rates depending upon the amount of unitisation achieved and that negotiations are continuing for the remaining 2 milton bushels. He asked whether the Tasmanan 
Premier has approached the Federal Government about fruit stabilisation payments. He has done so. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  received some representations on this question from the Tasmanian Premier. They were referred, in the first place, to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  who had meetings with the Apple and Pear Board and the Tasmanian growers in an attempt to get their house in order. Negotiations are still proceeding for the carriage of the rest of the fruit. 
There is one other matter to which I would like to refer before I resume my seat, that is, the subject of oil pollution. Recent Press reports have given considerable publicity to statements atributed to the Victorian Minister for Public Works about the intention of the Victorian Government to introduce legislation to prevent oil pollution in Victorian waters. One section of the reports says that under the proposed legislation the Victorian Minister would have power in an emergency to sink a ship if it was in danger of breaking up and threatening to spill oil in coastal waters. The claim has been made that Victoria is setting the pace in the fight against oil pollution and that Victoria's efforts are not being matched by the Commonwealth and the other States. Such statements display a complete lack of understanding of the facts and of the role of the Commonwealth and the States and the initiative taken by the Commonwealth 1o prevent pollution of Australian coastal waters and the coastline. 
The fact is that legislation was introduced in this House in March last year - more than  18  months ago- for precisely that purpose. This action followed the incident involving the tanker 'Oceanic Grandeur' which had been holed in Torres Strait and which posed a threat of a major pollution of our waters. The Commonwealth acted quickly - so quickly, in fact, that Opposition members complained that they had insufficient time properly to study the Bill. Accordingly, the Government agreed to repeal the legislation within  6  months and to introduce a fresh Bill. This was done, and the new Bill - the Navigation Bill (No.  2) 1970 -  which made provision for preventing and dealing with the effects of pollution by oil was passed in November last year. This Act gives effect to many of the principles contained in  2  international conventions drawn up at Brussels in  1969,  but because these conventions have not yet come into force internationally there are some ships to which the Navigation Act is not able to be applied - for example, intrastate ships. 
The provisions of the Act enable the Commonwealth Minister to issue a notice in writing on the owner of a ship from which oil is escaping or is likely to escape requiring him to take such action as is specified to prevent or reduce the extent of pollution. If, for example, it were considered necessary to require a ship to be sunk in order to prevent the escape of oil, this action could be specified in the notice, and if the owner failed to comply the Commonwealth Minister could take action to have the requirements of the notice carried out. These provisions do not apply, however, to a ship not registered in Australia unless the ship is in Australian coastal waters. Thus we have the situation that the Commonwealth is able to take action in respect of Australian ships other than intrastate ships, and also in respect of foreign registered vessels in Australian coastal waters. At a recent meeting with State Ministers in Perth I drew attention to the fact that Commonwealth legislation does not apply to intrastate ships and I suggested that State Ministers should consider introducing complementary legislation, modelled on the Navigation Act, to fill that gap. I understand that the proposed Victorian legislation is still in the drafting stage but that it is being modelled on the Commonwealth Navigation Act. If this is so, it would seem that the lead given by the Commonwealth is now being taken up. 
During the  12  months to the end of March,  305  oil spillages were detected on the Australian coast, but many of these were quickly and easily cleaned up by the offending vessel or by the port authority. I point out that  134  of these incidents occurred in Victoria, but in  69  cases, most of which could be classed as minor in nature, the offender was not detected. Thus there were in Victoria  65  incidents where the offender was detected. By way of comparison, in New South Wales  111  pollution incidents were reported and in  86  cases the offender was detected, there being only  25  incidents, again mostly minor in nature, where the offender was not detected. If we consider ship calls as a measure of the potential number of oil pollution incidents we find that in 1970-71 there were 6,470 ship calls at New South Wales ports and only 3,600 at Victorian ports. One would expect to find that there were considerably more pollution incidents in New South Wales than in Victoria, but this was not the case. Thus, the only conclusion that can be drawn is that a significant proportion of the incidents in Victoria was caused by small fishing boats and launches whose movements into and out of port are not included in shipping statistics and which could never conceivably cause such a major oil pollution that sinking of the vessel would be warranted. One thing that Victoria could do to overcome minor pollutions would be for the State to look at the provision of reception facilities, such as mobile tankers, at all wharves so that oily water can be discharged as cargo is being onloaded. As far as Victoria is concerned, even the provision by the State of drums at wharves for oil disposal would be an advantage. 
Let me turn now to the matter of penalties for oil pollution, which also were mentioned in recent Press reports. This matter also was raised by me with State Ministers in Perth in the context that the present maximum penalty of $2,000 for deliberately discharging oil is .too low and should be increased. There was unanimous agreement. But a proposal by the Victorian Minister to set a minimum fine of $2,500 and to raise the maximum fine to $100,000 was not acceptable to other State Ministers. They felt that in many cases a minimum fine of $2,500 would be extreme and should be set by a court, and that a maximum of $50,000 would be appropriate. In order to give effect to the decision of the Ministers to increase the maximum penalty it will be necessary to amend the Pollution of the Sea by Oil Act 1960 and have complementary legislation passed by the States. At the same time it is proposed to amend the Commonwealth legislation to give effect to amendments to the International Convention for the Prevention of the Pollution of the Sea by Oil which have been agreed to by the Intergovernmental Maritime Consultative Organisation. 
One amendment forbids the discharge of oil within 50 miles of the Great Barrier Reef. This amendment was proposed by 
Australia and passed by the recent meeting of the IMCO assembly which I attended in London. Prior to this amendment the convention prohibited the discharge of oil within 50 miles of the nearest land. This could have resulted in oil being discharged in the immediate vicinity of the Barrier Reef which extends up to 145 miles from the Australian coast. I expect to be able to introduce the necessary amending Bill during the autumn session of the Parliament. When it is considered that Commonwealth legislation on which the proposed Victorian legislation is being modelled was introduced more than 18 months ago and that the Commonwealth took the initiative in calling the State Ministers together to discuss the need for similar State legislation and other matters in relation to oil pollution, 1 fail to see how it can be seriously claimed that Victoria has been setting the pace. I would like to thank the various honourable members who have taken part in the debate tonight on the estimates for the Department of Shipping and Transport. 

 Mr FOSTER (Sturt)-  Mr Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Foreign Affairs 
Proposed expenditure. §89,913,000. 
It is true that considerable rain fell in the Mumimbidgee area in the past weekend. I understand that 4 inches of rain have fallen there. This has impeded ground activity work to control the locusts. There has been co-operation between the Department of Agriculture and the Pastures Protection Board. Over the period a great deal has been done to bring the problem under control. There has been no request from either Victoria or New South Wales for Commonwealth assistance at this point. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I have received from the Australian Dairy Industry Council a 2- price quota proposal that I have today sent out to the various State Ministers for Agriculture for their consideration so that there may be a proper discussion of the proposal at the next meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council. The honourable member has asked whether this proposal carries with it the registration of producers. There is within the whole stabilisation plan a proposal that present producers in the dairying industry ought to be licensed. That will require State consideration and State legislation. 
The last part of the honourable member's question raises the subject of control of production. The purpose of the 2-price quota plan as proposed by the Australian Dairy Industry Council is that, if circumstances are such that Britain enters the Common Market and restriction is required on production, the industry will have the mechanism to put such a plan into force at that time. The plan does envisage a quota being set after a decision is taken by the industry on what the total market availability is at home and for export. That is the total market opportunity. This will be brought back on a State by State basis to a production level and a quota will come out of it to the farmer. That is all that I can say about the plan at the moment. It will be under consideration by the Australian Agricultural Council at its next meeting in February. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Dairy Produce Export Control Act 1924- 1966 to clarify the existing investment provisions to ensure that the Australian Dairy Produce Board is provided with investment powers related to its present day needs and circumstances. The amendment relates to the initiative taken by the Board in the early 1960s with the approval of the Government, in establishing milk recombining plants in the South East Asian area. The Board entered into this activity as a commercial venture in association with local capital with the aim of diversifying export markets for Australian dairy products when Britain was making its first bid for membership of the European Economic Community. The Board's efforts in this direction have proved to be far sighted and are particularly significant in the light of the recent developments in Europe which could result in the loss of the United Kingdom market for our dairy products in the not far distant future. 
The Board has established milk plants in conjunction with local interests in Singapore, Manila, Bangkok, Djakarta and Phnom Penh. While the Board has disposed of its capital equity in the Singapore plant it is continuing to supply raw materials to the plant. Since 1963 the Board has shipped butter oil and skim milk powder to the plants valued at $3 6m. The Board estimates that in 1971-72 about 10,000 tons of butter in the form of butter oil and 30,000 tons of skim milk powder worth some $15m will be shipped. Apart from providing a significant outlet for Australian dairy products the Board's plants are playing an important role in the development of food technology in the South East Asian region and in providing nutritious dairy products for the people of the area. The joint plant ventures have also done much to foster goodwill between Australia and the countries concerned. 
The finance for the Board's participation in these ventures has mainly been drawn from the Dairy Industry Stabilisation Fund which consists of industry funds that were built up under the post-war contracts with the United Kingdom. The Fund is dealt with by the Dairying Industry Act which provides that monies in the Fund mav be applied by the Board in such manner as it thinks fit for any purpose approved by the Minister. To date the Board has invested a total of $5,918,000 in the plants- $2,400,000 in the form of share capital and $3,518,000 as loans for equipment, working capital and raw materials. These investments have included profits from the plant operations, which have been used progressively to develop the existing plants and to establish new plants. However, the point has been reached where the Board may not be able to depend on the Dairy Industry Stabilisation Fund to finance fully its plant activities. 
The Dairy Product Export Control Act under which the Australian Dairy Produce Board is constituted provides that the Board may, with the approval of the Minister, take action to expand existing markets or to secure new markets for dairy products. The Act also provides in general terms that the Board may use moneys in its accounts for this purpose. The purpose of the amendment is to clarify these general provisions to provide the Board with the specific power to participate in commercial ventures as a means of expanding existing markets or securing new markets. For this purpose the Board will be enabled to use moneys in its accounts other than moneys borrowed from the Reserve Bank of Australia to acquire equity capital and make loans. It is important that there be no barrier in the way of the Board developing Asian outlets for dairy produce in the light of the EEC developments. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
As Acting Minister for Primary Industry, I supply the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Evidence such as unemployment, social services and vital statistics indicates that there are considerable differences between, the rural situation in Australia and that in the United States of America. The Commission's enquiry was a detailed investigation of United States conditions and its findings could not be expected to be applicable to Australia. 
This would appear to be a reasonable summary of some of the findings and recommendations of the Commission. 
The aim of the Government's overall policy for agriculture has been to ensure the economic welfare of the rural industries and those associated . with them in country centres. Within the powers of. the Commonwealth under the Constitution a wide range of measures and concessions has been implemented over the years with this aim in view. 
By means of continuing industry surveys and other methods the Government keeps itself fully informed on the economic situation in the various rural industries. The rural sector is being assisted to adapt to changing circumstances through such measures as the Marginal Dairy Farm Reconstruction Scheme and the Rural Reconstruction Scheme which have been brought into operation in conjunction with the State authorities concerned. 
Active steps have been taken to give support to the wool industry in its present critical situation through the operation of the Australian Wool Commission and the introduction of a deficiency payments scheme for the 1971-72 wool clip. The wheat, dairy, dried fruit and apple and pear industries are or will be assisted under stabilisation schemes. 
The Government will continue to give consideration to further measures to assist primary producers through the present difficult period. At the same time, however, the limitations imposed by the heavy overall demands on available resources and the national economic problem of inflationary pressures must be kept in mind. 
Education: Servicemen's Children at Secondary Schools  (Question No. 3631) 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Fishing Industry Act 1956, I present the fifteenth annual report on the operation of the Act during the year ended 30th June 1971. 
Pursuant to section 19 of the Fishing Industry Reseatch Act 1969, I present the second annual report on the operation of the Act during the year ended 30th June 1971. 
I am able to inform the honourable member that a survey of roads by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads is taking place in all States. The honourable member will know that for the last Commonwealth aid roads programme some SI, 252m was allocated of which some S580m was to be spent on rural and nonurban arterial roads. The honourable member's concern is that an increase in road standards may lower the volume of money made available to local government He has to keep in mind the problems that we have with road safety; the current survey will have regard to those problems and will take into account the standards of road engineering for the new programme. I will keep in mind the honourable member's concern and endeavour to see that the volume of money made available to local government is not affected by that consideration. 
Pursuant to section 84 of the Wool Industry Act 1962- 1970, I present the annual report of the Australian Wool Board for the year ended 30th June 1971, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
An interim report of the Board was presented to the House on 5th October 1971. 
 It was only on about 20th lune of this year that we heard the somewhat petulant outbursts from the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  He described in somewhat sarcastic terms the rejection by the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party of any sort of rural policy that he had been trying to put together. That the honourable member for Dawson could come into this chamber and have the monstrous gall to criticise the activities of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  in face of the fact that he himself has no rural policy whatsoever to offer to Australian farmers shows the hide of the man. J want to commend the initiative of the Prime Minister in undertaking this recent mission to the United States of America and to Britain, and I congratulate him on his success. Nowhere from the Prime Minister's mission came any of the insults to other nations that came out of the mission to China by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and his infamous interview with Chou En-lai. He ingratiated himself with Chou by insulting a great number of countries in the region, such as Japan, Thailand, Cambodia and the Philippines. 
Indeed, from the statement which the Prime Minister has made in this Parliament tonight and from discussions in the Government following his mission, there is no doubt whatsoever that his mission was soundly conceived and well executed, with fruitful results for Australia in its international relationships. But the Opposition has sought to denigrate the Prime Minister and his mission for reasons which are blatantly and plainly party political. In essence, the situation boils down to the difference between the Government and the Opposition on the defence of Australia, and the difference of international approach between the businesslike attitude of the Government and the showy public relations exercises of the Leader of the Opposition. The fact is that some important changes in the world power situation are occurring, and it is essential that close communication should be maintained between the leaders of allied countries. There is no better way of doing this than by personal contact, built up by private conversations and mutual respect. In this changing world, matters of defence, trade, and foreign affairs are paramount topics and it would be an abrogation of ils responsibilities foi thU Government not to engage in regular dialogue and contact with its friends. 
There has been a claim raised that it was unnecessary for the Prime Minister to go to the United States to seek an affirmation of the ANZUS Treaty, because the United States had given an affirmation to the former Prime Minister. It is perfectly true that  President  Nixon did affirm this Treaty to the former Prime Minister, but that was in May 1969. Since then what has become known as the Nixon Doctrine has been propounded by  President  Nixon. Basically, this Doctrine, as applied to the Asian area, sets a style of diplomacy, a way of conducting America's programmes abroad, which reduces America's direct responsibility and calls upon the nations of the area, individually and collectively, to assume an increasing role in providing tor themselves. This means that in the case of countries with mutual defence pacts with the United States substantial reductions of United States armed forces personnel have been occurring. America says its objective under the Nixon Doctrine is to ensure United States national security and thai of its allies, but at the same time permitting the reduction of United States forces abroad and reducing the likelihood of having combat ground forces in the future. 
The effects of the Doctrine can be seen in comparing 1969 with today. In January 1969 there were 740,000 United States military personnel in east Asia. Now it is down to around 400,000. Most of that reduction has occurred in Vietnam - which indicates the success of the Vietnamisation programme - but significant cuts have taken place in Korea, Thailand and elsewhere. This reduction has been accompanied by increases in other types of aid to enable the relevant country to take over missions which the United States has been performing. In its effect and potential, therefore, the Nixon Doctrine is a momentous change in America's Asian outlook, and one which is of particular concern to Australians, especially in regard to defence. Thus it was obviously important with a new Prime Minister in the chair that he should take an early opportunity to confer with the  President  of the United States. Official communications between governments are fine in their way, but there is no substitute for personal contact in getting down to cause and effect, and the Prime Minister has won a ringing reaffirmation of the ANZUS Treaty and a wide ranging expression of faith from the  President.  The  President  said: 
I believe this Treaty is one of the fundamental pillars of our policy for peace in the Pacific  . . This Treaty goes far beyond simply that piece ot paper. 
What a great guarantee of alliance in defence are the President's words, yet it is the sort of guarantee which the Australian Labor Party seeks to wave airily aside. Of course, the Opposition's defence attitude, or rather its lack of a viable defence policy, is well known. There was the recent public difference of opinion on forward defence between the Leader of the Opposition and the Singapore Prime Minister. Recently the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  was at some pains to scoff at the Prime Minister's talks on the Russian presence in the Indian Ocean in both the United States and Britain. The approach of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is that there are not man Soviet vessels in the Indian Ocean, and that the Prime Minister has been seeking to throw a scare into the Australian people. This dangerous view of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition needs to be exposed, and in saying that I am not indulging in party politics, because let us compare the. view of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition with other international defence views. The military advisers of the South East Asia Treaty Organisation said in a communique that the Russian presence in the Indian Ocean was causing the alliance considerable anxiety. In London last month  Sir Edward  Ashmore, the British Navy's Commander-in-Chief and a senior commander in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, said that the Russian naval build-up in the Indian Ocean was a most disturbing factor. Then in Canberra this month Air Chief-Marshal  Sir Brian  Burnett, Britain's retiring CommanderinChief in the Far East, indicated that the Soviet naval presence in the Indian Ocean was comparable with that formerly in the Mediterranean. Finally we have the statement by the  Deputy  Defence Secretary of the United Slates,  Mr David  Packard. Against that background of their statements, the Australian people will be able to judge  for  themselves the value of the remarks and  I  he policies of the Deputy Leader of the 
Opposition. Certainly these views are not shared by the United States, which told the Prime Minister that it intended to maintain forces in the Indian Ocean. Indeed, a Western presence in the Indian Ocean would seem common sense to all but the Opposition as a logical back-up to our ANZUS and SEATO Treaties and the 5-power agreements for the defence of the Singapore-Malaysia area. 
The Prime Minister also took the opportunity of discussing the People's Republic of China. After years of isolation, China is emerging into the outside world. The attitudes of other nations, including ourselves, are undergoing change. Australia welcomes the advent of China into the world community, but at the same time we believe that it can be only to Australia's advantage for mutual attitudes to be explored between the  President  and the. Prime Minister. 
I want to say something now about the Prime Minister's discussion on Britain's entry into the European Common Market and the serious effects this will have on some of our great farming industries. Until tonight the Opposition has been monumentally silent on this aspect of the Prime Minister'^ mission and this, of course, should cause little surprise. It has one or two carpetbaggers masquerading as rural representatives but I am unable to recall any farmer among its ranks in this House. 
As I said before, at the Australian Labor Party Federal Conference, the Party's rural spokesman was utterly repudiated under the weight of city-based trade union leadership. The honourable member for Dawson said that any policy he had had been totally disowned by the ALP Federal Conference. The Labor Party's lack of interest in and ignorance of the farming industries is underlined by the fact that during the recent Labor Party mid-term publicity campaign conducted by the Leader of the Opposition there was not one segment devoted to rural matters. That is how much it cares about the rural industries and this is at a time when the honourable member for Dawson both inside and outside this House makes destructive criticism of the efforts of the Government to resolve the rural problems. As is well known, the Government's atti tude is entirely different. It cares about what happens to the rural industries and the people in the rural industries. 
The decision by the British Parliament in favour of entry into the European Economic Community is a momentous one. It represents a major change in the relations between Australia and Britain and the European Economic Community itself. With the entry of Britain, the European Economic Community will become by far the largest trading entity in the world. Britain will be part of a system which, when its expansion has been completed, will -account for over 40 per cent of world trade. Others will have preferred entry to the British market but we who have enjoyed trade preferences in Britain for many years will within 5 years have no preferred position in the British market. Nevertheless, continuing entry to such an enormous market must remain a major objective of Australian trade policy. As the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  has said, we hope that Britain's entry brings to the Community a new sense of responsibility for the wellbeing of world trade as a whole. We, as a nation importantly dependent on trade, need to come to terms with this new trading giant. I am sure that we will be able to do so. 
Britain's decision is a major change in its orientation; it is moving away from the Commonwealth and towards Europe. There are problems for Australia in Britain's decision, particularly for our dairying, meat, sugar and fruit industries. These have been brought to the attention of Britain and the European Community before and during the negotiations by a succession of Australian Ministers and officials.. As events turned out, Australia believes Britain could have done more for Australia during the negotiations; but notwithstanding this, Britain did succeed in obtaining some safeguards to mitigate the effects on countries such as Australia if serious disruption is threatened. Thus with Britain set on the path to Europe, the time was obviously opportune for the Prime Minister to confer with the British Prime Minister, not only about our market interests but also on the wider international implications which spread beyond commercial relationships. For its part, the British Government has assured the Prime Minister that it will watch our interests, industry by industry, in the transitional period of Britain's entry to the European Economic Community. The point I made earlier about the Prim, Minister's visit to Washington is equally valid in relation to his visit to Britain. Government to government communcations are fine, but there is no substitute for 2 leaders getting together in a private room and saying: 'Look, this is the score as we see it'. In his mission the Prime Minister covered 3 vital fields - defence, trade and the international monetary situation. He has placed Australia's views squarely before the leaders of the United States and Britain. The Prime Minister went because it was in Australia's national interest for him to do so and I commend the success of his mission. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As stated in the March-April 1971 issue of the Department's publication, 'Australian Road Safety Report', the fatality rate of 15.8 deaths for every 100 million miles travelled was a quotation from a survey conducted by the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. of New York. 
The figure of 9.8 fatalities per 100 million vehicle-miles given in answer to question No. 2744 is based on an estimate of miles driven, using fuel consumption as the measure. 
My enquiries regarding the difference between these two figures reveal that the Metropolitan Life survey was based on data from the 1969 edition of 'World Road Statistics'. This publication lists deaths per 100 million kilometres travelled. However, the figure shown for Australia in the 1969 edition was actually that for 100 million miles. This error was corrected in the subsequent edition but was not noticed at the time of the Metropolitan Life survey. Conversion of the information shown in 'World Road Statistics' resulted in the erroneous figure per 100 million vehiclemiles that was published in the Metropolitan Life survey. The figure which should have been used in. the survey was 9.8 fatalities per 100 million vehicle-miles. 
 As Acting Minister for Primary Industry I supply the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Under the previsions of the Australian Wool Commission Act 1970, the Australian Wool Commission is required to prepare and furnish an annual report on its operations as soon as practicable after 30th June each year. The Commission is also obliged by the provisions of the Act to attach to its report financial statements in such form as the Treasurer approves, and these must be certified by the Auditor-General. 
For the benefit of members of the Parliament, arrangements were made for thu Wool Commission to prepare an interim annual report for tabling early in the Budget Session. It should he noted that the financial statements accompanying the interim report are also of an interim nature. They do not purport to bc in an approved form. 
On page 39 of the interim report, the Commission has provided explanatory notes on the interim financial statements. The statements comprise three accounts - an Interim Wool Trading Account, an Interim Administrative Expense Account and an Interim Balance Sheet. The costs presented in the Interim Administrative Expense Account are explained in Note 6 on page 39 nf the Interim report. 
The question of the form of the financial statements for the year ended 30th June 1971 is being examined by the Treasury in consultation with the Department of Primary Industry, the Australian Wool Commission and the Auditor-General's Office. I understand that the outcome of this examination will be conveyed to the Treasurer to assist in his consideration of the form in which the accounts of the Commission should be presented. 
When the final form of the financial statements has been agreed upon, the statements and the final annual report of the Commission will, in accordance with the Act, be tabled in Parliament. 
Army: Officers' Quarters  at  Puckapunyal  (Question No. 4324) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No action has been taken by the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner to alter the existing sick leave provisions covering Commonwealth Railways employees, nor is any action intended at the present time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The members of the Australian Motor Vehicle Certification Board are: 
Chairman - 
MrK. J. Cosgrove 
First Assistant Secretary Department of Shipping and Transport 

 Mr L. Crowe Director of Traffic Department. of the Interior 

 Mr R. A. French Chief Engineer Department of Motor Transport Sydney 

 Mr K. Nevin Assistant Under Secretary Chief Secretary's Department Melbourne 

 Mr W. Hansen  Deputy  Commission Department of Main Roads Brisbane 

 Mr A. K. Johinke Commissioner of Highways Department of Highways Adelaide 

 Mr R. J. Court Assistant Commissioner Police Department Perth 

 Mr A. Pybus Administrator of Road Transport Transport Department Hobart 
Before issuing an authority to affix a compliance plate the Australian Motor Vehicle Certification Board requires motor vehicle manufacturers to submit documentary evidence demonstrating to the Board's satisfaction that the vehicle mode) in question complies with all relevant Australian Design Rules. 
Where an Australian Design Rule calls for physical testing, the motor vehicle manufacturer is able to nominate the laboratory in which the prescribed tests are to be conducted provided it is suitably equipped and staffed. 
In most cases motor vehicle manufacturers have nominated their own laboratories or those of a component manufacturer. 
Export licences were withdrawn from a couple of abattoirs in New South Wales two or three weeks ago. As soon as the licences were withdrawn 1 made sure a list of the faults was handed to the abattoir proprietors so t'.-.ey could immediately correct those faults and recommence export operations as soon as possible. I am not at all sure about the last part of the honourable member's question. 
If he is informing me that in his view the abattoirs have now corrected those faults, I will make sure that the inspectors from the Department of Primary Industry visit them urgently so that the abattoirs can get back into full export business. 
I am not able to confirm the honourable member's assessment of the last sales of Economic Wool Producers Ltd, as the details have not been brought to my notice. Regarding its first  sales.  I think it is true to say that on average the performance was about the same as the auction system itself. I will endeavour to discover the information about the latter sale and give it to the honourable member. Concerning the last part of the honourable member's question, of course there is no proposal for acquisition at this time. 
As Acting Minister for Primary Industry I supply the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
South Australia and Victoria. 
Two experimental products have been used. The first was a softer butter made by the addition of a quantity of softer fractions of butter to normal butter and the second was a mixture of butterfat and vegetable oils. The butterfat used in both experimental products was of Australian origin. The vegetable oils used in the second experimental product were purchased on the retail market. 
At this stage the tests being conducted under the dairy research programme are purely exploratory and are mainly concerned with the question of spreadability. The results of the tests so far have indicated that the housewives have found the experimental products (the fractionated butter and the butterfat vegetable oil mixture) more spreadable but still preferred ordinary butter overall because of its superior flavour. The extent to which further research should be undertaken and bow and where it should be conducted is a matter for decision by the Australian Dairy Produce Board which is responsible for the administration of the dairy research programme. 
International Commission on Irrigation and Drainage (Question No. 4518) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) For railway rating purposes the various kinds and classes of goods are grouped into classifications, each of which attracts a particular rate per ton. 
There are variations between the railways systems in the allocation of goods to particular classifications. However, a uniform approach to classification is applied for rating for the intersystem (Railways of Australia) movement of goods. Full details df the classifications adopted by each of the railway systems are given intheir rates books. 
<para pgwide="yes">The following table sets out the freights per lon for each of the main classifications between the places indicated in part 1 of the question. Distances by rail requested in part 2 of the question are also shown. 
There is no question at all - 1 think it has been recognised by all the speakers tonight - that the war service land settlement scheme as conceived by the Commonwealth and State governments has been an excellent programme and that it has led to the very successful settling of thousands of settlers in the various States around Australia. The difficulty is that in these times when prices for wool, mutton and one or two other products are very low the settlers have run into problems; but 1 think it is quite wrong for us to blame the war service land settlement scheme for problems that are completely unrelated to it. indeed, the Government is very conscious of the genera] problems facing some of the primary industries and it is, of course, very active in trying to correct these problems. It is far better for us to tackle the problems in a genera] circumstance relating to farmers, whether they be war service land settlers or whether they be farmers in general. We should not forget that the soldier settlers equally benefit from the subsidies that the Government pays on fertilisers, from any of the drought concessions that have been made, from funds that have been made available for wool, from the dairying industry subsidy, from the wool deficiency payments scheme and, in addition, they are eligible under the rural reconstruction scheme. In other words anybody holding land under any of the land settlement  schemes can gain any of the benefits that might flow to farmers in general. 
There have been several questions raised tonight by various speakers and I would like to deal with them. The first and most common question involves the problem of rents and there seems to be some difficulty on the part of some honourable members in understanding how the rental levels are set. They are set by applying  2i  per cent of the cost* of the project or the productivity valuation, whichever is the lower. Again 1 stress that whilst the change in conditions in rural industries has resulted in a justification for looking at the level of rentals it is quite wrong to suggest that the level of rents was too high. The financial basis of the scheme was generous and appropriate for such a scheme. It involved the write-off of very substantial sums in development costs, which will not be recovered in rents, in addition to grants for living allowances in the early stages and the costs involved in training the farmers. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  was one who particularly raised this question. 
He also raised the question of how long we could expect to have a Bill of this nature coming into the national Parliament. I suppose the answer to that question is that it will come into this Parliament while ever there are capital expenses involved in the provision of water and the materials for which the Bill presently before the House provides. This Bill seeks $4.83m in advances to settlers for working expenses and plant etc, and $517,000 for drainage and other works. Advice I have received is that we are just about ai the end of the programme. 1 cannot be. categorical about it because there may well be further costs involved that will need 'o be the subject of future Bills before the Parliament. One or two honourable members have raised the question of the report of the select committee of the Legislative Council of Tasmania. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  were particularly interested iu this report. The facts are that this report dated 10th August 1971 has not yet reached the Commonwealth Government because it was apparently necessary to reconvene the committee to make clear the meaning of recommendation No. I in the report. The committee had to meet in Tasmania on 10th November 1971 and the Government is still waiting for a copy of that report. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has indicated that at some time he will have a general examination made of the effect of the problems of rural industries on the revenue stability of war service land settlers and I. have no doubt that when he is making that examination he will take into account the representations made tonight by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Braddon as well as the Tasmanian report when it comes to hand. 
The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  raised the problem of the 7 vacant land settlement holdings at Loxton and the 2 holdings at Cooltong. These holdings were developed for horticultural and viticultural production under irrigation. Other settlers asked that they be given the opportunity to purchase these holdings at the reserve prices instead of the holdings being sold at open auction. The Minister for 
Primary Industry agreed andlaid down certain terms. In his speech the honourable member for Angas mentioned some figures among which were that the deposit would be 15 per cent, the interest for 5 years only would be at 6¼ per cent and the balance of the price with interest would be paid over 25 years. The holdings were advertised in the South Australian Government 'Gazette' on 4th November and following this the settlers association claimed the reserve prices were too high. Applications have now closed and 26 applications were received for 8 of the holdings. These applications are currently under consideration by the South Australian Minister for Irrigation. 
The Government rejects the Opposition's amendment because inherent in it there is no proposition for correction of any of the difficulties that the settlers now face. It talks about future land settlement. I think it is far better to tackle any land settlement problems industry by industry, whether the problems to be tackled are in the fruit industry, the dairy industry, the sheep industry or whatever industry it may be. Therefore, on behalf of the Government, I reject the amendment. 
in reply - The first thing I want to do is to thank those honourable members who I know are very keen to take part in this debate but who because of the lateness of the hour have decided to leave their remarks for a later day. One thing that is obvious from this debate is the fact that on both sides of this House there is a realisation of the importance of this industry. I am pleased to see that there is a recognition that this industry is vitally important to the economy of this country. It is important not only to many hundreds of wool growers but also to many large towns and cities located throughout the country. The Australian Labor Party has chosen to move an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. I shall deal first with that amendment. The amendment reads: 
Whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading the House is of the opinion that complementary legislation should be introduced without delay to establish a single statutory marketing authority to acquire, appraise and market the entire wool clip . . . 
It goes on to say:   . . and that this authority should encompass the functional responsibilities of the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission'. 
The first point that needs to be made is that the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said that the Opposition has had this proposal in its policy since April last year. Is that so? 
 This has been the policy of the Labor Party since April last year. I think we ought to be quite accurate about this becauseas I understand it the Labor Party's policy on wool was made at the Federal Conference of 1971. 
What the Labor Party agreed on in Caucus and what it agreed on at the Federal Conference apparently are 2 different things. For my money 1 would have to back what was said at the Federal Conference. I would like to read what was said at the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party in 1971. I do this so that we may be accurate about the Labor Party policy in respect of wool. One thing We do not want is for those who are engaged in the wool industry to be under a misunderstanding about the situation in relation to either Government policy or Australian Labor Party policy. 1 think that is a fair proposition and that everybody would agree with it. The 1971 Federal Conference stated: 
Labor will  legislate  for  a statutory  wool mar  keting authority' to acquire and/  or market  the Australian clip in the most  efficient way. 
There is no argument about that. This -statement is also part of the amendment moved on behalf of the Labor Party tonight. The Conference continued: 
Reserve bank funds will be made available to finance the authority. Labor will reconstitute the AWIC and the Australian Wool Board-- 
The AWIC happens to be the Australian Wool Industry Conference which is completely and totally unrelated to the Australian Wool Commission. It is an entirely different body. So the second part of the amendment has not been accepted by the Federal Conference of the Labor Party. I repeat that the Conference stated: 
Labor will reconstitute the AWIC and the Australian Wool Board on a democratically elected basis and have an investigation and evaluation of wool promotion and research. 
That statement has nothing to do with the second part of the amendment. I just make that plain so that the wool growers of Australia will understand that what the Opposition is putting forward in the amendment does not have the support of the Federal Conference of the Labor Party.. 
We all know that the Federal Conference determines Labor Party policy. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  told us on a television programme that whatever the Federal Conference says is the rule and the order of the day. There is nothing whatever that the honourable member or anyone else in the Labor Party Caucus can do about it. I want to make it perfectly clear that the amendment is not tied directly to Labor Party policy. This is important to the first part of my argument. The honourable member for Dawson said that this is what the wool industry wants. He said that this view has been demonstrated in the last couple of days. Again, to be accurate - and the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  has already pointed this out - what is contained in the Opposition's amendment is not related to what the Australian Wool Industry Conference carried in the last couple of days.I think that the wool growers of Australia deserve to know that this is not related. 
If we look at what the AWIC agreed to we find that it stated that the wool industry has not said it wants an acquisition scheme at this stage. The resolution passed by the AWIC is that Conference agrees that some form of acquisition may be necessary. The Conference set up a committee to study what desirable changes ought to be made to the marketing system. So the two propositions are different. What the honourable member for Dawson claims to be an amendment which is suited to the wool industry is not what the wool industry wants at all. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  made an excellent contribution and he expressed some thoughts which I hold myself. 
No, he did not support the amendment. Let us be accurate about this. He did not support the amendment because the Opposition did not go far enough. I want to make the comment that the International Wool Secretariat has moved into the Woolblend mark as was acknowledged by the honourable member for Moreton. The honourable member for Dawson also mentioned this matter. It is easy for us in this place to be critical of what the IWS has done or is doing. It is one of the easiest things in the world to be hypocritical. But I have had the benefit of having a look at some of the work that the IWS is doing in Germany and in the United States of America. Whatever may be said - whether about a lack of budget or anything else - I believe that the work of the Australian Wool Industry Conference over the years has made a marked impression on the sale of wool. We can argue as to whether it should have done something regarding blends years ago - and we all have our own opinions about that. 
I want to deal with the speech made by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  I waited for a long rime for him to say something, but after listening to him for 20 minutes I came to the conclusion that he said nothing. He comes into this chamber with synthetic socks, a synthetic suit, a synthetic shirt, a synthetic tie and even a synthetic smile on his face and he makes a speech in which he says absolutely nothing. But he did give a complete misrepresentation and a completely dishonest description of the paying out of the wool deficiency payment. He said that the money is going to the brokers and to the banks. Certainly the money is going through the brokers and through the banks. The arrangements that are made between every wool grower and his banker or his broker are private arrangements. Some of these arrangements in the industry have stood for 40 or 50 years. For the honourable member for Riverina to come into this chamber and totally misrepresent what is happening regarding the 6c a lb wool deficiency payment, and to imply that what is happening regarding that payment is different from what is happening regarding the payment of the 30c a lb for which a grower sells his wool, is a totally dishonest presentation of the facts. 
In respect of the first amendment proposed by the Opposition in relation to the averment provision, this provision appears in most legislation of this type. It is in the apple and pears legislation that was introduced this year and it is in the meat chicken legislation that was passed 2 years ago.Its purpose is to allow the Crown in a civil action to recover an amount of levy by producing some evidence of the facts upon which the claim for levy is based. These facts are, of course, within the knowledge of the taxpayer. If he considers that the Crown's statements in the averment are wrong, he may bring evidence to disprove them. It is then for the court to satisfy itself on the evidence whether the amount of levy claimed is due. So, for that reason, plus the fact that this provision is in the legislation with the full knowledge of the industry, the Government must reject the amendment. 
In respect of the second amendment, the reason for setting a period of 3 years and why the Government cannot accept the amendment is administrative. The Department cannot in one year make audit inspections of the entire wine industry. I think the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  recognises that we would move as far as possible in one year. However, it takes about 3 years to audit the entire industry and it is necessary for us to protect the revenue. Therefore, it is desirable to provide for inspection of all producers. Again, this provision is in the Bill with the full knowledge of the industry. For those reasons the Government rejects the second amendment. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Dr Patterson's)  be agreed to. 
I was unaware of the difficulties which have been facing soldier settlers on Kangaroo Island who have been shearing one another's sheep. If I understood the question correctly, the honourable member is informing me that the Australian Workers Union is placing a ban on shearers who are not members of that Union. 
Of course, this is more a question for the Minister for Labour and National Service, but in passing I must make the comment that it does seem to me to be a reversal of real democratic freedoms. I will say no more than that, not wishing to be provocative. We have seen this sort of dictatorial attitude on previous occasions. As Minister for Shipping and Transport I have been involved in difficulties over shipping strikes when certain executives of the trade unions have held the people of Tasmania to ransom, and in Sydney at the present time we are seeing a similar example of the irresponsible attitude of one of two union executives. The honourable member can rest assured that I will keep very closely in mind any difficulties that are created by the irresponsible attitude of the Australian Workers Union. 
I do not propose to delay the House very long other than to say that I am delighted at the way in which these Bills have been received by the Parliament. I think that everyone will agree that this legislation is a great step forward for a very important industry. One or two questions have emerged from this debate and I would just like to answer them. The honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  raised the question as to how costs were determined. In the first determination of a base price where mixed enterprises operate, farm costs are taken into account where they can be allocated precisely as being applicable to the dried vine fruits enterprise. Where such identification is not possible an. assessment is made as closely as possible. Specialist dried fruit growers are used as much as possible in the sample, especially in the application of an index to the cash cost in subsequent years. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  raised one or two questions. I am afraid that I must correct him on some of the statements he made. He said that the Government made a one and only offer, but that is not so. During the course of negotiations industry leaders were able to secure significant concessions. The honourable member also said that in choosing the figure of 75,000 tons the Government had misjudged the position. All I need to do is to refer him to the speech of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  who apparently knows a lot more about grapes and their usage than the honourable member for Riverina knows. I notice that the honourable member for Angas is sitting next to the honourable member for Riverina. Perhaps he could explain to the honourable member for Riverina what he said in his speech. 
In reply to the honourable member for 
Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick),  I point out that th e growers sought a reduction from 85,000 tons to 75,000 tons in exchange for an increase in the bounty from $20 to $23 a ton. So it is clear that the growers were very much a part of the decision and it was not solely a matter for the Government. The honourable member for Riverina also referred to the collapse of the International Sultana (Raisin) Agreement.It certainly was inevitable that it would collapse, in view of the intransigent attitude of the Greeks. The most damage to world prices had already occurred before the formal suspension of the Agreement and prices have moved only slightly since. This situation was known in the course of stabilisation negotiations and, as honourable members will know, negotiations on the International Sultana (Raisin) Agreement are to resume in June 1972. 
The honourable member for Riverina also referred to the need for further inter- national bilateral agreements to curb problems involved in selling Australian dried vine fruits. I do not think any other government in the world has been as active in the field of trade as this Government. The honourable member can rest assured that the present Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  as his predecessor did, will be keeping not only the dried vine fruits industry in his mind when negotiating agreements but also all the other industries which are trying to secure markets. I do not know of any Minister more interested or active in this field than the present Minister for Trade and Industry. All that is left for me to say is to thank honourable members who have taken part in this debate in the early hours of this morning. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read  a  second time. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The proceedings of meetings of the Australian and New Zealand Railways Commissioners' Conference are confidential to the Commissioners. 
My attention has not been specifically drawn to the statements, but I did read in the newspapers a report of the Professor's remarks and, as a matter of interest, I sent it to my Department, to be drawn to the attention of the Expert Group on Road Safety, and that is where the matter presently lies, so far as my Department is concerned. As regards that part of the question in which the honourable member asked me whether I had brought this matter to the attention of the Minister for Supply, I will draw it to my colleague's attention and provide the honourable member with an answer at a later date. 
The reason why the Government has not brought that amendment before this sitting of Parliament is that, along with that amendment, there are other amendments to the Navigation Act and matters relating to oil pollution of the sea which are subject to Cabinet decision. They will come into the House during the next session of Parliament. 
As Acting Minister for Primary Industry I supply the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Provision of an amount of $30m was included in the 1970-71 budget for emergency assistance to woolgrowers. Grants up to the limit of this appropriation were to be made under certain specific conditions, the main ones being that to be eligible for assistance a woolgrower must (a) have obtained at least one-third of his total gross income from all sources in the year 1968-69 from the sale of wool and (b) have suffered a decline in gross wool income of at least 8 per cent between the years 1968-69 and 1969-70. 
Payments to all applicants for assistance who met the conditions laid down by the Government have totalled $21.477m. 
As the allocation of funds was for a specific purpose and was for an amount of up to $30m there is no surplus which can be used for any other purpose. 
In any event the State of New South Wales has not yet applied for any of its 1971-72 allocation under the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Act 1971. As at the 31st October it had advanced $2. 75m to applicants for rural reconstruction out of $4m made available by the Commonwealth in June 1971. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)I understand the Press recently reported that the New Zealand Apple and Pear Board agreed to a 16 per cent increase in freight charges on the export of apples to the United Kingdom. In addition, I believe the report also staled that the freight rate negotiated is some 50 cents lower than the rate applied by the shipping conference. (2)It is important to understand that while some Australian fresh fruit is carried by conference ships, the bulk of the crop this year will be carried by ships operated outside the conference. Freight rates are negotiated between representatives of the fruit industry and these individual shipowners. 
It is therefore incorrect to relate any disparity in freight rates to what the honourable member calls the shipping conference price structure. 
 The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
There were 415 instances of disciplinary action in 1970-71. 
Fines imposed totalled $967. 
Employees may appeal to the head of their Branch. If the result of this appeal is unsatisfactory, they may appeal to the Commissioner under Commonwealth Railways By-law Nos 61 and 68. 
All moneys collected are credited to Revenue. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question has been prepared on the basis that the information sought relates to total purchases of rolling stock. On this basis the answer to the question is as follows: 
<para pgwide="yes">The cost of rolling stock built in Australia or imported for Commonwealth Railways and each of the States' railway systems in each of the last ten financial years is shown hereunder: 
Pursuant to Section 41 of the Commonwealth Railways Act 1917-1968, I present the annual report on the operations of the Commonwealth Railways for the year ended 30th June 1971. The financial statements of Commonwealth Railways operations for the year ended 30th June 1971 were tabled on 28th September 1971. 
As Acting Minister for Primary Industry I supply the following answer to the honourable the Leader of the Opposition: 
and (2)  Sir William  Gunn was appointed to the Australian Wool Board on 1st July 1951 and has served on that body continuously since then. Between 1953 and 1963 the Wool Board operated under a changed name, viz., the Australian Wool Bureau. In August 1958  Sir William  was appointed  Chairman  of the Bureau. He held this position until the Bureau was reconstituted and reverted to the name Australian Wool Board on 1st May 1963.  Sir William  was appointed  Chairman  of the reconstituted Wool Board and still occupies this position. 
The number of meetings of the Wool Board/Bureau held in each year since July 1951 and the number attended by  Sir William  Gunn were as follows: 
As Acting Minister for Primary Industry I supply the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of employees injured in the past three financial years were: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Regressions on medical grounds for each of the last 3 years ending November were: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Membership of the Expert Group on Road Safety is as follows: The Honourable  Mr Justice  C. L. D. Meares, Chairman;  Mr J.  A. Brabham, O.B.E., Brigadier E. F. Campbell, O.B.E., E.D..  Mr P.  J. Kenny,  Mr P.  G. Pak-Poy, Professor J, S. Robertson,  Mr S.  E. Solomon. O.B.E..  Mr M.  F. Sweeny, D.F.C.,  Mr K.  J. Cosgrove (Executive Member). The Group was formed last year to advise the Minister for Shipping and Transport on road safety. 
The Group has met on .he following dates: 17th December 1970, 5th March 1971, 16th April 1971, 11th June 1971, 23rd July 1971, 10th September 1971, 8lh October 1971, 5th November 1971, 2nd and 3rd December 1971. 
The Group is currently undertaking a National Review of the Road Accident Situation in Australia, based on an analysis of Australian and overseas information on major aspects affecting road safety. As part of its review, a National Road Safety Symposium is to be held in Canberra, 14lh-16 h March 1972. On completion of its scientific and objective examination of the situation the Group will bc making its report. 
Motor Vehicles: Rust- proofing  (Question No. 4891) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
My Department has not investigated the Ziebart process, which is understood to relate to a bituminous coating used on finished vehicles only when specifically requested. This process is particularly aimed at preventing rust on vehicles used on roads which are treated with chemicals for de-icing purposes. 
Immigration: Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration  (Question No. 4532)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
From what countries and In what numbers have (a) national migrants and (b) refugees come to Australia under the auspices of the Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration in each of the last 5 years. 
What (a) amount and (b) percentage of the (i) operational and (ii) administrative budget of ICEM has Australia contributed each year. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council's Advisory Committee on Road User Performance and Traffic Codes is currently examining the likely, implications which the United Nations Convention on Road Signs and Signals would have for Australia. This committee is also examining in this context a draft manual which is being prepared by the Australian Committee on Road Devices (a committee set up by State engineering and road traffic authorities). Any action taken by the Australian Transport Advisory Council will be in the light of the report and recommendations of its Advisory Committee. 
Commonwealth Railways: Electric Light Plants  (Question  No. 4895)  Mr Wallis  asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Commonwealth Railways any plan to provide electric light plants for all sidings on the transcontinental and north-south railways where Commonwealth Railways employees are situated, if so, what are its intentions. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All railway sidings on the North Australia Railway and a sec ion of the Central Australia Railway, from Stirling North to Maree, at which staff are employed have been equipped with lighting plants. When current proposals are completed all railway sidings on the Trans-Australian Railway at which staff are employed will also be fully equipped. . For this purpose 66 portable lighting plants were purchased for use by railway staff last financial year and provision has been made for a further 116 units to be obtained during the current and next financial years. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are 982 residences owned by the Commonwealth Railways. 
Residences constructed of brick, brick veneer or stone total 296; Residences of timber frame construction total 677; Temporary dwellings classed as sub-standard total 9. 
Shipbuilding Subsidy: Interdepartmental Committee  (Question  No. 4482)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in The Australian Financial Review' of 13th October 1971 that the interdepartmental committee reviewing the Tariff Board's report on shipbuilding comprises representatives of the Treasury and the Departments of Trade and Industry, Shipping and Transport and Labour and National Service. 
Are these Departments represented on the committee. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
It  is not the policy  of  this Government  to  give information on these matters which concern advice  to  Ministers and arrangements between Ministers and their advisers. 
Commonwealth Railways Employees: Injuries (Question No. 4837)  Mr Wallis  asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
How many Commonwealth Railways employees were injured in the course of their employment and what were the main types of injuries incurred during the last three years.- 
How many of thtse accidents resulted in employees losing time from their normal employment. 
How many man hours were lost to the Commonwealth Railways due to industrial accidents during the same period. 
 The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: (1) (a) Crash Helmets 
Aircraft - not applicable 
Motor Cycles- compulsory wearing of safety helmets by rider and pillion passenger effective as below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The International Conference on Safety of Life at Sea, 1960 was convened under the auspices of the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organisation (IMCO). The previous international conferences in 1929 and 1948 on the 
Safety of Life at Sea were convened by the British Government. When IMCO came into being in 1959 the administrative functions concerning the 1948 conference were transferred to IMCO and it became the depository organisation. 
The following countries were represented  by,  delegations at the 1960 Conference: 
1 am inclined to wonder why the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  has raised this matter today when he knows that representatives of the Australian National Line are in Launceston today discussing this very point with other authorities and with the various shippers, the people who use the freight line and who are involved in sending freight from Launceston to ports on the mainland and in receiving freight in Launceston from ports on the mainland. He said that he makes no criticism of the ANL. Again 1 wonder why he got to his feet to discuss this point, knowing that discussions are taking place, when he has no criticism to make of the ANL. I am sorry to have forced the following  speaker  on this side of the House to resume his seat by taking his place, but if I do not produce an answer to what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has said his speech will be spread far and wide in the northern part of Tasmania and there will be further misunderstandings of the real situation. If there were no reply from the Minister people would assume that all the scare talk that is going on about the service is correct. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition made one forceful point. He talked about increased freight rates that have been of some concern to Tasmanians. Of course this has been of concern to the Australian National Line itself. For that reason it undertook an examination to endeavour to rationalise its service and to provide more efficient and economic services to the shippers to and from Tasmania. As a result of the examination it has proposed some changes. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition was quite right in his explanation of the changes that are to be made. It was found that the 'Princess of Tasmania' was no longer economic to operate and therefore, to increase the efficiency of its Bass Strait operations, the ANL decided to reschedule their services and dispose of the Princess of Tasmania'. 
The ANL's proposals envisage the transfer of the 'Empress' of Australia' to the Bass Strait service This vessel will provide accommodation for up to 440 passengers to offset the loss of the 'Princess'. One of the claims Hat have been made by the people in th; tourist industry down there is that there will be a reduction in the capacity to carry tourists to the northern part of Tasmania and to Launceston in particular. There will still be capacity for 163,000 tourists under the rationalised service. This compares with a demand this year of 140,000. So I think that the  Deputy  Leader of tie Opposition will accept that a reasonable growth rate is permitted in the proposals. Also the ANL has said that it will remain flexible so far as the demand occurs and will fill the need as it comes to hand. The Australian National Line proposes to transfer the 'Australian Trader' to the Sydney-Hobart service. This vessel has a larger cargo capacity than the 'Empress', which currently operates this service. 
The ANL proposes further to introduce a Searoader vessel into the Bass Strait trade. I think that we are going to get out of it a more efficient and more economic service for Tasmania with a greater chance of keeping freight rates at a lower level. I am pleased to see that I have the support of the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  who is nodding his head in agreement with me. It is obviously a local political matter. I can understand the concern of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. No doubt he is right to express his concern, but at the same time he has no right, in my view, to inject fear into the shippers of Tasmania. They themselves are not frightened. There have been discussions up to this point of time between the Line and the people of Tasmania and so far there has been a proper understanding of what was to occur and there has been agreement on what was to occur. But because I saw some of the Press reaction to this I have ensured that Australian National Line representatives go down to Tasmania and explain again what this does mean to the various people concerned. I am satisfied that in the meeting that is to take place today they will get a clear understanding of Tasmania's needs and they will be able to meet those needs. The Line has said that it wants to provide a flexible service to Tasmania and at the same time to try to keep its costs down. I believe that the 
Line will succeed in this endeavour. Knowing the timing of a meeting tomorrow and one or two other things, I could not let pass this opportunity to put the facts straight to the Parliament. 
It is true that the Australian Northbound Shipping Conference announced on 25th February a general increase in freight rates of up to 15 per cent to commence from 1st May. The honourable member has a right to be concerned about the effect this may have on Australian export industries. I am not so sure that Australian industries will be worse off vis-a-vis competitive countries because increased freight rates seem to be a general problem around the world. The facts are that shipping companies are faced with a problem of staying in business and meeting increased costs. They have had substantial cost increases in wages of crews, repairs and administration and in other areas. The whole problem is, of course, symptomatic of the general problem when you get rising costs without getting a matching increase in productivity. As to the last part of the honourable member's question, I understand that the Northbound Shipping Conference is to enter into detailed discussions with the various export trades to settle the level of freight rates for various export industries with the Northbound Conference. It would therefore appear unnecessary for me to call such a conference as the honourable member suggested. 
As I understand it, Central Australia has had some of the heaviest rains for 30, 40 or even 50 years and while this may be welcomed with some joy by the pastoralists, it certainly has caused some concern to the Commonwealth Railways. I am delighted that the honourable member recognised the promptness with which my Department acted in respect to removing passengers to Alice Springs so that they could get on their way homewards. The perishable goods are on their way back to Adelaide today and will be in Adelaide by 6 o'clock tonight. If at any time during the next few days or weeks there is a shortage of food or medical supplies at Finke - according to the latest information, the Finke railway bridge is some 12 feet under water - the honourable member can rest assured that I will look sympathetically and promptly to the question of flying in urgently requested supplies. In regard to the last part of the honourable member's question, we are proceeding as quickly as possible with the survey of the railway line. The honourable member of course will recognise that we bad to wait for the approval of the South Australian Government for that part of the railway line. This approval has only just come to hand, but nevertheless the survey is proceeding as planned. 
I am not aware of any specific request having been received from the Queensland Government seeking financial help in respect of the specific matter raised by the honourable member. At meetings of the Australian Transport Advisory Council there have been discussions in general terms concerning the problem of financing railways and urban transport. The House will be aware that the Bureau of Transport Economics, which is a part of my Department, has been making a study of the problem concerning both the railways and urban transport. In this field as in any other field the making of financial grants to the States is a matter of policy and is not a proper matter to be dealt with at question time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 understand that there were statements attributed to the New South Wales Minister for Transport criticising the Commonwealth for not granting to the States for roadworks an amount equal to the revenue from taxes on liquid fuels. 
There is no basis for the inference that fuel taxes should all be used specifically for roads. These taxes form part of the general revenue of the Commonwealth, from which Parliament makes appropriations for various purposes. One of these is the Commonwealth Aid Roads grants. In its own right, the New South Wales Government decides what additional revenue it needs, for roads as well as for other purposes, and takes the steps it deems appropriate to raise the revenue. 
State and Commonwealth Rail Systems - Increases in Freights and Fares (Question No. 4935) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The 36th Meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council was held in Canberra on 18th February 1972. 
Ministers who attended the 36th Meeting were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Substantial further progress has been made towards the preparation of the complex new legislation that will be necessary for the establishment of an Australian, shipping register. At the present stage I am not in a position to make an announcement about the introduction of the necessary bill. 
Meetings of the Australian Transport Advisory Council (Question No. 5017) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no requirements placed on either Australian or overseas shipping companies to undertake repairs, docking and maintenance in Australian shipyards. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See (1) above. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The detail requested is not recorded bymy Department. However, I have had an examination made of the annual reports of the railway systems from 1950-51 to 1970-71 and some information has been extracted. This information is set out below: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Advertisements were placed in the main daily newspapers in all Capital Cities on 23rd and 30th October 1971, and in the Commonwealth Gazette. 
471 replies were received. 
All replies received were treated as formal applications. 
Known job requirements were used in the initial vetting of applications to determine those to be interviewed and again at actual interviews. These job requirements were the desirability of having a marine background, operations room experience, navigation experience and the necessary personal qualities associated with this type of work. 
Selection for interview was based on applicants having the majority of the job requirements. The reason for excluding the balance was that experience and background stated in the applications did not reasonably compare with those selected for interview. 
Twenty-four. 
Formal action has been taken to provisionally promote one Commonwealth Officer and to appoint 4 other applicants. All will be employed in Canberra, the duties being as follows: 
Initiate and co-ordinate search and rescue operations as required, defining the areas of search and making use of whatever facilities are likely to give the best results. Direct all operations. 
Perform routine checks in communication network, facilities and equipment 
Maintain record of position of all ships of Commonwealth Departments as well as merchant ships of any significance so that they can be diverted to assist in search and rescue if required. 
Preparation and promulgation of Emergency Notices to Mariners occurring during watch keeping. 
Commonwealth Railways - Ownership of Residences at Port Augusta (Question No. 5077) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Rentals on departmental residences in Port Augusta, Stirling North, Port Pirie, Alice Springs and Darwin were increased on 16th Jan. 1972 by $2.50 per week for brick and brick veneer and improved type timber framed residences, representing an approximate average increase of 28 per cent; and by $1.50 and $1.00 per week for older type timber framed residences, representing an approximate average increase of 22 per cent Rentals' at Canberra were also increased on 13th February 1972 by $2.50 per week representing an approximate average increase of 28 per cent There was no increase in rentals at line locations. 
Yes. Rentals were increased on 10th May 1970. The increases were approximately of the same extent. Rentals at line locations were' increased by 50 cents perweek. 
Whilst I have no precise information on this aspect, the effect of increased rentals and decreased overtime on an individual's standard of living will have been, no doubt, offset by the increases of approximately 15 per cent in pay during the past two years. 
Commonwealth Railways - Ownership of Residences at Port Augusta  (Question No. 5076) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Government contributes towards the cost of maintaining Point Lowly road on the basis of the proportion of Commonwealth traffic to total traffic using it Contributions of $250 per annum have been provided for the last 3 years. 
See (1) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question-is as follows: 
The detail requested for State railway systems is not recorded by my Department. However, an examination of the available annual reports of the railway systems has been made and some information extracted. This information together with the relevant information for Commonwealth Railways, is set out in the following table. It should be noted that there are substantial differences in accounting methods and terminology among the systems. Details of these differences are obtainable from the annual reports and the most important of these are referred to in the schedule. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The detail requested is not recorded by my Department, However, I have had an examination made of annual reports of the railway systems and some information has been extracted. It should be noted that there are substantial differences in accounting methods and terminology among the systems and even within some systems at different points of time. Details of these differences are obtainable from the Annual reports and the most important of these are referred to in the schedule. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The subject of rust and corrosion has been investigated on behalf of the Australian Transport Advisory Council which accepted a recommendation that no legislative action need be taken. The report noted that manufacturers had improved rust prevention measures over recent years. 
Any requirement for rust prevention would need to establish standard methods of measuring rust under test conditions, or alternatively specify particular materials and dimensions for various parts of the vehicle. Such detailed restrictions on design and manufacture could only be contemplated if it were established that there is a serious safety problem and to date there seems to be no evidence that this is so. Most modern vehicles apparently do not suffer from a serious rust problem affecting their safety. 
In the absence of any information about instances where the basic safety of any particular vehicle model or models is affected by rust there appears to be no basis for action at present. 
Reports of severe rust problems usually relate to conditions in colder countries where chemicals are used to de-ice roads in winter. This results in a much greater degree of rusting than is experienced in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought is not recorded within my Department. However,I have had an examination made of annual reports of the railway systems and some information has been extracted. It should be noted that there are substantial differences in accounting methods and terminology among the systems and even within some systems at different points of time. Details of these differences are obtainable from the annual reports and the most important of these are referred to in the schedule. 
 I thought, when the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  got to his feet that we would hear some policy announcement on behalf of the Australian Labor Party by its shadow Minister for Trade and Industry. The honourable member for Lalor has the unusual capacity to sound bitter at all times and never to sound generous, smiling or happy at any time. The other thing about the honourable member for Lalor is that he got to his feet »Bd his opening remarks were that the previous Minister for Trade and Industry end the present Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  were both farmer* and neither was capable of handling the Important folio of trade. Perhaps he thinks the Minister in charge of that portfolio should be an expoliceman whose only capacity that I know of - and where he has shown himself to be a leader - is leading people onto the streets to disobey the very law that he tried to uphold when he was a policeman, and perhaps an unsuccessful one. That is the only capacity the honourable member for Lalor has shown that may lead him to the view that he has the right to stand up and claim to be the reasonable alternative as Minister for Trade and Industry. 1 do not know what capacity the honourable member for Lalor claims that he has that would give him the right to do as the previous Minister for Trade and Industry did as a farmer, namely, lead this country into the greatest job opportunity situation in 20 years. This is more than any other Minister for Trade and Industry has ever done. If the honourable member for Lalor can ever do one thing in this Parliament comparable with what was done by the previous Minister for Trade and Industry, or even do as much as the present Minister for Trade and Industry is doing in the short time he has been Minister, then 1 will be the first to say 'Well done'. The honourable member for Lalor does not have the capacity to say to anybody 'Well done' when a job has been well done. 
The very basis of the criticism that the honourable member for Lalor makes is, of course, invalid.  His  criticism was that the increase in the staff of the Tariff Board is not satisfactory to do the job. He fails to notice or record that the proposals to increase the staff of the Tariff Board come, in fact, out of discussions with the.  Chairman  of the Tariff Board. The proposals are accepted by the Tariff Board and its  Chairman  as being realistic enough to cope with the tremendous job of reviewing thousands of items under the tariff in a programme that the  Chairman  of the Board feels to be geared to a realistic timetable - something of the order of 6 years. So the very basis on which the honourable member for Lalor rose and spoke is invalil 

 Dr J. F. CAIRNS (Lalor)-  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I am not aware of the statement to which the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has referred, concerning the transfer of cargo from Launceston to another port. I am unaware of the action being taken but I will have inquiries made about it and I will inform the Deputy Leader of the Opposition later of the results of those inquiries. I would think that if the Australian National line were involved it would be acting with a view lo rationalisation of cargo handling in an endeavour to obtain cheaper freights rather than dearer freights. However, I do not know anything about the matter at the moment and 1 will look into it. 
The extraordinary postures adopted by the Australian Labor Party on Vietnam are typical of its general attitude towards defence and they deserve exposure. Labor's policy is a case history of attitudes towards communist aggression which underlines an approach bordering on the dangerous and which at times is almost un-Australian. It could well be asked by a visitor to this country why it is that the Labor Party always seems to be following the communist line in its defence postures. The ALP is not concerned about the presence of Soviet navy vessels in the Indian Ocean. It does not seem to be concerned about the defence vacuum that ALP policies towards Malaysia and Singapore would cause. The Labor Party seeks to denigrate Australia's alliances in ANZUS and SEATO. It refuses to accept that for IS years communist aggression has been going on in South Vietnam. To my knowledge, the Labor Party has made no protest whatsoever against the invasion of Laos and Cambodia by North Vietnamese forces over the past decade or longer. 
A contender for the Labor Party Leadership, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who would be a senior Minister in a Labor government, continually mouths justification of North Vietnamese aggression in South Vietnam in a puppet-like fashion. I quote the Hansard report of 12th April, when the honourable member for Lalor said: 
I believe and am fully convinced that the North Vietnamese are justified in the action they have taken in South Vietnam. 
That is an appalling statement, pregnant with threat for the Australian way of life. Is it any wonder that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  came back from Peking with a message from the Chinese Prime Minister, Chou En-lai, that China looks forward to the time when Labor takes office? 
It is in the field of Australia's national defence that one of the widest differences of opinion exists between the Government and the Labor Party. The Government has been scrupulous, through treaties and active mutual co-operation with our neighbours in the region, to ensure that any potential aggressor would be deterred by the strength of our alliances. Thus, for example, we have worked to ensure the continued validity of the ANZUS Treaty. Last year the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  won a ringing reaffirmation of the ANZUS Treaty and a wide-ranging expression of faith from  President  Nixon. The  President  said: 
I believe this Treaty is one of the fundamental pillars of our policy for peace in the Pacific . . . This Treaty goes far beyond simply that piece of paper. 
What a great guarantee of alliance in defence are the President's words. But it is a guarantee which the Australian Labor Party at that time and since has sought to denigrate and to wave airily aside. That is Labor's attitude and has been its attitude to ANZUS for 20 years. Indeed, last year the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party threw out of its platform a clause saying that the alliance is essential and must continue. 
The Labor Party is also the Party which has consistently sought to denigrate the SEATO alliance. Last year the Party's Federal Conference also dropped all specific reference to that Treaty. Not content with these attempts to scuttle Australia's alliances, the Labor Party has thrown alarm into our colleague governments in Malaysia and Singapore by its attitude to what is known as the 5-power defence arrangements for that area, to which this Government subscribes. Labor sees these arrangements as only transitional. In the words of the Leader cf the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard),  the Government's forward defence policy will be 'discarded' by a Labor government. But the fact is that Singapore and Malaysia regard the arrangements as being of the first importance and would be deeply upset at the Australian withdrawal promised by the Opposition. Labor's policy would cause the collapse of the 5-power arrangements and the destruction of confidence in Australia. 
In addition to this, one thing is sure - Asian countries and indeed other nations must be horrified at the extraordinary rudeness and naivete of the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  who has been prattling in public about the contents of a closed meeting he had with Singapore's Foreign Minister. There is no doubt that the honourable member for St George has caused great embarrassment and concern, not only by discussing his conversation - which is something never done in diplomacy - but also by giving a partial and misleading account. The Opposition has a penchant for continuing stupidity over Malaysia and Singapore. Late last year, for instance, we saw a public difference of opinion on forward defence between the Leader of the Opposition and the Prime Minister of Singapore. And then the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was prepared to fly in the face of expert international opinion - such as the SEATO military advisers and Britain's just retired Commander-in-Chief in the Far East - and to gloss over the activities of Soviet navy forces in the Indian Ocean, which pose a new disturbing power factor in an unstable area following Britain's withdrawal. 
We have also had the extraordinary spectacle of the Leader of the Opposition trying to lay an odorous smoke screen over the Government's assistance to Cambodia. He seems to be prepared to ignore the needs of the Cambodians who for many years have been suffering from a Hanoi-inspired invasion of communism, including a blitzkrieg of North Vietnamese troops. This attitude of the Leader of the Opposition is in line with his insulting attitude to Cambodia when he was having his kow-tow with Chou in Peking. One facet of the ALP's lack of a credible defence posture is that the Party does not have many men like the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  1 do not hold any particular brief for the honourable member, as he knows, but at least he had the courage to stand up and be counted over Cambodia. He said that there were 30,000 North Vietnamese in Cambodia who were committing blatant aggression. Those were his words. He said that there was no reason at all why Cambodians should not receive arms from Allied nations. I think that the honourable member for Wills should take the honourable member for Lalor to one side and tell him some of the truths about communist aggression in Asia today. Then perhaps the honourable member for Lalor, who has been mouthing justification of North Vietnamese aggression, might come to acknowledge the truth. 
I want now to describe a case history of communist aggression to pinpoint the perfidy of the Labor Party's defence poli cies. I take as an example Vietnam, where the Opposition has in effect been urging Allied capitulation. The. Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Lalor make a fine pair - the one capitulating to the communists and the other saying that North Vietnam's invasion of the. South, and presumably the North's invasion of Laos and Cambodia, is justified. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The line was open to traffic on, 3rd January 1962. Tonnage of goods carried has increased by 143 per cent over the period 1962-63 to 1970-71. 
No approaches have been made to the Commonwealth by either State. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
July 1964. 
Five (5). 
, (4) and (5) The extent of concessions allowed over the State transport systems is a matter for the States to decide. While the question of pensioner travel concessions has been discussed by Commonwealth and State Transport Ministers, meeting as the Australian Transport Advisory Council, the States have not seen fit to extend their existing concessions. 
So far as the Commonwealth is concerned eligible pensioners, irrespective of their state of residence, are entitled to 50 per cent concession of the rail fare on Commonwealth Railways for interstate or intrastate journeys except at Christmas and  Easter  Holiday seasons. 
 I am able to give the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  an assurance that the adoption of the tonnage mark scheme will make no difference to the Navigation (Radio) Regulations that apply at the present time whereby a ship under 1,600 gross registered tons does not have to carry a radio operator. I am sure that this is the point of concern in the mind of the Professional Radio Employees Institute. The purpose of the Bill is to enable a ship's tonnage to be measured in a different way for the purpose of meeting charges in port. Great savings will accrue to our shipping lines as a result of this provision. The introduction of this amendment to the Navigation Act will not affect the present regulations that govern the use of a radio operator. 
Yes, I have seen such a statement and I must confess to being somewhat surprised at the tenor of it, having regard to the fact that the wool industry has secured freight rates for the next 3 years that in fact are cheaper than those which applied in preceding years. I am reminded somewhat of the barnyard story of the pussycat. I am sure that we would have heard much more from this writer had the wool industry in fact been unable to secure the freight rate that it did secure. The Commonwealth Government has encouraged the regularisation of shipping lines and conferences to Australian shores and I believe that it has been out of this policy that the wool industry has been able to secure the cheaper freight rate. The facts are that 5 or 6 container ships can do the work of 10 times that number of old-fashioned conventional ships at a much lower cost, the turn-round time has been halved and the labour savings, to say the least, have been immense. I know one thing for sure, and that is that the wool industry itself will be very delighted that, at a time when inflation is a continuing problem to those engaged in that industry and those engaged in other exporting industries, these negotiations have produced such a result. 
It has been common knowledge for some months that the Australian Transport Advisory Council ministerial meetings have been discussing the problems of urban transport and that the Bureau of Transport Economics, which is part of my Department, has been assisting these studies by making investigations into the financial requirements of general transport systems, including the part particularly referred to by the honourable member - the urban transport systems. It is true that when I was overseas I took the opportunity of having discussions on these various matters so that I can be in a better position when I meet my ministerial colleagues to discuss in a more informed way the problems of urban transport. The facts are that urban transport systems are business undertakings of the States and therefore they have to compete with the other priorities set by State governments when the States are making up their budgets on an annual basis. 
The Commonwealth has helped considerably in regard to the total transport needs of the States, both through the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act with a sum of $ 1,252m over this 5-year period and by grants and loans totalling $249m which have been given to the States - about 50 per cent of it by grant - to assist them in the standardisation of their rail tracks. This has been of considerable benefit to the States. Any decision taken by this Government in regard to urban transport would, of course, be a matter of policy and would be announced by the Government at the appropriate time. -  Mr BARNES  (McPherson)-  Mr Speaker,  I claim to have been misrepresented. 
 No. The manning of ships is governed bv manning committees which have been set up and are chaired by an officer of my Department. The unions which are concerned in the discussion are represented on the committee. There is nothing in the amendments to the Navigation Act that will affect that situation. The manning commit tee has proved to be very successful in settling disputes concerning the number of seamen and the number of officers that ought to be employed on a ship. The honourable member mentioned the 'Echuca*. There was some great disputation as to whether or not the 'Echuca' should carry a radio operator. In the event it was found that there was, first of all, a lack of accommodation and, more importantly, it was agreed by the seamen and the other unions involved that it was not necessary from a safety point of view to carry a radio operator. Finally, after a great deal of dispute, the 'Echuca' was able to sail. The manning committee will continue to function separately and distinct from the Navigation Act, and it is not part of the review of the Navigation Act as a whole. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
 Last week when this debate started it was confined almost to the matters set out in the Bill. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  kept fairly close to the Bill. However tonight for some reason or other, and I acknowledge the generosity of the Chair to some extent, members on both sides of the House have spoken on the subject of navigation generally and have given philosophic thoughts on the shipping industry, views on the waterfront, suggesting what some people can do with it, and views about the Australian coastal shipping line and the Australian National Line operating overseas. I have found the debate most intriguing and interesting. I thank those members who have contributed to the debate, particularly the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  who did confine himself to the Bill. In fact, the honourable member was the only  speaker  today who did confine himself particularly to the Bill. I ask the Chair to allow me some degree of tolerance so that I may answer some of the matters raised as questions to the Minister, even though they are not directly related to the narrow confines of the Bill. 
I thank the Chair for its tolerance. It is a fact that the Navigation Act is one of the major Acts of this Parliament. It covers some 400 pages and has some 40 sets of regulations. There have been general complaints raised by most Opposition members who have spoken on this Bill. They are concerned that at this stage the Government has chosen to amend only one or two sections of the Act. The House will know that on a previous occasions I said that I had arranged for a special consultant to be employed by the Department for a re-vamping of the whole of the Act. That work is now well under way. I was hoping to introduce into the House one major section of this work during the present session. The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  suggested that no Government business has been dealt with during this session but I remind him that so far more than 70 Bills have been dealt with. The legislative programme has been very full indeed. Having that in mind I am sure that the House will recognise the massive task that lies before us when we are asked to consider the whole of the Navigation Act and I am hopeful that that consideration will be in the not too distant future. I am hopeful also that that section of the Act relating to the Australian registry of ships will be dealt with if not in this session then in a later session of this Parliament. 
There has been progress in reexamining the whole of the Navigation Act. Both the honourable member for 
Newcastle and the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  were critical of the Government for not having assisted in a more permanent fashion the training of seamen. The honourable member for Newcastle should know that last year I circulated a booklet entitled 'Training for Work at Sea'. This booklet was forwarded to unions, shipowners and educationists all of whom are studying it as are members of my own Department. I hope that out of that consideration will evolve a programme for training seamen for sea work. Perhaps I should say that there is a great deal of resistance by some of the more old fashioned sea-goers who oppose this modern approach to training seamen. I should like the honourable member for Newcastle to know that it will not be an easy task to convince the trade union movement that it should accept a modern approach to training of this type. 
With regard to a revision of the Navigation Act, we cannot simply incorporate in our legislation great lumps of the British Act. Our constitutional system is quite different from that of the United Kingdom. For instance, the United Kingdom does not have 6 States as we have and also its legal system is somewhat different from ours. Therefore the Australian Government has adopted the policy of consulting the unions, the industry and the departments concerned so that when amendments are introduced there will be general accord on the changes required in the Navigation Act. Last week the honourable member for Newcastle raised the matter of the vessel 'Esso Macquarie', a ship registered in Australia under the United Kingdom Act but owned in the Bahamas. The master of that vessel is being prosecuted so the matter is still somewhat sub judice. The point made by the honourable member for Newcastle is not valid. The facts are that Australian registration would change the situation of the 'Esso Macquarie' only if Australian ownership were conditional upon registration and if the courts took a different view of prosecuting the owner than the master. Therefore it is a legal question and not quite in the context put forward by the honourable member for Newcastle. 
The honourable member raised also with me the matter of ship repairs. This bears on what the honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Barnes)  said in relation to coastal shipping practices generally. The cost of ship repairs in Australia is extremely high. We do have a shipbuilding policy of subsidising yards to a marked extent so that shipowners are not disadvantaged by building here rather than overseas. However, that subsidy applies only to the construction of new vessels. There is no subsidy for repair work. Recently the Shell company asked 10 shipyards to tender for certain modification work. Five Australian yards and 5 overseas yards were asked to quote. One Australian yard declined to quote, another provided an estimate for part only of the specifications and the lowest Australian tender was 24 per cent above and 10 days longer than the lowest overseas tender. The second lowest Australian tender was 143 per cent dearer than the lowest overseas tender. So, if we are to keep our coastal ships in a competitive position we have to bear in mind that particular problem because costs are paramount and central to the whole problem. The honourable member for Newcastle also asked a question about docking facilities. As I have said before, there is an inter-departmental committee report on dry docking facilities. This will be dealt with by the Government, with the Tariff Board report, when the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  returns to Australia in a couple of weeks. I hope that announcements will be able to be made by the Minister for Trade and Industry on the Tariff Board report and. by me on the dry docking report before Parliament completes this session. 
The honourable member also raised the question of the 'Iron Somersby'. This brings to mind again the great problem of costs. Permission was granted to bring in the 'Iron Somersby' in January 1971. That was long before the down-turn in the coastal shipping trade. She came in and, of course, has been tied up. She is presently the subject of a dispute which is before  Mr Justice  Franki. Let me slightly correct figures given by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  He said that at the present moment those who are working on ships like the 'Iron Somersby' work for 32 weeks and have 20 weeks off. The honourable member for Wakefield is cf the view that they want to work for 26 weeks and have 26 weeks off. The position is actually worse than that. What the men are seeking is 20 weeks work and 32 weeks off, including 4 weeks annual leave. One can see the tremendous impact that it will have on costs if this claim is agreed to: but 1 am unable to comment upon it b any great depth because the dispute is before the court. 
1 do not know the exact figure, but the honourable member for Wakefield quoted the wage structure. The ordinary seaman is getting 56,000 or $7,000 a year. 
I am told that the figure is $6,800. The seamen are flown to their home ports and receive all sorts of fringe benefits. The Government rejects the amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle simply on the facts and for no other reason. The facts are that in regard to international conventions, to take the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organisation for a start, 11 conventions have been drawn up. There are only 6 in force and 5 of those have already been ratified and action is in hand to ratify one more. So the Government rejects that part of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle. 1 also reject his criticism of our alleged failure to comply with International Labor Organisation conventions. Only in his speech - in no other speech from the other side of the House - did we hear any details of the complaint about the conventions that we have not agreed to. The fact is that 6 of these have been ratified already and the ones in respect of which there is some delay have been delayed because we have to reach agreement with the States. The honourable member for Swan referred to the ship 'Henna' and the honourable member for Sturt was rather critical of our survey team. 
I beg your pardon and I apologise. The honourable member for Sturt was not critical of the survey team for the work it does. He talked about the problems of survey, but he was not critical of the team. I accept the correction. But the honourable member for Swan and the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  were critical of the survey team. I have explained the position in relation to the 'Henna' before. She came to load grain in South Australia but the Department of Shipping and Transport, when it inspected the ship, would not approve her for the loading of grain. So the captain sailed the ship empty to Western Australia where she was loaded with ilmenite at Albany. The ship was inspected by the harbour master and certain repairs were forced on the master of the ship in order to meet the requirements of the classification society. When those requirements were met the Commonwealth had no power to detain the 'Henna' further. Once the classification society, which is an overseas society, accepted the ship as being safe to sail and because the ship was an international ship, the Commonwealth had no further power in the matter. The ship sailed. She was an international flag ship and met the international requirements laid down by her classification society. The Commonwealth had no further power. 
The honourable member for Stirling complained about the loss of coastal passenger ships. This complaint was answered very effectively by the honourable member for McPherson who pointed out that in point of fact this loss was caused by the demands of the seamen and the activities of the waterfront in respect of the coastal passenger ships. This occurred before my time; 1 have never had any experience of it. But I believe that one could take a very delightful journey from Melbourne to Brisbane and back or to Western Australia. It is a pity that these coastal passenger ships have departed from the coastal trade. But this was caused by the demands made by the Seamen's Union and the Waterside Workers Federation who tied up the ships in port. This is one of the tragedies of the shipping business. 
The only point that I want to make in commenting on the speech of the honourable member for Sturt is that I do not doubt for a moment that he has a great deal of personal experience on the waterfront. I understand that that was his previous occupation. He brings to this Parliament an expertise on the waterfront that perhaps no other honourable member in the House has. However, he is just a little wrong in one fact and I would like to correct him. He talked about the Australian National Line having to pay back a great sum of money in the northbound conference to Japan. The fact is that there was a rearrangement of the share in the conference so that when the agreement is finally worked out at the end of this year the ANL will have worked through the credit it gained by over-carrying. So the millions of dollars which were spoken of by the Opposition were never paid back and never had to be paid back. The Government rejects the amendment. 
Question put - 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Charles Jones' amendment)  stand part of the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At the present time there is no rule or legislation requiring locally manufactured or imported vehicles to withstand a front or rear end bumper impact at any speed. The Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design which reports to the Australian Advisory Transport Council is currently looking into this matter. 
Australian Design Rule for Motor Vehicle Safety No. 10b provides that all passenger cars and derivatives manufactured on or after 1 January 1973 will be required to withstand  a  front end barrier collision at 30 m.p.h without rearward displacement of the steering column by more than 5 inches. This rule is to apply to both locally manufactured and imported vehicles at the time of first registration. 
The Commonwealth Statistician has published figures which show that in the 9 months to March 1972 the trading surplus was of the order of S492m. In the month of March itself the surplus was SI 00m, which is the highest surplus since 1952; so the trend mentioned by the honourable member has been continued. 1 could make 2 comments in relation to this matter. First, I have no doubt that the recovery in wool prices has contributed greatly to the March monthly figure. This shows how important our primary industries still are in securing export income. Secondly, I think this again illustrates the success of Government policies in respect of overseas trade. 
I know that all honourable members in this House will agree on the necessity for picking people of the highest calibre to serve on the Tariff Board and in other Government organisations. In point of fact, the selection of a person to serve on the Board is made not only from the standpoint of the industry from which he comes but also on the personal qualities of the man himself. So, in respect of that part of the honourable member's question, those criteria now apply. The salary level chosen for members of the Board is governed by the salary levels of the Commonwealth Public Service generally and, whilst it may be difficult to compete with private enterprise to obtain men of the highest calibre, I can see no way of adjusting the salary level of Tariff Board members on their own without general adjustments across the board for the Commonwealth Public Service. However, I will pass that part of the honourable member's question on to my colleague the Minister for Trade and Industry when he returns from Santiago. 
by leave - I move: 
That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into and report on - 
the main causes of the . present high level of the road toll in Australia; 
the most effective means of achieving greater road safety in Australia; 
the particular aspects of the problem to which those concerned with road safety could most advantageously , direct their efforts; and 
the economic cost to the community of road accidents in Australia in terms of - 
material damage; 
loss of man hours and earning capacity; and &gt; 
cost of treatment of accident victims. 
That the committee recognise the control in these matters exercised by the States and seek their co-operation in all relevant aspects. 
That the committee consist of 7 members, 4 to be appointed by the Prime Minister and 3 to be appointed by the Leader of the Opposition. 
That every appointment of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  Speaker. 
That the  Chairman  be appointed by the Prime Minister. 
That the  Chairman  shall at any time when he will not be present at -any meeting of the committee or of a sub-committee, appoint another member of the committee to act as  .Chairman. 
That the  Chairman  or the Acting  Chairman  presiding at a meeting of the committee or of a sub-committee, have a deliberative vote and, in the event of an equality of voting, also have a casting vote. 
That the committee have power to appoint sub-committees consisting of not less than 3 of its members, and refer to any such sub-committees any matter which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That 3 members of tha committee, including the  Chairman  or Acting  Chairman,  constitute a quorum of the committee, and 2 members of a sub-committee including the  Chairman  of the subcommittee constitute a quorum of the subcommittee. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place, and to sit during any recess. 
That recourse to technical and/or expert advice by the committee shall be subject to approval of the  Speaker. 
That the committee have leave to report to the House from time to time. 
That the committee report to the House as soon as possible and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in standing orders. 
I do not think there is anyone who would say the matters I have referred to in paragraph  (1)  should not be the subject of inquiry. Australia's road toll is a national problem. The lives of Australian men and women, both young and old, and of our children are being needlessly and wantonly wasted each day. The injuries suffered on our roads through accidents are quite appalling and they are costing the community dearly. 
Whereas 1 appreciate the excellent efforts by the States towards reducing the road toll, I view the road accident situation as being so grave a national problem that the Commonwealth cannot afford not to assist the States more in attempting to seek solution. It is some  13  years since the Government, in another place, took steps to inquire into and report on our road accident situation. It is more than appropriate, therefore, for the matter to be reexamined in depth at this time so that Parliament is again in a position to assess the seriousness of the road accident situation. 
As you will know,  Mr Speaker,  the expert group advising me on road safety is nearing its completion of a national review of Australia's road accident situation. As honourable members will recall, a national road safety symposium was held recently in Canberra as part of this review. The Australian Transport Advisory Council has taken many steps in recent years to improve the road accident situation. We now have much safer vehicles on our roads as a result of the co-operation of Transport Ministers who form this Council. We also have more uniformity in our traffic laws because of the earnest endeavours of my Council colleagues. 
There is, thus, a vast amount of detailed knowledge and experience on road safety now available - much more than in  1958  when the Senate Select Committee on Road Safety was appointed. In spite of this, fatalities and injuries are continuing to take place on our roads. Why? This is a simple question but the answer has so far eluded us. It is for this reason that the 
Government considers a road safety inquiry is now appropriate. I commend the motion to honourable members. 
 The only point that emerges from the speech of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  is that the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party is not prepared to repudiate  Mr Westerway  for his alleged statements. The honourable member says that this is not the Party's business. Yet I think I saw in a paper the other day some mouthings of an apology about a statement by the Victorian Branch of the ALP on North Vietnam. That suddenly became business of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party. I just do not understand the difference between these 2 statements. 
I want to thank the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  for making his clear and unequivocal statement on allegations made by  Mr Peter  Westerway, the New South Wales State Secretary of the Australian Labor Party. It is eminently proper that allegations made outside this Parliament should be answered. Equally, as the Minister responsible for the administration of the Commonwealth Electoral Office for 3 years to February last year, I want also to be clear and unequivocal because I also believe that  Mr Westerway's  claims are maliciously damaging and false - utterly false. I can think of no motive for  Mr Westerway's  allegations other than that he is a spreader of lies or, at the most charitable, he is woefully misinformed. There is no doubt that had  Mr Westerway  mentioned any names he would today be in court facing substantial suits of damages for slander. Yet the fact is that despite requests to him - he has had 6 weeks in which to apologise - and also requests to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  no evidence whatsoever has been forthcoming to back up the charges. 
Following an address to the annual youth conference of the Australian Labor Party in Sydney on 11th March,  Mr Westerway  was reported in various sections of the media as alleging electoral malpractices. The Australian Broadcasting Commission reported him as saying that officials of the Commonwealth Electoral Office had rigged results in key marginal seats in previous elections. He said that ballot boxes had been substituted, that votes had been deliberately miscounted, and that the effect of this had been to help non-Labor parties in certain seats. I was sickened by these reports. 
In the knowledge that the Minister for the Interior had sent a telegram to  Mr Westerway  seeking evidence to substantiate these claims, I sent a telegram on 15th March to the Leader of the Opposition, who was then in Adelaide at a meeting of the Labor Party Executive, requesting him to ask  Mr Westerway  to produce evidence. The Leader of the Opposition has not acknowledged or replied to this telegram, and judging by his silence on the matter one can only assume that he has done nothing about it or that he agrees with the allegations. I challenge the Leader of the Opposition to tell the House what action he has taken on the allegations and to force  Mr Westerway  to produce evidence. Alternatively the assumption is that the Leader of the Opposition is too frightened of the New South Wales State ALP machine to do anything about it. Certainly his quality of leadership is open to question. 
The allegations strike at the morale and integrity of the Public Service as well as at my own integrity as the Minister for the Interior of the time. I administered the Electoral Act from October 1967 until February 1971 and was unfailingly impressed by the inflexible integrity and honesty of officials in the Electoral Office. At no time was there any imputation of malpractice, and had there been it would have been rigorously and ruthlessly pursued by myself and by  Mr Frank  Ley, the Chief Electoral Officer. Although we sought further information from  Mr Westerway  and the Leader of the Opposition, there has been a deafening silence from them both. This silence should indicate to the public the worth of the allegations. The Leader of the Opposition's failure to respond to my telegram caused me to take a close interest in  Mr Westerway  and the methods by which he and the Party structure he administers go about the business of conducting their own electoral affairs. It seems that  Mr Westerway  has some knowledge of vote rigging. 
It is fascinating to note the shenanigans which have been going on over the preselection of a Labor Party candidate for the Federal seat of Shortland. The present honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Griffith)  is a man of undoubted integrity and honesty, and is one of the most respected members of this Parliament. He must be completely grieved at the stiuation that has developed over the series of ballots being held to find his successor. It must cause him great anguish to see the seat which he has represented with such distinction become the butt of a sectional power struggle conducted amid a cross fire of inter-Party allegations of malpractice. One candidate,  Mr Frank  Donnelly, has won the last 2 of the 3 ballots by 2 votes and one vote respectively from Alderman Peter Morris. In considering the events which have taken place in Shortland over the past 18 months, it must be stressed that these ballots were conducted under the rules of the New South Wales Branch of the ALP. It is even more interesting to note that the committee controlling the credentialling of voters for the Shortland pre-selection consisted of  Mr Peter  Westerway, the State Secretary of the Party;  Mr Lindsay  North, the general returning officer of the New South Wales State Branch;  Mr Young,  the Federal Secretary; and  Mr Kelly,  M.L.A. 
Following allegations of malpractices and vote rigging, it appears that  Mr Donnelly  has lost his pre-selection through the incredible step of the Federal Executive of the Labor Party seizing control after an appeal by  Mr Morris.  So there will be yet another selection process for Shortland under the aegis of the Federal Executive, thus taking the matter away from the control of the local people. And it seems that the Executive's favourite son is not a resident of Shortland. Rather the indications are that the Executive, steamrolling its supreme authority down the throat of the people of Shortland, wants to featherbed  Mr Charles  FitzGibbon of the Waterside Workers Federation or some other left winger into this seat. If anyone doubts that Tammany Hall resides in the Australian Labor Party, and specifically in  Mr Westerway's  New South Wales Branch, the television programme'This Day Tonight' on Tuesday of this week would be salutory. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No, the report has not yet been made available by the New South Wales Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) As a result of the recently completed Bureau of Transport Economics economic evaluation of a proposed railway line between Canberra and Yass, the proposal was not found to be economically justified. Accordingly there is no plan to proceed any further with the project since it is Government policy that funds will only be pro,vided for those railway projects where it can be demonstrated that the expected benefits exceed the costs involved in their construction. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It would indeed be desirable if all road fatalities could be investigated in the same manner as the occasional aircraft fatality. However, the physical resources required and the geographical occurrence of road accidents make the task impracticable. 
Insofar as unsafe vehicles are concerned there is no evidence available that new vehicles are the cause of accidents solely because the vehicles are defective. 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council has, of course, endorsed the scheme of Motor Vehicle Design Rules and Governments and manufacturers are working to ensure that new vehicles on the road are safe. 
The Expert Group on Road Safety has been charged with the responsibility of examining all aspects of road accidents in order to identify their basic causes and to advise how best the road toll can be reduced. 
On 14-16 March the Group held a National Road Safety Symposium in Canberra that is expected to play an important part in the national review which the Expert Group is currently making of Australia's road accident situation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(i) Australia - 
Two of 6,700 g.r.t. each 
Roll-on Roll-off steel product carriers 
$6,373,389 each. 
Overseas - 
One of 25,100 g.r.t. 
Cellular container ship 
The contract price is 55.707 million Deutsche Marks. 
The Australian National Line is autonomous in its day to day operations and no requirement has been imposed on the Line to have the repair, docking and maintenance of its vessels undertaken in Australian shipyards. However, it is the Line's policy, in respect of its coastal vessels, to have this work undertaken in Australia. 
'Australian Enterprise' at Kawasaki Dockyard, Kobe, Japan, 'Australian Endeavour' at Ayr Engineering, London, U. K. and 'Allunga' at Burrards Dock and Engineering Co., Vancouver, Canada. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to the honourable member's question. 
and (2) For the six months ended 31st December 1971, 7,250,000 lb of cheese were imported into Australia at a value of $3,702,000. 
The Commonwealth Dairy Produce Equalisation Committee Ltd provides monthly details of sales of Australian cheese for consumption within the Commonwealth. No details of imported cheese sales, for consumption within the Commonwealth, are available. However, assuming that all cheese imported during the year is sold during that year, the percentage of imported cheese to total sales would be: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In answer to the first part of the honourable member's question, I would expect the Government to be dealing with the Tariff Board report within the next few weeks. In regard to the second part of the honourable member's question, I should like to assure him, and also the proprietor of Evans Deakin Industries Ltd, that there have been several opportunities for tenders for shipbuilding to be submitted by Evans Deakin which of course, has had to compete with other shipbuilding yards. The competing company in Queensland. Walkers Ltd, much to that company's satisfaction, no doubt, was successful in its tender for the construction of 2 offshore oil supply ships. I understand that Evans Deakin was unsuccessful on that occasion. Evans Deakin is presently building the Robert Miller' and is just completing the construction of the 'Esso Gippsland'. Recently there were available opportunities to tender for an oil rig and one or two smaller ships. It may well be that Evans Deakin will tender successfully for those. I want to make it quite clear that despite the delay with the Tariff Board report, we have endeavoured, at all costs, to encourage the shipbuilding yards to proceed as normal. It is not really true to say in this case that failure to succeed to obtain a tender is due to the Government's failure to deal with the Tariff Board report. It is quite a different circumstance entirely. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At the September 1971 meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers on Port Development and Marine Affairs, it was agreed to refer various matters, including control of adventurers and reciprocity in pleasure boat registration, to officials for preparation of a paper. 
Officials of the Department of Shipping and Transport and of State port and marine authorities have, for the Council of the Association of Australian Port and Marine Authorities prepared  a  paper on this subject for consideration by Ministers at their next meeting. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government is not committed to any particular type of ship and it believes each type has an important role to play in Australia's total shipping requirements. 
Cellular container ships being used by the Australian National Line are 
'Australian Endeavour' 
'Echuca' 
'Darwin Trader' (also carries bulk cargoes) 
The contract price of these vessels to A.N.L. was 
41.06S million Deutsche Marks 
$US1. 8 million 
$A6 million 
One cellular container ship is on order 
The contract price is 55.707 million Deutsche Marks 
No. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
1966-67- 
Final payment of $553,000 to the Slate of Queensland towards the construction of 
Weipa harbour works, being part of a total $3.3m loan. 
Final payment of $1,628,386 to the Northern Territory Port Authority for the provision of an iron ore export wharf and facilities, being part of a total $3m loan. 
1967-68- 
Loan of $74,270 to the Northern Territory Port Authority for the provision of sorghum export facilities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This information is considered to be commercially confidential and 1 am not prepared to provide it 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1.) The following installations have been made over the period May 1967-June 1972: 
The House knows that it is the wish of the Australian National Line to provide the most economic service it can to Tasmania. I think it is fair to say that the Line has discharged that duty as well as it possibly could under prevailing circumstances. When I talk about prevailing circumstances I am talking about some of the industrial difficulty which occurs from time to time, which affects the operations of the ANL and which I would suggest has as much to do with the cost effect on the ANL and on exporters from Tasmania as any other single factor. The 2 points raised by the honourable member are both policy matters and therefore it is not proper for me to answer them at question time, but I will consider the matters raised and give the honourable member a further reply. 
The policy in relation to this matter is quite clear. If a shipowner wishes to enter a trade on the Australian coast and there is no Australian ship available for that task, permission is granted to his bringing in a ship subject to certain very tight conditions, one of which is that there be a replacement building undertaken by the shipowner. 
In regard to the present situation, I think that the ship the honourable member is concerning himself with is the 'Iron Somersby'. Approval in principle was given by my predecessor in about January 1971 for this ship to be brought into the coast. I issued a licence for her to operate on the coast. A permit was issued for a single voyage because I was not satisfied that the conditions that are required of an imported ship or that the requirement placed on the owners were being met at that point of time. At the moment the 'Iron Somersby' is tied up because of industrial trouble and therefore is hardly a controversial ship. 
As far as the policy is concerned, the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, which imported the ship, is beholden to replace her with an Australian building as soon as practicable. 'As soon as practicable' envisages, of course, in a normal case, the placing of an order with the Australian Shipbuilding Board after which tenders would be called. The Broken Hill Co. has its own ship building yard and can place her in a slot for itself. But the facts are that unless an imported ship which comes on to the Australian coast is of an unusual variety for a one-off job, it has to be replaced by an Australian building. 
I have received a report from the Bureau of Roads concerning the highways of Australia. At this stage it is a document for Government information and therefore I do not propose to table it in the House until the Government has had an opportunity to consider it. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: . 
and (2) A proposal regarding the provision of finance to complete the sealing of that part of the Eyre Highway which lies in South Australia has been submitted to the Commonwealth by the State Government. It is currently receiving consideration. 
I am happy to inform the honourable member that quite considerable progress has been made. A meeting of interested departments was held in February following my announcement. The Departments of Shipping and Transport, Customs and Excise, Navy, Interior, Health, Primary Industry - all relevant departments interested in the problem of coastal surveillance - met during that month. On 19th April, following that meeting, I officially opened the Marine Operations Centre. Since then there has been a second meeting of the standing committee to decide what the centre will need for the best operations. The idea behind the centre is to provide a 24-hour surveillance. This has already paid dividends. The fact that the centre was open 24 hours a day led to success in finding some boats missing at sea much more efficiently. I believe that the centre will contribute greatly to overcoming the whole of the Common wealth and State problems in regard to surveillance of our coast. I am sure that the setting up of this coastal surveillance centre will lead to a new era in cooperation between the Commonwealth and the States in the whole of this problem. 
I am able to inform the honourable member that last night I signed a letter to him on this very question setting out the facts relating to the shipping services to the northern ports of Tasmania. In that letter I pointed out to him that there has been a degree of rationalisation of service in an endeavour to offer the people of Tasmania the most economic and most reliable service possible. I am hopeful that the honourable member will be satisfied with the contents of that letter. 1 have pointed out to the honourable member on previous occasions that it is the wish of the Australian National Line and also of the private lines servicing Tasmania to maintain a sensible link between the mainland and Tasmania. If there is anything further I can do to assist in this regard, I would be happy to do it. I will have a look at the second part of the honourable member's question and see what implications are in it. 
 in reply - There is a perfectly good explanation why this procedure has been followed. First of all, as I understand it, an arrangement was made with the Opposition by the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  that would, I think, actually preclude me from speaking. 
That was my understanding. Irrespective of that, what I will make sure about is that my colleague, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  - who unfortunately has another engagement and is unable to be here tonight, but did ask me to take the Bill for him - notes the points that have been raised by the various speakers in the debate and replies to them himself. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
Recently when I was in Newcastle to open the Carrington Slipway the honourable member introduced a deputation to me consisting of the Lord Mayor of Newcastle and a couple of aldermen. They raised the question of the problems of Newcastle in relation to the drydock and also the port. I explained to them that the Commonwealth Government has not interested itself financially in the port works as requested by Newcastle. If I remember correctly, they wanted to deepen the port from 36 ft to 40 ft to take the much larger tonnages now serving the Australian coast as well as to attract overseas ships into Newcastle for direct loading for overseas. 1 understand that the estimated cost of this project was about $ 18.6m. There has been no request from the Premier of New South Wales to the Prime Minister for financial assistance for the project nor has there been a direct request to me as the Minister for Shipping and Transport from the comparable Minister in the State. 
It is a fact that the matter of port finance was discussed at quite some length at the ministerial meeting of the State Ministers and the Commonwealth on port and marine affairs. It was pointed out at that meeting that, in the main, port authorities throughout Australia historically have been able to finance the work arising from any port problems that they have had, supplemented where necessary by State government financial assistance. I pointed out to the meeting that the Commonwealth has not financially assisted ports except for a couple of special policy reasons such as to assist with the development of ports in the north of New South Wales, Queensland and Western Australia. Apart from that, no conclusions were reached about general port assistance from the Commonwealth and no requests were made for assistance from the Commonwealth to the States for specific ports. 
I am fully aware of the importance of this road as a tourist link between Port Augusta and Alice Springs. The honourable member will know that it is about 800 miles long. Of that distance, about 200 miles are within the bounds of the Northern Territory. Whilst I did not see the reports of the experiences of the caravan tour, there is some good news for those who might venture on such an escapade in future. On the Northern Territory side at least 120 miles of the 200 miles are presently being sealed. My understanding is that, of the 600 miles on the South Australian side of the border, the South Australian Government has commenced a programme to seal from Port Augusta to 
Pimba. The honourable member may know that the South Australian Government has received very good treatment under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act. It has received something like $120m over a 5- year period, of which SI 3.6m was for rural arterial roads such as the road mentioned by the honourable member. As well, it has received a $9m supplementary grant to assist in road sealing in any area that it desires. I will raise the problem which the honourable member for the Northern Territory has properly brought to my attention with the Minister for Transport in South Australia and will impress upon him the importance of this road to the Northern Territory from the point of view, not only of tourists, but also of the carriage of freight on that road. I will see whether I can impress upon the Minister for Transport the need to raise the priority of that road in his government's expenditure programme. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This very straightforward Bill provides for a further step in the Government's progressive transfer of powers to Papua New Guinea. Since 1949, the Department of 
Shipping and Transport has exercised the entire responsibility for planning, installation and maintenance of aids to marine navigation in the Territory. The Administration is now able to see its way to accept this responsibility in the near future, and the Administrator's Executive Council has agreed in principle. The only question remaining is the precise date of transfer, and so this Bill provides for amendment of the Lighthouses Act from a date to be proclaimed. That date will be set according to the wishes of the Administrator's Executive Council. 
It should not be thought that with the transfer of responsibility our interest will cease. We shall continue to provide whatever assistance the Administration may request for as long as desired. It is already agreed, for example, that an executive officer, selected by the Administration, will come to the Department of Shipping and Transport for a period of familiarisation. The skilled crew of the New Guineabased lighthouse tender, MV 'Noel Buxton', will remain until such time as the Administration can replace them. Training of lighthouse technicians will be provided as soon as the Administration can engage indigenous tradesmen. Technical servicing of equipment such as the flashing mechanisms of lights will be provided until such time as the Administration has made its own arrangements. Advice on the planning of systems will always be available. 
Thus the responsibility for decisionmaking is going over to Papua New Guinea, but assistance in whatever area and in whatever measure the Territory desires will continue. To regularise this transfer, it is necessary to remove reference to the Territories of Papua and of New Guinea from the Commonwealth Lighthouses Act. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
The first point I make is that the Commonwealth does not provide all the finance that is available to the States for their road construction programmes. In fact, the Commonwealth provides approximately one-third of South Australia's requirements. I think it is fair to say that all the States received acclaimed the Commonwealth aid roads programme when it was announced about 2 years ago. They were thoroughly delighted with the increase of finance from about $750m to $ 1,200m for the 5-year programme. South Australia as well as the other States enjoyed the increase. For the 5-year programme, South Australia will receive from the Commonwealth $120m. As I pointed out yesterday, just under $14m of this money is available for rural arterial roads - the very roads about which the honourable member for the Northern Territory spoke yesterday. As well, South Australia will receive a supplementary grant of $9m which, apart from Western Australia, which receives a supplementary grant of $41m and Tasmania which, I think, receives a grant of $2£m, the eastern States do not share. So, in point of fact, the Commonwealth has been very generous to South Australia in the money allocated to that State under the Commonwealth aid roads programme. In regard to the other part of the honourable member's question, the South Australian Government sets its own priorities on the way that money should be spent. For my part, I would like to see that Government do more and meet more of its responsibilities in regard to both the Eyre Highway and the road from Port Augusta to Alice Springs. The Commonwealth has no jurisdiction in the matter. It is a matter for the South Australian Government and it must live up to its responsibilities and do the job properly. 
In the first place the Leader of the Opposition well knows that the carriage of wool is a matter for negotiation between the wool owners, after the point of purchase, and the shipping lines. That clarifies my own position in this matter as the Minister in charge of the Australian National Line. Insofar as the activities of the ANL are concerned, the Leader of the Opposition will know also that the real purpose of the Government in putting the ANL back into the overseas fleet was to enable the Government to know the effect on and cost of shipping to Australian exporting industries. I am positively certain after its 2 or 3 years experience that the Australian nation is, for a couple of reasons, much better off as a result of ANL intervention. The first reason is that we are better informed about the European run. I think it is true to say that some of the good things that have come out of the changes in freight rates could well have resulted from the ANL entering into that conference. On the Japan run, the ANL is a member of the conference and contributes thoroughly and very efficiently to the carriage of goods by the conference. I conclude my answer in the way I began, by reminding the Leader of the Opposition that it is a matter for negotiation between the owners of the wool at the point of its departure ,ind the shipping companies. I shall look at the implications of the question asked by the honourable gentleman about what further steps the ANL could take separately. If there is anything to add to what 1 have said already I will inform him. 
Following an address I gave at (he opening of the Carrington slipway at Newcastle 2 or 3 weeks ago a reporter asked me when I thought the Tariff Board report would be tabled in the Parliament. I said in answer that I hoped that it would be tabled before the Parliament adjourned for the winter. This appears not to be the case. It has not been found practicable by the Government to deal with the Tariff Board report and for a statement to be made. 
The last part of the honourable member's question referred to whether or not I will assure the House that I will not permit foreign owned tankers to operate on the Australian coast. I can give that assurance. The policy of the Australian Government in this regard is well known - that is, to encourage the use of Australian flag vessels on the Australian coast both in the freight and oil carriage sections. Therefore, I can give that assurance. 
Implicit in another part of the honourable member's question was the information that Ampol is an Australian owned company. The honourable member, in the first part of this question, noted the great work that  Sir Roderick  Miller did as an Australian shipowner. I was pleased to note that part of the honourable member's remarks. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Parts of the main propulsion machinery notably the low pressure turbine and gearing have been held in storage for some years by National Bulk Carrier of New York. 
None of the equipment has been used in other ships. 
I understand that the low pressure turbine and gearing were sold by National Bulk Carriers to General Electric who had to manufacture a new high pressure turbine and carry out other conversion work to suit remote control operation. Whole system was then purchased by the shipyard from General Electric and included in the price for the vessel which provided for a new engine guarantee. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The occasions since November 1965 on which unratified maritime conventions have been discussed with State Ministers within the Australian Transport Advisory Council or more recently at meetings of Commonwealth and State Ministers on Port considered on each occasion were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Honourable P. J. Nixon, M.P.. Commonwealth Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Chairman), the Honourable Davis Hughes, M.L. A., Minister for Public Works, New South Wales. 
The Honourable M. Byrne, M.L.C., Minister of Public Works, Victoria. 
The Honourable N. T. E. Hewitt, M.M., A.F.M., M.L.A., Minister for Conservation, Marine and Aboriginal Affairs, Queensland. 
The Honourable J. D. Corcoran. M.H.A.,  Deputy  Premier, Minister of Works and Minister of Marine, South Australia. 
The Honourable C. J. Jamieson, M.L.A., Minister for Works and Water Supplies, Western Australia. 
The Honourable N. L. C. Batt, M.H.A., Chief Secretary and Minister for Transport, Tasmania. 
and (3) The meetings of Commonwealth and State Ministers on port development and marine affairs are held so that Ministers responsible for port development and marine affairs may discuss matters of common interest. Consideration is given to recommendations which may result in legislative or administrative action. 
Proceedings of the meetings are of a confidential nature. However, it is the practice of Ministers to issue public statements whenever possible. 
The matters which may involve legislative or administrative action, and on which public statements were made following the meeting on 12th May, 1972 are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Hydrographer, RAN Hydrographic Service, Department of the Navy, Sydney 
The Secretary, Department of Shipping and Transport 
The Secretary, Melbourne Harbor Trust 
The Secretary, Geelong Harbor Trust 
The Secretary, Portland Harbor Trust 
The Secretary, Marine Board of Victoria 
The Director, Ports and Harbors Division, Public Works Department, Victoria 
The Secretary, Maritime Services Board of New South Wales 
The Secretary, Department of Marine and Harbors, South Australia 
The Secretary, Department of Harbors and Marine, Queensland 
The Secretary, Rockhampton Harbour Board 
The Secretary, Townsville Harbour Board 
The Secretary, Cairns Harbour Board 
The Secretary, Gladstone Harbour Board 
The Secretary, Mackay Harbour Board 
The Secretary, Bundaberg Harbour Board 
The Secretary, Bowen Harbour Board 
The Secretary, Fremantle Port Authority 
The Managing Secretary, Bunbury Port Authority 
The Managing Secretary, Albany Port Authority 
The Manager, Harbour and Light Department, Western Australia 
The Managing Secretary, Esperance Port Authority 
The Managing Secretary, Geraldton Port Authority 
The Acting Secretary, Port Hedland Port Authority 
The Secretary, Marine Board of Hobart 
The Secretary, Port of Launceston Authority 
The Secretary, Marine Board of Burnie 
The Secretary, Circular Head Marine Board, Stanley 
The Secretary, King Island Marine Board 
The Secretary, Marine Board of Devonport 
The Secretary, Navigation and Survey Authority of Tasmania 
The Secretary, Flinders Marine Board 
The Executive Member, Northern Territory Port Authority 
The  Chairman,  Papua and New Guinea Harbours Board 
Responsibility for the highway between Yass and Canberra is divided between my colleague the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Highways in New South Wales. I am unable to tell the House whether either my colleague the Minister for the Interior or the Minister for Highways in New South Wales has any plans proposed for the road between Yass and Canberra. However, knowing the interest of the honourable member for Hume in this problem, I will ask my Department to confer with the Department of the Interior and the Department of Highways in New South Wales to see whether a study of the position is desirable with a view to conveying more easily goods and passengers between Yass and Canberra. I am happy to do that for the honourable gentleman. 
1 have received representations from several members of Parliament for Western Australia - the Minister for Supply, the Minister for Air, the honourable member for Canning and the honourable member for Moore - and I have had representations from the timber milling industry in Western Australia about this problem. I am delighted that the honourable member is now taking a belated interest in the subject. I have received various deputations on this matter and I point out to the House that the honourable member has not been on any of them, nor has he sought to lead one. I say that as justification for my comment. I have informed members of the deputations that no decision will be taken about the use of concrete sleepers by Commonwealth Railways until the Bureau of Transport Economics reports to me on an economic evaluation it is making of the use of concrete sleepers vis-a-vis timber sleepers. No decision will be taken on the tenders that have been let until such time as that evaluation is available to me so that a proper judgment can be made on the subject. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The CSIRO has already arranged for tests to be made on the McWade Emission Control Unit. I understand these were undertaken in 1970 by  Dr H.  C. Watson, of Melbourne University. Under the circumstances, unless it is necessary for additional tests to be undertaken, the Department will not be making further investigations. 
As a result of  Mr McWade's  representations to the Prime Minister in 1970, the tests referred to in (1) were undertaken. I am not aware, however, that  Mr McVVade  offered his invention to the Government. 
I am making inquiries through the High Commission in Wellington regarding this matter. I will inform the honourable member in writing of the result of my inquiries. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Available- information on increases in fares levied and the dates on which these came into operation is contained in the attached tables. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that such precautions have been taken by incorporation of oil traps in the design of the facilities. 
The honourable member's question refers to the fact that the Professional Radio Employees Institute of Australasia has threatened to withdraw its operators from Australian National Line ships in protest at the use of the ship Echuca' on the run from Melbourne to Tasmania to service that State's export container trade. As the House may recall, the ANL purchased the 'Echuca' specifically for the Melbourne to Tasmania run and provision was made for the use of a radio telephone operator rather than the usual wireless telegraphers - the sort of dit-dit-dit-dash men - that ships traditionally carry. 
Some time last year the members of the Professional Radio Employees Institute went out on strike and, as a result, tied up the ships of the Australian National Line. After a great deal of consultation with all the unions involved it emerged that no other union believed that safety of life at sea was imperilled or that ships were endangered in any way by transferring from wireless operators to radio telephonists. Finally, the 'Echuca' was allowed to sail and the National Line ships put to sea on the condition that there was set up a committee consisting of technicians from the Postmaster-General's Department and from, I think, Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Ltd, or some other experts in radio, as well as representatives of the unions involved, to study the effect of the use of radio telephony as against wireless operation. 
It has always amazed me that although we can talk by radiotelephone to men on the moon, members of the Professional Radio Employees Institute refuse to believe that we can talk to people half way across Bass Strait without impairing safety. .There has been reasonable peace since the committee was set up. The facts are that the committee is about to report back to me and, I imagine, to the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, and to the employer representatives, on the long term use of radio telephonists as against wireless operators. 1 am absolutely staggered to think that the Professional Radio Employees Institute should take strike action at a time, when, shall we say, the umpire is about to make a decision. It seems to me a quite irrational and irresponsible thing to threaten to tie up the Australian National Line ships and to place in jeopardy not only the freight from the island State of Tasmania, with all the troubles that that foreshadows, but also the operations of the overseas ships of the Australian National Line. 
It has taken us years, of course, to get back into the overseas shipping business and now, by some irresponsible action on the part of one union, we can see the possibility of all the ships of the Australian National Line being tied up. I deplore the attitude that has been taken by the Professional Radio Employees Institute on this occasion. I think it is totally deplorable and quite irresponsible. I cannot use strong enough words to describe it. 
I am fascinated to find that the Leader of the Opposition agrees with me. 
I can only hope that he will use his good offices with the  President  of the ACTU,  Mr Hawke,  to do something to pull this union into line. 
It is his responsibility. He ought to do something to pull this union into line. 
In the first place this is a hypothetical question and I do not propose to go into any detail in answering it. The answer to the main part of the honourable member's question rs no; there will not be a monopoly created because Howard Smith is an independent operator. 
1 understand that there has been a strike of Japanese seamen since about 5th May. The honourable member asked about the effect that this strike has had on the iron ore and coal industries. In the first place, about 50 per cent of coal is carried by Japanese flag operators and about 50 per cent under flags of other foreign operators. My understanding is that the coal companies are able to stockpile sufficiently and to clear stockpiles with ships that are now operating. Therefore, they are not yet seriously embarrassed by the strike. Insofar as iron ore is concerned, I understand that all the companies are stockpiling. There has been some difficulty for one company but I am told that only in the last few days 2 foreign flag ships called to load iron ore and this is relieving that company's situation. 
The companies have invoked a force majeure clause which releases them from their contractual obligations. But as best as 1 can make out no real trouble has yet been created for either the iron ore or coal companies. So far as the last part of the honourable member's question is concerned, the cartage of iron ore and coal is arranged on f.o.b. contracts by Japanese importers and therefore the use of ships is very much a matter for the importers themselves. They would have to pay regard to the situation of the Japanese seamen being on strike and the political or industrial repercussions if they tried to use other flag operators as well. 
 I am a little inclined to wonder why the Opposition has proposed this matter of public importance for discussion at this time. Let me relate to the House the wording of this matter of public importance. It states: 
The Government's failure to plan the orderly development and expansion of the Australian shipping, dredging, shipbuilding and docking industries. 
Each of those subjects is fairly wideranging. In all fairness to the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  whilst I recognise that he has a keen interest in shipping, I must say to him that he has made no attempt to make a fair presentation of the facts in relation to Government policy towards shipping. I believe that, contrary to what the honourable member has said, the Government has policies which have led to the orderly development and expansion of the very things that he mentioned. 
I believe that I can easily prove my assertion by reading an account of each of the matters that I have before me. Regrettably, time will preclude me from establishing my case fully. Let me deal firstly with the report of the Tariff Board. The honourable member for Newcastle expressed a belief that he had flushed me out in regard to the Tariff Board report. The facts are that when I first heard that this matter of public importance was to be raised today, I rang the honourable member for Newcastle and said to him: 'I have been working on a statement relating to the Tariff Board report because the Government has come to decisions and I was hoping to have the statement finally prepared so that I could give it to you, in accordance with the normal courtesies of the House, 2 hours before I hoped to make the statement in the House. But if you proceed with this matter of public importance, I will be unable to complete the preparation of the statement on the Tariff Board report and to make the statement to the Parliament." That is exactly what has eventuated. I am now forced by the actions of the honourable member for Newcastle in raising this matter of public importance to make a statement on the Tariff Board report, on which Government decisions have been made, outside this Parliament, after the Parliament rises, because 1 have not had time to complete the statement. This is quite contrary to the Government's wishes in regard to the statement. We were working at full steam to present it to the House and make the statement properly. 
I regret that I will be unable to make it then because, as I have said, I have had to devote my time completely to this matter of public importance. I sat in the House for about 2 hours this afternoon while honourable members opposite wasted the time of the House with cheap political stunts. 
The wool grower knows full well the value of Labor Party policies on rural industries. Do not start me on that. The honourable member for Dawson appeared on television one night recently and I happened to see the programme. I thought it was a delightful programme. It was a great credit to the producers of This Day Tonight' that the programme should show him thundering forth in such fine fashion and denouncing the Labor Party's approach to rural industries, knowing full well that any chance he had of capturing a few votes in the rural areas had been destroyed by the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party. The rural electorates are fully aware of the cheap stunts that members of the Labor Party get up to in this House. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker,  I am  a  little wide of the matter of public importance. I have been precluded from adopting what is the normal, customary procedure when making a statement on Government policy in this Parliament because the statement could not be prepared. The honourable member for Newcastle knows that; I told him that would be the case. I suppose he is prepared to take it as it comes. 
There is no substance in the point of order because what the honourable member for Newcastle said is not correct. You are quite right,  Mr Speaker;  I agree with you entirely. I am very grateful for your proper ruling on the matter. The statement on the Tariff Board report will be made as soon as I can get to it. 
The honourable member for Newcastle referred to the number of imported ships that are in this country and made a case to suggest that they were displacing Australianbuilt ships in the coastal trade. The Government has been impeccable, when allowing a foreign-built ship into this country for a special task or for  a  short time or for any purpose, in studying carefully whether an Australian ship should be built to take its place. We have had complete co-operation from the shipping industry and there has been a complete understanding by the shipbuilding industry of our policy in this regard. Indeed, I have  a  list of ships that have been imported, showing the purposes for which they have been imported, whether they have been imported for a short term one-off job or, if imported for a longer period, whether they have to be rebuilt. 
I would like to name just one or two of these ships. The reason I do so is to point out to the honourable member for Newcastle that I do not believe that he has an understanding of what is required in the fast changing technological shipping industry. 
For instance, the discovery of oil off the coast of Gippsland has caused a complete new set of problems in the Australian tanker-building industry. We had to import tankers to cope with the short term problem, but they are being replaced by Australian ships or replacements are being built for them. I will just name a few of the ships to which I have referred. The Bayou Chico' came into Australia for a seismic survey. It was a specific short term survey task. In those circumstances it would have been quite irresponsible for me as Minister to ask that this task be fulfilled by an Australian-built ship. It was a short term, one job task and a proper survey was made of the Australian shipping industry to see whether there was available a ship comparable to the 'Bayou Chico' that could have done the job. However, none was available. So, it is quite ridiculous for the honourable member to suggest that an Australian-built ship should be used for this task. 
The 'Coral Sea', which is a grab dredge, came in for a specific task at Cape Lambert. Exhaustive investigations were carried out to ascertain whether an Australianbuilt dredge was available for the task. The same remarks apply to the 'DB1', the DB2' and to many others. One of the bigger ships to arrive here was the 'Ida Clausen' which was brought to Australia as a transport for livestock. She was brought in on the assumption that there would be a building commitment when the viability of the operation was established. I say to the honourable member for Newcastle that it would be quite irresponsible of me, as Minister, to refuse to allow a company to bring in a ship and try it out to see whether or not the company could establish a long term operation. The company brought in this ship to see whether the operation is viable. If the operation is not viable, of course, the ship can be sent back overseas. It is on charter. The company can do this instead of investing a great deal of capital and losing it. We have used some imagination in our policy and we have given consideration both to the commercial interests involved and to the employment of the Australian fleet. 
The facts are that all the ships used on the Australian coastline have to meet very vigorous Australian conditions, and this is one of our difficulties. The honourable member for Newcastle talked so blithely about the use of Australian seamen and even Australian docks for repair work. He totally ignores the commercial considerations and the added costs that have to be incurred because of the vigorous conditions which ships are obliged to meet, and which have a consequential effect on Australian exporting industries. In regard to overseas ships, the honourable member for Newcastle talked about our getting a window into the Conference system. The fact is that we have had a window into the Conference system and it has proved to be a great success. The Australian Government has received interesting and useful information from it. For commercial reasons this information is not made public. We cannot publish everything that we learn. 
I shall mention one or two developments that have taken place as a result of our participation in the Conference system. The first is that the Australian National Line has joined with the Associated Container Transportation Ltd in setting up a pendulum service within the European Conference, and we believe that a much more viable, economic and efficient service will result from this venture. Our joining with ACTL has resulted from knowledge we have gained inside the Conference system. As I have said, we are using the Conference as a window. The second development is that a second ship, the 'Australian Explorer' is joining the run on which the Australian Endeavour' is engaged. We have the 'Australian Enterprise' on the Japan run. We are engaged also in the Pacific Australia Direct Line, or PAD, service. The Australian overseas shipping industry, through the Australian National Line, has become very important to the economy of Australian exporting industries. 
We have completely protected the Australian coastal shipping industry. The industry is fully aware of the steps which have been taken to protect it, and I believe that the claims of the honourable member for Newcastle fall quite flat. The honourable member also referred to the use of overseas dry docks. Again, this is a commercial decision; it has to be taken by the people concerned. The facts are that, regrettably, some of the demarcation disputes and political disputes that occur in Australian docks increase costs so greatly that commercial interests are unable to meet the higher charges imposed by Australian docks. It is all very well to be nationalistic in approach, but there also has to be some realism. In his opening remarks the honourable member for Newcastle said that a reasonable amount of Australian ships or a reasonable amount of employment- 
The honourable member referred to a reasonable amount of Australian trade. That is open to any sort of interpretation. I suggest to the honourable member that in point of fact the Australian Government is meeting the needs and the wishes of the industries involved. Both in the Australian coastal trade and in overseas trade I believe that our policy has been successful. The honourable member for Newcastle also referred to dredges. I believe that we have taken every precaution to ensure that Austraiian dredges are used wherever practicable. He referred to a one-off situation. As I say, we have taken every precaution. Most of the Australian dredges that are not being used at the moment are too small and inefficient to be able to undertake big jobs. 
The last question which the honourable member for Newcastle raised referred to dock development. There is an IDC report, as the honourable member well knows, and the Government will make a statement on that report at the appropriate time, after consideration has been given to the final details. I reject the charge of Government failure made by the honourable member for Newcastle. _  Mr HANSEN  (Wide Bay) (5.55)- It gives me pleasure to support the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  who raised this matter of public importance which refers to the Government's failure to plan the orderly development and expansion of the Australian shipping, dredging, shipbuilding and docking industries. I understood from the honourable member for Newcastle that the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  was going to table a report that has been eagerly awaited, by all sections of the shipping and shipbuilding industry, since it was first indicated, almost 3 years ago, that an investigation would be made into the shipbuilding industry. The report has been in the hands of a member of the 
Cabinet for 12 months, but this evening, the Minister now says that he has not had time to prepare a statement on the report. He may have had some difficulties within the Government parties, and I would not expect him to mention those difficulties in the House. The Minister said - and I take it that he said it in good faith - that the report would be presented during this session of the Parliament. I can only conclude from that statement that there are some difficulties within the Government parties concerning the recommendations contained in the report. But this has further confused the position for the people in the industry who are expecting some assistance from the Government. 
That is not right. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) No. However, the Australian Transport Advisory Council's Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design is examining the question of bumper bars as a safety feature in the design of motor vehicles. 
Privy Council: Appeals from State Supreme Courts (Question No. 5466) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Estimates of road expenditure and finance in 1970-71 and revised estimates for 1969-70, are given in the following Table. These figures are subject to further revision as additional statistics become available. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following investigations by officers of my department which indicated that there were no grounds for further action under the provisions of the Navigation Act, I decided that in the circumstances a full scale marine inquiry was not justified. 
The owner of 'One and AH' did not apply for any form of licence or certificate from my department prior to the vessel's departure on the voyage to Middleton Reef and my department was not aware of the owner's intention to undertake the voyage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The Queensland Government have given assurance that no dispersant material named Gamlen and Correxit or any other name has been donated by the oil companies to the Queensland Government. 
The Queensland and Torres Strait Pilot Service emphatically deny that any ves sels seeking their advice, which are the majority transitting Torres Strait, miss obstructions by inches. 
The effectiveness of vermiculite as an oil slick absorbent will be considered, along with all other methods of combating oil pollution; when the materials and equipment to be stockpiled under the National Plan is examined. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
and (3) As Standing Orders provide that questions which call for an expression of opinion should not be asked, I must refrain from providing an answer. 
A single voyage permit was issued to 'Iron Somersby' on 6th January 1972 for the carriage of ore from Port Hedland to Port Kembla. It would have been unreasonable to refuse the issue of a permit to this vessel when a coasting trade licence was to be issued to it a short time later. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) On 6th April 1972 the  President,  Australian Road Federation, requested my consideration of the Federations programme as outlined in the October/December 1971 issue of its Journal 'Road News. 
The Commonwealth recognises the desirability of an efficient interstate highway system. Grants under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act 1969 provide specific amounts for rural arterial roads, which include State roads forming part of the national highway network. The Federation's views are being taken into account in the examination of the effectiveness of the current Act and will be included in the Commonwealth's future consideration of financial assistance to the States for roads. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Neither the Bureau of Transport Economics nor the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads has carried out any specific economic valuations in connection with the roads between Canberra and the centres mentioned. The Commonwealth Bureau of Roads is, in conjunction with State and local authorities, at present carrying out an Australian Road Survey. The road improvement projects shown to be desirable by that survey will be evaluated to assess if they are economically justified in the same way as the Bureau of Roads assessed the economic justification of the programme prepared after the 1967-68 Survey, (n addition, as I indicated in the House on 30th May (in reply to a question without notice by the Member for Hume), my Department will confer with the Department of the Interior and wilh New South Wales authorities to see if it is desirable that a study be carried out concerning the carriage of goods between Yass and Canberra. 
I am certainly aware of the changes in freight rates that the Australian National Line has effected in the Tasmanian trade. The freight rate increases average 1 per cent across the board. There was no general increase in the freight rate to Tasmania on this occasion. Rather, the Australian National Line sought to rationalise the services to Tasmania in an effort to meet the problems of increasing costs of wages, repairs and maintenance. Despite all its efforts of rationalising to meet increasing costs, the ANL nevertheless has had to make some adjustments to the freight rates. As a result, as I have said, it has increased freight rates on an average by 1 per cent. This increase will raise approximately an extra $200,000 against a possible or estimated loss of $1.8m, the balance of which the ANL is trying to save by the rationalisation programme. The ANL has increased the fares on the passenger service, which is its heavy loser, on the run to Sydney by 10 per cent and on the run to Melbourne by 15 per cent. This will raise an extra $150,000. Certainly, the increased charges are to be regretted, but in the face of the awful increases in costs for wages, repairs, maintenance and general overhauls that the Line has suffered, there was nothing else that it could do. The honourable member raised a question of freight subsidy. This is a proposal that has been looked at from time to time by the Government and has been rejected from time to time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See my answer to Question No. 4938. 
This information is not available. I understand, however, that most loan moneys are from domestic sources. 
The Government understands the situation and is entirely sympathetic towards the people of King Island who have this shipping problem. I have met deputations and have done my level best to make sure that King Island has a viable shipping service. Captain Houfe came to see me personally to explain his problems to me. 1 explained to Captain Houfe that when the Commonwealth advanced money to the State- or granted money to the State - for the development of the port of Grassy, the State Government at that time accepted the conditions that it would guarantee the viability and the operation of a shipping service to King Island and that therefore he had to take up with the State Government the problem that he faced with his shipping service. 
The Premier of Tasmania saw the Prime Minister, and saw me also, at the time of the Premiers' Conference and we said tha! we would look at the possibility of granting extra money to the State for the purpose of the shipping service. In the event the Tasmanian Government was served very well by the Premiers' Conference. It received an additional amount of money out of the Conference. In fact I think all the Premiers went away very happy, one Premier making the comment that he was going to laugh all the way to the bank. The Premiers were very happy with the deal that they had made. Therefore it was obvious that it was quite possible for the State Government to assist Captain Houfe with his problem, and in the event it did so. The State Government passed an Act of Parliament guaranteeing a loan of $300,000 for Captain Houfe so that he could put his service back on the run. I think that is where the position now stands. 
In respect of the last part of the honourable member's question about whether the Government can now pay a subsidy in accordance with the Tariff Board report to Captain Houfe for the building of his ship in the hope that Captain Houfe will be assisted because less capital will be needed, I must say this: Captain Houfe had the opportunity to have his ship built under subsidy but he went to a private shipbuilder and made his own arrangements. That was long before the Tariff Board report came out. He made his own arrangements and obviously was satisfied with the price that was asked for the construction of the ship. I think it would set a big precedent for all other shipping companies if the Government were to bring the matter back again and have another look at that aspect. I believe the Commonwealth Government has done its level best to assist Captain Houfe and the people of King Island. 
1 think that the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  has demonstrated by his parliamentary manners his real interest in the problems that have been brought to our attention in a matter of public importance by the Australian Labor Party, namely the complacent attitude of the Government towards the serious and deep-seated nature of unemployment. The first thing I say emphatically is that I believe the charge that the Government is not concerned with unemployment is quite monstrous. I think this has been demonstrated in several ways as recently as last night when the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  brought down the Budget. The real thrust of the Budget is to increase confidence and stimulate business activity thus increasing employment. 
The Government has been concerned about unemployment now for a number of months. Over the past 6 to 9 months a number of measures have been brought in by the Government to try to stimulate employment, and this is quite the reverse of the charges being laid by the Labor Party. Rural unemployment grants amounting .to $2,250,000 were made to the States originally but these grants were increased in February to $4,500,000. We increased the grants to the States for their housing and works programmes. There was a restoration of the investment allowance. Many other measures were introduced, all of which were designed for one purpose - to try to create further employment and to stimulate the economy. 
To charge my colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  with any lack of concern on this question is, I believe, to act quite disreputably. He has spoken honestly and sincerely about this problem over a number of months and expressed his real concern for it. The Australian Labor Party does not have a mortgage on concern in this area. Indeed its performance has demonstrated it to be bankrupt. I heard the Minister for Labour and National Service say that only 11 questions have been asked in the whole of the Parliamentary session on this problem. 
The sheer hypocrisy of the Labor Party can be demonstrated by its callous lack of concern in another area of unemployment, that is, in the loss of work by strikes. Quite incredible figures are available that show how the relative peace of the previous 20 years was savagely broken when  Mr Hawke  and the Communist-controlled left wing coalition gained control of the Australian Council of Trade Unions 2 years ago. The number of working days lost in 1971 through strikes was over 3 million, which was an increase of 28 per cent over the previous year. The number of working days lost in 1971 was in fact a staggering 300 per cent more than the number of working days lost in 1967, just 5 years ago. The Opposition has been monumentally silent on this aspect of unemployment. 
A real demonstration of the Opposition's lack of concern comes out of the recent oil strike. Here was a situation of real concern to the Australian people. After several attempts to settle a new award by negotiation the oil companies and the unions went before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission voluntarily to seek a decision on a union log of claims. In that Commission in July,  Mr Justice  Moore granted an interim wage increase to the men and made it clear that provided work continued under normal conditions the unions' full claims would be heard and determined. What could have been fairer than that? The employers agreed to this sensible proposal, but the union leadership refused to accept the umpire's decision. In a direct insult to the judge and the laws of the Parliament the union leaders walked out of the Arbitration Commission and pulled their members off the job. We then witnessed the quite incredible spectacle of  Mr Hawke,  the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and Communists like Halfpenny and Carmichael launching a propaganda campaign against the traditional arbitration system. Instead of returning to the umpire,  Mr Hawke  and his cohorts, with the tacit support of the Leader of the Opposition, advocated that the employers should put their offer on the table before the men went back to work. That is 'gun at the head' tactics which, if followed generally, could only mean industrial chaos. The vital point which both  Mr Hawke  and  Mr Whitlam  somehow failed to make, and which unionists and others throughout Australia need to know about, is that when negotiation and conciliation fail the arbitration system provides an impartial umpire to help find the answer. 
Throughout this period the Government consistently called on the unions to return to work and to let the Arbitration Commission umpire continue hearing their claims, but for weeks the union leadership refused to do this and  Mr Hawke  refused to direct it to do so. The Government's appeals to the strikers to return to work and to go back to arbitration were branded by  Mr Hawke  as inflammatory and designed to prolong the strike. There was a possibility that the fuel strike would cause the biggest shutdown of industry in history. So serious was the situation that the South Australian Labor Government took full emergency powers and the New South Wales Government arranged to do the same. It was obvious that the people of the nation were facing further losses of jobs. With thousands unemployed because of the strike the nation was facing almost a complete shutdown. The Leader of the Opposition, who had been monumentally silent, was finally stung into saying something about the Labor Party's attitude. He came out pitifully in favour of  Mr Hawke  and the 'gun at the head' tactics, instead of showing courage and fighting the Communists Halfpenny and Carmichael and asking the men to go back to work and accept the umpire's decision. 
One Sunday night the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced that the Parliament would be called together if the strike was not over by the end of the week, lt was following that announcement that we saw action by the moderate unions, which sensibly recognised that industrial upheaval faced the nation. They quite properly pulled the rug out from under the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hawke  and the Communist union leaders. Moderate union leaders like  Mr Laurie  Short of the Federated Ironworkers Association proceeded to dump  Mr Hawke  and the Leader of the Opposition by coming out and publicly advocating that the men go back to work. Of course, the men agreed with  Mr Short  and, following  Mr Justice  Moore's initiatives the next day, went back to work on the same terms and conditions as those on which they went out on strike earlier in July. The attitude of the Government in appealing to the men to return to arbitration was completely vindicated. The Government had upheld the principle of the laws of the Parliament and the impartial role of the Arbitration Commission against a delinquent attack. We welcomed the decision of the membership of the unions to take their dispute back to the proper legal processes. 
The oil dispute demonstrates one thing clearly, namely that the traditional conciliation and arbitration system as supported by the Government provides proper processes for the settling of disputes. It is equally obvious that the procedures indicated by the Opposition can only lead to a situation where a few unscrupulous union bosses can alone decide which men will work and which factory or business will open. The oil strike points up also the barren approach of the Labor Party to disputes of this nature. What is worse, it demonstrates the real lack of concern that the Labor Party has for job disruption and unemployment caused by strikes. I have no doubt that the cause of heightened industrial unrest lies in militant unions and political leaders inciting trouble for purely political ends. They want to manipulate disruption so as to gain power. 
The Labor Party has had the unmitigated cheek to put this proposition to the Parliament. In doing so it has demonstrated its real lack of capacity to provide answers to industrial troubles. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  talked glibly about voluntary agreements. He and the Labor Party in Government would be nothing more than tools of the Communist bosses. Proof pf that is shown by the example of the oil dispute. I reject the proposal of the Labor Party. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The required information in respect of ferries is not available. With regard to the information requested on tram and bus systems the details of items (a), (b) and (c) are not available on a comparable basis. The information that is available in relation to items (d) and (e) is set out in the accompanying tables. The tables do not show trolley bus, tram and omnibus services separately from 1958-59 onwards. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As most Australian ports are capable of handling containers in one way or another, my reply has been restricted to those terminals established solely to handle cellular container ships at the 4 major ports. 
Much of the information required to answer the question has had to be obtained from sources outside my Department. Some information could not be obtained because it is commercially confidential or would have required extensive research on the part of the Authority or Company concerned. In these circumstances, the replies to parts of Questions 2, 3 and 4 are incomplete. 

Fremantle - No. 12 North Quay 
Melbourne - Swanson Dock 
Sydney- White Bay 
Brisbane - No. 2 Hamilton Wharf 
Expenditure by - 
Fremantle Port Authority - $5.4m. 
Melbourne Harbour Trust - $14.5m. 
Maritime Service Board of New South Wales - $29m (includes expenditure to date on new Glebe Island terminal) 
Brisbane Wharves and Wool Dumping Pty Ltd - $6m (approximately). 
Expenditure by other private companies is not available as it is commercially confidential. 
The following average rates of container handling are indicative of the handling capacity of each terminal. 
Fremantle- average gross rate 20 to 25 containers per hour. 
Melbourne - average gross rate of 20 containers per hour 
Sydney - average gross rate of 16 containers per hour 
Brisbane - average gross rate of 23 containers per hour. 
(4)- 
Fremantle - 88,000 containers. This is equivalent to 48,000, 20 foot units 
Melbourne - not available 
Sydney - 120,000, 20 foot containers (estimate) 
Brisbane- 30,000, 20 foot containers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
, (3), (4) and (3) The honourable member will be aware that the Bureau of Transport Economics is at present making a study of the relative benefits and Costs of concrete and timber sleepers. This study is taking into account all the technical and economic factors relevant to the specific projects concerned, including the alternative sizes of timber sleepers. Pending completion of the Bureau of Transport Economics evaluations, 1 have taken steps to ensure that no contracts for sleepers for Commonwealth Railways will be let without my approval. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Tonnage of goods carried has increased by 136.1 per cent over the period 1962-63 to 1971- 72. 
I will take up with the Australian National Line the matter raised by the honourable member to see how practical and useful such a proposition might be. In respect of the last part of the honourable member's question I must say that I am not sure that the proposition, whatever it may be in detail, would avoid the union trouble that he speaks about because I cannot see the Australian National Line securing a situation where it could avoid the use of seamen and members of seagoing unions which do cause a great deal of trouble in Tasmania. Nevertheless, as I said, I will take the matter up with the Line and when I obtain the proper information will refer it to the honourable member. 
 Sir Henry  Bland made a general report on transport as it affects the State of Victoria. I am unaware of any specific interest concerning the Riverina only, although it may well be part of that report and the Bureau of Transport Economics may well have been doing a study of it. I will look at the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition to see whether I can get more information for him. But I must say I am fascinated at the sudden real interest which the Leader of the Opposition is taking in trying to rescue the seat of Riverina. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Whilst further progress has been made towards the preparation of the complex new legislation that will be necessary for the establishment of an Australian shipping register, I am not yet in a position to make an announcement about the introduction of the necessary bilL 
It is not a fact that the ship referred to by the Leader of Opposition proposed to dump 20 tons of oil off shore from Newcastle or Sydney. I am not sure of the tonnage involved, but there was an application for permission for the ship to dump a quantity of ballast 150 miles off the coast of Australia in accordance with the provisions of the international conven tion. The ballast in question was a tankful of water which had been put into an empty fuel tank, a practice which is permitted by the international convention. The Department approved of the dumping of the ballast because it was within the terms of the convention. The latter part of the honourable member's question referred to an amendment to the Navigation Act. I suspect that the amendment he has mentioned is to be introduced during this session of the Parliament, depending on the business of the House. It is scheduled to be brought in this session. However, I shall check on that and let the Leader of Opposition know. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Answers to questions (3) and (4) have not been provided because the information necessary to do so is of a commercially confidential nature. Questions (1) and (2) refer to container handling facilities and acreage taken up for container terminals at Australian ports. Nearly all Australian ports handle containers by some means or another. However, only four ports have established termi- nals and ancilliary facilities such as gantry cranes, solely to handle containerships. My replies to these questions have therefore been restricted to what are regarded as the four terminal ports by overseas container shipping operators. These are: 
Fremantle - No. 12 North Quay 
Melbourne - Swanson Dock 
Sydney - White Bay 
Brisbane - No. 2 Hamilton Wharf. 
Expenditure by: 
Fremantle Port Authority - $5.4m 
Melbourne Harbour Trust - $14.5m 
Maritime Services Board of New South Wales  -$29m  (includes expenditure to date on the new Glebe Island terminal) 
Brisbane Wharves and Wool Dumping Pty Ltd -$6m (approximately). 
Expenditure by other private companies is not available as it is commercially confidential. 
Acreage taken up or reserved by: 
Fremantle Port Authority - 144 acres 
Melbourne Harbour Trust - 102 acres 
Maritime Services Board of New South Wales - 50 acres 
Brisbane Wharves and Wool Dumping Pty Ltd - 17 acres. 
Acreage taken up or reserved by other private companies is not available as it is commercially confidential. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) During April 1972 the Department of Shipping and Transport convened a series of separate meetings with shipowners, unions and educationalists on the general question of training and education of all classes of seamen. These meetings were held in Melbourne. Representatives of the following organisations attended the appropriate meetings: 
Australian Chamber of Shipping. 
Australian Institute of Marine and Power Engineers. 
Australian Steamship Owners Federation. 
Federated Marine Stewards and Pantrymen's Association of Australasia. 
Merchant Service Guild of Australia. 
Professional Radio Employees Institute of Australasia. 
Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology. 
Seamen's Union of Australia. 
Sydney Technical College. 
The Australian National Line. 
The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. 
The Company of Master Mariners of Australia. 
The Federated Shipwrights and Ship Constructors Association of Australasia. 
The Institute of Marine Engineers. 
The Marine Cooks, Bakers and Butchers Association of Australasia. 
Together with representatives of the Departments of Labour and National Service and Shipping and Transport. 
The meetings were not of a nature that would give rise to requests or suggestions of the type mentioned. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Statistician advises that shipping container cargo statistics are now available in the Bureau publication Overseas Shipping Cargo (Reference No. 14.10) and cover each of the months July 1970 to March 1972. 
Electoral: Joint Roll in Western Australia (Question No. 6109) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Not at this stage. Consideration will be given to removing the buoys in 18 months in the light of operational experience of Decca and of the buoys. 
and (3) My Department has not found it necessary, up to date, to ask that particular group of shipmasters those questions. When my Department was first asked to provide navaids in the approaches to Port Hedland the opinion of experienced shipmasters then obtained was that buoys would not be sufficiently reliable for this channel. My Department therefore proceeded with the installation of the highly reliable Decca system. Before a final decision is made with respect to the buoys the opinion of experienced shipmasters will be canvassed. 
The contract with the Decca Co. required that the system be calibrated before use to determine the magnitude of the fixed errors, if any, remaining in the approach channel after final adjustment of the transmitters. The calibration was made and proved the fixed error to be negligable at all times. 
The Hydrographer RAN has advised as follows: 'Approaches Port Hedland. The maximum tidal stream to be expected between CI and C2 buoys is 1.5 knots. Streams are variable being related to tidal heights ashore and predicted values may be upset by meteorological conditions. Charts AUS 53 and AUS 739 show the tidal stream information available in the approaches to Port Hedland at the time of their publication but more information for the area between CI and C6 is desirable.' 
I understand that in conditions of poor visibility when other aids are useless ships are piloted through the outer approaches to Europort by means of Decca alone. I am also advised that the authorities in Denmark are considering permitting only Decca equipped ships to use certain waterways during winter periods when ice conditions make buoyage impracticable. 
Not applicable, see (1), (2) and (3). 
There is no reason to believe that there would be any such doubts. 
Yes. 
For ships of light and medium draught the answer is yes. In the case of vessels of greater draught the deep water channel is marked by buoys. It is a strong recommendation of my Department that deep draught vessels should always use Decca when navigating the approaches to Port Hedland. 
All sections of the power generation and transmitting equipment are provided in triplicate to ensure that interruptions to the service do not occur. The contractor was required to design and erect the buildings and structures to withstand electrical storms and cyclones. 
Yes, but no decision has been made pending the outcome of the international conference on the collision regulation. See (13). 
No international regulations exist now which may be applied to vessels on the high seas in the approaches to Port Hedland. Regulations to protect heavily laden vessels committed to use narrow channels will be considered at the international conference on collision regulations to be held in London in October this year. If such regulations are made as a result of the conference their effect on the need to provide lane separation for inward and outward vessels in the approaches to Port Hedland will be studied. 
See answer to (1). My Department strongly advises that ships using Port Hedland be equipped with Decca. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (la) 75. (lb) 14. 
One gang has a fully qualified first aid man as a member. Fettler gangs work on line locations in remote areas where conditions are generally  harsh  and inhospitable. Under such conditions staff turnover is high and Commonwealth Railways experience considerable difficulty in the employment of labour of any kind at line locations. This makes it highly impractical to attempt to provide a qualified first aid man with every gang. 
Employees who are successful in passing departmental first year examination in first aid are granted a cash award of$1 5.00. Employees who are life members of the Railway Ambulance Corps and active members who have had 8 years service in the Corps are granted one additional day recreation leave each year, subject to passing an annual efficiency examination. 
All grades of guard and sleeping car conductor are required to have qualifications in first aid. Trainee locomotive enginemen must pass an abbreviated course in first aid before becoming eligible for promotion as enginemen. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. However, an article entitled 'Tailormade Fleet' in the winter issue of BHP's journal does make reference to feasibility studies being undertaken by BHP into the possibility of deepening the ports at Whyalla and Newcastle. 
I understand the feasibility studies are continuing. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The member authorities of the National Association of Australian State Road Authorities are: 
For the information of honourable members, I present the financial statements on Commonwealth Railways operations for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
A lot of interest has been created by the announcement that an Omega navigational aid station is to be installed in Australia. I have received an invitation from a councillor in Swan Hill - not from the Swan Hill Shire Council - to attend a public meeting which 2 academics who are critics of the proposed station are to attend. I regret that I will be unable to attend the meeting because of prior commitments. However, I have answered point by point the criticisms that have been made by these people. I will be happy to forward to the Swan Hill Shire Council any information it seeks on the subject. 
The House will recall that I announced that 5 areas as possible sites for the navigational aid station were being investigated by my Department. The 5 areas are the Darling Downs, an area near Moree in northern New South Wales, an area north of Corowa, an area between Kerang and Deniliquin and another area north of the Divide from Wedderburn, near the town of Boort in Victoria. I am able to inform the House that the choice has been narrowed down to  2  sites following soil conductivity tests. The 2 sites are in the area near Boort and in the area between Kerang and Deniliquin. 
Information is now being gathered in cooperation with the Department of the 
Interior about properties for sale in those 2 areas. The navigational aid station will require about 1,000 acres for its operation. When the information is gathered, specific testing will be done on the available sites. I can inform the honourable member that Swan Hill was ruled out of calculations because the airport there is in regular use and radio interference would have been created for the Omega station. Other good, sound technical reasons came into the matter. I should point out to the House, as I have done before, that the investigating team has received exceptional co-operation from the municipal authorities in all the areas. 
I have absolutely no knowledge of any disquiet on the part of any shire council. In fact, I have had representations from nearly every council in northern Victoria and the Riverina seeking to have the navigational aid station installed in that area. When the tests are concluded I will give further information to the honourable member and the House. 
The honourable member's concern in this matter is properly understood by me. I recognise that this is a very important matter in his electorate. It is a fact that the new railway line will bypass Oodnadatta. This was found to be necessary in the survey, so that when the new railway is built it will be in a flood free area. The road from Marree to Oodnadatta is, of course, a road within the jurisdiction and administration of the State. I will make sure that the honourable gentleman's concern in this respect is drawn to the attention of ray colleague the Minister for Transport in South Australia. The last part of the honourable member's question related to a possible new highway from South Australia to Alice Springs. He will recall that the Treasurer, in mentioning in his Budget Speech the fact that S2.3m had been allocated to the Eyre Highway, announced also that the Commonwealth was introducing a national highways policy. I will make sure that the honourable member's concern in that area is directed to the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads so that in any work it does in this regard it will have in mind the hon.ourable's member's concern. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The report of the Board of Inquiry into the Victorian Land Transport system was tabled in the Victorian Legislative Assembly on 29th March 1972. A copy was obtained by the Bureau of Transport Economics the following day and at that time it was noted that the BTE was mentioned in one of the recommendations. So far the Victorian Government has not made an approach in connection with the particular recommendation 
Methanol is an alcohol that has been used for a number of years in racing cars. The suggestion that has come from Professor Bloom, of Tasmania, is a very interesting one and has yet to be evaluated. I can tell the House that the Australian Transport Advisory Council has a sub-committee known as the Committee on Motor Vehicle Emissions which is made up of Commonwealth and State representatives of environment, health, transport and national development portfolios. This Committee is to meet on 27th September in Sydney, and I have suggested to my Department that it might be advisable to invite Professor Bloom to address the Committee and to set out some of the advantages that he sees in the use of methanol as a replacement for lead as an additive in petrol. The only information I have that is clear on the subject is that it will take something like 100 times as much methanol to replace lead as an additive in petrol. After the meeting on 27th September I might be in a better position to inform the House of any advantages in using methanol. 
I thank the Leader of the Opposition for the information. I was unaware that there was a dispute going on between my Department- 
I repeat, I was unaware that there was a dispute between my Department and the Maritime Services Board in the terms of the question. I will obtain information about the dispute and supply it to the Leader of the Opposition. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Lake Class bulk carriers of the Australian National Line, (b) Three British flag bulk carriers have been employed. These are the 'Bolnes', 'Baknes' and 'Salines'. 
Yes, a request was received from Comalco late last year but was refused. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Honourable P. J. Nixon, M.P., Commonwealth Minister for Shipping and Transport (Chairman); The Honourable J. B. M. Fuller, M.L.C., Minister for Decentralisation and Development, and Vice-President of the Executive Council, New South Wales; The Honourable R. C. Dunstan, D.S.O., M.P., Minister of Water Sup ply and Minister for Public Works, Victoria; The Honourable N. T. E. Hewitt, M.M., A.F.M., M.L.A., Minister for Conservation, Marine and Aboriginal Affairs, Queensland; The Honourable J. D. Corcoran, M P.,  Deputy  Premier, Minister for Works and Minister of Marine, South Australia; The Honourable W. F. Willesee, M.L.C., Minister for Community Welfare and Leader of the Government in the Legislative Council, Western Australia; The Honourable N. L. C. Batt, M.H.A., Chief Secretary and Minister for Transport, Tasmania. 
and (3) Meetings held on port development and marine affairs and attended by Commonwealth and State Ministers allow those Ministers who are responsible for these matters to examine and debate related subjects of mutual concern. Consideration is given to recommendations which may result in legislative or administrative action. Proceedings of the meeting are of a confidential nature. However, it is the practice of Ministers to issue public statements whenever possible. 
The matters which may involve legislative or administrative action, and on which public statements were made following the meeting on 15th September, 1972 are as follows: 
Measures to achieve safer boating standards. 
Dumping of industrial waste at sea. 
Marine oil pollution - proposed StateCommonwealth complementary legislation. 
 I did see the Press report mentioned by the honourable member. It is contrary in context to a report in the Brisbane 'Sunday Mail' which more accurately reported the statement by  Mr Hoare,  the  Chairman  of Evans Deakin. I think the report to which the honourable member refers was in the 'Australian'. It is false, men at this time. 
It has no plans to put off up to 1,500 men. From discussions I have had with Evans Deakin I can say that there are no plans for the dismissal of such a large number of men. I have had discussions with Evans Deakin about its problems. Tenders have been called for the construction of a number of ships. Evans Deakin has submitted tenders and it believes it has every chance of obtaining contracts to build ships in its own yard. 
I have received a number of representations from a wide variety of people on the question of the use of timber or concrete sleepers by the Commonwealth Railways. As the honourable gentleman suggests, this matter was referred to the Bureau of Transport Economics for report to me. The Bureau has reported to me. I expect to be taking a paper to the Government on this matter shortly and a decision will be announced after that time. 
In the first place I am pleased that the honourable member recognises the great job that the Australian National Line does in servicing the freight needs of Tasmania. One of the parameters which govern the operations of the Australian National Line and its capacity to operate successfully and efficiently is the way in which the unions permit it to operate. Regrettably, over the years a number of difficulties created by the trade union movement have inhibited the ANL in operating its service satisfactorily and to the best advantage of Tasmania. I am always hopeful, indeed optimistic - my optimism is often knocked on the head - that the unions will be encouraged by the Australian Labor Party to behave a little better and in this way enable a better service to be provided to Tasmania. I expect to table the annual report of the Australian National Line in the Parliament before it rises. The honourable member then can judge for himself the validity of his own remarks about the profit-making of the Australian National Line. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (i) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The 38th meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council was held in Adelaide on 5th October 1972. 
The Ministers who attended were: 
-1 , table the following report: 
Report of Expert Group on Road Safety. 
I seek leave to make a statement in relation to the report. 
The Leader of the Opposition knows that this matter is presently before the Government and when the Government has taken decisions on it consideration will be given to releasing the report. 
The last Commonwealth Aid Roads Act increased the amount granted to the States from about $750m to $l,252m. Without doubt the action taken by this Government in respect of assistance for roads throughout the States has been well received. In fact, only yesterday I attended the Australian Road Transport Federation's conference in Perth at which reference was made to the good work that has been done as a result of these grants. As to the specific question asked by the honourable member, Victoria received about $254m for its 5-year programme, of which $76.8ra was for nonmain roads in country areas. The administration of the expenditure of this money is carried out through the Country Roads 
Board of Victoria. I have had only a few minor complaints from Victorian councils about the expenditure of that money, but now that the honourable member has raised the question I will make sure that the Bureau of Roads is made aware of it and that the councils concerned are given an opportunity to place their cases before die Bureau of Roads before its next report is presented to the Government for consideration. 
 In tabling this report, I was I believe, performing a duty and a service to the Parliament and to the people outside. I take exception to some of the words used by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  He suggested that as Minister for Shipping and Transport I have blood on my hands. I accept that one can expect nothing better from the honourable member than words of that kind. In respect of what the Commonwealth has been doing, of course, the simple fact is that by working in co-operation with the States we have come a long way in the past 3 or 4 years towards overcoming the problems of road safety. The simple truth is that as a result of government action, much of which has been sponsored by the Commonwealth, the number of road deaths in Australia so far this year fortuitously is lower than the number in other years. The statistics are not good enough to be confident about the position in the long term. There is need to do more but the simple fact is that about 26 safety design rules in relation to motor vehicles either are in operation or are to come into operation to try to make the motor car safer. An amount of $18m is available for research into roads and road planning to assist the States to overcome the roading difficulties referred to in the report. 
The honourable member for Robertson completely and totally ignores What has been done. Surprisingly enough, the honourable member for Robertson tries to liken himself to others who have done work in this field. He has claimed as bis own work the conglomeration of words in which he has pulled together a ragbag of the efforts of other people and he says that the Expert Group justifies it. Even the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  unlike the honourable member for Robertson, had the decency not to claim the work as being in the honourable member for Robertson's own fine hand. What we have here is an excellent report brought down by a group of people who are expert in their various fields and who have spent many months- not the few hours which the honourable member for Robertson has spent - compiling statistics and the like. They have gone into the matter in a very serious minded way and have come down with a report that can be used by governments - Commonwealth and State - to try to improve further the road accident situation. For the honourable member for Robertson to make a purely political speech of the kind which he made is a thorough disgrace to him and also to the Parliament. The report does not make trenchant criticisms of the Government at all. It makes very constructive criticisms that can help this Government and the State governments to overcome what is one of the most appalling problems within the community. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr England)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to Section 39 of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act 1956-1969, I present the annual report on the operations of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission for the year ended 30th June 1972, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase various rates and amounts of workers compensation payable in respect of seamen and their dependants under the Seamen's Compensation Act. Such compensation is paid by ship owners and not by the Commonwealth. Compensation for seamen serving in intrastate ships, to whom the Bill does not apply, is paid under State workers compensation Acts. These increases are in line with the increases contained in the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill now awaiting debate in this House, except that whilst the weekly rate of compensation for a seaman is being increased from $35 to $43, the concept of weekly payments on full pay for 6 months is not being introduced at this stage. In addition to the increase in the weekly rate of compensation for a seaman, the Bill provides for an increase from $8.50 to $11 in the weekly rate for a seaman's wife and for the basic lump sum death benefit, to which other lump sum benefits for various injuries are related, to be increased from $13,500 to $14,500. 
In introducing the Seamen's Compensation Bill 1971, I indicated that action was in train further to amend the Seamen's Compensation Act to apply a similar code of compensation for seamen as is applied to Commonwealth employees under the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act. 
Due mainly to the need for a complete review of a complex range of provisions and for consultation with ship owners who are responsible for payment of compensation to seamen, it has not yet been possible to complete the preparation of a Bill incorporating the necessary amendments. The review, and the necessary consultations, will also have regard to the concept now being introduced into the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act, to which I have referred, under which weekly compensation will be on full pay for 6 months. Action is proceeding, however, and a Bill to amend the Act to introduce a new code similar to that for Commonwealth employees will be introduced as soon as practicable. The Bill at present before honourable members provides improved rates of workers compensation for our Merchant Navy personnel. I commend it to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Clyde  Cameron) adjourned. 
The first point I will deal with is the shipbuilding problem which was raised by the latter speakers in this debate. I will come to the points raised by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  It the Government had accepted the Tariff Board report the shipbuilding industry in Australia would have been killed. I do not think that anybody inside or outside this House would not accept that as the cold fact. The Government therefore sought - recognising and stating that Australia needed an efficient and viable shipbuilding industry - to try to set an umbrella under which an efficient and viable shipbuilding industry could operate. We faced up to a most difficult report that was very critical of the industry, its productivity and many other aspects. I personally believe that we have given the industry an opportunity between now and 1980, when the Tariff 
Board again reports on the industry, to settle down and look forward to a reasonable and assured future. 
I now refer to some specific points raised by several honourable members. I am not sure whether the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  was challenging me. The implication in some of his words was a challenge - to use an Australianism - to my fair dinkumness. I think that was rather unfair of him. I do not think the proprietors of Evans Deakin would challenge me on that score. I will recount a history of the situation. The honourable member for Bowman specifically mentioned a speech of the  chairman  of Evans Deakin at the launching of the 'Esso Gippsland'. I listened to that speech with a great deal of interest, but it was mostly confined to criticism of the number of foreign ships operating on the Australian coast. That was not brought to my attention until the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  came to me specifically to discuss the Evans Deakin problem. 
When the  chairman  of Evans Deakin made his speech I said that I would look at the problems of imported ships, and I did so. That matter has been recounted over and over again. The honourable member for Griffith arranged an immediate discussion with the proprietors of Evans Deakin and we have had discussions. I think the real crux lies in the fact that the honourable member for Bowman said in this House that up to 1,500 workers would be dismissed from Evans Deakin. The simple facts are, on the admission of the honourable member for Bowman tonight, that that is not the case. I have bad it confirmed today by the proprietors of Evans Deakin that some 50 people have gone into other jobs for a variety of reasons but that the company has been seeking other fitters for the fitting out of the  'Sir Robert  Miller' and that the net position is not going to be anything like the picture painted by the honourable member for Bowman. 
This not being a Government of secrecy as some would claim, I would like to list for the information of the House some of the current shipbuilding activities and refer to orders that have either been placed or are presently at the tender stage. There is a tanker of 24,000 dead weight tons; there are 2 dumb barges and 2 passenger ferries; there is a 138 feet trawler, an oil rig, 2 prawn trawlers, one off-shore supply vessel, a tug barge flotilla, a pipe laying barge, 2 roll-on roll-off vessels, a dumb cutter suction dredge, a tug and a roll-on roll-off sea coaster. In addition to that, discussions are being held on another semi-submersible drilling rig, 2 tugs and a beach coaster and on top of that again, the Australian Shipbuilding Board has received numerous other inquiries about the prospects of building. The point I make - I make it in all sincerity - to the honourable member for Bowman is that I believe the problems of Evans Deakin and other shipyards around Australia have been overcome by the Government's method of adoption of the Tariff Board report. I believe these shipyards can look with some confidence to a long term programme of building. 
Because of the time factor, I have agreed, under some pressure, to keep my remarks short and if I do not answer any specific points now the honourable members concerned will be answered individually. I obviously will not have time to answer the individual points which have been raised. Let me come to the main part of the Opposition's stance tonight, namely, its amendment. It is true that the Commonwealth Government has been long associated with the development of roads throughout Australia and it is a fact that in the current Commonwealth Aid Roads Act, $l,252m will be provided to the States by the Commonwealth to assist them in their road programmes up to 1974. This figure was increased from $750m which was provided under the last Commonwealth Aid Roads Act. I have not heard anyone deny that this has been of tremendous assistance to the States in their general roadbuilding programme and their general financing programmes. Added to that, if one takes the 10-year period and recognises that in 1962-63 grants and revenue to the States totalled $63 lm as against the figure 10 years later in 1972-73 of $ 1,690m or almost $l,700m - the figure has increased by 24 times - it will be seen that the general revenue position of the States has improved immensely and quite remarkably. 
In addition to that, the Commonwealth has agreed to take over State debts to the tune of $ 1.000m to assist them in their problems throughout the period. So, in all of these factors through revenue grants and by assisting the States in their aid roads grant, the Commonwealth has looked to the States and hoped that the States would be able to overcome their railway and urban transport problems. The simple fact is, as I was quoted by one honourable member tonight as saying in a speech I made in Whyalla, that the State governments have treated the railway and urban transport systems as the Cinderella in their State budgets. This has been because of other competing demands. Over a period of 10 or 20 years, this has caused the State railway and transport systems to run right down. 
Our interest in this matter can be proven by the fact that, as provided in the 1969 policy speech of this Government, the Bureau of Transport Economics was established. As is well known, that Bureau has done a great deal of work to assist my Department to study the problems of railways and the problems of urban transport. This matter has been discussed at Premiers Conferences held in this chamber and also in the forum of the Australian Transport Advisory Council of which I am the  Chairman.  As mentioned by several speakers tonight, at the last meeting of that Council, I agreed to take to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  for consideration the problems of the States. I have given that undertaking to them. I will do that. 
I wish to say something more philosophical about the approach of the Opposition to the subject of transport. Opposition members talk about a national plan. What we want to do as the Commonwealth Government is to set a framework that will give each of the competing modes the opportunity to advance and not to be retarded by parameters set by an authoritarian government. We do not want to freeze technology in any one mode. We want to advance technology. All of the approaches that we will take as a government now, in the next 3 years, and long into the future will be aimed at advancing the technology of the various modes to give a better operating service of all the modes in their proper capacity throughout the Australian States. I say now that we reject the amendment that has been moved. 
I must mention the speech made tonight by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  I know full well his love for the Northern Territory. I do not suppose that there has even been a more dedicated representative of the Northern Territory in this Parliament than the present honourable member for the Northern Territory. The fact is that he knows the problems of the Northern Territory better than anyone else in this chamber. I had the pleasure of being the Minister in charge of the Northern Territory for 4 years and I know full well the dedication of the honourable member for the Northern Territory and his complete understanding of all problems - transport and otherwise - affecting his electorate. 1 also know of the great difficulty that he has with instant experts from the Opposition who visit the Northern Territory for 24 hours, return here and make great speeches telling the nation what ought to be done in the Northern Territory. I sympathise with the honourable member for the Northern Territory in having to put up with this problem. 
In the last Budget, the Commonwealth Government committed $54m to building a standard gauge railway from Tarcoola to Alice Springs. With great regret I say to the honourable member for the Northern Territory that at the present time this matter is being held up by the Premier of South Australia. It was my wish to introduce into the Parliament before it rose a Bill in respect of this project. It is now apparent from a letter that we have received from the Premier of South Australia that he will not permit us to fulfil our obligation at this point of time. I must apologise to the honourable member for the Northern Territory. I can only hope that the Labor Premier of South Australia will see better sense in the short term and will permit us to get on with this railway which is of national importance and will contribute to national development. I am sorry that I must convey that bad news to the honourable member for the Northern Territory. I have no doubt that he will inform his constituents of this fact when he returns to the Northern Territory. He will be able to tell them the reason why I am unable to introduce that Bill into the Parliament. 
The only other point that remains to be mentioned is that raised by the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar),  who is not present in the chamber at the moment. He suggested that the Merchant Navy should be formed in such a way that it could be used as part of our defence forces in times of war. I will refer the points that he raised to the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  for comment and ask the Minister to reply directly to the honourable member. I conclude by saying that I am sorry that I have been unable to answer each of the specific points that have been raised. I will look with great care at the record of the debate and make sure that each of the specific points raised by the various honourable members is responded to. 
Thursday, 19 October 1972 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Adelaide Standard Gauge Connection Liaison Committee was established to examine the various technical problems involved in association with the Consulting Engineers Maunsell and Partners. This examination is not yet complete. 
The Prime Minister: Visits to Papua and New Guinea  (Question  No. 3928)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
On what dates and for what purposes has he visited the Territory of Papua and New Guinea (ilansard, 25th August 1971, page 670). 
Over a period of about 5 years now the honourable member for Hume has shown a particular interest in this road, recognising the importance that the opening of this road would be to Tumut in giving that town direct access to Canberra. The honourable member cast his question in somewhat wider terms today, recognising as he does that this road could be an important intrastate and interstate link. The situation is that we have announced a programme of consultation with the States to work out a national highways programme to be included in the next Commonwealth aid roads legislation. This road will be part of the study for that legislation. I will advance the honourable member's concern and interest in the matter to the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads to make sure that that body is aware of the consideration that the honourable member has given to the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
As referred in the Press statement, the Advisory Committee on Vehicle Performance has prepared proposals for the inspection of long distance buses. These have been considered by the Australian Transport Advisory Council and, at the present time, the Committee is preparing for their incorporation in the Draft Regulations Defining Vehicle Construction, Equipment and Performance Standards for Road Vehicles. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, which is complementary to the Pollution of the Sea by Oil (Shipping Levy) Bill that has just been introduced, provides for the collection of the levy imposed on certain ships carrying oil. The Bill reproduces as closely as possible the conditions under which light dues are collected under the Lighthouses Act and Regulations, thereby ensuring that periodic payments of light dues and the levy for any particular ship will be effected at the one time. The administrative advantages inherent in such an arrangement will be obvious to honourable members. Ancillary provisions, such as the powers of a collector to enforce payment of the levy, are also similar to the relevant provisions in respect of light dues. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Charles  Jones) adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bit! he  now  read a  second time. 
This Bill is designed to amend the Pollution of the Sea by Oil Act 1960-1965. The principal Act gave effect to the provisions of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil, 1954 as amended in 1962, and the present Bill results from further amendments adopted by the Assembly of the InterGovernmental Maritime Consultative Organisation, of which Australia is a Council member, during its 6th Session in October 1969. 
Pollution of the sea by oil is a problem of increasing concern and whilst not interfering with the principal aims of the original legislation, the amendments now to be implemented represent a significant step towards the ultimate target of completely eliminating al) pollutioin of the sea by oil. Whereas at present, beyond a certain distance from land, significant discharge of oil can take place, the proposed amendments limit the discharge of oil to waters more than 50 miles from the nearest land, and then only at the low rate of 60 litres a mile. Within 50 miles discharge may be permitted at the same rate, but only in the very dilute mixture of 100 parts or less per million, and an obligation is written into the amendment that the discharge shall be as far from land as possible. Another change features a more comprehensive form of oil record book for the recording of details on the use of ship's tanks. 
A potential deficiency in these amendments, as far as Australia is concerned, is that oil, although at a very small rate of flow, could be discharged near the Great Barrier Reef, as parts of the Reef are more than 50 miles from the nearest land as defined in the Convention. It was on this account that  1  put through another amendment at the 7 th Assembly of the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organisation in October 1971 which will have the practical effect, for the purposes only of this Convention, of making the Great Barrier Reef a part of the coastline. 
On past experience it will be another 2 years before sufficient countries have ratified this amendment to make it pan of the Convention. Further amending legislation will be introduced at the appropriate time. 
In addition to the foregoing the opportunity provided by this Bill has been taken to increase the level of maximum penalties. Existing fines no longer reflect the very serious results of oil pollution and the measure of the proposed increases has been determined in consultation with the States, which have agreed to impose similar penalties under complementary State legislation. It is hoped that these increased fines will create a real deterrent to the wilful or negligent polluter. 
Article VI of the Convention provides that penalties for unlawful discharges outside territorial waters shall not be less than penalties imposed for similar discharges into such territorial waters. As the various State Acts which implement the terms of the Convention will also be amended to introduce the agreed increases in penalties, it is necessary in the terms of Article VI of the Convention, that the Federal Act, which will apply to Australian ships in any waters, be in operation before, or concurrently with, the complementary State Acts. 
The Convention amendments will not acquire international validity until twothirds of the number of countries which accepted the original Convention have signified their acceptance. As only 9 of the necessary 31 countries have so far accepted, operation of the relevant sections of the resulting Act will have to be effected by proclamation when sufficient acceptances have been notified. However, those sections providing for increased penalties will come into operation on the day on which the amending Act receives the royal assent. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Charles  Jones) adjourned. 
 I move: That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members are very much aware of the dangers of pollution of the sea by oil. I believe there is no necessity to enlarge on these, and likewise no need to demonstrate the necessity for preparedness to combat pollutions. We progressively take every possible action to prevent pollutions occurring, but the danger is always present. We are therefore in the process of setting up stockpiles of dispersant material and equipment around our extensive coastline. A stockpile is being set up at each capital city and at Darwin and, because of the long coastlines of Queensland and Western Australia, at Cairns and Port Hedland as well. 
Each stockpile will be sufficient to deal with a fairly significant oil spill. For massive spills, the national plan provides for the rapid consolidation of several, or all, of the stockpiles to the scene of the action. In aggregate, the stockpiles will supply an action for the period necessary for the chemical industry to produce replacement stock. The stockpiles will be available to the authority, Commonwealth or State, agreed under the national plan as having primary responsibility for a particular spill. The whole plan, however, is based on co-operative action between authorities, and ignores any nice points of legal sovereignty. All of this of course, has a cost. We can regard the cost as having 2 components; firstly, the standing charges - interest, amortisation and so on - and, secondly, operating costs which cannot be recovered from the actual polluter, usually because the ship was not identified. This component should be fairly small, because in the case of really significant pollutions we will almost always identify the vessel responsible. 
With one national plan and one set of stockpiles, it is logical, as we have agreed with the States, to raise one charge for covering the costs. The Commonwealth will put up the capital - about $lm - will administer the scheme and, as this Bill proposes, raise one levy on the shipping industry. In cash accounting, the revenue will go to Consolidated Revenue, but notional commercial accounts will be kept. We will know with precision the amount of the standing charges. We will not know in advance the amount of unrecovered operating costs. Experience will allow forward estimating, but as the plan continues, the notional accounts will be reviewed periodically. Obviously enough, if experience is good, there will be a notional surplus which would cause us to consider reducing the rate of levy. 
The main point I want to make clear to the House is that this levy is not designed as a general revenue measure. It is intended to cover the costs of maintaining the stockpiles and of operations against oil spills where recovery from the polluter proves to be impossible. Over a period, the notional accounts will be required to balance exactly with neither surplus nor deficit. There is a widely accepted principle which is pithily expressed in the words: 'The polluter pays'. It is a good principle, but in this case we have extended it a little to make the potential polluter pay. Preparedness for fighting pollutions will, as 1 have said, take a capital expenditure of about $!m which naturally attracts standing charges. If we wait for an actual pollution before recovering part of those charges we could - and, indeed, I hope we would - wait quite a time. In the meantime, those charges would be to the cost of the community. We do not see that as acceptable; so this Bill provides that the shipping industry, which is made up of potential polluters, will pay those standing charges. 
Equally, unrecovered operating costs will be shared across the industry. It is true that those ships which in a given case did not cause pollution will be helping to pay for the vessel which did, but there is nothing novel in that as a principle. The actual rate of levy will be small. I expect it will be set initially at less than 2c per net registered ton per quarter - in other words, at less than 8 per cent of the present rate of light dues. As will be seen from the Bill, small ships and ships which in a quarter had little potential for causing pollution, will be exempt. In brief, this Bill seeks to cover the costs attaching to a national preparedness for combating pollution of the sea by oil from ships, lt is a straightforward, uncomplicated and fundamentally essential measure. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Charles  Jones) adjourned. 
I am not able to give the answer to the question of the Leader of the Opposition. I will seek specific information in relation to it and provide him with  a  written answer. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to correct a phrase I used today in answer to a question asked by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  concerning fuel imports. I said: 
I think that about 20 per cent of the final product comes from Australian oil wells. 
I should have said that about 20 per cent of our final product is imported. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table summarises the number of single voyage permits issued during the periods mentioned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Committee on Motor Vehicle Emissions consists of the following: 
The honourable member for Wilmot will know that the negotiation of apple and pear freights is left very much in the hands of the industry itself and that it is not the role of government to intervene too strongly in these commercial activities. It is well within the competence of the negotiating parties to seek to obtain charter ships if that is in their view possible, more economic and practicable. I do not think there is any doubt that in the past the negotiating parties so far as the apple and pear industry is concerned have done a pretty remarkable job on behalf of growers in Tasmania. I am aware of the great concern that freight rates must be to the honourable member and to the apple and pear growers of Tasmania. I will see, after consulting with my colleague the Minister for Trade and Industry, what other action can be taken to assist. 
The simple fact is that if there were not a couple of communist organisers organising strikes around the countryside there would be a much greater balance in the use of Australian oil and imported oil. The honourable member and his whole Party can take no comfort whatsoever from the way they performed during the course of the oil strike. I say in passing that, had it not been for the actions of this Government in encouraging a climate in which  Mr Justice  Moore as arbitrator and umpire could come into the field, the oil strike might still have been with us. Because of the attitude adopted by both the Leader of the Opposition and the Senior VicePresident of the Australian Labor Party, who is the real spokesman for that Party in this nation, the oil strike might still have been with us.  i  Coming to the facts of the case, it is true to say that imported oil is coming onto the coast, but it is also true to say that Australia has not yet found enough oil for its own domestic use. I think that about 20 per cent of the final product comes from Australian oil wells. Naturally enough, there is a big imbalance. If the honourable member takes that into account he will find the reasons for which he asked in his question. 
The Government cannot accept the amendments moved by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  for the reasons I gave in my second reading speech. The simple fact is that we do not have the power he believes we have. The strong advice that has been given to the Government is that the way to obtain the power is by international convention. What the honourable member proposed, in substance, would give Australia power to control a ship off the American coast, off the United Kingdom coast or off the coast of any country. We now have the power, by complementary legislation with the States, to control shipping in our territorial waters. We have complete control of the territorial waters, by co-operation and agreement with the States. We are awaiting the international ratification of the convention amendments to provide power to control spillage within the 50-mile limit and to be able to take international action to control the rate of spillage outside the 50-mile limit. The Government must reject the amendments. 
Amendments negatived. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
in reply - Taking the point raised by the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  first, I understand his serious interest in this whole question but I am not at all sure about the legal practicability to moving in the way he suggested. However, I will have that point studied. Nevertheless, I think he will take some comfort from the fact that I personally moved an amendment at the meeting of the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organisation in London last year and secured protection for the Great Barrier Reef up to as far as about 200 miles from the Australian coast. This amendment was agreed to by the representatives of the other countries present at the conference, and I think that a very significant step forward in protection of the Reef was taken at that conference, because all the countries that were represented there recognised the international significance and beauty of the Barrier Reef. I am very happy that they agreed to that amendment. 
Let me come to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  In his speech tonight he gave us a lot of his views, but I think it is fair to say that he is some years behind the events in his presentation, because the views that he presented to the Parliament are the views that have been studied now over a couple of years by Commonwealth and State Ministers at the Ports and Marine Affairs Council. Indeed, some of State Labor Ministers - I have to say this in all honesty to the honourable member for Newcastle - are ahead of him in these matters. Having said that, let me come to the real point of the amendment. I say in all kindess to the honourable member that in his pulling together of the 3 parts of the amendment into one amendment there seems to be a bit of a mix-up in his mind as to what is done by the various international conventions and also the various Bills we have before us tonight. Let us take the first point in the amendment. It is to the effect that the Government has failed to clarify whether the responsibility for protection of Australian territorial waters belongs to the Commonwealth or the States. 
It might be nice to make political points out of this matter, but the facts are that the States, wilh the Commonwealth, have agreed to a formula for handling this problem. I draw to the honourable member's attention that now 3 State Labor governments are represented on the Ports and Marine Affairs Council, and I can assure the honourable member that some of the remarks he made tonight will not go down too well with those Labor governments. We have come to an agreement at the request of the States on a formula devised for control in respect of oil spillage in ports, oil spillage on the high seas and oil spillage in coastal waters relative to the various State borders. I think that a very significant point, in fact a high point, in Commonwealth-State relations has been reached in this Bill. The legal sovereignty question was deliverately put to one side by all the States, including the States with Labor governments, to reach agreement on this very important matter so that the pollution of the sea by oil could be handled properly and legally by government. 
I come to paragraph (b) of the amendment, which states that the Government - I suppose it means the Commonwealth Government - 'has not acted in a comprehensive way to ensure that Australian territorial waters are protected from all environmental threats from oil, whether they be from shipping or land based activities and including all ocean dumping'. Let me take the first part of that first. Indeed, we have acted comprehensively in respect of oil. The State governments are taking direct control of oil spillage in ports; the Commonwealth Government is taking direct control of oil spillage on the high seas; and agreement has been reached with South Australia, Western Australia - the 2 Labor States - New South Wales and Queensland that the Commonwealth Government should take direct action and work as the authority responsible for oil spillage in the coastal waters of those States, and agreement has been reached with Victoria and Tasmanian that the governments of those States shall take direct action in relation to oil spillage in their coastal waters. So there has been complete agreement, complete unanimity, between the States and Commonwealth on the division of responsibilities and how we ought to function. We wanted to reach the stage, and have reached it, where bureaucratic red tape between the Commonwealth and the States would not prevent in any way immediate action being taken to handle an oil pollution. The Commonwealth Government and the State governments concerned deserve the congratulations of the honourable member for Newcastle rather than an amendment of this type. 
In the second part of his amendment reference ls made to all ocean dumping. Here again I think the honourable member has misunderstood the powers of the single convention. He certainly has shown a lack of knowledge of the way the Commonwealth Government has moved with respect to ocean dumping. Australia is a party to and I hope will be a signatory to an international convention in London in November which proposes to control ocean dumping of materials. Indeed, this will be a significant step forward. As a government Australia has been one of the pro moters of that international convention. I am proud of the part my Department has played in this matter. I reject that part of the honourable member's amendment also because it is unrelated to the Bills and is being dealt with separately. In the meantime my Department with the co-operation of industry and all of the States, is administering control of dumping at sea along lines proposed in the international convention. 
The last part of the amendment reads that the Government:  has not, on behalf of the Australian people, co-ordinated management of the Australian territorial waters in the interests of the long term conservation of the earth's oceanic resources. 
I am not sure what the honourable member for Newcastle means by this. Needless to say, the Commonwealth Government and the State governments are co-operating magnificently in trying to achieve what I read as the content of this part of the amendment. The Government rejects the amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle. 
I turn now to a couple of questions that were asked by the honourable member for Newcastle. Firstly, he questioned the level of penalties and said that one country, the United Kingdom, provided for a fine of £Stg50,000 whereas Australia proposed a maximum penalty of $50,000. Again this was a matter that was discussed at a meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers concerned with port and marine affairs. The absolute majority view of the Commonwealth and the States was that $50,000 should be the maximum level of penalty. The Ministers agreed as a body that that should be the maximum. The level of penalties has been fixed as a result of agreement with the States. 
The honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  said that the Government had power to act in respect of international waters under its external affairs power. The best advice available from the legal advisers to my Department is that we do not have authority to act under the external affairs power to which the honourable member referred. Surely if we accept the advice that we do not have such power the proper way to seek authority is as we have done, under an international convention that gives us legal power to control all dumping beyond the 50-mile limit. Surely that is the civilised and proper way of acting rather than getting involved in a court action when some doubt has been expressed by our own legal advisers before we proceed on such a course. We have, in fact, achieved success beyond the 50-mile limit with an international convention. A ship can be in the middle of the Indian Ocean and if it dumps oil at a greater rate than 60 litres a mile it can be reported to a home country and fined. Surely this is the way to act. Power extends far beyond the 50-mile limit and out into the mid blue Ocean. Surely this is the civilised and responsible way to act. My advice is that we do not have authority under the external affairs power. The honourable member for Kingston also raised the question of dispersants. No decision has been taken at this stage as to the dispersants to be used. However a committee of officers of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Department of Primary Industry, including those attached to the fisheries section, and various State authorities is working out what dispersants will do the best job and create the least difficulty in handling the problem. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Charles Jones's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
What I said is true and remains true. The simple facts of life are that the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway agreement could have been before this Parliament had the South Australian Premier not been difficult on minor issues. Let me recount the facts to the House. The Prime Minister forwarded a draft agreement to the South Australian Premier on 22nd May, and I think it was in the last week in September that the Premier responded to that agreement. He raised matters that had not been raised in all the discussions between the officials in the intervening period. They were matters of minor significance in the total terms, having regard to the importance to the nation of the whole project. They could have been easily discussed by officials separately from the signing of the agreement. That is the first point I make. 
Secondly, I draw attention to the 2 points of disagreement which the South Australian Premier has raised. He seeks a special arbitration arrangement between the Commonwealth and the State if the Commonwealth decides to close the line to Marree. The Commonwealth Government already has agreed to consult with the South Australian Government on this matter so the Premier really is raising red herrings.  His  approach assumes that the Commonwealth would arbitrarily close the railway line. I think it fair to say that in respect of South Australia of all States the Commonwealth Railways has been sympathetic and considerate in its handling of railway problems especially as the Commonwealth Railways operates throughout much of that State. This sort of request by the Premier apparently carries an implication against the Commonwealth Railways. As the responsible Minister I do not like this. I regard it as an insult to the employees of the Commonwealth Railways. The Premier claims that we would not continue to operate the line despite significant operating losses and would not recognise the value of community services. These are the very things we do recognise. 
The Premier also is concerned that the Commonwealth Railways does not charge higher freight rates for any commodity than does the South Australian Railways. What he is saying implicitly is that one transport authority is not able to set its own charges and that an outside authority - the Commonwealth Railways - which services South Australia must be guided by the South Australian Railways Commission. These are the 2 matters the Premier has raised at this late stage. They could have been discussed in the intervening period and were not discussed. The Premier's action has prevented the introduction of a Bill into this Parliament for ratification of the agreement. My charge remains true. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Railways provision, stores operated at a profit during 1971-72. However, it is usual practice that the accounting results of this activity are treated as confidential. 
The purpose of the stores is to assist employees of Commonwealth Railways and it is not believed that their interests or those of the railways would be served by disclosing the results of their respective operations. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Defence, Minister for the Navy, Mini.ter for the Army, Minister for Air and Minister for Supply. Did he hold discussions with his former Press secretary,  Mr Lloyd,  about the possibility of  Mr Lloyd's  taking part in a briefing with Lord Carrington? 
What we are debating here today are proposals for fundamental changes in the Government's approach to the letting of contracts for works done for and on behalf of the Commonwealth Government. The House needs to realise therefore that we are dealing with Commonwealth works valued at $300m in the next year. Any fundamental changes affecting programs of this size require proper debate and discussion by this Parliament so that the full implications of those changes can be understood. I submit to this House that what is proposed by the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  represents such a marked departure from previous practice as to call for a Government statement, laid down in this House, as a demonstration that the proposals have been given full consideration by the Government and indeed represent Government policy in this area. The reason a proper statement of Government policy should be called for is that there is no reference by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his policy speech of such proposals. 
Let us clearly understand the difference between present methods and the proposals as put forward as a direction by the Minister for Works to his Director-General. Until now, contracts have been awarded on the basis of the most suitable contractor, having regard to performance, quality of work and price. This method, combined with the tendering system itself, whereby all tenders had to be submitted by a certain date, and were held in sealed envelopes until the official time of opening, guaranteed that there was no room for any suggestion of impropriety. But let us look at the proposals laid down by the Minister for Works. In a minute to the Director-General the Minister said: 
After notifying the Prime Minister, I now direct that in future employment and letting of contracts, the following conditions apply. 
The Minister- said: 'After notifying the Prime Minister, I now direct . . .'. This statement demonstrates that there has been no Cabinet discussion of the proposals but rather a direction by a. Minister without regard to 
Cabinet, Parliament or any thought to protect the taxpayer. The minute continues:  (I.) In accordance with Government policy - 
Is one Minister going to blatantly decide Government policy on $300m worth of works in such a way - a practice that can lead to graft and corruption and at the same time end up more expensive to the taxpayer? The minute continues: 
In accordance with Government policy in future recruitment of employees preference must be given to official members of bona-fide trade unions. 
This is, in effect, a policy of compulsory unionism, despite what the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who is sitting at the table, said earlier. The Minister for Works is saying blatantly that if a man is not a unionist he cannot get a job with the Commonwealth Government. What about the rights of the individual? Where are all the civil liberties people now, on the opposite bench? 
The Prime Minister has no mandate for this proposal from the people of Australia. Such a fundamental proposition does not rate a mention in his policy speech. All we know is that a tenuous mention of this proposal came out of the Australian Labor Party's Federal Conference. So this is a clear case of a Minister implementing an instruction from the outside trade union controlled body. This means that the people of Australia have to study carefully not only what the Prime Minister puts forward as a policy speech but all of the unsuspected policy decisions from an outside body to know what is the total Labor policy. 
But there is worse to come - that is only the preamble of the minute from the Minister for Works to the Director-General. The minute continues: 
In allocating contracts consideration shall be given to 
the degree of day labour employed by the contractor as against the degree of sub-contract workers employed. 
What imprecision! How can an employer know what the real intention or policy of the Government is in this area? Where a work is complex, requiring a variety of trades and skills, how will a contractor discover what is in the mind of  Senator Cavanagh  when deciding how best to utilise the work force on a job? Will he use a sub-contractor for electrical work or is it best to use day labour? Which will please  Senator Cavanagh  most - an efficient job done by an expert at a given price or a day labour job with both timetable and cost hard to estimate? Such an instruction without clear guidelines is ridiculous. It goes on further: 
the policy of the contractor to trade union labour as against non-union labour . 
the relationship of the contractor with the trade union movement. 
This, of course, represents direct Government interference in an area where the Prime Minister said himself in his policy speech that his aim would be:   . . to reduce Government interference and intervention in industrial matters. 
We all. know that  Senator Cavanagh  is no lover of the Prime Minister. But that  Senator Cavanagh  should so introduce proposals as  a  demonstration of his dislike without regard to their effect on industry and the community at large calls for the repudiation of these proposals by the Prime Minister. 
What business is it of the national Government to interfere in the relations between  a  contractor and the trade union movement? That is a matter for the employer and the employee . to handle through the established procedures of arbitration and conciliation. This is to be one of the criteria applying when  Senator Cavanagh  makes his judgment - and remember that  Senator Cavanagh  has said in the Senate that he will be making the judgment and decision on tenders, not the public servants as suggested by the Minister for Labour. There is no slander against public servants contained in the matter of public importance raised by the Opposition. The judgment will be made by  Senator Cavanagh  and not by an indepesdent tender board. One can easily see the abuses to which such a system could lead - abuses such as Put $5,000 into the ALP slush fund or else no work*. Further down the line the trade union delegate reporting to  Senator Cavanagh  can just as easily let it be known that unless he is properly treated by  a  contractor he will submit an adverse report. These are plainly stand-over tactics of the worst kind and can end up akin to the Mafia methods of collection for protection. Such  a  proposition should not be tolerated by the Prime Minister, his Cabinet or this Parliament. 
This proposal relates at the moment only to contracts let by the Department of* Works.  If  this Parliament allows the proposal to succeed there is every likelihood that it will be extended to every other form of government purchasing. The purchasing of pencils, motor cars, defence requirements could be subject to similar conditions to what is proposed by  Senator Cavanagh.  The incredible thing about all of these proposals is the fact that  Senator Cavanagh,  having issued such instructions to the Director-General, now proceeds to confuse the situation further by saying that he does not mean what he says or the instruction does not say what it says. What absolute humbug. The Minister for Works has issued an instruction to his Director-General setting out absolutely new conditions that will be applied by him and him alone, as he confessed himself in answer to a question in the Senate. It is time the Prime Minister took note of the dangers of these proposals. Not only do they cut directly across the rights of individual workers, but they introduce dangerous practices that can subvert the time honoured system followed in these matters where there have been no allegations of abuse. The Minister has introduced a new system that can only lead to a greater cost, abuse and corruption. I deplore the proposals. 
 Mr Speaker,  last Thursday, in the course of the debate on a matter of public importance relating to the scandalous method of letting contracts by the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh),  the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  alleged that I had some dealings with a firm known as Allen Constructions Pty Ltd. The firm and its members are completely unknown to me and I have had no contact with them. As this allegation was reported in at least one newspaper last Friday I ask the Minister for Labour to withdraw that statement and to apologise for this typical, slanderous and gutter like allegation for which the Minister is well known. 
The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  reveals a great capacity to rise . at this time of night and poke fun at various members of the Opposition. It is time we looked at the Minister himself. Most honourable members can remember the great speeches he used to make on a great variety of high policy matters when he was in Opposition, particularly in respect of immigration. At one time he was the shadow Minister for Immigration. Unfortunately the shadow was too pale and wan for his own liking and a little dark for the liking of others so it was thought that he should be removed from that shadow portfolio. The South Australian Premier did not like him nor did one or two members sitting beside him on the front bench so the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  as Leader of the Opposition, was forced to reallocate his shadow portfolios. After the elections the Prime Minister was confronted with the. horrible knowledge that the honourable member for Grayndler had been elected to the Ministry. What a shock this was. The Prime Minister had to find a portfolio for him. What did he find? The honourable member for Grayndler was appointed to look after property and services - something that I, when I was Minister for the Interior, used to handle in about 2 hours a week. My successor, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  handled it in about one hour a week. The Prime Minister created a whole new portfolio and the honourable member was made Minister for Services and Property. I am told on good authority that the Minister has so little to do in this portfolio that often his staff brings him a broom so that he can sweep out some of his offices to keep him busily employed during the day. 
With great respect, I am no longer a Minister. However, it is in order for me to admit publicly that I could handle all matters related to services and property in a couple of hours a week while as Minister for the Interior I dealt with policy matters relating to the Australian Capital Territory, the Northern Territory and other aspects of the Department of the Interior. 
Let us consider now the situation of the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson).  He and the Minister for Services and Property had great dreams of what they would do if they were in government. The Minister for Northern Development when in Opposition made tremendously strong speeches about primary industry. He and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  were great rivals for the portfolio of Minister for Primary Industry. Indeed it was a matter of much comment, concern and interest in the Australian Press following the elections as to who would secure this important portfolio. But who got it? A cabin boy from Tasmania got it - someone no-one had ever heard of before. He admitted quite frankly that he could not tell a merino from a corriedale. Primary industry organisations throughout Australia have been suffering ever since. We have yet to hear from the Minister for 
Northern Development in his capacity as such. We hear of great rumbles in the Cabinet room and of how he will stand everybody up. We hear that he will do over the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  in the Cabinet room yet the next day the newspapers report that the great, big trundling Minister for Minerals and Energy has trundled tie little Minister for Northern Development right out of the road. The Minister for Northern Development is like Freddie Daly who sweeps the dust from the offices within his Department. 
What a great collection of Ministers we and the nation are faced with on the front bench opposite. What the Australian public did not bank on was a hotchpotch collection of Ministers. I would have appreciated, as would many people have appreciated, the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  being given a portfolio. He is a genuine, hard working member. And what of the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)?  He even had the Prime Minister's nod as a prospective Minister, but he had no such luck. I look around and see other worthy members, including the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh).  He has made many powerful speeches about the shipbuilding industry. But consider the decline in the Australian shipbuilding industry. Since the change of Government the Evans Deakin shipyard cannot get an order. Ships are being imported. The Australian National Line has been given permission to import a vessel. As for the news of last week, it is a wonder that the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  and the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  can sit in this chamber knowing that the 'Straitsman' - an Australian-built ship which cost $1.2m of hard earned Australian money - is to be tied up at the dock whilst the Australian Labor Government in cohorts with the Tasmanian Government brings in an imported ship to handle the trade. What a travesty of justice! What sheer hypocrisy from those members opposite who for so long have espoused the great cause of Australian nationalism. 
The latest yarn is that they will bring in Dutch-built destroyers which may well be better than Australian-built destroyers. Again, this is sheer hypocrisy. How the honourable member for Wilmot, a man of the cloth and a sincere, hard working member, can tolerate that proposition is beyond me. It amazes me that he and the honourable member for Braddon can sit quietly without speaking on this important matter. Their consciences were so stirred in the last Parliament that night after night when I was Minister for Shipping and Transport I was under continuous attack from them. I received constant deputations from them pleading with me not to put Australian seamen out of work and not to tie up Australian ships but to find a way to remedy the situation so that the Australianbuilt ship, the 'Straitsman', could handle the job. 
Much more could be said about these matters. All I can say is that the people of Australia have been totally deluded. When I see the collection of hotchpotch Ministers that the Prime Minister has had to appoint to a variety of portfolios I feel sorry for the people of Australia. It really hurts me to think that when they wake up and read their morning newspapers they see statements by the clown from Riverina. We have heard no statements as yet from the Minister for Northern Development. We look forward to the day when he will introduce a great policy for northern development. We have had 100 days of so-called action from the Government, but not one word and not one policy decision from the Minister for Northern Development. 
I do not think he has made a statement on sugar. When all is said and done that really is the only matter he has to handle in his portfolio. Everything else has been pinched off him by the plaguing Ministers around him. The poor Minister for Northern Development. The only consolation he has is that, as he himself says, he gets the money. 
House adjourned at 11' p.m. 

 - Mr Speaker- 

No amendment of such proposal shall be moved which would increase, or extend the objects and pur poses or alter the destination of.  the  appropriation so recommended unless a further message is received. 
I therefore ask you to rule whether the amendment moved by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  is in order. 
 Earlier in the day the members of the Australian Country Party took the step of forcing the delay of the Remuneration and Allowances Bill so that we could have a proper discussion on its various clauses. Some of the clauses were not in accordance with the information given to us earlier in the day and we felt that it was only proper that we should take time to consider that Bill as a whole, the various clauses and their implications. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  has moved an amendment to the Bill. He has done this, firstly on the basis of precedence in this Parliament itself. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that in 1947 when the Australian Labor Party was last in government and a salary Bill was brought into this place the salary attaching to the office of the Leader of the Opposition was S 1,200. At that time the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was given nothing. The leader of the third party - with 10 members at that time - was given $800. That is the first point I wished to establish: That there is a precedent, we believe, for the step thai we are taking tonight. Secondly, we believe that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  clearly accepted that there ought to be a proper position recognised and accepted for the Leader of the Australian Country Party. He said so by way of a letter dated 5th February 19/3 in which he set out what the salary and emoluments would be for the Leader of the Country Party. It states inter alia - and this is not out of context: 
In the expectation, however, that the Act will be amended to take account of changed circumstances, I have authorised the same payments to you as to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. . . . 
It is quite clear that the Prime Minister himself believed at that time that the leader of the third party - a significant party in Australian politics - should have a standing and status equivalent to the position of  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. The provisions of this Bill are different in a number of ways to the recommendations of the Kerr report. 1 want to establish one new point that was conveyed to us very late this afternoon. I understand that the Caucus decided this morning to make the electoral allowance for representatives of country electorates the same as the allowance for representatives of city electorates. I do not argue for one moment that there should not be a heavy increase in electoral allowances. That is not the point 1 wish to establish. But the point I do wish to establish is that in the Kerr report it was said that there ought to be a differential in favour of country electorates because the Kerr inquiry found in its study that the work load of country members was heavier in some respects than the work load of their city counterparts. This finding has not been acted upon. This is somewhat in line with other actions which the Government has taken and which are of concern to people in country areas generally. 
We have seen the revaluation of the Australian dollar. Then we had the devaluation of the American dollar. We have seen the Government rejecting assistance, in the first case, to exporting industries affected in this way. People in country areas have been concerned at actions taken by the Government particularly when they saw an 18 per cent difference in the value of the Australian dollar compared to its value prior to the Labor Government coming into power. We have seen other action taken such as the appointment of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  who was almost completely unknown in the Parliament. Industry organisations once again have been concerned at the action of this Government in appointing as Minister a senator who is unknown in primary industry when there are well known and established Labor spokesmen on primary industry matters in this place. 
 This matter is bound up in the one fear that people in country areas have, that is, that the Government is trying to demean them. We believe that proper recognition of the status of the office held by the Leader of the Australian Country Party is important. Please understand this fact: The amount of money that the present Leader of the Party will receive does not matter 2 hoots to him. The simple truth is that he could buy or sell most honourable members in this Parliament. The Prime Minister knows that, as do many other honourable members. Let us not be carried away on that point. The provisions of this Bill may well set a precedent for many years ahead. It is important, therefore, that the proper precedent and the proper position be established. At our Party meeting this morning the Leader of the Country Party was not a party to the unanimous decision that was taken by all other members of the Country Party to support this approach. I ask honourable members  to  understand that clearly. The stand that Country Party members have adopted comes from their hearts and minds. They believe that justice has not been done in this case. For that  reason,  we say that the attitude taken by the Labor Party in respect of this measure shows a brand of meanness. There is an attitude of meanness in attacking and in trying to denigrate and to downgrade this great Party. That is why the Deputy Leader of the Country Party has moved the amendment, and I support it. 
Will the Prime Minister assure the House that good Australian citizens who have fled their homeland will not come under political charges on advice from a foreign power without such advice being weighed against information from Australia's own security and police forces? 
The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  told me a moment ago that he proposes to gag this debate. I believe that he ought not to gag this debate because, as 1 indicated to him, a number of Opposition members still want to speak on this very important matter. For that reason I propose to move that standing order 93 be suspended during the consideration of the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1973. The Minister does not know what that standing order says, so I will read it to the House. It says: 
After any question has been proposed from the Chair, either in the House or in committee, a motion may be made by any Member, rising in his place, and without notice, and whether any, other Member is addressing the Chair or not, 'That the question be now put', and such motion shall be put forthwith and decided without amendment or debate. 
SoI move: 
That standing order  93  be suspended during the consideration of the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No.  2) 1973. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MacKellar)Does the honourable member propose to speak to that motion straight away? 
Certainly if I have a seconder. 

 - Mr Speaker,I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I have been misrepresented by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  It is true that last year I had a Tariff Board report to present and a statement to make to the Parliament on the same day that the honourable member for Newcastle, who was then shadow Minister for Transport, was to move for a discussion of a matter of public importance. At the time I informed the honourable member for Newcastle thatI wanted to present the report and make a statement on that day. He indicated to me that he thought there would be little difficulty about it but that he would contact Gough, 'Gough' being the then Leader of the Opposition. He rang me back an hour or two later and said that he was sorry that leave would not be granted to me to present the report and to make the statement on that day. 
We are debating a Bill tonight that was introduced by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  on Tuesday, 13th March, and, without question, Parliament reached a new low in its proceedings with the speech by the Minister. Second reading speeches traditionally and correctly are expected to be technical documents of impeccable accuracy that can be used by all as the basis of judgment on the matter under debate but the Minister for Services and Property used the occasion for the presentation of a blatant, political speech not matched in this Parliament. Knowing the complete impartiality and integrity of the electoral officers, 1 hope the Minister will have the decency to clear them from any involvement in the political aspects of his speech. He took the occasion to smear the Australian Country Party with statements that were both misleading and untrue. The Standing Orders do not permit me to brand him a liar but were that not so, the Minister would stand condemned by this Parliament as a liar extraordinary. 
1 am fully aware that 1 am unable to brand the Minister as a liar. I have made that particularly clear. Such statements as ' ... the Country Party at both State and Federal levels has consistently exercised ruthless control of the machinery of Parliamentary elections, both Federal and State', were contained in the Minister's speech. As far as I can ascertain, I have been the only member of my Party to be in charge of a redistribution in this Parliament and I had that responsibility because members of both parties in the coalition recognised that the matter would be treated with complete propriety. In regard to the States, only in 
Queensland in recent years has a Country Party Minister held the responsibility for redistribution. This has never occurred in South Australia, Western Australia or Tasmania; it occurred more than 30 years ago in Victoria and, as far as I can ascertain, it has never occurred in New South Wales. 
That is only one example; research shows that at least another half dozen misleading statements were contained in the Minister's second reading speech. That he should so abuse his privilege as a Minister is a reflection on him, so much so as to call into question the propriety of his holding such a position. That a second reading speech should contain false and misleading statements will also lead to reflections against the traditions of Parliament as a whole. The purpose of this Bill is three- fold. Firstly, it is to enable redistribution to take place in Western Australia, following a census of population demonstrating the need for an extra seat in Western Australia as determined under section 10 of the Representation Act. The nub of the matter is that the census figures do not demonstrate that any change is required in other States and so it is to section 25 (2.)(b) of the Electoral Act that the Minister looks to obtain justification to introduce his electoral gerrymander and it is by a reduction of the 20 per cent differential that has applied since Federation to 10 per cent in the number of electors in each seat above or below the quota of each State that the Minister looks for the right to implement his gerrymander. 
Let the people of Australia recognise this stunt for what it is - no more than a justification for the Minister to hold a redistribution as soon as possible. Let me quote the figures to honourable members. Under the Act that has been with us since Federation and as proposed by our founding fathers, only 3 seats out of 45 in New South Wales have more than a 20 per cent variation from the quota. There are 3 seats out of 34 seats in Victoria with such variation; 3 out of 18 in Queensland; 1 out of 12 in South Australia; none out of 9 seats in Western Australia, and none out of 5 seats in Tasmania. By reducing the variation as is now proposed from 20 per cent to 10 per cent, the number of seats that would vary from the requirement would be 18 out of 45 seats in New South Wales, 13 out of 34 in Victoria, 8 out of 18 in Queensland, 4 out of 12 seats in South Australia, 4 out of 9 in Western Australia and none out of 5 in Tasmania. Section 25 (2.) (b) states that a redistribution shall be made:   . . whenever in one-fourth of the Divisions of the Stale the number of the electors differs from a quota ascertained in the manner provided in this Part to a greater extent than one-fifth more or onefifth less; 
So, by reducing the variation in numbers of electors from 20 per cent to 10 per cent, the criteria applying in section 25 (2.) (b) gives the Minister for Services and Property the opportunity for which he says he has been waiting 23 years, and that really is to gerrymander the electorates in favour of the Australian Labor Party. 
That really is what this proposition is all about. To achieve that end, the Minister claimed that his entire approach was predicated on the wish to achieve one vote, one value, although he admitted 'that a degree of variation must be allowed, that exact equality in the number for division cannot be achieved, nor is it desirable'. Sensible admission though that is, it is an extraordinary one from this Minister, having regard to the vilification poured out by him and others who have expressed the same view. The only difference is that to obtain the gerrymander the Minister so dearly wants, he suggests that 10 per cent is better than 20 per cent. The 20 per cent variation is a basic factor in the Electoral Act which was no doubt well thought out by our founding fathers and it has stood the test of time. 
The Minister made great play of the fact that, in the last redistribution, the Commissioners had made variations in certain electorates, such as Kennedy of 17.95 per cent below the quota, Kalgoorlie of 18.56 per cent below the quota, Darling Downs of 18 per cent below the quota and Grayndler 14.01 per cent above the quota. He made extravagant claims that these variations occurred as a result of amendments to the Act passed by this Parliament in 1965. As far back as 1948 Parliament accepted variations such as 16.4 per cent below the quota for Kalgoorlie, 15.3 per cent below for Bonython and 13.1 per cent above for Curtin. My own electorate of Gippsland was 14.3 per cent below the quota in the 1948 redistribution. And what Government controlled that redistribution? None other than the great Australian Labor Party - the great one vote, one value Party. What sheer hypocrisy this is. What utter bunkum for the Minister to use figures of that kind and state in such a misleading way in what is supposed to be an accurate, technical document, that the Commissioners were forced to produce figures like the ones he quoted because of changes to the Act in 1965. Such misleading statements do the Minister little credit. 
The Minister's only interest in one vote, one value is the belief that there is electoral advantage for the Labor Party in such a proposition. The sheer hypocrisy of the Labor Party can best be pointed out by the actions of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  during the course of the last redistribution. The Prime Minister made a submission to the Commissioners that an extra 4,000 voters should be taken from the seat of Prospect and added to the seat of Reid. The acceptance of this proposal would have been to move further away from the principle of one vote, one value. The proposal of the Prime Minister would have increased the electorate of Prospect from 3.68 per cent to 11.0 per cent below the quota and the electorate of Reid to 16.82 per cent above the quota. 
Yes, there was a good reason. It emerged that the Prime Minister's son wanted to stand for pre-selection for Prospect and the 4,000 voters included in the area proposed to be shifted to Reid contained the most left wing members of the ALP who were opposed to having the Prime Minister's son as a candidate. Was that a good reason? I consider it a very base reason indeed. But it shows the real attitude of the Labor Party to the principle of one vote, one value that is, that it should be advanced only when politically expediency demands it. There is one other aspect of the one vote one value concept about which more needs to be said. Right through the Minister's speech he kept making statements such as 'we should not accept regional discrimination', 'the principle of substantial equality of representation between electoral divisions was almost eliminated' and 'every worthwhile authority supports the case for one vote one value and equality of electorates'. 
If that is the Minister's view, why does he not do something about the fact that on 2nd December the quota for New South Wales was 57,386 and the quota for Tasmania was 43,902? If he believes that all people should be equal in making the law, why is he not first seeking an amendment to the Constitution to abolish this differential between the States? How does he explain the fact that in Tasmania 10 senators represent only 221,000 electors and in New South Wales 10 senators represent 2.6 million electors? Surely the fact that the Minister has not even mentioned such a difference demonstrates his real lack of sincerity on the question of one vote one value. Why not ask the people of Australia by way of referendum to overcome such sweeping differences? Has the Minister sought to have this matter raised at the constitutional review conference? The fact is that, just as our founding fathers provided for there to be variations in the numbers represented by senators from State to State and for variations in the quotas for members of the House of Representatives as between one State and another, so they provided for a variation from the quota within each State. I suggest that we should not consider departing from the latter provision until consideration has been given to the broader constitutional provisions. 
Let me deal with the third area of this Bill. That is the removal of the amendments put into the Act in 1965 for clarification to remove the words 'disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance, the density or scarcity of population and the area of the division'. No thinking member would challenge the fact that there are enormous difficulties facing members in large country electorates in being able to make themselves available to meet their constituents. Electors in such electorates are often faced with driving hundreds of miles or making expensive trunk line calls when urgent matters arise which require consultation with their Federal member. Similarly, the Federal member in such an electorate is required to drive thousands of miles a year to give his constituents an opportunity to put their case. 
The electorate of Gippsland covers 14,524 square miles. It has 15 local government bodies, more than 200 schools, and 27 towns and cities with no commercial air service connecting any of those towns. Compare that with the electorate of Grayndler which covers 8.4 square miles. It is not even the size of a decent property in some parts of Australia. The honourable member for Grayndler could ride around the electorate on a pushbike before breakfast if he had the energy to do so. I understand that the only difficulty he has is when the lift drivers go on strike. He does not walk up the 12 flights of stairs to see some of his constituents; he makes them walk down the stairs. Equity surely demands that a person living in Gippsland should be able to reach me as easily as a person living in Grayndler can reach the Minister. 
The Minister has stated previously that he recognises the great disadvantages and extra cost involved in country electorates and he proposes to assist country members to overcome their disabilities. We all look forward to that assistance. But I noticed the. other night, when a certain Bill came into this House, that he voted in favour of all allowances, whether for city or country members, being the same amount. I wonder just how much he is going to do to overcome the disabilities of country members. It remains a simple fact that Canada a country so often likened to Australia has a variation of 25 per cent above or below the quota. In the United Kingdom, small though it may be it would fit into the State of Victoria at the time of the last redistribution, variations of up to 50 per cent from the quota were given for remoteness, of all things. The Minister has not put forward a satisfactory case to support his amendments reducing the variation from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. AH that would do would be to create the unsettling situation of forcing a redistribution every Parliament. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I appreciate what the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has said and thank him for making a clarification of the statement he made yesterday. One point of difference still remains. Last year the Minister for Transport, shadow minister as he then was, said to me that I could during the course of the debate on  a  matter of public importance use a Tariff Board report that I wished to table. I requested leave to make a separate statement on the Tariff Board report. He said: 'No. You can use the Tariff Board report during the course of the debate.' I think that if the Minister reads his speech on that matter of public importance he will see that he referred to that fact. 
History will show that the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  by his failure to act, has forced the closure of 2 major shipyards in Australia. The extraordinary situation is that in the so-called first 100 days of feverish activity by this Government, in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  claims that his Ministers were very busy, no positive action was taken by this Minister for Transport to prevent the announced closure of the Evans Deakin shipyard in Queensland or the Adelaide Ship Construction's shipyard. Knowing the Department of Transport as I do I have no doubt that it could itself find an answer to this problem if this do-nothing Minister would only listen. Why does he not take advice from his Department? It is of no use for the Minister to blame the previous Government. It is not the previous Government which is closing down the yards; it is the present Labor Government. 
There has been plenty of time for the Minister to take action, and indeed throughout the life of the present Government the 
Minister has been claiming through the media a new deal for shipping. Who can forget the headlines following his speech in Whyalla on 19th February in which he said: 
In respect of the coastal trade, we will be reserving thai entirely for Australian built, Australian owned, and Australian manned vessels. We expect them to be operated efficiently and economically for the benefit of ail Australians. 
This was received by the media with wide acclaim. An article in the 'Australian Financial Review' was headed: 'Federal subsidy policy shot in arm for BHP shipbuilding.' The article reads: 

 Mr Jones indicated that the Federal Government would subsidise, shipbuilding at the current 45 per cent rate without any scaling down over a five-year period as envisaged by the previous Government, and that, over the long-term, subsidy would continue to be at an 'adequate' level. 
The implication in that reported statement is that the Labor Government is to reverse the findings of the Tariff Board and the decisions of the previous Government. The fact is that the recommendations of the Board were modified by the previous Government in order to assist the Australian shipbuilding industry. For example, the subsidy period was extended to 1978 at the 45 per cent rate with a rate of 35 per cent to operate after that time until the further Tariff Board hearing was completed. After my meeting with the shipbuilders the Government agreed that the previous policy on the use of imported ships would be continued and not to adopt the recommendation by the Tariff Board for the free import of ships. 
In his speech made at Whyalla the Minister for Transport talked about the previous Government 'doing away with recognised yards', that is, all yards. We followed the Tariff Board recommendation that all yards should be eligible for a subsidy. Last year the then shadow Minister for Shipping and Transport was critical of the fact that fishing boats were not eligible for a subsidy under the then Government's plan. What is this Minister doing about these matters now? Is he going to take the subsidy away from the smaller yards? Is he going to recognise fishing boats as being eligible for a subsidy? He criticised the previous Government for taking 10 months to handle a Tariff Board report. He has already had 4 months in which to take action but all he has done has been to allow 2 major yards to announce closing down plans. Early in February when Adelaide Ship Construction announced the closure of the Birkenhead shipyard the Minister was reported as follows: 
I am aware of the seriousness of the Birkenhead men's situation and I am continuing to explore every possible avenue to preserve their employment', said  Mr Jones. 
He has done nothing. All he has done has been to waste time. Since then Evans Deakin Industries Ltd has announced a close-down. Is the Minister going to sit idly by until Walkers of Maryborough and others announce closedowns? 
There is no need for a further study of this issue. All the Minister has to do is to back up his previous statements on the Australian Labor Party's shipbuilding policy. They are: Firstly, that the fishing industry should not be excluded from the subsidy; secondly, the subsidy should apply to ships in overseas trade; thirdly, that the Labor Government would make cheap money available; fourthly, Labor would allow depreciation over any term; and fifthly, the subsidy should not start at 25 per cent. The Minister is reported in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 21st September as having said that they were the answers to the problems and that this was Labor policy. If they are the answers then why not implement them? 
What about the Minister's claim that the Australian coast would be reserved for Australian built ships? No sooner did he say that on 19th February than he started to retract. Reaction was reported in the 'Australian' of 1st March and this caused the Minister either to change his mind or to have second thoughts. The article in the 'Australian* reads: 
The speech sent a shock wave through the foreign shipping industry and produced reports in the British Press that Australia intended to practise flag discrimination. 

 Mr Jones had said it was his intention that coastal services should be restricted to Australian ships, crews and owners. 
As to the announced policy that 40 per cent of the new mineral exports will be carried in Australian ships, the Minister knows full well that the revaluation by his Government has jeopardised any prospect of new mineral developments. So such a policy is a hollow sham. When does he propose to implement the stated policy that 40 per cent of all Australian trade will be carried in Australian ships with Australian seamen? The Minister's statement made on 19th February at Whyalla about the 40 per cent trade went off like a lead balloon. 
I quote a statement by a representative of the United Kingdom Chamber of Shipping which appeared in the 'Australian' of 1st March. It reads: 
If this is true, it would be an extreme example of cargo discrimination which is completely contrary to the liberal shipping policy which we and the shipowners of Europe and Japan have been advocating.' 
We have the extraordinary position that nothing has yet eventuated in respect of trade being carried in Australian ships. Indeed, as I understand it, the proposal was rejected by the Conference lines to Japan at their meeting in Surfers Paradise recently. I suppose the Minister will do nothing about that. 
As to his. announced policy that the Australian coast will be reserved for Australian ships, the Minister has been doing something about that, but it is not to his credit, nor is it in line with his stated policy. Quite the contrary. He has been allowing the importation of foreign built ships in an extraordinary quantity and in an extraordinary fashion. On 1st March the Minister announced that the Government's own shipping line, the Australian National Line, would charter a 117,000 ton bulk carrier as a first step in expanding coastal operations. How such a proposal fits in with the stated policy to preserve coastal trade for Australian built ships defies all reason. In a statement on bulk carriers for coastal trade the Minister said: 
I am most gratified at the ANL's decision . . . 
How he can be gratified in the knowledge that the Government's own shipping line is' to import a foreign built ship for use on the Australian coast when quite obviously other tonnage will be displaced beats me. Nor has the Minister yet explained how this 117,000-ton ship is to be replaced by an Australian built ship. He knows as well as I do that no Australian shipyard has the capacity to build ships  in  excess of 85,000 tons. Clearly he is being deceitful. Before allowing the import of a foreign built ship he should state what replacement arrangements are being made. How  Australia's  trade unions associated with shipping can tolerate such deceit is beyond me. 
But there is worse to come. In the Australian' of 2nd April there appeared a story that the Federal Minister for Transport had permitted 3 other ships of a similar nature to be imported. Again it is obvious that such ships will replace Australian tonnage which  is  already operating on the coast. But worse still, there  is  no clear indication by the Minister just how or when Australian built ships can provide replacements. No wonder Evans Deakin is closing down. Evans Deakin can clearly see that there is no place for Australian shipyards while such a policy is operating. But there is still more to come and it is worse. There has been an Australian built ship, the Straitsman', operating from Melbourne to King Island under the control of Captain Houfe. This ship was built at a cost of $1.2m by North Queensland Engineering to a special design to suit the King Island trade. Unfortunately Captain Houfe ran into some difficulties with trade unions and others and the ship has been tied up. On 10th October 1972 the following telegram was sent by  Mr Ron  Davies, M.H.R., to Captain Houfe. It reads: 
Federal Parliamentary Labor Party today approved the following policy decision Stop A Federal Labor Government will require the Australian National Line to assume responsibility for the King Island shipping service and for this purpose to negotiate with the owners of the vessel Straitsman which was specifically designed for this service. RON DAVIES, M.H.R. 
That is a clear statement of policy expressed by the Labor Party. But to the contrary the Federal Minister for Transport, who so zealously claims that he wants to protect the Australian coast for Australian built ships, has permitted a State Labor government to purchase or charter overseas a vessel for the King Island trade and indeed will lend $lm to Tasmania to assist with the - purchase. Captain Houfe issued a statement on hearing of this policy turnabout by the Labor Government. I seek leave to have that statement incorporated in Hansard. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Even that is not the end of the sad story of this Minister's failure to do something constructive for the shipbuilding industry. In today's 'Australian' newspaper there is a report that the Australian National Line has given an order to a West German yard for a $1.5m refit to one of Australia's overseas ships. I imagine that would be the Australian Enterprise'. There may be some good reasons that have caused the ANL to go to Germany. But surely when the jobs of 1,500 men at Evans Deakin are in jeopardy, when 2 of the oldest companies in Australia are about to close their shipyards and when Adelaide Ship Construction has announced its intention to close, the Minister who claims to have the interest of Australian shipyards at heart would have had the constitutional fortitude to make a decision to consider this job for an Australian yard. Whatever the policy of the previous Government may have been, that is not before us now; the present Minister for Transport is in the saddle and he is not riding too well. It is the present Minister who has failed the Australian shipbuilding industry and he must answer for it. 
Has the Prime Minister asked  Senator Murphy  for an explanation as to why he did not pass on the information relating to the execution of 3 Australian citizens? If he has done so, what is the explanation? 
asked the Prime Minister,  upon  notice: 
Have instructions been issued to any Government department or authority, that public servants should fly by one commercial airline only. 
Has . there been any instruction or suggestion that if public servants in any Government department of authority do not specify a particular airline only one airline is to be used. 

 - Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Hansen)  put. 
Question put - 
That the question be now put. 
I second the amendment. My reason for so doing is because of the activities of Government supporters when in opposition and the proposals that they put to the people last year in the election campaign. The Opposition at that time contested the election campaign on open government. It tried to make a distinction between itself and the government of the day by saying that in government it would allow proper and frank debate on all issues that came before the Parliament. It pretended that there had been no opportunity for proper debate on many vital matters. The simple fact is that since the elections and since the new Government came into office the people of Australia have seen that they were duped, that open government does not prevail at all and that in fact proper and frank debate is being prevented. I think that the reactions of the people in 3 by-elections in New South Wales demonstrate that the new Government has certainly lost a great deal of glamour throughout Australia. I think this view will be fortified by the results of the elections in Victoria on Saturday, and indeed the Gallup poll which came out last week also will be fortified by those results. The Government understandably is quite nervous about this but, stupidly, is doing nothing about it. The actions of the Government are contrary to what it put to the people at the last elections. The architect of all this is, of course, none other than the Minister for Services and Property and Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  Everyone in this House knows the reason why the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  chose the Minister for Services and Property to be Leader of the House. He was put there simply to clown and amuse and to keep the faithful in order. The Government could not have chosen better. 
No, they are not complimentary, but they are not unparliamentary. The Minister stands in this House day after day, turning to his audience and telling sneering jokes at the expense of the Opposition. I warn new members of this Parliament they will find that after a few weeks of this the sense of humour of the Leader of the House palls. If they look through Hansard they will find tedious repetition of the same type of humour having been brought before this Parliament week after week, year after year, for the some 20 years which the Minister has spent in the House. The second reason why the Prime Minister appointed him Leader of the House and Minister for Services and Property is that he has nothing to do apart from trying to gerrymander the electorates. I have recounted this to the House before. The simple fact is that when I was Minister for the Interior I would handle in15 minutes to 20 minutes at the week-end the amount of legislation and business deals that the Department of Interior had to cover. The situation has not changed since then. The Commonwealth Gazette proves that by carrying details of the numbers of pieces of paper that the Minister has signed. He must beflat out getting something to do. 
Seriously, the facts are that we have before us today some very important legislation. We have, in fact, received the first piece of nationalisation legislation from this Government. We know that the first plank in the Labor Party's policy is the democratic socialisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange, and there is no question that the Pipeline Authority Bill is a vehicle for the socialisation program of this Government. Therefore it requires proper debate. The other Bills before the House are of equal importance. They include the Prices Justification Bill. Here we have a Government which has been sponsoring inflation with all its mad action through the period of weeks that it has been in power, and now it is setting up a prices justification tribunal and we are not to be permitted proper debate on it. 
The 2 other Bills are of vital importance to the States of Australia. Once again the Minister is deliberately trying to prevent proper debate on them. I submit in all seriousness that the Minister ought to consider his position in this matter and go back to the Prime Minister, who once made the statement that he was a Prime Minister one could trust. Mark you, nobody else has said that about the Prime Minister; he bad to say it himself in the House. The Minister ought to go back to his great and revered leader, the Prime Minister, and make this appeal to him: 'Let there be common sense. Let there be, as the Labor Party promised at the last election, frank and proper discussion on these matters of great and vital moment to the nation'. I second the amendment of the Opposition to this motion. 
Question put: 
That the times proposed to be omitted  (Mr  Lynch's amendment) stand part of the question. 
Has the Prime Minister seen a copy of an article over the name 'Elizabeth Reid' circulated to honourable members and printed in the Australian National University paper of 13 April 1973, a few days after her appointment to the Prime Minister's specialist staff as an adviser on womens' affairs? Will the Prime Minister study the paper closely and assure me that he is satisfied that M/s Reid's advice to him represents the views and attitudes of womanhood in this country? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. During question time I asked a very serious question of the Prime Minister concerning a document that has been circulated to honourable members and which I think deserves the Prime Minister's consideration. 
As a result of my question the Prime Minister made an attack upon me and I should like him to consider the document and offer me an apology for the attack. 
I lay on the table the document that has been circulated. 
 Well, I will give it to the Prime Minister. 
I second the amendment.  Mr Speaker- 
The Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  and I have had some discussions as you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  will have noted and we have been able to reach an accord that I think will suit the convenience of both sides of the House. I thank the Minister for his generosity in looking seriously at our amendments because they have been put forward by the Opposition only after a great deal of study and expressed concern about the Bill. I should like now to withdraw the amendment to clause 5 and to substitute another amendment. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Does the honourable member seek leave to withdraw his first amendment? 
 I seek leave to withdraw my first amendment and to move another. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 
Amendment - by leave - withdrawn. 
I move: 
Omit sub-section (1) of proposed section 19, substitute the following sub-section: 
The functions of the Commission are - 
to transport passengers and goods for reward by air between prescribed places; 
within the limits of its powers under this Act or any relevant State Act, to transport passengers and goods for reward by air or in association with its powers in this section and, within those limits, to provide land transport, accommodation, and other services and facilities associated with the exercise of its powers under paragraph (a); and 
to provide to the Commonwealth and authorities of the Commonwealth for reward, aviation, land transport and engineering services and such other services as can be conveniently provided by the use of the resources of the Commission, and the Commission shall carry on business for the purpose of performing those functions.'. 
The Minister accepts that this, in a sense, has narrowed the amendment to provide for the Commonwealth and the authorities of the Commonwealth. 
I move: 
Omit sub-section (1) of proposed section 19, substitute the following sub-section: 
The functions of the Commission are - 
to transport passengers and goods for reward by air between prescribed places; and 
within the limits of its powers under this Act or any relevant State Act, to transport passengers and goods for reward by air or in association with its powers in this section and, within those limits, to provide land transport accommodation, and other services and facilities associated with the exercise of its powers under paragraph (a), and the Commission shall carry on business for the purpose of performing those functions.'. 
Proposed new section 19, as contained in the Bill, would give Trans-Australia Airlines full and unlimited powers to operate as a road transport commission. There is no suggestion that its powers to engage in surface transport arc to be related to its air transport activities. What is important about the Government's proposed provision is that what are referred to therein are not activities in which the Australian National Airlines Commission is empowered to engage. They are presented, in the legislation, as functions of the Commission. The amendment limits the transportation functions of the Commission to its airline activities. Its other activities must be associated with the exercise of its airline function. My view is that the amendment meets the spirit of what was proposed by the previous Government and, as the Minister for Civil 
Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  claims that the Bill fulfils the purposes of the previous Government, the amendment should be accepted. If the Minister is genuine in his view - he stated in his second-reading speech that there is agreement between the Opposition and the Government on what was agreed to prior to the last elections as to the functions of TAA - there should be no difficulty in the Government's accepting the amendment because it clearly puts into proper perspective the agreement reached between the previous Government and TAA prior to the last election. In his second-reading speech the Minister said that he has taken that agreement as the base for changes to the Australian National Airlines Act. I submit to the Committee that if the Minister is serious in saying that there is common ground here, the Minister should have no difficulty in accepting the amendment which I have moved. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
Have the provincial daily newspapers in Victoria, with a circulation of approximately 381,000, carried the advertisement giving the terms of reference of the Royal Commission into the Post Office. 
Have the non-daily country newspapers in Victoria, with a circulation of 1.75 million and covering 350 centres, been unable to secure this advertisement. 
If so, and as these people and centres can be vitally affected by the Royal Commission, will the Minister correct this situation. 
I seek leave to withdraw my amendment relating to proposed section 19g. The reason is that over the past weekend I understand that satisfactory arrangements were made between the Australian Government and the Government of Papua New Guinea about the future policy for domestic airline services in Papua New Guinea. Now that there is a government to government agreement the. Opposition wishes to facilitate the arrangements. 
Amendment - by leave - withdrawn. 
I move: 
Omit proposed section 19b. 
This section amounts to parliamentary adoption in advance of a future State law without the legislative support of an existing reference of power. The method of adoption is for the Minister to publish a notice in the Gazette that the State Act is in his opinion, complementary to the Act. Apart from its doubtful validity, it is clearly objectionable as a surrender of parliamentary sovereignty to the Executive. 
J move: 
In proposed sub-section 2 of section 31, omit the words 'at such such rate of interest', substitute the words 'at a commercial rate of interest then current1. 
There is concern, now that the Commission has been given an opportunity to enter a widely expanded number of areas of industry, such as road transport, hotels, engineering, garages and the like, that the people who are engaged in these industries will suffer in respect of the interest rate at which the Commission is able to borrow money. I moved this amendment in order to try to obtain from the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  an assurance that this will be the case and that the Commission will have no financial advantage as against private enterprise in the rate of interest at which it can borrow moneys through this Parliament. I understand that there are legal difficulties about the wording of the amendment. Perhaps the Minister would comment. 
I move: 
In proposed sub-section (1a) of section 19a omit the words 'and whether before or after', substitute the words 'and before'. 
This amendment relates back in history for quite a long way. In a debate in this House in 1959 on airlines legislation the then AttorneyGeneral,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, made the statement: 
There is power for the States to refer to a Commonwealth Parliament topics which can include intrastate civil aviation, but the power of this Parliament to legislate on that topic does not arise until the reference is effective. In my opinion there is no power in this Parliament to make a law on a subject on which it has not yet any power. 
I move this amendment to maintain the position that was adopted in 1959 by  Sir Garfield  Barwick. 
I move- 
Omit paragraph (c) of proposed sub-section (2). Section 34 of the principal Act provides that moneys of the Commission that are not immediately required for the purposes of the Commission may be invested in several ways. Under the provisions of clause 15, paragraph (c) reserves may be invested in any other manner approved by the Treasurer. My nervousness in regard to paragraph (c) stems from the concernI feltthat Trans-Australia Airlines, which may have substantial reserves built up, could use those reserves to the disadvantage of hotel owners, motel owners, road transport operators or public road transport operators who have shares on the market, by buying those shares in large lumps. I have had discussions with the Minister for Transport and I understand that this is not envisaged. If the Minister could make some comment on this aspect I might deal with the amendment in some other way. 
I had circulated an amendment previously in similar terms to that moved by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones).  I thank the Minister for redrafting it. The Opposition accepts the amendment in its present form. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Having regard to your ruling earlier,  Mr Chairman,  I resubmit my amendment to clause 18 in the terms already stated and ask that it be accepted. 
The Opposition agrees with the amendment and thanks the Minister for obtaining a better wording for the amendment than I was able, in my innocence, to draft as a layman. We agree entirely with the terms of the amendment, and I thank the Minister. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 7. 
After section 19a of the Principle Act the following sections are inserted: 19b. lt is the intention of the Parliament that the Commission may have and perform functions and powers conferred on it by a State Act that is declared by the Minister, by notice published in the Gazette, to be, in his opinion, complementary to this Act, being functions and powers in relation to the provision of services in the State. 19c. (1) The Commission may, to the extent provided by sub-section (2), transport passengers or goods for reward by air or by land, or partly by air and partly by land, between places in the one State. 
*(2) The powers of the Commission under subsection (1) may be exercised - 
for the purposes of the efficient, competitive and profitable conduct of the business of the Commission in respect of its function under paragraph (a) of sub-section (1) of section 19 or otherwise as incidental to the carrying on of that business; or 
in association with the carrying on of that business and to the extent that those powers are capable of being conferred on the Commission in the exercise of the power of the Parliament to make laws under paragraph (xx) of section 51 of the Constitution. 
*19d. (1) The Commission may, lo the extent provided by sub-section (2), provide, for reward, services that involve the use of aircraft. 
The powers of the Commission under subsection (1) may be exercised - 
for the purposes of the efficient, competitive and profitable conduct of the business of the Commission in respect of its function under paragraph (a) of sub-section (1) of section 19 or otherwise as incidental to the carrying on of that business; or 
to the extent that those powers are capable of being conferred on the Commission in the exercise of the power of the Parliament to make laws under section 122 or paragraph (!) or (xx) of section 51 of the Constitution.  19e. (1) The Commisssion may, to the extent provided by sub-section (2), establish, maintain and operate, or make arrangements with other persons for or in connexion with the establishment, maintenance and operation of, hotels or other establishments or enterprises providing accommodation, recreation, entertainment or other services or facilities. 
The powers of the Commission under subsection (1) may be exercised - 
for the purposes of the efficient, competitive and profitable conduct of the business of the Commission in respect of its function under paragraph (a) of sub-section (1) of section 19 or otherwise as incidental to the carrying on of that business; or 
in association with the carrying on of that business and to the extent that those powers are capable of being conferred on the Commission in the exercise of the powers of the Parliament to make laws under section 122 or paragraph (xx) of section 51 of the Constitution.  19g. If- 
Papua New Guinea becomes an independent country; and 
the Commonwealth and the Government of that country enter into arrangements for the transport, for reward, by the Commission of passengers and goods by air between places in that country or between places in that country and places outside Australia and that country, the Commission may transport passengers and goods in accordance with those arrangements. 
I move: 
Omit paragraph (b) of sub-section (2) of proposed section 19c. 
The proposed section invokes paragraph (xx) of section 51 of the Constitution - that is, the corporation power - on a basis which clearly intends to give Trans- Australia Airlines wider powers than we believe are necessary for it to have to expand its activities to meet the agreed position between the Government and the Opposition in this matter. Paragraph (xx) of section 51 of the Constitution authorises the Commonwealth to make laws with respect to foreign corporations, and trading or financial corporations formed within the limits of  the Commonwealth. The extent of the Commonwealth's power under this paragraph is extremely uncertain and awaits further clarification by the High Court when a suitable issue arises. In 1909 in Huddart Parker Ltd v Moorehead the members of the High Court expressed quite different views but generally they gave the section a very restricted meaning. As a result it was assumed that the Commonwealth did not have power to enact a uniform Companies Act covering all trading corporations. It could only incorporate or regulate corporations carrying out any enumerated power such as inter-nation or interstate trade and commerce; for example, the National Shipping Line, the Australian National Airlines Commission and the Overseas Telecommunications Commission. 
In 1971 the High Court in the Concrete Pipes Case - Strickland v Rockla Concrete Pipes Ltd - took a much wider view of the corporation power and a number of judgments suggested, in passing, that the Commonwealth might be able to enact a uniform Companies Act and might also be able to form trading companies engaging in domestic trade and commerce within the confines of a State. Until the corporation power of the Commonwealth is fully defined, it is not acceptable to give the Commission a blank cheque to exercise that power to the full extent that the power is capable of being conferred on the Commission in the exercise of the power of the Parliament. This is especially so since many other provisions of the Bill give the Commission all the powers that are necessary. The Opposition submits that it is rather like using a sledge-hammer to crack a nut. 
by leaveI move: 
Omit paragraph (b) of sub-section (2) of proposed section 19e. 
Comments similar to those applied to the earlier amendments apply to this. 
The Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  may well argue his side of the story but the simple truth is that the people engaged in the industries mentioned earlier were, to use an expression, dead scared of the force of this power because the power is unlimited. It has never been tested in the High Court and it is definitely not necessary to have this power to secure for TAA those additions to its operations which we believed when in government and which we believe in Opposition it should have. I say with great respect to the Minister that I think it is a bit unfair of him to suggest that there was a fear or scare campaign worked up over this issue for in simple truth the enormity of this proposition to include paragraph (xx) of section 51 of the Constitution is such that I can understand any crop duster, hotel owner, garage proprietor or any engineering shop proprietor and the proprietors of hundreds of other ancillary industries being nervous about it. 
Crop dusters were mentioned specifically. Indeed, an agreement between the Director-General and the Commission, dated 13 October - that was prior to the last election - included aerial work and charter operations as being a rightful part of TAA's operations. When this power is added to the agreement reached with the Director-General, of course crop duster and many others would be nervous. 
 The Opposition agrees entirely with what has just been said by the Minister. The use of the word 'if was unfortunate. It was picked up by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  when he spoke during the second reading debate. The word 'upon', which is to be substituted is a much more diplomatic word for a Bill of this nature. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 8 to 12  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 13. 
Section 31 of the Principal Act is amended: 
by omitting sub-sections (1) and (2) and substituting the following sub-sections: 
The Commission may, with the approval of the Treasurer, borrow moneys from time to time in such amounts as the Minister certifies are, in his opinion, necessary for the exercise of its powers or the performance of its duties or functions under this Act. 
The Treasurer may, on behalf of the Commonwealth, out of moneys appropriated by the Parliament for the purpose, lend to the Commission, at such rate of interest and on such other terms and conditions as he determines, moneys that the Commission is authorised to borrow under sub-section (1).'; 
by omitting from sub-section (4) the words with the concurrence of the Minister,'; and 
by omitting sub-section (6). 
I am pleased to hear the assurance given by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  in regard to this matter. A great deal of unrest has been expressed by interested bodies outside this Parliament who will become competitors with Trans-Australia Airlines when it moves into its new fields. It is only appropriate in my view and in the Opposition's view that TAA should not now have any financial advantage through Treasury activity. I accept immediately that any outside organisation can borrow at competitive rates overseas, but I was particularly concerned about money being made available to TAA through the Treasury at subsidised interest rates when TAA is operating in competitive fields of industry. Now that the Minister has given his assurance I seek leave to withdraw my amendment. 
Amendment - by leave - withdrawn. 
Clause agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 13a. 
I move: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: 13a. After section 31 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: 31a. The Commission shall prior to the 30 June 1973 and thereafter from time to time at intervals of not more than one month transfer the moneys representing provisions made by the Commission for staff superannuation to the Commonwealth Superannuation Board.' 
The previous Government had a longstanding agreement or arrangement - indeed a decision was taken - that the superannuation funds of the Commission should be transferred away from Trans-Australia Airlines so that that organisation may no longer use them for capital purchases. This amendment seeks to put that matter in order. At the present time the Commission has many millions of dollars in its superannuation fund which it can borrow at any time at preferred rates and use for the purchase of capital equipment. We think the matter should be put in order. The Commission should be placed on the same basts as other Commonwealth instrumentalities in this regard. The previous Government had a firm undertaking and decision on this matter and for that reason I move the amendment as circulated. 
The Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  argues strongly but in my view not correctly on a couple of points. The first point is the equality of the operations between Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. The simple fact is, of course, that TAA has advantages over ATI in respect of this matter. ATI is forced to pay its contributions for superannuation, along with those from its employees, into some secure investment. Then, when it wants to borrow capital, it has to go on to the market so to do. In this case, certainly TAA has to meet its share of the superannuation contributions. But it can then invest those contributions in capital equipment. So it is not a matter of comparing like with like. It may well be that this matter was not covered by the original airlines agreement. I am not arguing that. Nevertheless, the previous Government took a decision on this matter in relation to superannuation. As my colleague, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  rightly says, mention was made of it in the last Budget when $25m was provided for TAA to overcome short term difficulties whilst it made arrangements for the transfer of its superannuation funds. 
The second point is that there is no reason that I can see why TAA should be treated any differently in relation to this matter from the Australian National Line, the Commonwealth Railways or any of the other 30 Commonwealth authorities that have to pay their superannuation contributions into the Commonwealth Superannuation Board, or invest them in some other way. But they are not able to use the contributions for investment in capital equipment in their industries. ANL is just as competitive both on the coastal trade and on the international trade as private enterprise. Yet it does not receive this advantage. We make sure that its superannuation contributions are treated differently. So there is no reason to give TAA this advantage which it has had. A clear decision was taken by the previous Government that this matter should be corrected. That is why the Opposition has moved this amendment. I regret to say that the honeymoon is now over and we will be - forced to seek a division on this amendment. 
Question put: 
That the new clause 13a  (Mr Nixon's amendment)  be inserted. 
Now that the Minister has made the position perfectly clear I seek leave to withdraw the amendment. 
Amendment - by leave - withdrawn. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 16. 
Sections 35, 36 and 37 of the Principal Act are repealed and the following sections substituted: 
The Commission shall cause to be kept proper accounts and records of the transactions and affairs ofthe Commission in accordance with the accounting principles generally applied in commercial practice and shall do all things necessary to ensure that all payments out of its moneys are correctly made and properly authorised and that adequate control is maintained over the assets of, or in the custody of, the Commission and over the incurring of liabilities by the Commission.  37. (1) The Commission is subject to taxation under the laws of the Commonwealth. 
Subject to sub-section (3), the Commission is not subject to taxation under a law of a State or of a Territory. 
The regulations may provide that sub-section (2) does not apply in relation to taxation under a specified law of a State or of a Territory. 
The Commission is not a public authority for the purposes of paragraph (d) of section 23 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1972. 
The Commission is not a public transport authority for the purposes of item 77 in the First Schedule to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935-1973.'. 
I have circulated 2 proposed amendments to clause 16. However, I will proceed only on the second one. I move: 
Omit proposed section 37, substitute the following proposed section:  37. (1) The Commission shall pay all rates, taxes and charges under any law of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory. 
The Commission is not a public authority for the purposes of paragraph (d) of section 23 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1972. 
The Commission is not a public transport authority for the purposes of item 77 in the First Schedule to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935-1973.'. 
The Minister for Transport made it perfectly clear the other day that Trans-Australia Airlines will be expected to pay States rates and taxes. In its present form the principal Act is a negative Act whereby this is done by regulation. I want to make this a positive part of the new Act. I seek to have this amendment accepted by the Committee so that the world at large will be able to see that TAA in all its operations will be expected to pay normal rates and taxes which any other private company or organisation has to pay. There was a great fear within the community that under this Bill TAA would be able to avoid paying such things as liquor licences, entertainment taxes - it proposes to run a number of entertainment places - and also road taxes and a number of other State charges and taxes. The Minister has assured me that TAA will not be able to avoid these charges. I thank him for that assurance. I seek the acceptance of my amendment by the Committee. 
I move: 
Before paragraph (a), insert the following paragraph: (aa) by inserting after sub-section (1) the following sub-section: "(1a) The report by the Commission shall include details of: 
any change in accounting principles adopted since the last report of the Commission, including any change in the rate or method of charging depreciation in the accounts of the Commission; 
any material change in the method of valuation of the whole or any part of the stock of the Commission; 
any material item appearing in the accounts of the Commission for the first time or not  usually included in the accounts of the Commission; 
any absence from the accounts of the Commission of any material item usually included in the accounts of the Commission; and 
the adequacy of provisions in the nature of reserves made in the accounts of the Commission.".'. 
By way of explanation, may I say that subparagraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) that I have just read are taken from the Uniform Companies Accounts of Victoria and, I think, of other States which are similar, and sub-paragraph (e) is taken from the principal Act which subparagraph it was proposed to omit. My reason for seeking to include it in this way is to demonstrate to the public at large that Trans-Australia Airlines does in fact meet all the requirements that a private company is required to meet. Whilst it is a public authority, it is operating in the private enterprise world outside. Now that it is extending its operations into so many new fields I think it only fair that the accounts should be presented in a form similar to that required of any public authority outside. This is not a reflection on the bookkeeping methods or presentation of reports by TAA in the past. I know for a fact that TAA has won a number of awards for the manner in which it has presented its annual reports. Its purpose is simply to inform the companies with which it is competing outside - whether they be small or large - that TAA is operating under conditions similar to those under which they operate. Accordingly I commend the amendment. 
I move: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: 18a. After section 41 of the principal Act the following sections are inserted: "42. The Minister will not exercise any powers under or by virtue of this or any other Act, or Regulations, so as to discriminate unfairly in favour of the Commission or any other person engaged in the provision of services for the transport of passengers or goods by air or by land or in the establishment, maintenance or operation of hotels or other establishments or enterprises providing accommodation, recreation, entertainment or other services or facilities. 
Nothing in this Act will affect or authorise action inconsistent with the obligations of the Commission under, or the provisions or purposes of, the agreement referred to in sub-section (3) of section  3  of the Airlines Agreements Act 1952-1972 and the agreement referred to in sub-section (2) of that section as affected by the foregoing agreement and the agreement referred to in sub-section (1) of that section as affected by each of the foregoing agreements.".'. 
This proposed new clause 18a can be described as a fair play clause to ensure that Trans-Australia Airlines, throughout the whole breadth of its new operations, will be seen by the public and the world at large to be operating in a fair and equal manner with its competitors. I seek the acceptance of this new clause by the Parliament. 
I thank the Minister for the assurance he has given in respect of these fair play clauses. Of course, the clauses go much further than the operation of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and Trans-Australia Airlines. They cover the new operations in which TAA will be investing in the months ahead. As far as the operation of the 2-airline system is concerned, I was interested to hear the Minister say that he believes that the airlines should have equal access to all routes. I was interested also to hear him confirm that it would be a stupid policy which forced a double routing on routes which are quite uneconomic. I hope that when the Minister comes to deal with this matter he will deal with it through the rationalisation committee which handles these matters, so that neither TAA nor ATI is forced, because of some arbitrary arrangement, to enter into more uneconomic routes than is necessary. I agree with the Minister that the proper approach on a matter of this nature is to seek rationalisation of the routes involved. If that can be done in a sensible manner, not only will the airlines benefit but also the travelling public of Australia will benefit. 
Proposed new clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole. 
I thank the Minister for the co-operation he has extended to me in working through this Bill. A great number of serious difficulties have confronted us in working through the Bill. He has co-operated very well with me. I also extend my thanks to his officers, who were very patient in a clause by clause discussion of the Bill. I thank them also for the assistance they gave me in redrafting some of the amendments. We have reached a position where those who are involved in the road transport industry, the hotel-motel industry and the civil aviation industry can see from the remarks of the Minister and from the Bill itself that there is nothing in the Bill which can cause them any untoward fear or harm. What they can look forward to is some proper and just competition from TransAustralia Airlines. I thank the Minister for the co-operation  1  have received. 
1 preface my question to the Treasurer by reminding him that most Australians now lead a very sedentary existence, tied to desks, homes and motor cars, and can no longer be regarded as a race of bronzed  Apollos.  I ask, therefore, in view of the greater leisure hours confronting most people and compounding the health problems of the nation, will be when framing the Budget consider abolishing sales tax on sports equipment to encourage people of all ages to participate more in active sport? 
I must by way of preface open my remarks on this Bill by referring to the speech of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  when he talked about the cynicism of the Opposition. If ever I have heard speeches which contained sheer hypocrisy in regard to a very important Bill I have heard them tonight. The speeches were not only by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro; he obviously does not know what he is talking about, so I will ignore the rest of his speech. However, for the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  to sit there cosily and to talk in the terms that he did about this Bill simply amazes me.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you will know, in your high position in the Chair, that I speak with some feeling on this matter. I am sure you will join with me in my sheer horror at this Bill and what it does not tell the Parliament. It is a very important Bill to those warm people on King Island. Unfortunately those warm people have met the cold hands of a Labor Government which has failed to honour its undertakings to them. That is the tragedy of this Bill. 
I will come back to that point in a moment. The Bill, of course, honours the undertaking that we, when in government, gave prior to the last election. I am pleased to see its ratification and the fact that the financial obligations are being met. I will not recount exactly what the Bill does because that has been spelt out clearly here again tonight. I want to express my sheer disappointment that a Labor Government which before the election clearly said that it would honour an obligation and an undertakinfg to Captain Houfe, should dishonour that obligation. The honourable member for Braddon spoke of a telegram that he himself sent to Captain Houfe and that came out of, as I understand it,  Sir, your  Caucus. It was a clear decision of the Labor Caucus. I shall read this telegram to the House. It stated: 
Federal parliamentary Labor Party today approved the following policy decision. A Federal Labor Government will require the Australian National Line to assume responsibility for the King Island shipping service and for this purpose to negotiate with the owners of the ship Straitsman which was specifically designed for this service. 
Signed Ron Davis, MHR 
Davies. I do not know whether he signed his name correctly or not. That is the name on the telegram. This telegram is an obligation to assist Captain Houfe in maintaining the King Island service. Captain Houfe built that ship specifically for the port of Grassy, recognising that the Commonwealth and the State had agreed to construct a new port. He invested a lot of money personally in having a new ship built in Cairns, Queensland, at a cost of $2m. He ran into a great number of difficulties right from the outset. Indeed, the ship was never given a real opportunity to prove itself. But that opportunity was to have been given to it by a Labor government. For our part, when we were in government, we said clearly that our obligation in respect of King Island would cease when we met the financial requirement to assist in the development of the port and that the State Government should then - and I agreed to this - deal with the problems, if any emerged, in the shipping service. But the Opposition of the day, the Labor Party, sent that telegram clearly stating that it would pick up with this problem and would assist Captain Houfe in overcoming his difficulties. 
That is the real tragedy of this Bill. It has not gone unnoticed either. 1 notice that James V. Ramsden of the 'Financial Review' in an article on 27 March noticed it.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I am sure that you with your kindly worldly ways would have noticed the change of face and the change of heart by the members of the Labor Party. You, sitting in that Chair, must be a sorry man to see such a policy breakdown, finch a destructive act and the capacity of the Labor Party to turn its back on a clear commitment. You must be a broken man tonight,  Sir, having  to sit in that Chair and listen to this debate. I know that if you were not sitting in the Chair you would be on your feet demanding that the Labor Party's obligation be fulfilled. I am sorry that the honourable member for Braddon has let you down,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  when he was on your batting team but he did not in fact do what clearly you would have done. It seems to me a tragedy that you happen to be sitting in the chair at this point of time. I come back to the article by James V. Ramsden. He said that there were a number of contradictory points about this whole affair. The first point he made is: 
The present Labor Government promised unequivocally while in opposition that if it was elected to power the ANL would be directed to take over the King Island service and would negotiate with the owners of the Straitsman. 
The next point he made was: 
The ANL and the Federal Government are now most reluctant to honour this promise in view of the losses which the ANL says it would make on the King Island-Stanley- Melbourne service of between $400,000 and $500,000 a year. 
Another point was: 
The ANL and Holyman-Union-Bulkships all say that if they had to undertake the service they would use the Straitsman for that service. 
I am sure you will agree,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that there are a number of contradictory points and it must be breaking your heart that you cannot speak on this Bill. I wonder that somebody has not offered to relieve you in the chair in order that you might speak on it.  Mr Ramsden  went on to say that the Minister for Transport had agreed that: 
The Straitsman was an uneconomic proposition for the King Island service. 
It surprises me that the Minister would be so unkind as to say that. As I recall the position, the Minister for Transport had not, in fact, seen the report given by the Australian National Line. He said so publicly himself. He had not seen the report given by the ANL on 29 March but by that time he had taken the decision not to use the 'Straitsman'. On 4 April he said that he would ask for a copy of the budget for the use of the 'Straitsman' in the service. But the decision had already been taken. It really horrifies me that the Minister should act in this unkindly way to Captain Houfe who developed this service and ran the King Islander' for so many years and replaced it with a ship specifically built for the new port. I am sure that you will agree with me,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that this is a matter of ratting on an undertaking - ratting on a promise. That the honourable member for Braddon should sit in this chamber and even mention Captain Houfe's name surprises me. 
The honourable member did. It surprised me that he should mention it in such a lighthearted way. I should have thought that he would have torn the Minister apart for breaking his promise but what did he say? He just said: 'The Minister has accepted it and we have to go along with that. Tut, tut! Bad luck Captain Houfe. You might go bankrupt over this but the Minister has accepted it and I don't care any longer about it and that's the end of it'. 
I am trying to be fair. The honourable member sent the telegram to Captain Houfe giving a specific undertaking yet he is not prepared to stand up and be counted on the issue. I am surprised both at him and the Minister turning their backs on Captain Houfe in this way. 
I join with my colleague, the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  in congratulating the Government on seeing the sense of the amendment which we moved in earlier debate. It brings to an end a very sorry episode which started when the Australian National Airlines Bill was introduced by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  on 3 May this year. At that time the Minister said: 'This is quite a minor Bill and, as there is agreement between the Government and the Opposition, I need not go into any detail about it'. The Bill as seen by the hotel-motel industry, the transport industry, the airline industry and many other ancillary industries turned out to be a Frankenstein monster. The Minister had to accept 14 amendments from the Opposition. If that had happened in the United Kingdom or in any decent parliamentary system the Minister having had to accept 14 amendments to a major Bill would have resigned. Any decent Minister would have resigned and said to one of his colleagues: 'I am not fit to carry on. Please take my place '. 
 Mr Speaker,  I address my question to the right honourable the Prime Minister. 
The siting of the new parliament house has a somewhat torrid history. It is a subject matter that has led to in depth studies by responsible authorities outside Parliament and by a select committee of this Parliament followed by lengthy debates in this House and the Senate. During the last debate on this matter I was Minister for the Interior and carried the responsibility for the Australian Capital Territory and the National Capital Development Commission. I was also a member of the Joint Select Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House. Some honourable members will recall that in 1958 the government of the day decided that a new parliament house should be built on the site known as the lakeside site. This site had been confirmed by Lord Holford, a very distinguished British architect and planner who was commissioned by the NCDC. It should be understood that Lord Holford was constrained in his judgment because of his understanding that the site at Camp Hill was unavailable as building methods in those days could not cope with the present Parliament House, thought then to be too valuable for demolition. 
In the debate of 17 October 1968 on the siting, this House rejected the lakeside site but accepted a motion I put forward recommending a fresh feasibility study to be made of the original Walter Burley Griffin site right here at Camp Hill. The Joint Parliamentary Committee was set up, took detailed evidence from a variety of sources and some members made trips around the world looking at other parliaments. The report was tabled on 30 April 1969 and debated on 13 May 1969. The report found in favour of the Camp Hill site and when the matter was debated that site was confirmed by this House in a vote of 53 to 49. This vote was not supported by the Senate. Since that time there have been 2 general elections and a great number of new members have come into the House. In fact, of the present 125 members only 54 were in the House at that time. 
I hope that the new members will be given full opportunity to seek out the relevant facts on this issue before voting. The difficulty I found previously was that emotion had tended to colour judgments put forward by some speakers in the previous debates. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  has temporarily withdrawn from the chamber. I would like him to make sure that a proper education program is instituted, with all the relevant facts being put together in a committee room so that all new members will have the same opportunity to discover the facts as we had on previous occasions. Otherwise it will be impossible for new members to make the judgment that is required and desired of them on this very important matter. The Minister has now returned to the chamber. Will you set up all the relevant information in a committee room for new members to examine? I have just said to the House that only 54 of the present members were in the House at the time of the previous debates. 
I will address myself to  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if you wish, and follow the correct procedures. The honourable member is new but he is not doing too badly. I hope he does as well in making himself as familiar with the information about the new parliament house site as he is with Standing Orders. For some reason or other there seems to be a simple appeal in building on the highest point available and totally dominating the scene and area around. It was proved conclusively in the evidence tendered to the Joint Committee that in pure aesthetic and architectural terms Camp Hill has more attraction than Capital Hill. 
But let me start at the beginning. Walter Burley Griffin reported to the Minister for Home Affairs in October 1913 on this subject. I have here a copy of the report. It contains a plan for Canberra and a site for Parliament House. Some confusion ensued in the years following the Burley Griffin plan through the use of the name Kurrajong for Capital Hill and Canberra Hill for what is now Camp Hill. However, it is perfectly clear from Griffin's papers that he had an entirely different use in prospect for Capital Hill. He pointed out: 
Kurrajong . . . being the only conspicuous internal eminence that has a skyline visible from practically every portion of the city, lends itself to an architectural treatment that need comprise little more than the necessary ramps, stairs and terraces for outlook to make it by its natural bulk the dominating architectural feature. 
Walter Burley Griffin proposed building on this hill a structure for popular reception and ceremonial or for housing archives and commemorating Australian achievements rather than for deliberation or counsel. He did not come to this decision without considering the possibility of placing the House of Parliament on this hill. His final words in rejecting the Kurrajong or Capital Hill site were: 
Kurrajong is deemed too large and too high for a convenient working organisation of Parliament. 
In his view representative government is properly stationed in a capital in an accessible but still quiet area. I submit that these considerations are still today the overriding ones. In recommending Camp Hill as the site for the parliament building he stated that the fact that Parliament is in 2 Houses is an incident in addition to the topographical situation that precludes making of that structure a focal feature. He pointed out that Camp Hill provided sufficient foreground to set off the parliament house. One of the points that concerned members in the previous debate was the area available for use by Parliament on the 2 sites of Capital Hill and Camp Hill. The area of Capital Hill contains within State Circle 135 acres and within the ring road and the commemoration gardens an extra 25 acres, or a total of 160 acres. Camp Hill between King George Terrace and Queen Victoria Terrace contains 34 acres; between Queen Victoria Terrace and State Circle 31 acres; and between State Circle and the continuation of the avenues to the summit of Camp Hill plus the commemoration gardens another 85 acres, or a total of 150 acres. So there is little difference in area available on the 2 sites. 
It is quite clear that Camp Hill has more than a satisfactory area by any international comparison. One impressive factor is that Camp Hill, where we are now, is equidistant between Lake Burfey Griffin and Capital Hill. From the front steps of this building the sweep down to the lake and across to the war memorial is in almost perfect perspective. From Capital Hill taking the same view the perspective is totally lost by distance; rather one becomes conscious only of half a dozen major roads with thousands of moving motor cars and trucks sweeping to and from State Circle. I suggest that no finer view can be obtained from any parliamentary building in the world than from the front steps of this Parliament House, by day or night. The opportunity is available to build a new parliament by the means suggested by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. It is the only practical means of overcoming the problems facing this Parliament. I suggest that no government could or would find the money to build a new parliament house in one go, which is what would be required if the Capital Hill site were used. The proposal made by the Minister is a rational, practical way of meeting a need that is becoming more and more urgent as each year goes by. Let this House confirm once again the site that was chosen by Burley Griffin, thereby maintaining the integrity of the Burley Griffin plan, and let us get on with the job. The Minister has moved an amendment to the original motion which was moved by the honourable member for Corio. I support the amendment. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. Last night when speaking on the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) the Minister for Gerrymander made the following 
Yes,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  last night, when talking about a gerrymander, made the following comments:  . . not one member of the Country Party has ever won more than SO per cent of the primary votes before being elected to this Parliament. Of course they get more than SO per cent after the distribution of preferences, but not one Country Party member has ever gained a majority on the first count. 
The Minister for Services and Property has time and time again been inaccurate. I point out that I have been elected on the first count, I think, on every occasion that I have been elected to this Parliament, which involves some 5 elections. 
Can the Minister for Transport say whether a new Commonwealth Aid Roads Bill will be introduced into Parliament this year? Is it still Labor policy to give, for road construction purposes, the total excise raised on fuel sold? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Following the overruling of the 3-man Cabinet decision on interest rates, can the Prime Minister say when the 90-man cabinet will inform the nation what interest rates will be? 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders by suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Gippsland from speaking forthwith on the motion that die report be adopted. 
 I should like to make one or two points on this matter. I ignore totally the fact that in the debate tonight the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  appeared to read from a previous Cabinet submission. If it is not a Cabinet submission, I would like to know from what source he was reading. 
Motion (by  Mr Keating)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
I want to draw attention to something that has occurred in this debate, and it is very important insofar as the remainder of the Bill is concerned. 

 - Mr Chairman, I think the Postmaster-General is overreaching himself somewhat in his anxiety to get this Bill through. I can understand his anxiety because when the country members sitting behind him wake up tomorrow and read the newspapers 
Motion (by  Mr Hansen)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 - Mr Speaker, first of all I seek clarification as to what--- 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be reported. 
That the people of Australia were misled during the last election campaign and the period preceding it oan be easily demonstrated by this piece of legislation. It is typical of the whole anticountry people approach taken by the Government. The Labor Government has taken the opportunity to vent its spleen on all people living outside Melbourne and Sydney. When in office we lived through the pretence of great concern being expressed for people in country towns and country areas by one or two of the rural rump of the Labor Party - and pretence it proved to be. The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  and the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  were the greatest pretenders of all great pretenders - no more, no less. This Budget is full of attacks on people outside the big metropolitan cities. I do not know where the Minister for Immigration was during the Budget discussions - he must have been representing the electorate of Riverina by hiding behind the door somewhere. It must have been the only time in his life that he could not find his tongue. That he has accepted these Budget impositions on country people so easily must disturb the people he represents. &lt;This measure more than any other reflects the disturbing approach taken by the Labor Government to the dissemination of news throughout Australia. This measure will increase savagely the bulk postage rates affecting all newspapers. The postage charge for a 3 oz newspaper in category A or category B, a typical country newspaper, will be increased from 1.75c to 11c by 1 October 1976. The Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has displayed in the House a certain amount of joy that country newspapers are to be affected so heavily. The fact is that the increased charges will be a direct impost on people who live in areas where posting is necessary. They will carry the load of these exorbitant charges. The newspapers will be affected seriously by cancellation of the subscription by the reader because of high postage rates. The PostmasterGeneral's blatant attack on country people by means of postage on newspapers will mean that the postage will cost more than the newspaper itself. This will cause some newspapers to close down. I know that the Labor Government will get joy from that. One of the great aims of a socialist government is to control the media, and if a whole host of small newspapers are forced to close that job is made much easier. Country newspapers are entirely fair in their political reporting and are completely politically independent. 
 I hear cracks from honourable members opposite. I wonder what the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  or the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  or the honourable member for Eden Monaro  (Mr Whan)  think of a statement of that nature. Why do they not get out in their electorates and defend this legislation? Are they so lacking in stomach or support , for their electorates? Where are these silent people from the Labor Party? Where is the rural rump? What has happened to it? The people who comprise the rural rump have taken a beating in caucus and they are prepared to take a beating in the House. The Postmaster-General demonstrated in this House that there was no doubt that this move was made for purely political reasons. In answering questions he has shown more concern about the politics of the situation than the economics. The extraordinary fact is that in the same Budget the Government proposes to spend more than $1.5m to bolster the Government Publishing Service. This will become no more than a propaganda factory putting out material to suit the Labor socialists. They will vote unanimously to use the taxpayers' money for their own selfish purposes. But now they want to abolish every incentive for people to stay in country towns. They want to destroy every prospect of developing the nation as a whole. They want to increase the inequities which face people living outside Melbourne and Sydney. They do not want a national goal of parity for those living in 
Melbourne and Sydney with those living in towns and cities outside Melbourne and Sydney. 
The Labor Party pretends to be a Party interested in decentralisation. The very thrust of this measure demonstrates how shallow that interest is. The local newspaper is a decentralised industry in itself and there is no greater vehicle for the promotion of an area than the local newspaper. That an action to destroy both a decentralised industry and the voice of the local people is being taken by the Labor Government demonstrates its insincerity and shows the Government in its true light. I wonder what people in country towns would say if they were told that when a newspaper fails it will be replaced by governmentrun media. Such a proposition is not beyond the bounds of possibility. As I said a moment ago, the Government has already started procedures for the publication of the Government's story. A similar proposal* in Germany led to Goebbel's full control of information prior to the war. If my memory serves me correctly, the last Labor government saw merit in government control of information. 
Country newspapers play a unique role in communications in country towns. They are vital pieces of machinery for the dissemination of local news, markets, sport and social happenings. They are the only medium that can be interested in or available for the carrying of advertisements for the local chemists or shops or garages and the prices obtaining for fats and stores at the market on Monday. They are a vehicle for appeals by local charities, for accounts of shire council debates and for advertising of meeting dates for local organisations. Even the local Labor Party branches advertise in country newspapers. At least that is the case on rare occasions the local branch holds meetings in the Gippsland electorate, which occurs about 3 weeks before an election campaign. Apart from that it is flat out getting a branch meeting together. At the time of an election the odd senator might attend a meeting. 
The local newspaper can tell the community what is happening in the way of romance and births and deaths. It can tell of the clash on the football field and whether the fish are biting. The local newspaper does not compete with the metropolitan dailies but if both arrive at a house at the same time, in most cases it will be the local newspaper which is reached for first. The local newspaper binds a town together, gives it a sense of cohesion, and gives the people a sense of belonging in a community. It cannot be replaced. Any government which is interested in decentralisation, national development or the people would set out to encourage local newspapers. One would have thought that a Labor government, of all, seeing that it has expressed concern about the media being in the hands of a few people, would have set out to encourage competition in the newspaper world. The fact that it is not doing so causes me to be concerned about the motives of the Labor Government in setting up its Government Publishing Service. 
This Bill affects almost everyone. It affects every householder in Australia because it relates to the cost of postage. Whereas previously, as was pointed out so ably tonight by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  a 28 gram letter cost 7c, from now on it will cost 15c for everything in excess of 20 grams. This is nothing short of a confidence trick because as the Government converts to metrics it picks up a handsome profit on the way past. The sad thing about that is that although the Government has been appealing to the community at large not to increase charges while converting to metrics, the Government has set a very bad example itself by making profits in excess of 100 per cent on metrics alone. 
Similarly, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his Budget Speech misled the nation by claiming that there was no change in postage rates when in point of fact the changes are immense. At the present time a parcel of 906 grams can be sent a distance of 50 kilometres for 35c. After this Bill is passed the postage on that parcel will be 45c, or an increase of 29 per cent. Beyond 50 kilometres the cost will increase from 45c to 60c, or an increase of 33 per cent So the sad  story  goes on. Postage on books coming into the country will be the same, but postage on books printed in Australia will increase from 31c for 750 grams to 85c between Melbourne and Adelaide. 
But it is in the registered publications section, which affects newspapers and periodicals, that the biggest slug will come because the abolition of the various categories over 3 years will seriously affect all publications from charitable, welfare and religious organisations as well as from scientific, educational and technical organisations. Postage rates in this category will increase by 400 per cent by 1 October 1976. Category B relates to metropolitan newspapers, trade and employer organisations, professional and academic organisations and social, recreational, motoring and other commercial publications. In that category there will be an increase of 150 per cent for a 6 oz publication. Category C publications, for which the postage has been high enough, will suffer a further increase of up to 20 per cent by 1 March 1974. 
It is completely objectionable that the Post Office should make a profit out of metrication, and it is of no use to say that the previous Postmaster-General had the same thing in mind. Such a proposition had never been before the previous Government and therefore it had neither been discussed .nor agreed to. The Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  alluded to this in the House and tried to pretend- 
 The Postmaster-General can find the Hansard and correct me in his reply. 
It is not the minute that I am concerned about; I am concerned about the facts. 
I ask the Postmaster-General to give serious consideration to amending the legislation to bring into effect these rates rather than the ones that the Government proposed. We do not agree that country publications should be further disadvantaged to the degree proposed by the transfer of a number of them from category A to category B. We Believe it would be in the best interests of decentralisation if all country newspapers and periodicals which are printed in country areas were to remain in category A irrespective of the frequency of publication. We also consider that special consideration should be given to those country publications which are highly dependent on the mail for their distribution to subscribers. I therefore intend to move amendments to the Post and Telegraph Regulations Bill and the next Bill, the Post and Telegraphs Bill, to vary the conditions of catgory A. 
We have had quite a lengthy cognate debate on this Bill, the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill and the Post and Telegraph Bill 1973 and the Opposition has expressed its concern about them. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  who led in the debate, expressed deep concern at the extremely big increases proposed in the bulk postage rates for newspapers and periodicals. We made the point that there was a commission of inquiry investigating postal matters and that it should finish its hearings before the Government makes any changes of this nature. We accept the fact that there have to be increases from time to time and we made the point strongly that we thought the size of the proposed increases was quite unreasonable and could not in any way be accepted as a normal or fair increase to match rising costs. The Leader of the Country Party when leading in the debate said that he thought the Government should be more reasonable in its approach. I set out now some proposals that we believe are reasonable. In the first place we believe that the Government should withdraw its stated intention to eliminate concessional categories A and B on 1 October 1976 and that the new rates to apply should be made more reasonable. As the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is aware, I have been able to hold discussions with officers of the Department about this matter. The rates that we consider should apply are set out in a document and I seekleave of the House to have that document incorporated in Hansard. 

 - l would like just in passing to thank the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  for his cooperation on this legislation. It has been very difficult legislation to handle. I am sure that the people outside in the community will recognise the value of the acceptance of the amendments that the Minister has agreed to. I would like to thank him and also the officers of the Postmaster-General's Department for their assistance in achieving a Bill that is acceptable. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. Just prior to the honourable member for Blaxland speaking- 
Yes. 
I want to give some information. I seek leave. 
I seek leave to make a statement. 

 Mr NIXON (Gippsland) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. 
Not by my own Leader at all: by imputation. As a member of the Committee I have been misrepresented in the discussion that went on as to whether or not information had been given to the Prime Minister about the Committee's discussions. It is true to say that information was proposed to be given to the Prime Minister on a number of occasions by the  Chairman  of SubCommittee B. Whether he gave the Prime Minister that information - he said he was going to do so - only he and the Prime Minister can state. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Was the decision to revoke the Customs by-law prohibiting dumping of imported cheese, which was announced by the Minister for Customs and Excise, made by Cabinet. 
I raise a point of procedure first.  Mr Speaker,  I understand I am to get 20 minutes in this debate. Is that correct? 
 Firstly I want to respond to the allegation made by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan).  He is too fond of coming into this House with a broad brush and slamming everybody in sight without having the constitutional, institutional or any other sort of fortitude. 
 In deference to the Minister, I say that the honourable member for EdenMonaro does not have the intestinal fortitude to go on with the job. He is a plain damp squib. The sooner the people of Eden-Monaro recognise that the better. I think they will recognise it when they see his signature on the report we are debating. The simple fact is that if any confidence has been jeopardised in the beef industry it has been done by the Government and nobody else. The Government was no sooner in power when it asked  Colonel McArthur  to present a Meat Board report on how the Government could reduce the price of meat. Then on 3 May the Government set up the Joint Committee on Prices with the following reference: 
Stabilisation of meat prices, with particular reference to the report of the Australian Meat Board on this subject. 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro accused the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  of jeopardising confidence. He did so in the face of the report of  Colonel McArthur,  who incidentally rejected the method proposed in the report and rejected entirely an export tax on beef as being a reasonable method of taxation. For the Government to set up a committee and for the honourable member to accuse the Leader of the Country Party of jeopardising the confi dence of the beef industry is plain humbug. There is no question about it. The responsibility, if confidence in the beef industry has been jeopardised, lies straight with the Government. For fools like the honourable member for Eden-Monaro who prattle on- 
 I withdraw that remark. I have been very severely provoked. The simple fact is that no authoritative evidence given to the Committee supports the majority findings. It is as simple as that. All the authoritative witnesses bar one - and I will come to that matter in a minute - gave evidence to show that an export tax was not the way to handle the problem. That is the reason for the dissenting report; there is no other reason. If the conclusion to be reached on the evidence was that this was the way to tackle the subject, I and other dissenting members on the Committee would have gone along with the recommendation. There is no authoritative evidence to support the recommendation bar that from the Western Australian Department of Agriculture, which for entirely different reasons supported a tax. In fact the Director of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics,  Mr Honan,  said that a tax would be like using a sledge hammer to crack a nut. That is what the Director thought about it. 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro said that a reduction of 1 per cent in beef exports was needed to lower the price of beef to the Australian consumer. That is like using a sledge hammer to crack a nut. The proposition is ridiculous. Neither the Australian Meat Board, nor the Australian Meat Exporters Federal Council, nor the meat and allied trades, nor the Department of Agriculture in New South Wales supports the proposition. Where did the majority of the Committee get its findings? What evidence did it use to support its findings. I believe that the Committee had made up its mind, before it began its hearing, to find something conclusive of this nature. 
That is my firm belief. The Committee certainly did not make its findings on the evidence. That is a fact. There was no authoritative evidence before the Committee in support of the proposal to impose an export tax, and  Colonel McArthur's  original report to the Government was correct. All the evidence that came before the Committee supports that. The majority report is sheer nonsense, projecting a potential damage to the beef industry as it has done. What would be the effect of such a tax? In the words of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro, the demand for beef on the export markets is so great that the overseas consumer will be prepared to pay the level of the tax. If that is the case there will be no reduction in price for the Australian consumer. It means there will be no diversion of meat back onto the Australian market and there will be no price reduction, so the proposition is sheer, absolute nonsense. 
That is only the first leg. The other leg is that if he is wrong, and I believe he is wrong - I wonder what earthly use he was when he was with the Bureau of Agricultural Economics; he is better off in the Parliament so that he can be exposed for his views - the tax would be passed back to the producer. This is a very serious question and it is dealt with in the dissenting report. That would be the effect of the tax; it would be passed straight back to the producer. In other words this Government is asking the producer to subsidise the consumer when it does not have the constitutional or intestinal fortitude to pay a consumer subsidy. The proposition is ridiculous. 
The honourable member for Wilmot said that the Government has made no such decision. I recognise that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  has said that the proposition is not on. However, he has the habit of saying he is in sympathy with the dairying industry and the wheat industry and that he does not like this proposition or that proposition. But this Government still adopts those propositions. All I can say is that I hope he has the numbers for once to have a victory because the rural industries and country people have been suffering very greatly as a result of all the measures the Government has taken while he has been Minister for Primary Industry. The Australian Cattle Council sent a letter, which we all received today, dealing with this matter. It showed that the proposition that the export tax should be applied is ridiculous. 
Let me come now to the question of how the tax will work. Today, 20 September, the Government whacks on a 20c tax. On 30 
September it decides that 20c is not enough and makes it a 40c tax. I, as a beef grower, sell my beef today. Some of it might well go to the export market but some of it may be good quality beef and be sold on the domestic market. The export beef will take months to reach the market, yet I will be paying tax across the board on the beef that is exported. Will I be paying on the basis of the 40c or 20c tax? 
Whatever I sold it at? It is only levied on export meats. So there are very severe administrative difficulties and problems in achieving equity. It is to be a special flexible tax. We will have a tax that jumps up and down like a yo-yo, as the honourable member for Eden-Monaro does in his seat at question time. The principal recommendation about this export tax is that it should provide a means of stabilising meat prices. The fact that that word is used is a shock in itself. What stabilisation' means normally in both the wheat and dairying industries which have stabilisation schemes is that it takes the peaks and troughs out and the Government provides support to maintain the level of prices. All that this proposal is supposed to do is to reduce the price. There is nothing to say that there will be support for the industry if the proposal acts as a disastrous mechanism and the price crashes. There is no word at all. As the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  said, the report says in its major recommendation that we should use the money to promote the industry. What stuff and nonsense is that? The Government is complaining about high prices and yet wants to promote the industry. If it wants to promote the industry that is fine. 
We all know the little ways of the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who is at the table. Recommendation 2, which the honourable member for Eden-Monaro dismissed so slightly, carries with it enormous implications and difficulties for certain sections of the industry. To say that Dick Condon at Northern Meat Exporters Pty Ltd at Katherine has voluntarily to sell some of his meat on the Australian domestic market is absolute nonsense. Do not say that the voluntary system used in marketing meat on the American market is comparable. It is a different proposition entirely and the outflow is entirely different. Northern Meat Works once tried to find a market for manufacturing meat with the type of meat grown in the north and it nearly broke that organisation. When I hear of waterside workers standing on the wharves refusing to load export meat 1 would like to give them a feed occasionally of some of the manufacturing meat which is exported. They would think they were eating the boots they were wearing. This is a ridiculous proposition. What it means is that the southern meat works will have to carry the load. That is an inequity in itself. The Government is now saying to the southern meat works which have meat that may be sold in Japan, the United Kingdom and elsewhere, that meat produced by them would be suitable for the Australian palate. We are a very fussy people and like only good meat. The honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  agrees with that, but he has never had a piece of tough steak in his life. He always buys the best. He has always had the capacity to pay, a term used by the unions when they argue the national wage case. 
In relation to the capacity to pay, average weekly earnings are now $107 a week. The graph in the dissenting report shows that the prices of meat are not out of kilter with average weekly earnings, as they were in 1967. It is certainly true that after 1967 the income from meat dropped while average weekly earnings still soared. They were disaster prices. What this Government wants in reducing prices is for the meat producer to go back to the disaster days of 3 or 4 years ago. This is exactly what the proposition means. The fact is that on average weekly earnings and his capacity to pay, the Australian meat consumer is still getting the cheapest and best quality meat in the world. I am as concerned for the, low income earner as anybody else. If there is concern for the low income earner, why does the Government not do what New Zealand tried to do? I do not put it forward as a positive proposition, but if the Government is so concerned why does it not do what New Zealand tried to do and subsidise the consumer? The Government would rather let the producer pay. It would rather introduce a mechanism about which we can make no judgment and which all the authoritative evidence says is wrong. Yet it is not prepared to back its judgment and provide meat to be sold at a reasonable price to the low income earner. 
The minority report contains several graphs which show quite clearly that some of the evidence in the major report is wrong. I want to draw the attention of the Parliament to this because it is very important. The claim is made in the majority report that the lower grades of meat have risen at a steeper rate. The Parliamentary Library has produced a graph which is attached to the report and this shows that it is the highest quality meat that has risen at the sharpest rate and that the lower quality meats have risen at a lower rate and should be well within the reach of the Australian consumer. 
It is in the report. The Australian Cattle Council has written a letter to all honourable members today which shows some of the actions of this Government. I have not shown it to the Minister for Labour but as he has a copy of the letter perhaps he will let me incorporate it in Hansard. 
I know the Minister is a bit suspicious and wary because he used to play these tricks himself. While he is looking at the letter I will read what  Mr Condon  said on behalf of Northern Meat Works which has sent a telegram to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and to  Senator Wriedt.  I do not know what good it will do sending a telegram to  Senator Wriedt.  He always makes noises of great sympathy and then does the opposite thing. According to  Mr Condon,  the Prime Minister, apparently on an Australian Broadcasting Commission program last Thursday, said that the north should receive special consideration in these matters. I would like to know, in view of the fact that it is in the export market and that 98 per cent of its meat goes to the export market, how it will receive special consideration in the levying of the export tax. I will be fascinated to see what the Government does about meat prices. I wonder whether it will turn away from an export tax and go straight to a quota, a more dangerous mechanism still. I wonder what H will do. I will be interested to see the reactions of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro as reported in some of the local newspapers in the Eden-Monaro electorate. I will be watching them with interest to make sure that he tells the truth. How am I going with the Minister? 
Very well, do not let me, thank you. 
The Minister for Labour has just called the Australian Cattle Council a liar. 
If we had another person in this place as the Minister for Labour I might be able to agree with the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan). 
But the present Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has a predilection, like other Ministers in this Government, to subvert the use of these inspectors, I suspect. There is a plain case in another place of a senator who has a police force. I do not know whether the Minister for Labour is saying 'Gough have mercy on us' or something like this. 
Me does not trust Murphy's boys so he wants to send Clyde's corps or Dad's Army out on a raid. The honourable member for Phillip would have every sympathy for the Opposition when I put that point. I know him well and he would comprehend my point. But the Minister for Labour, despite his benign appearance is sitting at the table studiously trying to read a paper that is upside down and is trying to ignore all these comments on a very serious matter. But there is another predilection of this Government which I think is of proper concern to us in opposition and that is its capacity to give jobs to the boys. It is true, I suppose, that a number of former Labor members who lost their seats at the last election or who retired could be found nice cushy jobs running around as members of Cameron's corps. They could possibly be used at Surfers Paradise checking that the bikini girls are behaving themselves and working proper hours. 
Of course it is, and it should be treated seriously. That is the point. We do not think that the Minister should have the proposed power. The Committee should accept the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
I am surprised - 
If that is the arrangement that has been made OK. 
I withdraw the inference. 
I apologise. 
I apologise for the inference in my remark. I was unaware of the generosity being offered to the Opposition at this time by Government backbenchers. I congratulate them on it. The purpose of industrial legislation must be to provide a background for employer and employee  to  settle wage levels, working conditions and disruptions as peacefully, quickly and with as little loss of time and production as possible. The Australian arbitration and conciliation system has had  a  long history and has achieved an international reputation for providing one of the world's best and fairest systems in the industrial sphere. Regrettably, this reputation has been somewhat tarnished in latter years because of the exploitation of some of the provisions of the legislation and the constitutional weaknesses that presently complicate industrial relations through division of responsibility in State and Federal awards. 
Having regard to the long and mostly successful history of arbitration and conciliation, one would have thought that the Minister would have used his own personal industrial experience so to modify the legislation as to enhance the fair play capacity that was so much a feature of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act until recent times. Indeed, the Minister had decided to set up machinery to identify, through a deep study, the institutional framework of Labor relations. He told us so in this second reading speech on 12 April. These are extremely worthy motives. I would be the first to congratulate the Minister on this proposal. A searching inquiry conducted  by a  balanced committee could only add greatly to the capacity of people in this Parliament to make judgments about any necessary or desirable changes to the present system. But, to abort the inquiry by the introduction of Labor's industrial dogma, as the Minister did on 12 April, can do nothing but heap confusion upon confusion. To make such radical changes as those proposed in the previous Bill and to declare those changes as vital legislation' can only tie the hands of any committee of inquiry. 
Surely if such a committee of inquiry is to give of its best the Government view should be impressed through changes to legislation after 'the findings have ' been reached. The Minister would have to be the last one to argue with this approach when one has regard for his own ambiguous support in respect of penalties and sanctions. Yet the Minister proceeded to introduce the Bill on that occasion causing those very provisions to be excluded. Doubtless it was done because of the severe setback he received to his proposal launched in Adelaide in late 1972 to maintain penalties for individual unionists who breached agreements. The Minister had the left wing communist unions, with whom he is normally fairly buddy-buddy, snapping at his heels like an un-Australian terrier, so on this issue his difficulty is understandable. 
But the difficulty the Minister has when his own view has been overridden by the left wing surely demonstrates to the nation how lucky we are that the Government lacks a majority in the Senate and is the major reason why the committee of inquiry should have a broad capacity to study the use of penalties. The same can be said of many other important sections of the Bill. To talk about holding a committee of inquiry into the functioning of the conciliation and arbitration system whilst at the same time introducing legislation with fundamental changes strikes me as ludicrous. The Minister should demonstrate a real sense of patience and statesmanship, of which I think he might be capable, and await the public inquiry he himself has proposed before acting arbitrarily and unilaterally. 
The whole difficulty with the legislation proposed by the Government is that it was designed to distort the balance of fair play that existed in the legislation as it affected both employer and employee. Any legislation designed to alter the balance, to slow down or distort procedures, is in the best interests of neither the employee nor the employer and is certainly not in the best interests of the nation. Putting aside the provisions of the earlier Bill relating to penalties, the protection of unions and members from civil action, which are to come forward again in a separate Bill, so we are told - I imagine that will come forward after the Senate election - there is no question that the rules are being changed in this Bill to make the lot of the militant unionist easier. 
Despite the Opposition objection in the previous debate to clause 6 of the Bill, the Minister has reintroduced it. This provision gives blanket protection to shop stewards or individual union activity on the shop floor. The objections lodged by the Opposition in the last debate have been either disregarded or ignored because of the great outcry militant unionists would create should the provision be excluded from this Bill. Surely the whole potage of industrial relations would be better for a tidy-up of relations and powers between shop stewards and union representation. One of the greatest bugbears of the industrial system in Australia and one of the most telling factors in the weakening of the arbitration and conciliation powers has been the growth of shop steward power by way of comparison with the master union. If the industrial arena is to return to sanity it will be by resolution of this problem. Simply put, the shop steward system which is one of the less desirable imports from the United Kingdom, has prostituted the trade union movement, and the Minister would be better put tackling the total problem rather than giving such bludgeoning power to the shop stewards. 
The right of entry provision in clause 27 gives unheard of and unreasonable powers to trade union officials in the carrying out of their functions. The right for the proper representative of unionists in a factory to do his job of protecting his own unionists is not challengeable, but what is challengeable is the terms sought by the Minister for such inspection. Surely it is hardly proper for a union official to have the right to lobby workers of another union during working hours. I would have thought that in large part many unionists would resist such a right. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will be seeking to amend the Bill to protect workers from the problems inherent in that provision. 
Clause 19 of the Bill seeks to take away from a negotiating committee in any wage or condition dispute the right to conclude a settlement without returning to and obtaining from the rank and file approval to the negotiation. Doubtless the Minister would argue that this is an extension of the democratic rights of the ordinary unionist. One would have thought that the Minister would know from his own experience that this could lead to a complete incapacity to conclude a negotiation. After all, he went through the experience of arranging with a great deal of bravado the great new industrial relations policy of the Australian Labor Party in Adelaide last year. Even though he was accompanied by the then Leader of the Opposition, now the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  and the show was covered by nationwide television, radio and the Press, the Caucus rolled him the next week on his policy., But we have seen even more frightening examples that should deter him from this approach with the announcement one day by the Prime Minister of a change in the bond rate, thus affecting interest rates across the board and the Caucus taking it out of his hands a few days later. Surely the Minister would recognise that such an approach can only lead to futile negotiating. I suspect that the Minister must have had some personal disagreement with his union bosses on settlements in his early days in the shearing shed. 
Sure it sounds fine and democratic to return to seek rank and file support or agreement for a negotiation. But to make such an approach arbitrary is just to make life difficult. There are many unions and unionists who, having democratically elected their officials, are prepared to support them through to a conclusion on any difficult negotiation. The proposals would make the life of a negotiating committee intolerable, and success under such circumstances impossible. The committee would be going back and forth like a Bourke Street bus, trying to secure a settlement. 
There are a number of other clauses that require amending, and they will be dealt with in Committee. But I want to look at another aspect of the Bill and that is the return of the Bill in this form. We all remember the great bravado the Minister showed when his first Bill went through this House and across to the Senate. He declared that it was a piece of vital legislation and that the Government was not going to have it rejected. He said that the Bill would set the stage for a double dissolution if it was rejected. Then we heard the thunderings from the playgrounds of Europe during the Minister's visit over there when the Ford strike was on. The Minister attacked both the Ford company and the Opposition parties for rejecting the Bill. Of course he was put down very nicely and politely by  Mr Eric  Witts, the Industrial Relations Director at Ford who explained that what was at issue was an industrial agreement so beloved by the Minister being broken by a union leader in response to a minority mob. The fact is that on that issue and the rejection by the Senate of the so called vital legislation the fat cat became a tame .cat. 
So here we have a piece of industrial legislation that does not carry the great dreams of the Minister. I wonder when we will see the other part of the first Bill that carries the tort provisions and removal of the sanction penalties. I do not really expect to see it before the Senate election. This Bill, whilst an improvement on the previous Bill, will be all the better for the amendments to come. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon  notice. 
Is a Canadian of British birth to be appointed permanent head of the Department of Transport. 
Did he criticise General Motors-Holden's for not appointing an Australian citizen as head of that organisation in Australia. 
Is there an apparent inconsistency between these two actions. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Did the Department of Aboriginal Affairs arrange for a refit of a Taiwanese fishing vessel? Were tenders called? Why did the Department not follow the usual practice of having the Australian Shipbuilding Board call tenders? Were the plans approved by that Board? What is the total cost of the refit? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What are the names of the dairy companies involved in the manufacture of dairy products in Australia. 
What sum was paid by each company to the Australian Dairy Produce. Board from funds raised by (a) the Butter Fat Levy Act and (b) the Dairying Research Levy Act during 1972-73. 
The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  quoted a.  Dr Jonson  at length. I think it fair to say that  Dr Jonson's  views are not accepted by the Treasury. 
As a member of the Meat Prices Sub-committee of the Prices Committee and a person very much interested in- this report, I should like to say a few words on it. Firstly, I accept the recommendations of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  and the motion as put to the House in the terms in which it is printed. However, there are one or two aspects of the report and of the whole activities surrounding it on which I should like to comment. In the course of the parliamentary debate in this place certain allegations were made against - to use the plural term - members of the Australian Country Party. As the only member of the Country Party sitting on that Committee, I have no doubt that those allegations were pointed fairly straight at me. The only thing I am sorry about is that the Committee did not go deeply enough into discovering where the report came from. From what I understand of the evidence it appears that quite a number of the Government's advisers were privy to the findings of the report prior to its publication. I do not know whether the Privileges Committee bothered to take up that point and to study its ramifications and importance. Having made the point I shall let it go at that, other than to say that the allegations made by one member of the Government about members of the Country Party are quite unfounded and in fact have been proved to be unfounded. That is a point about which I am very pleased. The other matter I wish to raise relates to the dignity of the House itself. It seems to me that having undertaken this inquiry - mark you, I was in favour of the inquiry - the dignity of the House has been somewhat impaired by the inquiry itself. I make no reflection on the honourable members conducting the inquiry. I am saying that there are other matters of a much graver nature which have tremendous financial implications for the commercial world. I refer to leaks from Government sources, from Cabinet Ministers, from advisers and from others. 
It would be much more worthy of the dignity of this Parliament to investigate such matters than to undertake an inquiry into the publication of what was after all, only a set of recommendations to the Government about one aspect of the total scheme of things. I have in mind leaks of the report of the Coombs Task Force, the so-called demolition task force that has wreaked havoc, as it turns out, on the countryside by the implementation by the Government of certain policies which are typically anti-rural in nature. I suspect that the Government leaked that report so that when it brought down its Budget the number of recommendations on which it moved would seem to have less impact than would the total recommendations in the Coombs report. It is a sneaky old-fashioned trick. I suspect that was the base motive behind the leaking of the report. But a more serious matter and one closer to today is the leaking of the Tariff Board report on the importation of colour television sets. 
The Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  can buffoon all he likes in this House. The fact is that the matter of public importance now being debated points out the double standards of the Labor Government and its Ministers. The Minister for Labour, when he was the shadow Minister for Labour and National Service, always argued against sanctions or fines. But he has introduced legislation -into this House to abolish sanctions and fines. Yet his colleague, the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson),  in a typical double standard fashion has requested that sanctions or penalties be imposed against the Master Builders Association of New South Wales. The Minister for Housing has a reputation for seeking headlines only surpassed by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby).  I do not know where the Minister for Housing is today but for some reason - although he is at the crucial point in this debate - he is not to speak on the matter. Why does not the Government ask the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  to stand down and let the Minister for Housing defend his indefensible position? That is what he ought to be doing because it was he who made the intemperate and quite stupid statement on 7 November which can be clearly seen, despite what the Minister for Labour sees, to be partisan in its efforts to discredit the Master Builders Association. 
The Minister for Labour totally ignores the fact that  Mr Justice  Aird's recommendation, that the men return to work applied to all jobs under dispute. Yet the Builders Labourers Federation Executive kept workers off 22 building sites, after the men voted to return to work. In other words, the Builders Labourers Federation Executive wanted the best of both worlds. It knew the men were sick of striking and holding the country to ransom, so it accepted the instruction that the men resume work whilst at the same time hiving off 22 jobs that were to be kept in a strike position for their own greedy, selfish, political motives. The fact that some of these strikes were not part of the green bans emphasises how political was the motive of the Builders Labourers Federation 'Executive. What it wanted to do was to pick off the members of the Master Builders Association, one by one, and force its greedy demands to be met. This tactic of divide and conquer is the same tactic as unionists have berated employers for using in days gone past. 
It is no wonder that  Mr Justice  Aird said, as reported in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on 2 November and quoted by the Minister for Labour and the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser):   . . . the offer was refused by the Master Builders Association of New South Wales, and in my view quite properly. 
That puts in proper context the buffoonery with which the Minister has carried on this afternoon when replying to the honourable member for Wannon. On 7 November the Minister for Housing sought to impose penalties on and viciously attacked the Master Builders Association with attempts to blackmail it. This must rate as one of the basest and most despicable acts brought before this Parliament. Certainly the Minister has a responsibility to see that major Commonwealth works are proceeded with as quickly as possible. But he has an even greater responsibility to see that justice is done to all sections of the building industry, both employer and employee.  His  blatant support of the militant communist Mundey, in the face of the words of  Mr Justice  Aird, only discredits him and his Government. 
What about the Minister for Labour, who only yesterday was describing himself as a statesman in industrial affairs? Modesty, of course, has never been one of the Minister's attributes. The House recognises that, even if the House does not agree on his statesmanlike qualities. What he and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  - the Prime Minister who described himself as the greatest, with feet of clay, I might say - forget is the old axiom that self-praise is no recommendation. The people of Australia are making the judgment, and they say, as reflected in gallup poll results, that the Australian Labor Party has 42 per cent of the support of the electorate and that it is sinking fast. If the Minister for Labour is a statesman - I do not believe it, and I do not think that history will show it when it has the value of hindsight, and I do not think it will ever record or remember his name - what is he going to do about the blatant political and biased intrusion into industrial matters by his colleague, the Minister for Housing? Did he carpet his colleague? Did he report him to the Prime Minister? What has he done? He has assisted him. A supposedly unbiased Minister responsible for industrial affairs has assisted a blatant attack on employers. The sheer hypocrisy of the Minister ought to call for his resignation. 
Recognising the personal sensitivity of the Minister for Labour, so newly found, I withdraw the word 'hypocrisy', but all the cant and humbug in the world of which the Minister is so capable will not rescue the Minister for Housing in the charge that he made. The fact is that on the one hand the Minister for Labour has introduced a Bill into this House seeking the removal of sanctions against unionists, and on the other hand the Minister for Housing is seeking to impose sanctions on employers in the housing industry. No matter what the Minister says, all the cant and humbug of which he is capable cannot hide that fact. 
The Minister for Labour has called for an industrial peace conference. I was staggered to hear the Minister say a moment ago that not one word spoken at that conference will be recorded. He will encourage everybody to be peaceful and quiet. I am told on the best of authority by my friend, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  that that honourable member has received a letter from the Minister. 
It was a paper that the Minister had delivered to a learned society. The letter was addressed to 'My dear friend Jim' and signed 'Yours ever, Clyde'. In it the Minister said that he would be proud to encourage public discussion and debate on industrial matters. Now we find the Minister, who stands for open government, will go into closed session with his tripartite conference. I can tell the House why. I am sorry to have to say it. Having re-read the 11 points which he presented to the House, which he had hastily written on the aircraft on his way to Canberra yesterday, the Minister has found that there are some points with which Bob Hawke will not agree. So he will try now to get Bob Hawke and his offsiders to say nothing about the matter. He will say: T will be quiet as Minister, so you be quiet as Bob Hawke,  President  of the ACTU'. Bob Hawke is  President  of the Australian Labor Party, too. The Minister is now to put a cloud of secrecy, a dark cloak of closed government, over the tripartite conference. 
I have written a note to say how pleased I am that the Minister has gone to the trouble of calling a tripartite conference. He has been a failure in every other area of industry, so he might as well try this. Some hope might come out of this conference if he can get people sitting together around a table and discussing matters reasonably and logically. I think the fact that he will be the only politician present, as distinct from statesman, will not add lustre to the tripartite conference. Nevertheless, as an Opposition spokesman, I wish him the best with his conference, because I can tell the Minister that the people of Australia are fed to death with strikes. I say this to the Minister: It is time you got off your fat cat bottom and did something about it. To August this year 1.8 million working days have been lost and the wage earners have lost $3 1.4m, and you are the responsible Minister - nobody else in this place. You are the responsible Minister, and you have failed miserably. What about your political promise that there would be less industrial trouble? What about the political promise of the Prime Minister who, when Leader of the Opposition, said that there would be less industrial trouble when Labor came to power? 
That is a promise. I do not know what the position will be by the end of the year, but already this year we have had almost double the normal number of strikes and almost double the normal amount of wages lost. That is the proud record of the Minister for Labour. So I for one hope that the tripartite conference does work. The Minister cannot blame the Senate's rejection of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill for the present industrial trouble. It will not wash. The fact is that every employer organisation in Australia has said that the amendments the Senate made to the Bill tried to bring a balanced view to a totally biased trade union organisational style piece of legislation. There is no point in the Minister blaming the Senate, as he did when he was in' Copenhagen, where he was studying the world of culture, saying that there would be a double dissolution if the Senate did not pass the Bill. 

 Mr CLYDE CAMERON (HindmarshMinister for Labour) -  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is the Australian National Line negotiating for the building of any ships overseas. 
If so (a) with what companies are the negotiations taking place, (b) what trade will the ships enter, and (c) what tonnage are the proposed ships. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is the Australian Government negotiating for the purchase or takeover of the State railway systems. 
If so, which States are involved in discussions with the Australian Government. 
What stage have negotiations reached with each State. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon  notice: 
What is the (a) name, (b) status and (c) salary of each person employed (i) as private staff, (ii) as a seconded departmental officer, or (iii) in any other category who is attached to the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and each Minister. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the governments of the U.S.S.R. and Japan have lodged objections to several decisions of the International Whaling Commission. 
If so, have these countries objected to the quotas set on minke whales and to the establishment of divisions by area for sperm whale stocks in the Southern Hemisphere. 
Has Japan objected to the phasing out of the hunting of fin whales in the Antarctic after the 1976 whaling season. 
Has the United States of America lodged protests with the governments of the -U.S.S.R. and Japan. 
Will the Australian Government lodge protests with the U.S.S.R. and Japan for seeking to disregard the Scientific Committee of the International Whaling Commission. 
My question is supplementary to that of the honourable member for Parramatta. I ask the Prime Minister: Who is conducting Australia's foreign policy? Will the Prime Minister make it clear beyond doubt to the Australian people and the world that the policies of the Government are those stated and carried out by the Government, and not by the political head of the Government Party- that is, the  President  of the ALP? Does the Prime Minister agree that there is damaging confusion both inside and outside Australia as a result of  Mr Hawke's  intrusion in the Middle East situation? Will the Prime Minister make certain that  Mr Hawke's  statements are not taken as an expression of Government policy? 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has Trans.Australia Airlines complied with the requirements of section 31a of the Australian National Airlines Act to transfer its superannuation provisions to the Commonwealth Superannuation Board or such other trustees at the Treasurer approves. If so, on what date. 
From what sources, with what amounts of borrowing and at what interest rate have the Commission's funds been replaced. 
The 2 Bills under debate now are the Airlines Agreements Bill 1973 and the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill 1973. The first point that needs to be made comes out of the first paragraph of the second reading speech of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  on the Airlines Agreements Bill 1973, which states: 
When the previous Government introduced the Airlines Agreements Bill 1972 towards the end of the previous Parliament, we who were then in Opposition expressed the view that it was inappropriate to enter into a further important agreement between the Government and Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and the Australian National Airlines Commission at that particular time. 
The important point to register is that this Bill is expressed to be supplementary to the 1952-1972 agreements and is to be read and construed as forming part of those agreements. As the Minister for Civil Aviation has signed the 1973 Agreement himself on behalf of the Australian Government, it is quite clear that he has given political endorsement to the 2-airline policy contained in that Agreement and the earlier agreements developed by the previous Government. So on that point I congratulate the Government, because it means that despite the criticism that was heaped on the 2&lt;-airline policy by members of the present Government when they were in Opposition they have come to realise that the policy has been the basis of a viable and stable domestic air transport system. So in that respect this legislation is a significant landmark in 2-airline history. 
The main product of the Airlines Agreements Bill is to bring into effect the expressed wish of the Government as stated by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his Budget Speech that a cost recovery program should be introduced that will recover 80 per cent of costs within 5 years. We had, when in Government, initiated a policy of recovery of the cost of facilities properly attributable to civil air trans port, subject to taking into account the level of air fares, the rate of growth of the industry and the requirement of airlines to provide a reasonable return on capital. To ensure the reasonable progression to full recovery consistent with the stability of the industry the Commonwealth contracted under the Airlines Agreements with Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Transport Industries Ltd not to increase charges in any year by more than 10 per cent or to increase fuel tax by more than the corresponding amount of increase in motor fuel tax. We had as a Government not reached any decision on what costs were properly attributable. For example, should interest and depreciation be recovered? What part of the costs were properly attributable to defence and national development? Should fuel tax be regarded as part of a recovery, and if so, what weight should be given to the fact that international operators do not pay fuel tax yet make the greatest demands for expensive facilities? 
To resolve these questions the previous Minister appointed a working group to study the costs and revenue of the Department of Civil Aviation. The second report of this working group has been made available to the Parliament. It is quite apparent from page 27 of the report that it was: an impossible task of properly apportioning costs between the various class of users in any meaningful way and therefore not possible to determine whether any particular class of user was paying in air navigation charges a higher or lower proportion of costs attributable to it than other class of users. 
The working group did not quite throw up its hands in horror, but almost. It suggested that the Department of Civil Aviation should undertake further studies with a view to determining whether new methods could be developed whereby meaningful allocation of costs between users could be achieved. 
In the meantime the Government had appointed the now famous, or should I say infamous, task force to review the continuing expenditure policy of the previous Government. The report of this task force, known as the Coombs report, was tabled with the Budget papers. Items 38 and 39 dealing with air service subsidies for development and rural services are relevant. In essence the report suggested that these subsidies should be discontinued immediately or phased out over a period of, say, 3 years, The subsidies are paid in respect of services to the most isolated areas in Australia where other means of transport are non-existent or inadequate. In 1972-73 the subsidy for developmental services was $1.87m and for essential rural services only $130,000. The amount saved by phasing out these subsidies is insignificant, but the abandonment of the subsidy to the communications and development of rural and outback areas could be disastrous. The coffin Coombs report apparently, and without any real study of the implications, had no difficulty in making judgments. This miserable proposition typifies the Government's mean handed approach to country people and its lack of genuine decentralisation policies, and is bringing a severe rebuke from one side of Australia to the other. 
Then in June 1973 the domestic airlines applied for an increase in airline tariffs to take into account escalation of costs. The airlines were advised that the increases would not be approved unless the airlines entered into an agreement relating to the attainment of the Government's cost recovery policy and an agreement relating to industrial negotiations. The Government - indeed the Minister himself -subsequently, under union pressure, withdrew its requirements in relation to industrial negotiations. This was an occasion when the Minister for Civil Aviation was really caught with egg on his face. 
The Minister can explain later. The airlines agreed in accordance with the wishes of the Government, to negotiate for a revision of the 1952-1972 Airlines Agreements relating to air navigation charges. What is proposed, in brief, is that the Air Navigation Charges Bill will increase air navigation charges by 15 per cent per annum with effect from 1 December 1973. As such an increase would be inconsistent with clause 8 of the Airlines Agreement 1961, it is necessary for Parliament to amend the relevant provisions of clause 8 in order to increase the charges by 15 per cent without being in breach of the Agreement. Because this is a Budget Bill and because the Opposition has said that the Government ought to get its Budget Bills through the Parliament, we will not oppose the measure although we do not like it. 
As it has been duly executed by all the parties to the previous agreements, it must be assumed that there are no valid grounds why TAA or Ansett should object to the legislation. Indeed an examination of the agreement dis closes that it establishes a number of principles which are of considerable importance to the airlines. Under clauses 6 and 7 the Commonwealth undertakes to increase fares and freight charges to offset losses resulting from the imposition of the higher charges. The Commonwealth recognises that the tax on aviation fuel is deemed to be received by way of recovery of the cost of facilities properly attributable to civil air transportation. It should be pointed out here and highlighted that the international operators do not pay fuel tax and therefore on this basis are not making contributions to recovery comparable with the domestic airlines. The Commonwealth undertakes to increase the rate of navigation charges to international operators by the same percentages as that applied in respect of TAA and Ansett 
Clause 12 is also of great importance since the Commonwealth now undertakes to consult annually with TAA and Ansett on departmental activities, programs, practices and costs with a view to minimising the amount to be recovered by way of air navigation charges. Whilst this provision is not yet operative, since it requires the passing of this Bill, and whilst it may be argued that the terms of clause 12 require only annual consultation, I find it difficult to understand how the Minister would approve an ad hoc expenditure df $1.35m for aerodromes and facilities in Western Australia to enable TAA to operate DC9 aircraft because there has been no mention of it in the civil aviation works program. This expenditure seems quite incongruous against the background of the activities of the Coombs task force because Western Australia is well served by a fleet of modern, fast F28s. 
The F28s are able to maximise the use of runways at airports. But the decision to allow TAA to use DC9s will call for a further expenditure of $ 10m before a viable network of DC9 operations could be mounted. The proposition runs counter to the position taken by the previous Government on the extension of operations by TAA in the West. 
The former Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Cotton,  in a letter to both airlines dated 6 October 1972 said: 
In this regard, the Government's decision on the Perth-Port Hedland-Darwin route is on the basis that there is no commitment on the Commonwealth to upgrade airport facilities at any proposed intermediate stopping place to cater for any proposed aircraft type. 
In other words, if TAA wanted to enter Western Australia it should not expect the taxpayers to pay for costly alterations to meet its convenience when alternative excellent aircraft that can make use of the present facilities are available. The proposal runs completely counter to what the Treasurer said, and I quote: 'We see no reason why the general taxpayer should subsidise air services in this way.' He also said: 'We have decided that all future proposals for investment in civil aviation projects should be subject to economic evaluation.' 
I ask the Minister these questions: Were there consultations in the spirit of clause 12? Can the Minister answer that question? 
At first glance this seems to be a minor Bill not carrying any implications at all. However, when one looks at it closely one realises that it is a most significant Bill carrying some high constitutional implications. Under section 51 (xxxi) of the Constitution the Commonwealth is entrusted with the following power: 
The acquisition of property on just terms from any State or person for any purpose in respect of which the Parliament has the power to make laws. 
The Lands Acquisition Act 1955-1966 is the legislative means by which this power is exercised. The intended purpose of this Bill is to remove some anomalies in the existing legislation and to a considerable extent it achieves that purpose, but in doing so it does create some further anomalies. Clause 4 of the Bill seeks to empower the Minister instead of the Governor-General to authorise the acquisition of land by the Commonwealth for a public purpose by agreement. The Minister in his second reading speech stated that over 90 per cent of acquisitions of land and interest in land by the Commonwealth are completed by agreement between vendor and purchaser. 
Under the existing Act the Minister is only given discretion to authorise these acquisitions by agreement where the price does not exceed $1,000 or the annual rental does not exceed $1,000. By deleting sub-clauses (2) and (3) of clause 7 of the principal Act, there would now be the simple position where the Minister would be able to authorise the acquisition of land by the Commonwealth irrespective of the value of the asset to be acquired. The Governor-General's consent is not required. A similar discretion is proposed for the disposal of land. 
Section 64 of the Act gives the Minister power to delegate any of his powers or functions under the Act, presumably in this case to officers of the relevant department. Under this Bill there will be no limitation on the power of the Minister to delegate his authority to departmental officers in dealing with compulsory acquisition cases and compensation amounts. The net result of these aspects of the Bill is that the discretion afforded the Minister and his departmental officers is greatly broadened. The question is whether it is broadened to an unreasonable extent. 
It is unreasonable that there is proposed in the Bill a power of complete delegation by the Minister to public servants who may on their own authority enter into an agreement with the owner of the land as to the compensation payable in cases of compulsory acquisition. These considerations may seem trivial when the Minister tells us that there are only about 100 acquisitions of land by compulsory process a year under this legislation. However, we are now entering an era where this 100 per annum rate is likely to be considerably quickened. For example, the Pipeline Authority may have to acquire land compulsorily for its 6,000-mile grid. If the Alaskan pipeline is any precedent, the width of the land involved may well be 50 feet either side of the pipeline. 
In this case alone, very considerable amounts of money will change hands. It would seem to me to be sensible that there should be an upper limit - albeit a greatly increased one to that in the Act - to which public servants are given delegation to negotiate such matters. It is an interesting thought that with the Pipeline Authority and, at a later stage, the National Petroleum and Energy Authority, there will probably be very considerable areas of land acquired for 'Commonwealth purposes'. I would like to ask the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  whether the Department of Services and Property will be handling these transactions through the Lands Acquisition Act or whether the statutory authorities will be their own negotiating vehicles. If the Minister will show a bit of courtesy to the House for one moment and listen I will repeat the question. 
I would like to ask the Minister whether the Department of Services and Property will be handling the transactions for the Pipeline Authority and the National Petroleum and Energy Authority or whether the statutory authorities will be their own negotiating vehicles. 
From the Minister who has less to do than any other Minister in this Parliament, that is the answer one would expect. It is a typical buffoon's answer from a Minister who ought to know his own business but does not. I do not think that the Minister honestly knows whether 'Strangler' Connor is going to sit on top of him or prop him up. 
I am pleased that the Government has decided that there should not be any change in the requirement that the acquisition of land by compulsory process should be authorised by the Governor-General in Council. If the theory that power corrupts is correct, I would hate to see such unfettered constitutional power corrupt the worthy Minister. Another point I wish to make is one which is perhaps the most significant and which deals with clause 7 of the Bill. Under the principal Act, when land compulsorily acquired by the Commonwealth and the amount of compensation are, for example, the subject of litigation a court determines an amount to be payable by the Commonwealth for the original transaction, which may have been some years ago. Under such circumstances interest would be payable to the owner for that period of litigation at very low and unrealistic rates. The Bill seeks to remove that anomaly by raising the relevant interest rates to the rate payable on short term securities and the long term bond rate. I should point out that both rates are considerably below the rate at which the purchasing power of money is diminishing. On that basis they do not represent true compensation in the economic sense. 
It would be doubtless more equitable if the Bill contained a provision similar to that in legislation such as the Lands Control Bill of Western Australia. Under those arrangements compensation, though pinned to a valuation date, can be adjusted to provide for monetary inflation between the valuation date and the date of acquisition. This is quite an important principle, and it is most unfortunate that this type of injustice is proposed in this legislation. The general intent of the Bill cannot be disputed, and one must agree with the Minister that the Act itself has warranted significant updating. However, I would like him to consider these points carefully as great care is required in the exercise of what is an awesome constitutional authority. We propose as an Opposition, because of the awesome constitutional authority contained in the Bill and because I am concerned that the Minister's integrity should be, and should be seen to be--  
On 28 November we were debating the Lands Acquisition Bill and we are resuming the debate today. I was then making the point that this Bill is not the simple Bill that it appears to be on the surface. It seeks to take away from the Governor-General the right to oversee acquisitions of a voluntary nature which' the Department of Services and Property takes care of. By the removal from the Bill of the title 'Governor-General' and the replacement of it by the word 'Minister' the Minister is given the right to delegate to officers of his Department the right to enter into negotiations for the acquisition of property or for rental purposes throughout the Commonwealth. As I said when this Bill was last debated I believe it to be not an insignificant Bill at all, although the way in which the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  introduced it would make one think it was insignificant. 
During the course of that debate I asked the Minister whether the Pipeline Authority would be a party to this Bill. We are told that this great bureaucratic Pipeline Authority that the Government proposes to set up is to construct a pipeline from the North West Shelf right across the continent. We are told that there will be all sorts of spokes to the main grid. I asked the Minister whether the Pipeline Authority would be subject to the Department of Services and Property in negotiating the purchase of land for the purpose of constructing the pipeline. I chided the Minister because I believed he had been rather flippant in his approach to this question. I believed he had not taken the question seriously, but obviously he has had other thoughts on the matter. Since then he has agreed to move an amendment which meets my objections and the Opposition's objections to the Bill. The Bill will now provide that all of the statutory authorities throughout Australia, apart from some that are to be exempted, must now obtain their property through the one property authority - I believe it to be the proper authority - that is, the Department of Services and Property. I believe this to be a distinct advantage. 
One can well see what has happened in Canberra, the great national capital. A statutory authority can compete and has competed with the Department of Services and Property in bidding to purchase a property for Commonwealth use. We have seen some statutory authority end up paying another couple of hundred thousand dollars of taxpayers' money because it has been competing against the Minister for Services and Property. That is  a  ridiculous situation. It should not be allowed to occur. Because of the amendment which we forced on the Minister the other night and which the Minister has agreed to introduce into the House, that can no longer occur. Of course the Opposition welcomes that as being an improvement to the legislation. 
Two questions still have to be answered. Firstly, who is to be exempted? I see that under the amendment the Minister can exempt any statutory authority from the requirement of having the Department of Services and Property actually engage in the acquisition. In other words, by a flick of the Minister's wrist he can give that responsibility of acquisition back to the statutory authority. As I understand it from the Minister, there is a list of statutory authorities that can be exempted. Before I can be satisfied that this is the proper way to approach the matter I wonder whether the Minister can hand me a list of the exemptions. The one or two of particular interest includes the Cities Commission, for example, and I have mentioned the Pipeline Authority. Will they be subject to the authority of the Minister for Services and Property in acquisition matters? 
I thank the Minister for his courtesy. The other question that comes to mind is this. It seems that now we have agreed to the inclusion of this amendment we ought to go one step further to ensure the public interest is properly protected and require that there is a tabling in this Parliament of all the acquisitions at least once every session of Parliament. The Department of Services and property deals with literally hundreds of acquisitions of a voluntary or compulsory nature throughout the year. I think it only proper that, when it is dealing in literally hundreds of millions of dollars, the taxpayers ought to be protected and be seen to be protected. I would therefore urge on the Minister that he accept from the Opposition a further amendment inserting a provision that the Minister shall cause a copy of every agreement to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 21 sitting days of that House after the date of acquisition. I do not propose to push the amendment to a conclusion here today but I foreshadow that it will be moved in another place. I would hope that the Minister would look at the amendment that we propose because we believe it to be a very proper amendment that will protect not only the taxpayers but indeed the Minister himself when so many acquisitions are involved. So I ask that the Minister carefully consider the further amendment. 
I recognise that on many occasions voluntary agreements will be entered into about which there is an element of confidentiality. Indeed the vendor, who may be a private person, may not, for private reasons, want the price of his property to be made public. There might be good family reasons or other reasons why it should not be made public, so I do not press the Minister to the point of agreeing that nothing shall be excluded, but rather I ask him to examine that aspect of the matter because I believe it to be an important point. The individual person as well as the taxpayer must be protected. So if the Minister would accept my proposition we gladly welcome his amendment. I think that the taxpayers of Australia generally will find themselves in the much happier position of knowing that from now on, with one or two exemptions, all property acquisitions will be dealt with by the Department of Services and Property and that all shall be known by the Parliament every 21 sitting days. 
The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  was kind enough to give me a list of those corporations which he proposes should be excluded from the provisions of the proposed new section 66a and also a list of those corporations to which the provisions would apply. The one point that still remains to be settled in my mind is that the situation that we were speaking about earlier, where one government authority or agency will not be competing with another government authority or agency for purposes of leasing and thus increasing the rent or for purposes of purchase, will not occur. When I look down at the list of exclusions to be made I see, for example, that the Commonwealth Banking Corporation, the Commonwealth Development Bank, the Commonwealth Savings Bank and the Commonwealth Trading Bank all separately have the right to be excluded from the oversight by the Department of Services and Property of this important provision. I seek an assurance from the Minister that, before excluding them, he will seek from them agreement to consult occasionally about their activities in the land market because I am sure that the Minister knows full well, as I know, that not necessarily the ones I have named but certainly Commonwealth authorities can in fact be in competition with the Department of Services and Property. I seek assurance that there will be consultation between the authorities that have the right to be exempted and the Department of Services and Property. 
In July 1971 the previous Government established an interdepartmental committee to examine industrial research and developoment incentives for industry. The committee reached unanimous agreement that incentives should be continued with some modification. Those modifications were made in the 1972 legislation. The amendments at that stage were designed to remove some inadequacies in the 1967 Act. The fixed base was changed to a moving 3-year average to overcome disadvantages for companies which had high expenditures in the fixed base year and to maintain pressure on companies to increase their efforts in research and development. The partial coverage of research and development was broadened and a new clause inserted requiring each company to state that it was free to exploit results of research and development expenditure for the benefit of Australia. 
This Bill represents a further stage of amendment of the base legislation. The Opposition is in agreement with the general objectives of the Bill. I believe that the amendment to the professional qualifications requirement of the scheme is a sensible and timely one and would attract the support of industry. I note that provisions are made in the Bill for the Minister to have discretion to waive the limitation on the amount of the selective grant payable to any one company where reasons are sufficiently compelling in terms of the national interest. Further, there should be some ex planation of why the proposed changes are to operate retrospectively from 1 July 1972. It does not seem reasonable that business enterprises which have budgeted on the basis of continuation of previous arrangements should now be penalised in some cases by the application of retrospective provisions. This means that businesses affected by the $225,000 limit will be required to refund to the Government grants which were paid in 1972 in excess of that amount. This is  unnecessarily  harsh and is punitive to companies and firms which were acting with good intent to press ahead with research and development. 
Apart from any other consideration, this provision seems to be inconsistent with section 20 of the 1967 Act in which sub-clause 3 stated that a direction of the Minister should not affect prejudicially an application for a grant on relation to a grant year that commenced before the date of publication in the Gazette of particulars of the direction. It was the practice of the previous Government for the rate of general grant to be announced at least 6 months before the commencement of the relevant grant year. This provided companies with sufficient notice to allow adequate planning. As a result, this retrospective provivision is particularly unfortunate and damaging to the effectiveness of the program. 
Also I would appreciate some clarification as to whether the total allocation to the Board is not to be reduced as a result of this legislation, or whether it is to be redistributed among firms by the Board. This point is a very important one which I will amplify further at a later stage, but it would seem rather niggardly to cut back the aggregate on this program. The funds involved are taxable at company rates, which themselves have been effectively increased. As a matter of comparison, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation annual budget is nearly $60m and the annual Department of Supply program on research and development has been near that level. It must also be recognised that the rapidly rising input costs are raising costs of research and development programs and that the Government allocations must be adjusted accordingly if their real value is not to be diminished. 
I wish to address my remarks more generally on this occasion to the administration of research in Australia.  Dr H.  C. Coombs, in an article published in The Economic Record' of December 1959, pointed out that there were certain essentials if price stability was to be achieved without sacrifice of full employment and development. He stated: 
The more rapidly productivity is growing, the more readily widely held expectations of rising living standards can be met and .the more margin there will be for the absorption of high money costs without increasing prices. 
It must be pointed out that the Government can create the groundwork for an increased productivity growth by a high level of expenditure on basic and applied research. It is because of this fundamental reality that it is somewhat disturbing to realise the relatively small proportion of our resources that Australia devotes to research and development. It is generally thought that the figure is about one per cent of the gross national product, but this is a low level by international standards. One cannot, of course, draw too many conclusions from international comparisons and any conclusions must be heavily qualified, but it does appear that the comparative level of industrial research in Australia is low across the whole industrial spectrum. 
Discussion of this matter is impeded by the lack of comprehensive data about the extent of existing industrial research and development. I am disturbed at the rather disjointed picture presented by our national research effort. The Industrial Research and Development Grants Act is administered by the Department of Secondary Industry, and the objectives of the Act are broadly to encourage industrial development through an increased industrial research effort. However, the Department of Health also has a significant research program, while the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  is investigating several aspects of energy conversion. Under Department of Primary Industry administration, there are a number of rural industry research programs in operation. In most cases, industry contributions are raised by levies on production and matched dollar for dollar by the Commonwealth Government. Research committees are set up under the relevant legislation to examine programs and make recommendations. 
I believe that the Coombs Tack Force correctly pointed out that under those procedures the linking of funds to the size of production and, in the case of rural production the effects of prices and seasonal conditions, imposes severe handicaps on the efficiencies of those programs. The CSIRO in its 1972-73 annual report, pointed out that the difficulties associated with adjustments to rural research pro grams as a result of recurring shortages of funds were an unsatisfactory basis on which to finance major research programs. To illustrate further the dispersal and unco-ordinated nature of research activity, the Department of Science is responsible for the annual sum paid to the CSIRO, this allocation amounting to $57m in 1972-73. However, the Australian Research Grants Committee, a standing committee mainly of academics, is also allocated an annual budget, which will amount to $6£m in 1974. This very powerful committee is given discretion to allocate money to a wide spectrum of projects involving at present 13 projects, of which six are concerned with astronomy and space. 
In addition, the State Departments of Agriculture conduct their own research programs, which in some cases may overlap with activities in other areas. If it is thought desirable to increase the aggregate level of research in Australia, it must also be considered desirable to. consider the proposals to integrate and co-ordinate the national effort. In effect, there are 3 levels of choice involved in the allocation of effort to science and research. One is the choice at the national level of how much science research to support. Another is the extent to which that support is divided between competing claimants, such as the CSIRO and the firms applying to the Industrial Research and Development Grants Board. 
Finally, there are internal allocations within the Board, for example, which under this legislation may be subject to some ministerial direction. The broad problem is to what areas of the economy preference should be given in the allocation of research resources. There would be real advantages in having an advisory body to analyse available information, stimulate discussion and encourage inter-departmental co-ordination. At present, the Department of Science serves more as a channel for Government assistance to existing institutions rather than having an active role in critically analysing national priorities. There may well be a need for an infusion of expert officers with a broad range of vision to completely overhaul existing arrangements and determine new priorities. I realise that the legislation we are considering can be regarded as interim only. I welcome the promise of further consideration of Government assistance for industrial research and development, which was announced in the Budget Speech. 
The legislation, which has been in operation since 1967, has been criticised in points of detail but, as a broad concept, it was undoubtedly a step in the right direction. It has long been the opinion of the CSIRO that the research capability of secondary industry itself should be increased. It has been suggested that the manufacturing and processing industries should bear more of the costs of research, both by carrying out more research themselves and by letting contracts to government laboratories. Complex issues are involved when consideration is given to how much research by Australian manufacturing industry should be financed by government and how much by the industry itself. This Bill takes the approach that the largest corporations have been the heaviest recipients of payments under the grants scheme and that there should be a diversion of money to firms in the small and medium sized bracket. 
Allied with the provisions in the legislation to allow recognition of grant applications from companies with persons of previously unrecognised qualifications, this may well be a reasonable interim measure, but the simple device of a ceiling figure to cut off Government assistance does not necessarily mean the right approach. Some of the best and most promising research is done by large businesses, which make a great national contribution. The value of this work can be as great as that of a smaller enterprise, although I must confess that if a choice has to be made I would like to encourage the smaller Australian firms. I strongly believe, however, that when arrangements are finalised it should be clearly recognised that there are strong grounds for a strengthening of Government support for industrial research, as well as for an improved co-ordination of the national effort. 
I rise tonight to make a quite serious charge against a fellow member of Parliament. The charge is that he has been misleading, misrepresenting and distorting information about the purposes and recommendations of the meat prices inquiry of the Joint Committee on Prices, not only in his own electorate for shallow, shabby political reasons, but he has carried these distortions- 
I will not reflect on the honourable member if I can help it,  Mr Speaker. 
Well,  Mr Speaker,  he has carried these distortions beyond that to a much wider circle and indeed into this Parliament itself. I make these charges against the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan). 
I told the honourable member last Thursday that I would be speaking on the adjournment debate on this matter. 
I take the point,  Mr Speaker.  The functions of the Committee are contained in its terms of reference and it is by the use of the terms of reference and the ignoring of the recommendations by the Committee, to which he is a party and also a signatory, that the honourable member for Eden-Monaro seeks to convey the impression that he did not support the recommendations by the 
Committee inquiring into meat prices to impose an export tax but that he was a party only to a fact finding committee and not a party to a Committee that not only has the right to make but in fact did make recommendations to the Government. 
Clearly, the terms of reference do not instruct the Committee, either way, but it is apparent from the recommendations that the Committee holds the view that it should recommend to the Government what action should be taken on its inquiries. This position has been supported publicly by the  chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I should like to quote the first recommendation of the Prices Committee report on the stabilisation of meat prices. I draw to the attention of the House that each recommendation is positive in its approach and intent, thus further nailing the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. The first recommendation reads: 
As the principal means of stabilising domestic meat prices steps be taken introduce a special flexible tax on beef exports; proceeds from this tax to be refunded to beef livestock producers with some of the proceeds set aside to establish a capital fund which should be used to improve technology in the meat industry and promote the industry; 
Without question, that is a positive recommendation. I repeat: 'steps be taken to introduce a special flexibile tax on beef exports'. That positive recommendation was signed by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. Yet it is against those recommendations that the honourable member for Eden Monaro claims in this House, and also has claimed outside, that it is merely a fact finding committee. Not only is the member for EdenMonaro guilty of misleading the electorate but also his misleading has been exposed. 
I have in my hand a copy of a letter circulated widely throughout the membership of the Australian Cattle Council, the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council and its constituent organisations. It is dated 11 October 1973 and signed by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. Not only does this letter restate the deceit on this issue but also it makes several other points that are either untrue or misleading. 
I seek leave to incorporate the letter in Hansard. 
Dear  Sir, 
In answer to your communication regarding an export tax on meat I would like to inform you that the Government has rejected the suggestion that it should impose export taxes or impose quotas on meat exported from Australia. 
On 3 May 1973 the House of Representatives asked the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices to consider the stabilisation of meat prices. 
Until this committee reported to Parliament on 20 September the Government could not properly reach a decision on meat price stabilisation. 
As soon as the committee tabled its report the Primary Industry Committee of the Government considered and rejected the recommendations relating to export taxes and quotas. This decision was supported by Cabinet and Caucus. 
This action was in complete agreement with the views that had been expressed by the Minister for Primary Industry. 
As early as the 30th August the Leader of the Country Party,  Mr Anthony  claimed that the Government had decided to impose an export tax on meat. Later in the House of Representatives he admitted that he had made similar statements on earlier occasions. Of course,  Mr Anthony  had no basis or authority for making such a statement. 
Any impression that the Government intended to impose meat export taxes was created by  Mr Anthony.  Many people in the industry were mislead by his statements. 
The choice of the Joint Parliamentary Committee to give advice on this issue was significant. Normally the advice would be obtained from a confidential interdepartmental committee. By turning to a Joint Committee the Government made it possible for the views of industry groups to be considered. 
In order to ensure that unbiased advice is given the Joint Committee must restrict its report to the terms of reference and its recommendations to the evidence before the Committee. 
The Committee was asked to advise on methods of stabilising meat prices. It could hardly say there were none. Possible methods were reviewed and the limitations of these methods were set out in the report. On the basis of the evidence before the Committee a meat tax was seen to be the most likely device although reservations about its effectiveness were expressed. 
A dissent report failed to consider methods of stabilising meat prices and did not answer the terms of reference. The dissenters also considered evidence which has not been examined by the Committee. 
To ensure complete impartiality in the proceedings of the Committee, I signed the factual report produced by the Joint Committee. I opposed the tax and quota recommendations in the political committees associated with the Government. 
On 16 September I agreed to appear on Federal File because  Mr Nixon  intended to speak on meat taxes. In the interview I made it quite clear that my comments would be restricted to the public evidence given at the Committee hearings. 
The discussion was restricted to two proposals to reduce domestic prices; they were quotas and taxes. In answer to the question 'Which of these proposals did I favour ', I replied that the most workable appears to an export tax. I never at any time said that I would support the introduction of quotas or taxes on meat. 
The use of Joint Committees to further political objectives must cause the Government to reconsider their existence. Obviously the Government is not going to allow the Opposition to turn these fact finding groups into an excuse to create mischief in the electorate. A reversion to the safer anonymous inter-departmental committees would deprive industry groups the opportunity to express their views to Government. The attitude and actions of the Country Party in regard to the Meat Prices Committee must be the cause of concern. 
Yours fairthfully, 
BOB WHAN, M.H.R. 
Member for Eden Monaro 
I thank the honourable member for Eden-Monaro. He does not know what he has done to himself. Also, the honourable member for Eden-Monaro in this letter attacks my friend and colleague the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  for properly carrying out his duty in informing the industry that the Government was considering either quotas or taxes on export meat and said that he - my leader - had no authority to make such statements. Of course the Leader of the Country Party does not need advice from anyone, least of all a new chum like the honourable member for Eden-Monaro, as to what statements he should make. More importantly, the Leader of the Country Party gave his warnings to the industry on the basis of direct Government action and direct Government statements. 
Firstly, the Government called for the Australian Meat Board to recommend a method of stabilising meat prices. Then, when the Meat Board report did not support any such proposal, the Government referred the matter to the Joint Committee on Prices. Both these actions by the Government were accompanied by a stream of articles which caused concern to the industry. The proposition by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro is that the actions by the Government caused no harm or alarm but -that the statements made by the Leader of the Country Party did do so. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro is making himself look ridiculous. How right did the Leader of the Country Party prove to be? The Prices Committee majority report, to which the honourable member for EdenMonaro is a signatory, recommends that steps be taken to introduce an export tax. It has onlybeen by the further awareness created by my leader, the right honourable J. D. Anthony,  in drawing to the industry's attention that such a proposal had real prospects that industry activity was stimulated to a degree that, when combined with opposition by my Party and the Liberal Party, the Government backed away. 
What is more, the honourable member for Eden-Monaro had the effrontery to say in this letter that the dissenting report did not answer the terms of reference. That is the very charge that I made of the majority report on the day it was tabled in the House. I said that it went outside the Committee's terms of reference. The plain fact is that the dissenting report was supported by the Government's own instrumentality, the Australian Meat Board. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro finally repeats in his letter that he was only a party to a factual report but opposed the tax in Caucus and on committees. If the latter is true - we only have his word for it, and on his performance up to date I find it hard to accept - why then is he so lacking in integrity or intestinal fortitude that he will avoid the truth about the Prices Committee report on stabilisation of meat prices? To use a well known French expression that you,  Mr Speaker,  would understand, coming as you do from that very important suburb of Redfern, the honourable member for Eden-Monaro, by his own words, is un sacre menteur. 
You work it out. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the confiscated Taiwanese vessel 'Yung Yuan' been moved from Darwin to Maryborough for refitting. 
If so, under whose authority was the vessel moved. 
What are the names of the captain and crew who moved the vessel. 
Who paid the captain and crew. 
What wages and salaries were paid to the captain and to each member of the crew. 
When did the vessel leave Darwin and when did it arrive in Maryborough. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What overtime and allowances have been paid since appointment to (a)  Dr Peter  Wilenski, (b)  Mr M.  Delaney, (c)  Mr Graham  Freudenberg, (d)  Mr J.  Spigelman, &lt;e) Miss Elizabeth Reid, (f)  Mr Evan 
Williams, &lt;g)  Mr Eric  Walsh, (h)  Mr David  White, (i) Miss Carolyn Summerhayes and (j) the 12 other members of his staff, 
asked the Minister for Transport  upon notice: 
What studies is the Bureau of Transport Economics presently engaged in, and when will the studies be completed. 
Will the reports be made public. 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the UNCTAD committee on shipping policy meeting in November 1973. 
If so, is the question of 40 per cent of trade being carried in national lines before the committee. 
Recognising that the expressed Australian Government policy is that 40 per cent of Australian trade should be carried in Australian built and crewed ships, has the Australian delegation been instructed to vote for any resolution favouring 40 per cent. 
If not, what are the instructions to the delegation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is the Government contemplating producing an Australian Government newspaper. 
Is a feasibility study being undertaken to look at such a proposition. 
Has an interdepartmental committee been set up to study the proposition; if so, which Departments are represented on the committee. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: &lt;1) Have any single voyage permits been granted to ships on the Australian coast since 1 January 19737 
If so, (a) on what dates were permits issued (b) what ships were involved? (c) what was the point of embarkation and destination of each ship? and (d) what was the cargo of each ship? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Government set up an interdepartmental committee to study shipbuilding policy. 
If so (a) what departments are represented and (b) what are the terms of reference of the committee. 
Has the committee yet reported. 
If so, what are its findings. 
Is it a fact that lack of decision in this matter is causing concern among those engaged in the industry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the confiscated Taiwanese vessel Yung Yuan being refitted at Walkers of Maryborough. 
If so, is it the usual practice for tenders to be called for Government work of this nature. 
Were tenders called for this work; if not, why not. 
What are the terms and conditions for this refit. 
What is the estimated cost of the refit. 
Is it the usual practice for refitting of vessels to be oversighted by the Australian Shipbuilding Board. 
If so, is the work on the Yung Yuan being oversighted by the Board; if not, why not. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. . 
I preface my question to the Prime Minister by saying that I find it passing strange that a Prime Minister can be so lacking in interest in Aboriginal affairs or the safety of officers of the Public Service that he did not call for nor receive a written or oral report the first time that violence or murder was threatened in a government department. Will the Prime Minister inform the House at what time and with which members of his staff he learnt of the affairs of Thursday last? Also, at what time and with which members of his staff did he discuss the matter, informally or otherwise? 
Since December 1972 the farm industries of this country and the people of rural Australia have been subjected to the most savage attack ever perpetrated by an Australian Government. Using the utterly fallacious excuse that Australian farmers have never had it so good, this Government has systematically set about dismantling a range of assistance and incentive measures which previous governments thought essential to the successful functioning of the farm industries, and essential for the just treatment of country people, thus assisting the economy and the consumers of the nation as a whole. The tragedy of this is not so much to be found in the individual measures that have been abolished or cut back. After all, according to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the farmers have never had it so good, and anyway the Government thinks that only a few hundred or a few thousand people are hurt. The real tragedy is to be found in the total impact the Government's actions are having on the national economy and on the farm sector in particular. The real tragedy is also to be found in the appalling lack of understanding by the Australian Labor Party of the fundamental nature of rural industry - its fluctuating, variable and unpredictable character. For years, until recently, Australian farmers went through a period that can only be described as sheer murder. Overseas markets were weak, there was over-production all around the world and seasons were bad. Today it is claimed by the Government that things are better, that they are the best they have ever -been. This is where the real disaster of Labor policy begins to .become apparent. 
Let us look at the situation. 'You have never had it so good,' says the Prime Minister; yet a quarter of a million cattle are dead because of the Queensland floods. 'You have never had it so good,' says the Prime Minister; yet the ground in north-western New South Wales, a sea of mud a few weeks ago when there was a disastrous flood and an enormous stock loss, is today so dry and hard that it cannot be ploughed for a new wheat crop. You have never had it so good,' says the Prime Minister; yet Australian farmers are in debt to record levels. Now that they have at least some chance for the first time in a long while to start to get themselves out from under this enormous burden built up over so many tough years, their capacity to do so is being ruthlessly sabotaged by this Government. You have never had it so good,' the Prime Minister says to Gippsland farmers who have just seen his Government lop the dairy subsidy and taxation incentives on fodder, fences and water supply, and axe the superphosphate bounty at a time when they are still getting the same price for milk products as they received 2 years ago while costs under this Government have skyrocketed. 'You have never had it so good', says the Prime Minister, when industrial trouble has reached record proportions throughout the community, so much so that farmers cannot buy nails, fencing wire or machinery, even if they had the money to do so. 'You have never had it so good', says the Prime Minister when the Leader of my Party, the Right Honourable Douglas Anthony, who was to lead for the Opposition in this debate, had to depart unexpectedly this morning to fly to Lismore which is in his flood-wracked electorate. 
The farm industries are now feeling some of the effects of Labor's policies. The real effects of these policies are being masked to a significant extent by a market situation which in general is certainly better than it was a year or so ago. The crunch - and it will be a vicious crunch - will come when primary industry enters a downtrend, the kind of trend it always experiences because of its very nature. That is when the farmers of this country will not only understand what a Labor government is, but what a Labor government will not do as it applies its energies to the implementation of its socialist political philosophies. In nothing is the Labor Party's determination to attack primary industry more clearly demonstrated and nowhere is the Labor Party's frightening lack of understanding of agriculture so damagingly shown than in the decision to abolish the superphosphate bounty. To a rural sector which is reeling under a rain of blows from this Government, this decision has come as just about the last straw. The fact that it is the last straw is quite evident from the fantastic goings-on amongst the Labor Party's rural members. All the betrayals of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  over rural finance, as bad as they are, pale into insignificance beside this action on superphosphate. 
Yes, the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan)  is stunningly silent on this issue. I do not think that he is even on the list of speakers. At least not many people took the Minister for Immigration very seriously when he talked about $500m for farmers at 3 per cent apart from the people of the Riverina, who believed the Minister, much to their cost. The people who studied the Labor Party's published policies did place some credence in them. How have they been rewarded for their faith in the Labor Party? There has been no rural credit of the kind promised in writing by Labor and no bounty is to be paid on superphosphate despite Labor's published policy on this point. That is how the Labor Party rewards those who believe what it says. 
Superphosphate is perhaps the most important input that goes into Australian agriculture and even, I would suggest, one of the most important inputs to the Australian economy. But the Government will say that the farmers are well able to pay the higher cost of fertiliser when the bounty goes. Let us have a look at what the cost is likely to be. First of all we can forget about the Prime Minister's meaningless gesture in referring the question of tariff protection on imported superphosphate to the Industries Assistance Commission. It no doubt sounds good to talk about taking the tariff off superphosphate, but when no superphosphate is being imported, and none is likely to be, the whole thing becomes quite irrelevant. 
The price of superphosphate in Australia at present, according to which State one is in, ranges up to about Si 8 a ton after deducting the bounty. The last price that I saw for imported superphosphate - when one could get it - was about $40 a ton. Removing a 6 per cent or a 17 per cent duty from that price obviously means nothing as far as the Australian farmer is concerned. Yet I suppose that, when you are in the kind of mess the Labor Party is because of this incredible decision, anything is worth a try to get out of it. The Government arbitrarily reduced tariffs on machinery by 25 per cent. I note that the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  is listed to speak in this debate. I would like to hear him list the items that are being reduced in price as a result of the 25 per cent reduction in the rate of duty. As far as I can ascertain the prices of most of the items purchased by the farmer have gone up since the 25 per cent tariff reduction. So again it is meaningless to talk about the advantage that is given to the farming industries. 
The basis of success of any enterprise, and any economy, is productivity. This is simply not understood by this Government. In a country like Australia there cannot be adequate productivity from our phosphate deficient soils unless there is added to them a phosphatic fertiliser in large quantities. At present we are using superphosphate at the rate of 3 million tons or more a year. Productivity does not simply mean volume, but what production you can get at what cost. The superphosphate bounty is important to farmers in keeping their costs down to some degree and thus allowing them to sell their products to the consumer at a price which is lower than it would otherwise be. It is an extraordinary decision of the Government to say that it is concerned about consumer prices and at the same time to take away the one input that might help to reduce those prices. It does show, as the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  said, the double standards of this Government. 
Higher fertiliser costs, first of all, will reduce fertiliser use and reduce both production and productivity. This will force up the prices which must be charged for farm products. This will happen both directly and indirectly. It will happen directly because of higher production costs and reduced production, and indirectly because of the effect of higher feed prices on the cost of other farm products. For example, wheat will become dearer and, consequently, so will poultry, eggs and pigmeats. The different approach taken to the long term needs of the Australian economy and the Australian people by this Labor Government can be judged by a resolution of the United States Senate dated 25 February of this year in which the Senate recognised that there is a direct correlation between the demand for and supply and price of fertiliser and the supply and price of food paid 'for by the American consumer. I am referring to resolution No. 289 which was carried on 25 February this year. 
What of the much vaunted Industries Assistance Commission, that body of impartial review which was designed to prevent capricious decisions both to introduce and to end assistance? The Prime Minister said that this overworked body could not examine the superphosphate question due to its commitments. Yet the Government apparently now feels that this body is capable of assessing the circumstances of the entire aircraft industry, but not the superphosphate bounty question. What the Prime Minister really meant to say was that in his assessment of priorities, the examination of the superphosphate bounty was less important to the Government than other issues he wishes to refer to the Industries Assistance Commission. 
What has the Government done for the 30 per cent of sheep producers with incomes under $2,000; for the 27 per cent of dairy producers, for the 26 per cent of pig producers, the 27 per cent of beef producers,. the 41 per cent of wine and grape producers and the 16 per cent of wheat producers? What has happened to the much vaunted rural reconstruction scheme that would have helped these people? The answer is 'Nothing'. What indeed has happened to the concept of stabilisation which the Government has ended after a period of bitter confrontation with the wheat growers? What has happened to the new rural unemployment relief scheme foreshadowed by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in September last year? The Minister for Labour has been pregnant with promises, but he has not delivered the goods yet. What has happened to those members of the Labor Party rural rump who thundered so loudly from the Opposition benches in 1972? Where is the Minister for Immigration who used to come in here caterwauling week after week last year and who went out at election time making promises a mile long and who has delivered nothing? He ought to be ashamed of himself, representing the people of Riverina as he does in this place, junketing around the world, and sending out Press releases by the million on matters quite irrelevant to the facts of life of the nation. Where is the Minister? He is not in here answering to this Parliament for his failure to stand up for those whom he represents in this place when he has been at, or absent from, Cabinet meetings? Why has he not raised these matters both at a Cabinet level and in this Parliament? It is because he squibbed it - he simply and truly squibbed it. The Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Hansen)  used to stand up here often and make grand speeches attacking the previous Government. What has happened to them? Where is the honourable member for Eden-Monaro, this new-found saviour of farming enterprises? 
Why is he not speaking? Why is he not attacking the Government's decision? 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro and the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin),  who are both in this place, have been yowling around the country- ' side about what the Government has done. They and the honourable member for Dawson - the Minister for Sugar or whatever he is - have been almost on the point of resigning from the parliamentary Labor Party over it, but when the crunch has come, as with everything else, they have squibbed it. 
I state unequivocally that those people in the country electorates who voted Labor were sold down the river and they now realise it. I have received a letter from  Mr Mike  Howlett about a public meeting that was held in Bairnsdale in my electorate. It says: 
This meeting protests against the ill conceived Government decision to end the superphosphate bounty. The removal of this and other incentives to production based on sectional, short-term prosperity will adversely affect rural industries, country business and all consumers. We demand that IAC reports on the superphosphate bounty before any final decision is taken. 
There have been protest meetings in all parts of my electorate - at Yarram, Traralgon, Sale and Bairnsdale. There have been protest meetings throughout Australia on the lack of knowledge and lack of understanding of this Government. The simple tragedy is that those people have been betrayed. The tragedy is not only that the Australian Labor Party members of Parliament who are supposed to represent, protect and advance the interests of their electorates have, through neglect or inability, failed; the tragedy is that the policies of this divisive Labor Government introduce a very alarming note of economic and social discrimination into the administration of the nation. 
The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  rightly expressed some concern and interest in his own electorate but he used one expression of which I believe we ought to take note. He said that the Government was not infallible. I believe it proper that he should, if he does nothing else in this place, try to educate his own Prime Minister and some of his Ministers, apart from one or two backbench members, about that aspect of Government activity. The fact is that neither the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  nor a number of Ministers and backbenchers recognise what infallibility is. They have never heard of the words modesty and humility and if the honourable member for Robertson is going to do anything at all for the national Parliament in his time in this place, he might spend some time educating them on that. 
This Parliament meets at a time of great world anxiety and uncertainty. After opening this session  Her  Majesty has flown home to Britain to play a part in one of the most crucial elections in British history. Britain is in crisis. It seems to me that that nation is torn between the forces of moderation and extremism. It should be a lesson for us here in Australia. Are we so blind that we cannot read the writing on the wall? Are we going to allow this country to divide, to polarise? Are we going to allow issues to develop in this country that will split our people? Or are we going to seek to find and follow avenues of moderation on both sides in the interests of a united Australia moving forward in our times? 
We need not look beyond America to see the sort of mess that democracies can get into. To see the greatest nation on earth caught in the throes of constitutional and leadership crises is tragic, and it can happen here as easily as it has happened there because the reason for Watergate, the reason for the whole American turmoil, is the unbridled chase for power. In Australia the power brokers in the trade union movement are active, ruthless men who would seize upon the opportunity of an unsettled world to catch this country off guard and create an atmosphere of dissent and dissatisfaction which will only lead to crises in Australia. 
The unions are running free before the winds of unshackled power. They have been allowed to assume an uncontrolled position under the Government and they have been allowed to think that the economy is their oyster. All they need to do is threaten strikes and black bans or green bans and, while Government turns a blind eye, they can reap the unjust harvest so long denied them by stronger governments. It will be a bitter harvest, because it will be won by confrontation and not by co-operation, and already it leaves this nation divided and spiritless, with severely shaken foundations. And it will be this Government upon whose shoulders will fall the responsibility of leaving this nation weaker and less unified than when it found it. 
I wonder what Ministers learn on their overseas trips. They certainly have not the capacity to observe world trends or they would return with a resolve to see that Australia at least will not experience the instability, the uncertainty, the weakness of leadership that so many nations are experiencing. Almost in spite of their knowledge and experience of overseas conditions, they return with the object of applying the formula for unrest in Australia, and with a determination and pace as yet unwitnessed in this country. Surely they must realise the wisdom of co-operation and of partnership in the job of keeping this country moving ahead. Surely they must realise that nothing but anarchy and chaos will be -achieved by the pig-headed determination to pursue this course of confrontation in the name of reform. 
It is not reform by Government that is needed in Australia. It is an awareness by Government of the Australian people and Australian conditions, and a course of positive direction from which all Australians will benefit. It is pointless pursuing the short term ends - the redress of what this Government sees as imbalance in this society - when the achievement and realisation of those ends leads to the inability of the nation to progress further. 
This Government has done nothing to inspire the people of Australia to fulfil their full potential. There has been no unleashing of the latent power of the work force to increase productivity. There has been no incentive offered to people to produce more. In fact the reverse has been the case. In most areas of the productive sector Government policy has been designed to reduce rather than actively to promote increases in productivity. This Government has failed to find ways for people to produce more and to be proud of it. It has done nothing to increase the pride of the individual in himself and in his work. All it has been able to achieve is the encouragement of greed and selfishness which has been evidenced by increased industrial action in record proportions and at enormous cost and great hardship to the community. 
The Government has promoted the approach that the individual can always rely on the State for a hand-out or for assistance, if and when he decides that he does not want to work any more, or that he wants to opt out of the system. This Government has failed to arouse the altruistic ideals of Australians and the creation of a spirit in which people realise that service to others brings its own reward. Australia is suffering from the 'I'm all right Jack' attitude. The Government has failed to create a climate that will encourage the individual to have a go, to try something new, to back his own judgment with his own hard work, and his own money, seeking a fair reward. What we are faced with in Australia today is a situation in which people are encouraged to do as little as possible, to get as much for it as possible and let the Government look after the rest. 
The Government has failed to unite the people. It has failed in its efforts to achieve a better understanding between black and white. It has created a serious backlash against the 
Aboriginal population. This has been brought about by the implementation of policies which have been ill-conceived and ill-administered and has resulted in an appalling waste of huge sums of money, to the detriment of the Aboriginal people, who are supposed to benefit, and the white community, which will not tolerate the waste of money no matter on whom it is wasted. This problem will continue to grow as long as the Aborigines are unable to feel that they are part of the Australian community. 
This Government has failed to create an atmosphere of encouragement for the poor and the pensioners, who have seen increases in incomes eaten up by rising costs. Under this Government these people have nothing to look forward to. Ten per cent of Australia's population are pensioners and those 10 per cent have less purchasing power today than they had 18 months ago. What progress! What redress of the imbalance that Labor set out to achieve! These people will never catch up. Their incomes in real terms will never improve while the economy is being manhandled by this Government. It is the little people who are suffering. Their savings are being chewed up, as inflation rages, at a rate far in excess of the interest they are able to earn. Their superannuation payments become worth less year by year and month by month as inflation rages. Despite adjustments that may be made in the rate of pension, unless the inflationary spiral can be curbed the position of these people will continue to deteriorate. 
This Government has failed to provide encouragement to the farmers of this nation. The man on the land, who is the backbone of the economy and is still the winner of half the export income that Australia earns, has been subjected to the greatest series of insults that have ever been experienced by any sector in such a short period of time. I have been told that the period is one year and 100 days. 
I agree entirely. The justification for the treatment of the rural community in such a fashion is - to quote the Prime Minister - 'You have never had it so good'. How short is his memory? Is he unaware of the long years of drought and low prices, that almost brought the rural industries of Australia to their knees. In this the first season of improved prices and seasonal conditions the rural community is being denied the opportunity to restructure its massive debt situation, which currently stands in excess of $4,000m. It is also being denied the opportunity to reinvest and to recommence programs of pasture improvement and productivity increase. The recent abolition of the superphosphate bounty is a vicious anti-productivity policy. There can be no argument that the use of superphosphate on Australian farms has done more than any other single thing to raise the carrying capacity of pastures and to increase the returns per acre of this nation's crops. Yet this Government, by removing the superphosphate bounty, will cause an effective loss in productivity growth. This is a retrograde step. It is almost impossible to comprehend a policy initiative , which can have only one effect, that is, a &lt; reduction in productivity. 
This Government has failed to create a climate of confidence, activity and prosperity in our great mining and mineral industries. There has been a slow-down in exploration expenditure and a slow-down in new moneys being invested with mining companies, and 1 therefore by mining companies in both exploration and increased production. This Government has created an atmosphere of uncertainty unparalleled in the history of the mining industry. To add to the uncertainty and confusion that now exists, this Government seems hell bent on sending its own authority into the field to find, develop and process Australian resources by using vast sums of capital which will have to be diverted from other important uses within the economy. This Government has no mandate to take the funds of the taxpayers and use them for risk investment in mining and allied enterprises. This surely is the role of the private sector, not the public sector, and there can be no justification for the Government putting up these vast amounts of risk capital when there are so many areas of the economy that are desperate for federal funds. 
Labor's policies of handouts and public sector activity, of the incredible boosting of the Public Service and of playing off one sector of the economy against another have led to the greatest degree of uncertainty, inflation and economic confusion for decades. Costs have risen alarmingly not only because inflation is imported, as the Government would have us believe, but also because of the gross 1 mismanagement of the domestic situation. &lt; Labor cannot see that. In a sectional attempt to improve the lot of the worker the Govern-  1  ment has penalised the pensioner, the man on s superannuation, the man on a fixed income, the man with life assurance and the man with savings. All these people have had their incomes, and their assets eroded, and the worker has only just kept pace himself. What a record! This is a major upheaval; no one is any better off really, and thousands upon thousands are worse off. 
Encouraged and spurred on by this Government the union bosses are taking Australia deeper into the depth of industrial chaos. Man-hours and wages lost are climbing to unprecedented levels and the community is suffering. Production is being disrupted. Concessions are being given, but at what cost? The Post Office, the nation's largest single employer, has stopped providing a Saturday service. The Post Office is a great public utility - a great service with years of tradition, in supplying the public with a need - but it is being dragged down by the militants and by the power brokers who have no concern for the people. 
Yes. The Post Office tragedy smacks of non-co-operation, of man's lack of consideration for man. The withdrawal of such a service is a great inconvenience for those for whom Saturday is the only real opportunity and time they have to conduct their Post Office business. But these people are not being considered. This is no achievement. This is a massive trade off of the public's rights and entitlements. 
This will benefit a few at the cost of many, but the Government will call it an achievement. 
The attitudes that I have listed can only demean a nation. Clearly what this Government must do is maintain the national sense of identity, strengthen its sense of idealism and provide its people with continuing motivation. This cannot be done if the motivation is such that one is encouraged to work only from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., or less if possible - not to think too much and to look to big brother if one stubs one's toe. Government must encourage, and support the things of real value in a community. History has proven that encouragement of the individual to feel free and equal and to stand on his own feet and not depend entirely on big brother goes hand in hand with a proper sense of independence and pride in oneself and in one's country. None of 'this prevents new thinking, new policies or new initiatives because a country will not be great without them. But a country will not be the greatest if it lacks the moral fibre and strength of character to stand up and fight for the good things that continue to exist in our society. Regrettably, this is a course on which Australia is presently set. 
I began by speaking of the problems in overseas countries, of the way in which these countries were being divided over major issues, and of the instability that arises from this polarisation. I have referred to the importance of a strong, well managed economy to the creation of a climate for progress and growth and I have argued that this Government, through its acts and omissions, has created apprehension and uncertainty among the people. I conclude by urging this Government to see where Australia is heading. I urge it to refrain from following divisive and emotional policies which will rip this country apart and which will set group against group to the detriment of all. I urge it to follow a course of conciliation and moderation, as it is only through policies of this nature that this country will avoid the tragic economic and social effects of a divided community. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will he name each member  of  his staff and say when each of them learnt of the raid on the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
Is the magazine 'Shelter', which carries views that do not necessarily represent Government policy, the personal attitudes of the Minister for Housing and Construction, or the official views of the Department, printed by Summit Press. 
Is the magazine production paid for by the Government; if so, what is the cost. 
If it is not paid for by the Government, who is funding the magazine. 
Are the facilities and personnel of his Department used for compiling a magazine, written by outsiders and not printed by the Government Printer; if so, why. 
What is the circulation of the magazine. 
Are the contributors paid for their contribution; if so how much. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
As the Prime Minister appointed  Senator Gair  as Ambassador designate on 14 March, can he say whether the senator is now drawing 2 salaries? When did salary as Ambassador designate start and when did salary and emoluments as senator finish? 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Has the Victorian Government lodged an environmental impact study of alternative sites for the Mitchell River Dam. 
If so, does the study recommend any particular site; if so, which site. 
Does the study also carry a request for financial assistance for construction of the Dam. 
What is the estimated cost of each alternative site. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Have Ministers of the Australian Transport Advisory Council discussed the possibility of environmental hazards because of lead additives in petrol. 
If so, (a) what conclusions were reached and (b) what action is being taken. 
Yes, I second the motion. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  today has taken the unusual course of seeking the suspension of Standing Orders because during the election campaign the Leader of the Opposition made inflation and the economy an issue. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  did not want to respond to such an issue. He was like an ostrich with his head in the sand until some, of his Press cronies warned him that the people of Australia were concerned about the economy. Finally, the Prime Minister came out and made several statements on inflation about which the people of Australia were concerned. On 27 April the Prime Minister stated: 
We are winning the battle against prices. Our policies for cheaper imports- 
The tactics which are being adopted are quite clear. It does not worry me. The simple fact is that the Leader of the Opposition made this an issue before the election. The Prime Minister finally took it up as an issue and he claimed that inflation was being reduced. The Government's action since it came back into power has been one of confusion heaped upon confusion. Since the election all that we have had has been a series of statements from a variety of ragbag Ministers giving their views on the state of the economy. The people of Australia want to know the state of the economy. Is there or is there not inflation? Before the election the Prime Minister claimed that inflation was on the decrease. When the Premiers came to this table in this chamber a few weeks after the election they found out how inflation was on the decrease! They were treated in a frightful manner. I would like to repeat the real words which the Premier of South Australia used as he was circling in an aeroplane over Canberra. But let us look at what is being said by a variety of Ministers. All one has to look at are headlines. When one sees these headlines one can see the concern of the people of Australia. Some of these state: 
Crean: squeeze to last a year. Cairns rejects an inflation hardline. Curbs to stay for some time, Crean says. Cairns: time to ease squeeze. 
Then we have other great spokesmen of the Australian Labor Party such as the  President  of the Australian Labor Party and the Premier of South Australia. A headline states: 
Dunstan hits out at Labor tariff policy. 

 Mr Dunstan and  Dr J.  F. Cairns , what a duo , were together in South Australia. A headline states: 
PMs policy wrong: Dunstan. 
Then we come to that grey haired  old  mare, the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who put in his 2 bits worth. Another headline states: 
Whitlam and Cameron clash on employment. 
The Prime Minister in one of his more generous moments at dinner where he was sipping orange juice said 'There will be no unemployment'. Immediately the Minister for Labor and Immigration, who is supposed to be the expert on this matter, was asked a question about the Prime Minister's statement and he said: 'I do not agree. There will be severe unemployment'. How can the Australian people ever understand the state of the economy when the Ministers themselves do not know what is going on in the Government and what is Government policy? There are more of these headlines. There is headline after headline. Finally we come to a couple of leading articles. One is in the 'Australian' of 3 June. It states: 
A little less from  Dr Cairns  and more from the Prime Minister. 1 think that is a very fitting headline in relation to what has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition. He has sought the suspension of Standing Orders so that the Prime Minister can come in and at least lay down a paper and tell the people of Australia what this matter is all about. I am reminded very much of something I read last year about an article in 'Time' magazine. It is still relevant because we still have the same Ministry to which 'Time' referred. I shall read one line of the newspaper articles which referred to the comment in Time'. It states: 
The members of Australia's Federal Cabinet were generally an unimpressive group of long-serving party hacks, 'Time' magazine said today. 
They are long-serving party hacks all right. But it is time they realised that they have a responsibility to the people of Australia. The first part of that responsibility lies in telling the people of Australia the state of the economy. It is time. It is time the Prime Minister came in here and told the truth instead of this House having a mish mash of policies from a ragbag ministry. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Is the viability of Qantas Airways Ltd seriously threatened by large increases in its wages  bill?  Is it a fact that the Minister is now considering heavy reductions in Qantas services throughout the world? Are the reports that are circulating true, namely, that the Minister has suggested that Qantas may have to shut down? 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  lives in a fairy tale world. He continually puts up propositions that he hopes will cure what is an endemic problem within the nation. The fact of the matter is that he has presided over the greatest deterioration in industrial relations, in terms of strikes and man hours lost, in the term of any Minister in the parliamentary history of this nation. That is the Minister's record.  His  approach to industrial relations is to abrogate his responsibility. He did it again today. He did it in a speech to the Industrial Relations Society of Australia in June when he referred to employment relations in terms of a power struggle and a perpetual conflict that is endemic to the industrial situation. He suggested that recognition of this fact is necessary for a realistic industrial relations policy. What that is doing is to beg the question entirely and not to face up to the reality of the industrial difficulties occurring throughout Australia. 
There are 2 basic and vital qualifications to this proposition. One is that we are not discussing a free market situation in which the price of labour is determined by pure competition; rather is there a cartel situation with unions and employer organisations together with important and often decisive outside in fluences, such as government intervention and legal judgments. To the extent that Government influence is important, the Government must accept a corresponding degree of responsibility for the harmony or conflict that results. That is where the Minister abrogates his responsibility. Secondly, the consequences of the conflict over wage determinations and working conditions are often unacceptable to the community. In short, the process of industrial conflict that is so passively sanctioned by the Minister is at times unacceptable in its cost to the community. That time has now been reached. 
In the first 3 months of this year the number of working days lost due to industrial action was nearly 4.S times as great as in the same period in 1973. That is the record of the present Minister for Labor and Immigration. More importantly, a most striking feature has been the increased duration of the strikes, as evidenced by the increased number of days of industrial dispute per worker involved. Wage disputes were by far the most common cause of strikes, accounting for about two-thirds of the working days lost. Disputes involving wage settlements were of a much longer duration and involved more workers than disputes due to other causes. Since that is the case, we should start with the proposition that that degree of industrial conflict  -  2.5 million working days lost in 3 months - is not acceptable to the Australian public. One can list a whole series of strikes in this category, such as that which has resulted in the situation where milk is unavailable in Brisbane, where Adelaide is similarly threatened; and where the strike by ships' engineers threatens the prosperity of Tasmania while the Government and the Minister sit by idly waiting for the strike to break. The recent series of postal strikes is not acceptable and neither is industrial trouble affecting school construction as well as the construction of private dwellings. That being so, let us hear no more sanctimonious twaddle about the theory of industrial conflict, and let us have no more passive acceptance of the inevitability of this sort of unrest. 
The Minister has said that the role of the Government is that of an honest power broker. Its role should be much more than that. A government can create a climate in which conflict flourishes or withers. It can determine the size of the market for labour and it can actively intervene, not to even up the balance of power but to influence actively and decisively the outcome of disputes. More importantly, the combined effects of the progressive and outdated taxation scale and the 14 per cent rate of inflation have eroded average weekly earnings to the extent that the average wage earner in 1973 was almost SI a week worse off in terms of take home purchasing power at the end of the year than at its beginning. It is in this regard that the Minister ought to start acting responsibly in curing the problems. Some unions are ahead in relation to this eroding purchasing power and some are behind, but the determination to preserve and improve relativities ensures constant struggle until the forces of disruption - taxation and inflation - are moderated. 
Unfortunately the outcome is unpromising. An enormous cloud looms as structural unemployment starts to appear. This is already evident in the labour statistics, and it can be expected as the cumulative effect of taxation changes, tariff cuts and currency realignment work through the economy. If this forecast is true then the unions involved will most certainly provoke further industrial action, an effect hardly consistent with the balance of power argument, advanced by the Minister, which implies that increased unemployment should weaken the position of the unions. I suppose that is true to the extent to which those unions are not affiliated with the Australian Labor Party. Unfortunately and disgracefully, the Government has sown the winds of structural adjustment and will reap the whirlwind of consequent unemployment without a viable or available retraining alternative. It is not good enough for the Minister to say that he tried; he did not try hard enough to convince his colleagues. 
The facts are clear. An interdepartmental committee set up by the Minister to recommend a viable scheme was sacked by him in December. A report by Professor Cochrane is sound in principle but is wide open to serious anomalies and possible inconsistencies. No regional employment scheme has emerged from Cabinet in-fighting. Yet another interdepartmental committee - the interdepartmental committee on structural adjustment - after a gestation period of more than a year has spawned the structural adjustment board that offers assistance to industry and employees disadvantaged by government measures. 
Some questions which unions will want answered are these: How is 'structural adjustment' defined? Does it include currency realignments, monetary policy and changes in government procurement as well as tariff cuts and taxation reform? Is retraining assistance available to all or is it linked to the work of the board? How do apprenticeships schemes and university scholarships relate to the training scheme? What criteria are applicable to screening of applicants? Finally and most importantly, what happens to those people who are fired before these issues are resolved and the machinery is operative? Are. we to expect more industrial anarchy as a result of deliberately created unemployment by a government that regards unemployment as unacceptable? 
Certainly the Government stepped beyond the role of honest broker when the Minister for Labor and Immigration appeared on television last year to support a 35-hbur week for power workers in New South Wales. Let us not forget that. Following that piece of provocation the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  then made the statement, which is demonstrably false, that unemployment was confined to New South Wales and to industries employed by the State Government, such as the power industry. The Government seems unable to resolve its attitude to its own employees. From a stance of industrial pacesetter the Minister now wrings his hands, as evidenced by his June speech, over the implications of a flat rate increase of $16 a week for the Australian Public Service. The Government's submission to the Commission is based on economic nonsense, and this submission should be stated to be nonsense. 
Indexation freezes relativities, distorted as a result of inflation, and has been condemned as inflationary by no less prominent a socialist than the Prime Minister of Britain. The proposed uniform productivity adjustment ignores the considerable productivity variations between industries that should not be averaged for the purpose of wage determinations and probably cannot be successfully measured. Flat rate increases may strike some sympathetic cord in the hearts of those determined to redistribute or more exactly to equalise society, to put it politely. Such increases strike at the heart of work incentives and individual performance. These measures are no answer to industrial unrest, and they carry the seeds of further conflict, not the least of which would be between the higher paid and the lower paid workers. 
The Government must adopt a stance in industrial disputes that serves the wider ends of peace and justice, instead of attempting to strengthen the bargaining power of favoured unions. Perhaps most importantly of all, in a situation in which two-thirds of industrial unrest is due to wage disputes, it must moderate the impact of taxation and inflation as a high priority policy measure. Until this is done, until the taxation system is reformed and its impact lessened, and until inflation is brought right back, we will have a climate conducive to wage unrest and the community will reap the full social and economic consequences that flow from it. The Government and the Minister have failed miserably in honouring their promise to the people of Australia when they said that the Labor Party alone could reduce the industrial difficulties being experienced by the Australian nation. 
 I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase charges for postal and telegraph services to raise an extra $140m. The rationale the Government puts forward for the decision is the problem of inflation. No one knows more than I do that inflation is a problem within the community. But I doubt the motives of the Government in raising postal and telegraph charges as the answer to that problem. During the course of the election campaign inflation became an issue because the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  forced the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Government to recognise that the people of Australia were concerned about it. Finally when the Prime Minister joined issue on the question of inflation he did so, in my view, with a fair deal of deceit and we had such statements in advertisements in the newspapers as 'only Whitlam has reduced inflation by onethird'. There were others, such as: 'Only Whitlam could do so much in 16 months . . . Inflation falling'. These are the sorts of advertisements that greeted the people of Australia during the election campaign. There were others which claimed that the Government's policies had produced 'the biggest drop in the rate of inflation during the March quarter of any industrial nation'. Another stated: 'Under Labor inflation in Australia has already fallen by one-third to per cent'. 
This is the sort of garbage - if I may use that term - that was served up to the people of Australia during the election campaign. It is proved to be garbage by the very acts of the Government since coming back into power. It deceived the people of Australia on a set of figures - the consumer price index that was published for the March quarter - which showed a level of inflation less than that of the December quarter. Of course, the point was that it was the highest rate of increase for the March quarter in 20 years. But the Government went forward to the people of Australia and tried to convince them that it had inflation under control. The result came in the next quarter when we reached the high consumer price index increase of 4.1 per cent. I think that is almost the highest increase in history. That shows how bad was the deception by Ministers during the election campaign, and by the Prime Minister in particular. The deceit has come home to roost in this Bill. The Government is now foisting on the people of Australia savage increases to try to solve its problems. 
As my colleague the honourable member for Moreton said, it is disgraceful. We have said in Opposition that we are prepared to co-operate with the Government in order to solve or help to solve the problems of inflation, and so we are. What we are concerned about is the way the Government is going about it. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has said that a program ought to be put up for all the people of Australia to see and to share in. This, of course, has been ignored by the Government. 
The real concern that we have when we see this Bill is whether the proposals are antiinflationary or simply measures to raise funds for a bankrupt government. Through its bad programming, the Government obviously has overspent and now is seeking to raise money as quickly as it can. The charges are savage, and it is no wonder that the people of Australia are objecting. The ordinary letter rate is to go up from 7c to 9c; the cost of a local telephone call from 4.75c to 6c; and for a call from a public telephone - the people's telephone- the charge will be doubled from 5c to 10c. If we had been in government and had proposed such a measure, members of the Australian Labor Party would have been bringing this place down brick by brick. 
The Government set up the Vernon Royal Commission and then totally ignored its report, which makes plain what the Commission believes ought to be reasonable charges  in  respect of this public institution. I quote from page xv of the report, which states: 
The Commission sees the Australian Post Office as an organisation which offers services on the basis of a tariff structure which provides for the reasonable cost of those services to be recouped from revenues received from customers. 
Quite clearly, the Commission said 'reasonable costs'; it did not say 'full costs'. Nor did it say that the Post Office should make big profits. Because of strikes, bad handling by the previous Postmaster-General and mismanagement, the Post Office has moved to a loss situation of $100m a year. Is the Government proposing to recoup $100m? It is not. It is proposing to recoup $140m. This will be a savage charge to ask the people of Australia to bear, especially when it is said to be a means of handling inflation. I shall come to that again later. 
The worst feature is that the Government, having set up the Vernon Commission rather than implement the findings of that Commission and the efficiencies recommended in the report, has moved straight in with a heavy hand and savagely increased charges across the board. It is clearly unnecessary and a very unfair impost on the people of Australia. Contrary to the suggestions of the Vernon Commission, the Government has imposed these very significant increases. Indeed, in his second reading speech the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  recognised that the charges to be levied are higher than required or suggested by the Vernon Commission. The Vernon Commission suggested that telecommunications charges be raised by 7 per cent, instead of which this Government has put them up by 17 per cent. Similarly, the Vernon Commission stated that there was room for an annual increase in postal charges in times of heavy demand of the order of 15 per cent. This Government has put those charges up by 22 per cent. 
Let us see what the people of Australia have to say about that. Since the measures were announced I have noticed that the newspapers have carried clearly to the Government the message as to what the various interested parties throughout the community  think of the Government's actions. One article states: 
Industry pours scorn on Federal measures. The business sector has hotly refuted anti-inflationary aspects of the Federal Government's mini-Budget 
Industry spokesmen contacted yesterday were emphatic that the higher taxes and charges would only add to inflationary pressures. 
They also agreed that price increases were inevitable. 

 Mr F. J. Darling, executive director the Employers Federation of New South Wales, described the higher postal and telephone charges as 'sheer murder'. 'The Govenment expects industry to justify price increases and be accused of malpractice - and then has the gall to raise charges for nothing more than an inefficient service. 'It's an utter disgrace that costs are up 33 per cent for what is a horribly depleted service.' 
There is an impartial judgment made by a person outside in the community. The article continues: 

 Mr K. D. Williams,  president  of the Australian Chamber of Commerce, said the anti-inflationary tag given to the mini-Budget was 'grossly misleading'. 'It is obvious that the Government is looking at only one side of a 2-sided equation and ignoring the excessive demands being placed on business by trade unions, often to the point of disruptive strikes and other forms of industrial unrest' 'Present Government policies cannot control inflation without creating business failures and  a  wasteful degree of unemployment.' 
I suggest that that is another unbiased, impartial point of view. The article continues: 
Meanwhile, the acting director of the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures,  Mr C.  F. Sullivan, and the acting secretary of the Victorian Employers Federation,  Mr L.  J. Lockie, both accused the Government of failing to take proper action against the inflation spiral. 'Postal and telephone charges are additional costs for both employers and wage earners whose net earnings will be lowered by the increased expenses for tobacco and spirits,'  Mr Sullivan  said. 
The list of such comments is endless. No matter where one turns in the community there is not one vestige of support for the Government's action in savagely increasing the charges as it has done. The article reports the comments of  Mr J.  B. Griffin, another impartial person, as follows: 

 Mr J. B. Griffin, executive director of the Retail Traders' Association of New South Wales, said the measures would only add to Government revenue. 
I agree with that comment. I suspect that that was the purpose of the whole of the action - to increase Government revenue.  Mr Griffin  is reported as saying: 'These are tremendous increases in costs and when you add 33 per cent on the cost of mailing for every company you are talking in big figures.' 
I could go on with an endless list of comments by impartial judges who are sitting in judgment on the actions of this Government. The Government ought to recognise what they are saying and take it into account. These people are saying quite clearly that the measures are not anti-inflationary; they are inflationary. If honourable members opposite do not accept the impartiality of the judges I have quoted, perhaps I can turn to some who may appeal to them as being somewhat more impartial. I notice that in the Hansard of this Parliament there are reports of a number of comments by spokesmen who have said their piece on this issue in days gone by when increases in post and telegraph charges have been proposed. Let me quote from one as follows: 
They have- 
That is the Post Office-  become tax gatherers for the Government and  as  such they collect a tax that is inequitable and iniquitous because it is not in any way based upon the capacity of people to pay. There is no certainty that a pensioner sends fewer letters or makes fewer telephone calls than anyone else in the community. The imposition of increased postal charges, telecommunication charges, radio and licence fees is in itself inflationary. 
That is the impartial and unbiassed view of the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  If Government supporters do not accept my earlier quotations perhaps they may accept what some of their colleagues have said. A second impartial view appears in Hansard of 25 August 1971. It reads: 
Surely this action in itself is inflationary- 
This honourable member was speaking at a time when the Government had proposed a very small rise in postal charges. The quotation continues:  and the Government loudly proclaims  that it is  attempting to combat inflation. On the one hand, the Government appeals to the private sector to contain costs and, on the other, it aggravates charges in the public sector which will accelerate the situation and which are  in  turn passed on to the consumer. 
Those wise words were uttered by the honourable member for Bonython  (Mr Nicholls),  now the Government Whip. If honourable members do not regard that as an impartial judgment I refer them the the fount of all knowledge. On 13 September 1971 these words were said: 
To us this seems to run contrary to what  is  described as the overall strategy of the Budget, that is, the halting of inflation. Many of these charges can only aggravate inflation..... It increases charges the impact of which will be felt not only  by individuals whose purchasing power will be reduced unless they can increase their incomes but also by business undertakings which have the ability to pass on the increased charges. To say the least, this Budget will accelerate inflation. 
Those wise words came from the present Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  when he was the shadow Treasurer sitting on this side of the House. How views can change. The Treasurer rose in this place on Tuesday night to tell the world he was introducing antiinflationary measures  by  bringing down the most severe impost in postal and telegraph charges that this country has seen since federation. The same man, two or three years ago, said that such charges, if they were brought in, would be inflationary. That exposes completely the failure of this Government to understand what it is doing on this question of inflation. The Treasurer has made other unfortunate statements. I should not embarrass him by using them unless I am pressed. 
As I am pressed to embarrass the Treasurer further - that is the only reason I do it - I quote from page 1164 of Hansard of 13 September 1971 where he is reported as having said: 
It seems clear that whilst there may be some logic in increasing the charges on the postal services, there is certainly no logic whatsoever in increasing the charges on the telecommunications side, as that section already shows a profit by any kind of reckoning. The Opposition- 
Of course, he was in Opposition at that time -  has suggested that as this section is paying its way perhaps the principle of subsidy might seriously be applied to try to aid decentralisation. 
What a change that is from the present attitude of the Federal Treasurer. He has done everything in his power to cut back any form of decentralisation by the use of the Post Office. He has taken away  even  incentive possible for people living in country areas by taking measures against the Post Office. This shows how unreal this Government is in its approach to decentralisation. 
When the Government was in Opposition it was crying from the roof tops about the inflation that increased postal charges would cause. The first thing it has done this session is to propose the largest postal imposts since Federation. All the earlier statements of 
Government supporters make nonsense of the stand taken by the Treasurer in his speech on Tuesday night. He is condemned, indeed, by his own statements. He proves himself to be not only a misleading Treasurer - almost an untrue Treasurer - in telling the people of Australia of the effects of these measures but also he proves himself to be totally incompetent as a Treasurer. 
So far the Vernon Commission report has been ignored by the Government. I hope it will do something about it. That report makes a very wise suggestion. On page (XV) of the Report of the Commission of Inquiry into the Australian Post Office, appears a summary of its principal conclusions and recommendations. It suggests that the Australian Post Office should ensure that the community contributes to the revenues of the Post Office in proportion to the use each member makes of those services. That is a very important principle but it is running contrary to what the Post Office is, in fact, at this time doing. I have only to draw to the attention of honourable members the speech of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  in an adjournment debate in this House the other night- 
Yes, it was. He said that in certain country electorates telephone subscribers are being asked to pay up to $3,000 to get a connection to what is an essential service. It cannot honestly be said that that meets the criteria laid down in that aspect of the Vernon Commission report. I hope that the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  representing the Postmaster-General in this House, will have regard for that aspect of the Vernon Commission report because the Opposition believes, as does the Vernon Commission, that there ought to be an element of service and not merely an element of profit making involved- 
Yes, the whole nation should be serviced. That is how the Post Office operated when we were in government. Look how it has deteriorated since. There has been nothing but a series of strikes, lockouts and close downs. The Government is closing down post offices all over the country. The people of Australia have lost their Saturday morning services. The Government cannot even handle a strike. If there is a demarcation dispute between 2 unions the Government goes to water. The Post Office has never been in such a state, never been in such a mess. The Vernon Commission report raises a very important point of principle. It indicates clearly that for capital works there should be a subvention from the Treasury. We agree that there should be a subvention from the Treasury. It is an impossible proposition to ask people living in remote areas to pay $3,000 - I have heard that it can cost up to $8,000 - for what is really an essential service. The PostmasterGeneral  (Senator Bishop)  has said that the Post Office commercial accounts for 1973-74 indicate roughly a break even position. At current tariffs his expectation is for a combined loss of $100m in 1974-75. This loss could be expected to occur despite the write off of accumulated postal losses at 30 June 1974. 
The Vernon report recently released draws attention to the dual aspects of the Post Office - the telecommunications section, which is a capital intensive and profitable sector, and the postal services sector which is labour intensive and unprofitable. Over a 14-year period from 1959-60 to 1972-73 the postal services ran at an accumulated loss of $138m while the telecommunications sector ran at an accumulated profit of $22 lm. The report notes that over the past decade tariff rates for postal services have increased at an annual rate of 5 per cent but the postal services have been handicapped by a relatively low rate of growth of demand. On the other hand, the telecommunications sector has increased its charges by only an average rate of 4 per cent. Yet the rate of growth in real terms of the telecommunications sector was about 3 times that of the postal services. The Minister representing the Postmaster-General should explain to the House the basis of the Postmaster-General's profit and loss calculations. The Vernon Commission estimated a loss applicable to postal services of $83m in 1974-75 based on data supplied by the Post Office. It is realised that that calculation may have been somewhat upset by wage increases since then but presumably revenue has also responded to the much vaunted economic boom. That estimate of $83m should have been substantially affected by the intention to reduce the postal services interest bill by about $17m. Yet, in spite of this development, the total loss of $90m for both postal services and telecommunications estimated by the Vernon Commission for 1974 has now leaped to an estimate exceeding $100rn. This implies, taking the interest reduction into account, that since the Vernon Commission made these calculations some months ago costs have escalated very rapidly. Yet the Postmaster-General is silent on any productivity gains over that period. 
There are 2 considerations relevant to this matter. The first is the question of the efficiency of the Post Office, in particular the postal services sector, which has run at a substantial loss over recent years due almost entirely to very large increases in operating and maintenance expenses. The PostmasterGeneral talked of writing off the accumulated postal losses and consequently reducing the interest bill. The interest bill for the postal services is only about 8 per cent of the total expenses of this service, while the telecommunications sector has a massive interest bill nearly 10 times that of the postal service, accounting for between a quarter and a fifth of expenses. 
The principal facts are that real demand for postal services has been growing at a much slower rate than has the demand for telecommunications. In addition, postal services have been highly unprofitable. The Vernon Commission drew a conclusion that the rate of increase of postal tariffs over the past 10 years has clearly been inadequate. Yet over the past decade, while the consumer price index up to 1971-72 rose at an annual average rate of 3i per cent, the annual cost for postal services, that is the charge to the consumer, increased by 5 per cent. It could well be suggested that it would be highly appropriate for any further increases in postal services to be deferred pending 2 factors. The first is an economic study of the effect of further increases on demand for services, including transference of demand to what the Vernon Commission acknowledged to be increase in competition from private couriers. It is noted that the Post Office intends to operate its own courier service to attract some of this traffic to itself. It could well be that the elasticity of demand for postal services is such that further substantial increases in rates of the magnitude envisaged by the Government may be counterproductive. It is worth saying that, if as the Coombs Report points out, there are opportunities for productivity improvements in a highly labour intensive organisation like the Public Service, then there should be scope in the postal services sector. 
The Vernon report discussed what the role of the Post Office should be in the community. The Vernon Commission considered that it was not correct to define the role of the Post Office in simple terms as either a social service or a business undertaking. Indeed, it mentioned the responsibility of the Post Office in decentralised areas. Yet clearly this is a matter on which we should expect policy guidelines from the Government. The Minister's second reading speech is a confused document on this basis. It talks of the Government's intention to 'tackle concessional and uneconomic areas of Post Office activity which provide hidden subsidies to selected areas of the community'. There is one curious paragraph which states: 
When a product or service is priced well below its cost, it leads to an artificially high demand for it. For a Post Office service, the cost of meeting that demand makes inequitable inroads into the national resources available to meet total community needs. 
Having stated this, the Government does not seem able to make its mind on the role of the Post Office. If it intends to adhere to that paragraph, it would charge people in rural areas the full economic cost, estimated by the Minister as being over $3,600, of installing a telephone service. I feel that that is where we are going. As it is, the increases in charges proposed are a curious mixture of cost recoupment to the full extent and a reduction in what the Government calls the subsidy to the user of the service. The Opposition believes that this structure of increases should be deferred pending a detailed statement from the Government on the guidelines it wishes to establish for the Post Office or the 2 new corporations recommended. The fact is that the Post Office, to most people, is a monopoly service. However, the Post Office is not sure if it is intended to be. I think that is the anomaly that the officers of the Post Office find themselves up against. The Government plainly cannot make up its own mind. The Government for its part seems to intend that the Post Office operate as a profitable business enterprise, not as a community service. In view of its monopoly status, the economic efficiency of the Post Office is particularly important. Normal market competitive forces do not operate efficiently, although the growth of private courier services indicates the extent to which they probably would if competition prevailed. What is required is a clear statement of the extent to which the Government sees these services as being instruments of welfare and decentralisation and to what extent it sees them as being business undertakings. The report of the consultant to the Vernon Commission makes this point very clearly. 
There is one other interesting point that emerges about the charges in this Bill, and that is the history that preceded them and their introduction into the Parliament. We all know from picking up the newspapers in recent weeks that there has been a great deal of speculation in the Press that large increases were imminent. That appeared to have flowed from meetings of what is called the kitchen cabinet. I do not think we could get a better name for the motley collection of Ministers meeting privately out at the Lodge over a cup of tea. 
I wonder whether they did the washing up. The dirty dishes can be seen in this Bill. But the facts are that arising out of those kitchen cabinet meetings a decision was taken to increase postal charges very heavily. The extraordinary thing is that this has been denied by the Special Minister of State, who usually is very frank. In fact, when he was Postmaster-General we found him frank indeed. But he seems to have lost his frankness when the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  asked him a question which I think was a very fair question. In fact, I said: 'Hear, hear'. But the  Speaker  said that I should not interrupt or interject. This is what the honourable member for Wilmot asked: 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. In view of the disturbing story that postal and telecommunication charges are heading for a massive increase, will the PostmasterGeneral and the Government consider the fact that already business is falling in thousands of post offices, especially in country towns? 
The honourable member for Wilmot, But the Minister, not as frank as usual, got up and went on with a great deal of nonsense about the Vernon Commission but never answered the question. The next day the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in his usual clever way, also failed to answer a question which was put to him by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  about this matter. The Prime Minister denied that the Government was considering any of these matters. I think he said that there were no papers before the Cabinet. That is not the information that the Leader of the Opposition was looking for. He was looking for a truthful statement about the Government's intentions because of the proposal that had been floating around for so long. 
Because of all the reasons I have given, we believe that this Bill should be deferred. Accordingly, I move: 
That all words after 'that' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: 'the House is of opinion that the Bill should not be proceeded with until the Government presents its total program to deal with inflation and to enable the full inflationary effect of the proposals contained in the Bill to be determined.'. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! Is the amendment seconded? 
Introduction of this Bill sees the fruition of work that commenced 3 years ago when State ministerial members of the Australian Transport Advisory Council accepted my recommendation that the Bureau of Transport Economics commence a cost benefit analysis of returns from capital investments into a variety of programs to uplift the standard of urban public transport. At meetings of ATAC I told State Ministers for Transport that the Federal Government was keen to provide assistance to upgrade urban transport systems, but that before such investment would be made by the Federal Government we would need to measure the real value of such investment to the taxpayer and the commuter. 
Furthermore, as an act of good faith on my part so that States could themselves assess the value of the findings, the BTE would report to State Ministers and not just the Federal Government. I am reminded of course that one State Minister broke faith with his other colleagues and gave a copy to the then Leader of the Opposition who immediately made it public. The tragedy of that event was, of course, that the report was not Commonwealth Government property. Unlike other BTE reports it was, as I have said, property prepared equally for the States' Ministers and containing information given on a confidential basis by the States. 
The act of the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was all the more despicable because the State Ministers had not indicated their agreement or wish for the report to be made public. The Prime Minister compounded this despicable act by claiming that State Ministers had sought its publication and I had refused. This statement was false as there had not been one letter, phone call or communication to me from any State Minister requesting or seeking publication. 
I have recounted the history of events of that time to show how unprincipled the Prime Minister of Australia can be in his dealings with the States. 
I withdraw that,  Sir. But  the fact is that the Prime Minister showed scant respect and interest for the agreed procedures whereby the States themselves would approve publication. 
The second reading speech of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  is a pitiful document. It does him no justice and I pity the departmental writers who were forced to prepare it. Instead of being a correct technical document for the benefit of those interested in the principles of the Bill, it is a statement full of contradictions, self aggrandisement, misleading statements, misrepresentations, inaccuracies and political bias. It is a far cry from the traditional and proper practice expected from such a document. 
The purpose of the Bill, is to make provision for the expenditure of $79.91m on a variety of urban public transport projects that are listed on the Schedule attached to the Bill. The expenditure is spread over a number of years, thus in the case of some projects minimising the disruption that will occur. I take it that each of the projects has been subjected to a cost benefit analysis by the Bureau of Transport Economics and doubtless, like the projects studied for the initial report of the BTE on urban transport, have shown a high yield. 
Strangely the Minister's second reading speech does not mention the work of the BTE in this regard. 
Threaded through the second reading speech are at least 3 abysmal attempts by the Minister to try to demonstrate that the initiatives in this Bill are all his own handiwork. Well, he protesteth too much. Either he is extraordinaily ignorant of the files on record in his Department on this subject, or he is plainly trying to delude himself and probably those in the Caucus who elected him to the Ministry that he is a man of great initiative and enterprise. 
Well, let everyone both inthisparliament and outside know that thethebasicgroundwork that results in this Bill was wellunderwayand agreed to by the previousGovernmentandindeed indeed were part of the LiberalandCountry Party policy speech in 1972deliveredbythe Right Honourable WilliamMcMahon.Indeed if the Minister checks therecordhewillsee that the principles governingthisBillwere developed by May 1972 andconsideredas Budget proposals. And so thattherealtruth of this matter is on the record andplainfor: future generations to see I want toexposethe Labor Party history on its interest inurban transport problems beforetheybecome wrongly a part of our folklore. 
I have often read that thepresentPrime Minister has been a leader indemonstrating a real interest in urbantransportproblems. Indeed, the Minister forTransportwhois at the table has repeated again inhissecond reading speech an attack onthefailureof the Liberal-Country Party totackleurban transport problems down through23years of office. Let us put the recordstraight.The Right Honourable John Gortonspokeofour intentions to investigate andassistwiththe. problems of urban transport in his1969policy speech and the principles of this Billappeared in Prime Minister McMahon's policyspeech. 
The right honourable member forLowe(Mr. McMahon) had recognised and aacceptedthat the Federal Government wouldhavetoassist, and I want to place on recordthatnowhere down those 23 years did the LaborPartyhave either in its Party platform orinapolicy speech any recognition of thedifficultiesof urban transport. Indeed, thefirstappearance of the words was not as I hadexpectedinthe early days of Labor policy, norwasiteven in 1969 when the present Prime Ministerintroduced his first policy speechatageneral election. The plain truth is that Labormade no mention of urban transport policyuntilthe 1972 general election. So the PrimeMinister is very much a latter day saint on thisissue. 
Now, as for the Minister at the table no one would be surprised that he wouldusethese initiatives in the Labor Party room toconvince those who sit behind him that hehas the makings of a statesman and is therefore worthy of being re-elected to theMinistry.Butitis plain balderdash, and indeeddishonest,for him to come into this Parliament orthepublic arena outside to make such a claim.Heknows as well as I do that he would nothavebeenin a position to enter into negotiationwiththe 
States in February 1973 - 2 months after the election - had the proposals not reached such a forward stage. Furthermore it is to his everlasting discredit that it took him until March 1973 to get the Bill ready for Parliament. That delay was caused by both his pedestrian outlook in negotiation and his dogmatic and hopeless approach in trying to arrive at a schedule of arrangements for signature for attachment to the Bill. 
It is quite clear from the original schedule of arrangements forwarded to the States that the Minister was seeking impossible conditions from the States as the price for Australian Government participation. It is to the everlasting credit of the officers of the Department that they were finally able to convince the Minister that to secure agreement he would have to move from his dogmatic, dictatorial and narrow ideological stance. So, for the Minister to say that the delay of 3 months caused by the election is the reason for not one cent being made available to the States by this time is pure humbug. The Minister takes the same miserable and dishonest approach in respect of the new Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway line. Even he ought to be honest enough to state the true position, when the previous Government had not only taken a decision to construct it but had also expended money on detailed plans and commenced the survey for the new line. 
Similarly in respect of the Crystal Brook to Adelaide line he is either abysmally ignorant or deliberately trying to mislead the Parliament in his speech by trying to claim its construction as some new initiative by him. The simple truth about both projects is that the signing of the agreement was delayed by the South Australian Labor Government for purely political reasons, but the concept was complete and indeed agreed upon back in 1972. The Minister does appear, however, to have made one promise that will be welcomed and that is to build a railway line from Alice Springs to Darwin. I trust that this promise is real and not like some of the shabby promises that have been broken since the election. I trust that it does not turn out to be another empty pre-election promise. 
The Minister bemoans the fact that the Premiers have not responded to a letter from the Prime Minister of 8 February 1973 wherein he sought a transfer of State responsibility for railway systems. One can hardly blame the States for being loathe to pass over control when they can see what a mess the Australian Government is making of its biggest undertaking and service industry - the Post Office. If ever there was a clear example that demonstrates the Government's lack of capacity to handle large service industries, it can be seen in the handling of the Post Office with higher costs, less service and strikes. 
The Minister should not interfere. He was sacked as Postmaster-General after the last election. He is probably the reason for the present state of affairs. Those are all good examples of why the States would not be keen to give this Government administrative control of the nation's railway  systems. 
Furthermore - this matter is even more important to the States' financial position - the Federal Government is being very ambiguous about how it would compensate the States. For example, is it proposing to pay the true value of the real estate owned by State railway systems? The mind boggles at the amount of capital involved. Just think of the value of the acres of land at Flinders Street and Spencer Street stations in Melbourne, without the numerous tracts of land and buildings throughout the nation. Is it simply proposing to wipe out State railway deficits as a quid pro quo for the price of railway systems throughout Australia? If the Minister was to come clean on these matters he might more quickly get a response from the States. What is still more important is that centralisation of control of railways will not even pretend to answer the fundamental problems of transport in Australia. 
Clearly the States would be abrogating their responsibility to the people if they were simply to hand over the railway system to the Australian Government because of financial problems within the States, unless guarantees in respect of service were given. Quite clearly, taking the Post Office as an example, such a handover would be tragic. Similarly it does not require centralised control of transport systems to achieve proper rationalisation of modes; indeed quite the contrary. Decentralised control should more easily lead to a system of simplified but satisfactory service to a given area. 
It is particularly interesting to note in the Minister's letter that Tasmania alone has made a positive offer to transfer its rail system to the Australian Government. Then he has the complete gall to chide Western Australia for joining all other States by withdrawing its offer since its change of government. It seems that South Australia must also have seen the light of day since its early delight with the proposal. It is obvious that the Minister has failed to convince even his own Labor eoi- leagues that there is any merit in his scheme. 
There seems to be no end to the Government's ambition. I note that in latter days the Minister for Transport, when talking to a trade union group, suggested that the Federal Government should take over bus services throughout the nation. Again the Minister goes to great lengths telling the States to halt the decline of public transport usage. In what is quite an over-simplification of the problem, the Minister ignores completely the growth in the rate of car ownership in Australia which carries with it the absolute and total preference for individual motivation as well as ignoring the vast sums of money put in by the States to improve their transport systems. Victoria, for example, has had an input for capital items on railways of over $160m in the past 10 years. 
The Minister is more than naive in his pretence that the level of Australian Government participation proposed is going to be the cureall in this problem. For example, how the Minister can pretend that the purchase of 2 trams for Melbourne is going to change the trend is beyond me. But that is what the Bill provides for - 2 trams. 
I think the Minister might decide that in consultation with, his State colleagues. The Minister takes a very naive and over-simplified approach to the financial problems of the State transport systems. He completely ignores the high cost to the States caused by Australian Government policies that have promoted inflation and the Australian Government's failure to solve industrial trouble. Indeed its encouragement of industrial trouble has led to exorbitant increases in costs for the States. 
The simple fact is that in the 1972 election campaign the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  in his policy speech promised to undertake a $700m program of expenditure over 5 years to update urban transport systems. This Bill falls far short of that undertaking and with inflation running at IS to 20 per cent it is getting further behind. Also, what this Government fails to explain when talking so avidly about its generosity to the States is the States' own contribution to their transport systems. 
As I said earlier this Bill has its genesis in proposals that were worked over and agreed upon by a Liberal and Country Party Government. However with the change of government and a move from co-operation with the States, to diminution of the States, the States need to be on their guard. There are recent perfect examples of how a socialist and centralist government works, that is, to squeeze the States at Premiers Conferences, as we have just seen, and then to intervene with a tied section 96 grant. As the years roll on the squeeze becomes tighter and the intervention greater until finally the States are mere purveyors of Australian Government business. That is why 1 am curious to know whether the procedure as set out on page 8 of the Schedule for rebuilding of railway stations as specified by the Minister means that the Federal Minister can nominate projects of his own accord or, as is the understanding of the States, these projects are to be nominated by the States and agreed to by the Federal Minister. 
Clearly if the Federal Minister has full say on this issue, one can see the squeeze at Premiers Conferences tightening and tightening until finally the only money available for programs in the States will be by way of tied grants. Furthermore it lends itself to pure political abuse and chicanery where a Federal Minister nominates for purely political purposes projects in certain electorates, ignoring the priorities or needs of the States and the fact that the States have to provide one-third of the funds. I ask the Minister whether he can nominate projects within a State or, as the Bill states, do the States have the right of total nomination? 
-If it would help the cause- 
I seek the assurance of the Minister because I have an amendment which I propose to move if the Minister cannot give me that assurance. Therefore I shall be seeking your assistance,  Mr Speaker,  after the Minister has spoken, to move that amendment if necessary. 
Now,  Sir, let  me turn to the second Bill, the Urban Public Transport (Research and Planning) Bill. This Bill seeks an appropriation of $lm to permit research and planning in connection with urban public transport by State governments on projects selected by a State government and approved by the Australian Goverment. That there is need for such research is without doubt. Before the States are able to commit themselves to the expenditure of large sums of money on alterations to their present public transport systems a great deal of study is required. One has only to take the various studies and reports made in almost any capital city, often with little result because of either political or financial reasons, to recognise that there is no easy path. 
However, around the world there are a variety of fast moving large capacity systems that can be compared for suitability for Australian conditions and quite clearly long term decisions need to be taken by the State authorities whether they should be moving to the more sophisticated systems now being developed in Japan, America and on the Continent before committing themselves to the present system of fixed track with its limitations on load and speed. Clearly the development and use of a common urban passenger train, would bring increased passenger comfort compared with the old dog boxes now in use, as well as increased speed, but would nevertheless be many years behind systems now being developed overseas. Therefore, more complete studies need to be concluded before irrevocably committing enormous financial expenditure on what is a mere modernising of present systems. 
Further research into control of traffic lights to keep traffic moving is also desirable. The example of Punt Road, Melbourne where traffic travelling at a constant speed can move from the River Yarra through to St Kilda crossing non stop should be repeated on every main artery. There is a difficulty, of course, on arteries that carry trams which do not have separate passenger waiting stands. Then all the traffic has to stop while the tram loads and unloads. Also where there are pedestrian crossing lights these need to be timed to co-incide with other lights along the road. Similarly there should be a feasibility study made of the provision of car parking at a number of outer metropolitan stations along each route, and a one ticket system that permits the commuter to go right to his destination even though it be by combination of train, tram and bus. Both these experiments have succeeded on the new Hamburg urban system. 
The Minister, in his second reading speech, contradicts himself over the fall in the public use of transport systems. He quotes figures to show the continuing decline in patronage, then in the next sentence points out that New South Wales had reversed the trend in fall-off of passenger support. But there is an  oversimplification in the Minister's approach, which has been brought about by the individual motivation through the ownership of a motor car. In the 1940's people sought to live as near as possible to public transport that would carry them almost directly to their place of work. However, today factories are built very often miles from the nearest train, bus or tram and employees travel to work by car. The common use of the motor car has permitted the luxury of living in one suburb and working in another that is not connected by public transport. For example in Melbourne only 150,000 people out of a working population of 1,200,000 work in the central business district or City of Melbourne. Doubtless the figures are similar in other cities. 
Clearly therefore, the Minister is putting his head in the sand if he thinks the whole problem of metropolitan transport is bound up with the introduction of a new urban passenger train, or even updating of public transport systems that flow only from the central business districts. While individual motivation by motor car is desired and obtainable, people will continue to have the luxury of living in one area and working in another that is not connected by public transport. Therefore, it is essential that continuing work be maintained on updating and upgrading the road systems of the metropolitan areas. Only by this method will the problems of heavy cross traffic be overcome. 
One final point needs to be made. It must be obvious that distribution points need to toe spread throughout the city if people are to use urban rail as a means of travel to and from work. Taking Melbourne as an example, it is apparent that having Flinders Street as the only exit or entrance point is unsatisfactory and that the concept of an underground tube circuiting the city with a number of pickup points must encourage large numbers back to public transport. I am disappointed that the Minister has shown so little interest in this aspect in his speech. 
There is one area of work that still appears to lack successful control and the means of solution - and that is traffic noise. With all the modern community's wish to overcome the pollution and environmental hazards in life, it amazes me that there has not been a greater outcry in large cities about traffic noise. The Australian Transport Advisory Council secured an Australian Design Rule on motor car noise to be introduced, I think, on 1 January 1973, with petrol trucks to follow on 1 January 1974, but quite obviously the level of noise pollution in cities from motor vehicles is below any decent standard that should be expected in the 1970's. 
There are a number of diesel trucks that are particular offenders. One is a German brand, a Deutz, and another the General Motors 2-stroke diesel. I would hope that if they have not come under a Design Rule by this stage that the Minister would encourage some urgent research on methods of control. There can be fewer more irritating problems for people living in large cities than the incessant noise from motorcars, trucks and motorbikes. 
The Minister has not yet been able to indicate his attitude to my question earlier - I should like to ask him again - whether he clearly understands: Does the responsibility in thisBill lie with the States to put up propositions or does the Federal Minister himself have the right to nominate proposals? The clear understanding of the States is that only they can nominate propositions. 
-I thank the Chair for its tolerance in that matter because it is a very important point of principle. The States are concerned that whilst they have signed this agreement, and indeed it has been signed by the Premiers themselves, in most cases, apparently the Federal Minister is giving himself the right to go into an electorate and offer any member who is hard-pressed to hold his seat - I am looking at one - a couple of new railway stations on a purely political basis. I am relieved to hear what the Minister has said and therefore I will not press the amendment. The Minister said that the only way this can come about is by consultation, either through the committees set up by the State and Federal governments together or on the nomination of a State Government itself. Therefore I will not press the amendment I had proposed to move. The Opposition supports the Bill. 
The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  has made a very emotional attack upon  Sir John  Cadwallader. Suffice it for me to say that  Sir John  Cadwallader is a very respected figure in industry in New South Wales. He does not need me to support him. What emerged from the speech of the honourable member for Hunter was of course his attack on margarine quotas. The simple truth is that the one company which wants the margarine quotas destroyed, a company which obviously has the support of the Australian Labor Party, as was shown by the speech of the honourable mem ber for Hunter, is Unilever Australia Pty Ltd, a multi-national company. It is the only company that is really interested in the destruction of margarine quotas because it has about an 11 per cent interest at the moment. It knows that if it can destroy margarine quotas a truly Australian company like Allied Mills Ltd could be smashed and destroyed by undercutting. Such companies would be eliminated and there would be an opportunity to charge monopolist prices. That is the simple truth of the matter and the honourable member for Hunter knows it. He is supporting a multi-national company by his attack on margarine quotas. 
Having dealt out short shrift to the honourable member for Hunter I turn to another matter of more importance to my constituents in Gippsland. I refer to the recent visit by  Senator Brown  as the representative of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  to Orbost, Lake Tyers, Nowa Nowa and Bairnsdale. The purported reason for the visit was to inspect the flood situation. I understand that the honourable senator has made a submission about the floods. I hope he has done so, but nothing has come out of it as yet. The second reason for his visit was to represent the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs.  Senator Brown  met Aborigines in Orbost, Lake Tyers, Nowa Nowa and Bairnsdale. He has been preceded by previous Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs who have made the same tour. I recognise that it is a very attractive area of Australia and I can understand the desire of Ministers to use a big Commonwealth car to traverse to the mountains, have a look at the lakes and meet the very congenial and hospitable people of Gippsland. The previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs undertook that trip, as did his predecessor, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  There is one difference about the visit of the honourable member for Mackellar. Everything that he said that he would do he did. That distinguishes it from the visit of the present Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  when he was Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
When he came to Gippsland we had a meeting at Orbost at which the main complaint lodged by the twenty or thirty Aborigines present at the shire chambers was the lack of housing. The Minister said - genuinely I think - that that was easily fixed. He said: 'I have $11 3m to buy houses for you people. All that I need is a way to spend it*. 
Being a very prompt and thoughtful member of Parliament I immediately proposed that the Aborigines present should submit their names to the shire secretary. I would take the list to Canberra, give it to the Minister and he would approve of the finance and send the money down to them. They would then get houses. The same procedure was followed at Bairnsdale. Sad to say, nothing was done. The Minister was sacked. Whether his intentions were good or bad we are not able to find out. The simple truth is that nothing was done. 
The new Minister for Aboriginal Affairs passed the buck to the Victorian Government and it has gone backwards and forwards. Finally  Senator Brown  visited the area a couple of weeks ago and it is to that visit that I want to draw the attention of the House.  Senator Brown  followed the same course as that taken by the Minister for the Capital Territory, who is now at the table.  Senator Brown  was also alarmed at the state of the housing in the area. I hope that on this occasion something will be done about it. At the meeting at Bairnsdale about thirty to forty people attended including the local newspaper representative, who wrote a story about it. He will bear witness to what I am about to recount to the House. During the course of a long tirade lasting about forty to fifty minutes  Senator Brown  directed his remarks mostly to the alleged failure of the previous Government to do anything for Aborigines. Honourable members should remember that on that same day the honourable senator had launched his attack on Marshall Green, the United States Ambassador. He was probably under some pressure. He did not really know whether he would have any support in the Labor Party, apart from any coming from the left wing, for his attack on the Ambassador. He was probably a bit nervous. He was certainly uptight and I understand that he was a bit crabby at the meeting. 
When the honourable senator finished his attack on the previous Government  Mr Phil  Pepper, a well respected and well known Aboriginal and a great friend of mine, got to his feet and started to rebut some of the points raised by  Senator Brown.  He pointed out that  Senator Brown  had been incorrect about when Aborigines got the vote.  Senator Brown  had said that if it had not been for Labor Party pressure Aborigines would not have had the vote a few years ago when they did receive it. Phil Pepper said at the meeting that his father had voted in 1908.  Senator Brown  replied by saying: 'Look, if Aborigines had a vote in 1908 I will give SI, 000 to any charity you like to name. If I am wrong, you give SI 00.' Phil Pepper agreed with this. He thought it was fair enough. He rang me from Bairnsdale the next morning and I said: T am sure they had a vote a long time ago but I am not sure of the year. I will check up.' By the time I got through to the Department, Phil Pepper had driven all the way to Orbost - 60 miles - to see me about this serious matter. 
In 1855 Aborigines got the vote in Victoria so  Senator Brown  was a little bit out. Friday was the day on which  Senator Brown  was making his attack on Marshall Green in Melbourne and it may be because of that that he has not replied to a telegram I sent him but I am not sure. But he certainly received the telegram because he let me know at the parliamentary luncheon that he was not too pleased about the whole thing. I think that his colleagues in the Labor Party ought to know and  Senator Brown  ought to know that we expect him to pay up. I sent him this telegram. 
Have confirmed that Aborigines have had the vote since 1855 in the State of Victoria and logically from 1901 for Federal elections.  Mr Phil  Pepper has nominated the Save the Children Nowa Nowa Fund - 
That is the local Aboriginal fund -  to be the recipient of your thousand dollars offered at your public meeting in Bairnsdale on Tuesday night and witnessed by the local newspaper. I would urge that you expedite payment of this matter otherwise your integrity and honesty as a senator for Victoria will be under challenge. 
Sad to say, there has been no response on this offer of $1,000 from  Senator Brown. Mr Speaker,  I know that if it were you who had made the offer, you would have a cheque in the mail the next day. 
I know that you would. I even think that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  sitting at the table would have sent down a cheque. He is a man of integrity and honesty. He might be genuinely misled about matters and he might promise things he can never  deliver.  Perhaps he has spent his money unwisely on turtle farms and a few other things but on this occasion I think that he would at least paup like a man of honour. 
I have raised this matter because there have been 2 visits to this area since the change of government. One was made By the Minister for the Capital Territory who is sitting at the table. He promised homes that were never delivered. Now, we have had a visit from  Senator Brown.  He arrived in a big Commonwealth car with a staff and everything. That was something I was never allowed to do when I was a backbencher. He was representing the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh).  He made an offer to pay $1,000 to a named charity if he were wrong. I think that the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson),  the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  sitting on the back bench, the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  the Minister for the Capital Territory who is sitting at the table and even the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  would pay under these circumstances. I do not want the Aborigines in Gippsland to be disappointed any longer by the Labor Government. First there was the matter of houses. Now there is this matter of integrity. I want honourable members opposite to take up with  Senator Brown  the need to pay this $1,000 urgently if he has hot done so already. 
I move: 
Omit sub-clauses (4) and (5). 
Sub-clauses (4) and (5) relate specifically to the following clause 4. (1) in which the Bill requires that State and local authorities shall submit for approval all programs at the request of the Minister. This could include all projects of any kind that are to be carried out by the States and by municipal, shire and other local authorities in a specified period. The real trouble with this requirement is that it puts the Federal Government in the position of demanding of any State or any local government that any project at all be submitted irrespective of whether finance from the Australian Government is involved or simply funds raised by local governments or by the States. It is a tremendous and unnecessary intrusion into local authority and the State government activities and there is no justification or need for it. No need has been established by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  in his second reading speech. No explanation has been given by the Minister in that speech why such intrusion is necessary. Indeed, the State Ministers have sent telegrams to me and written to me complaining bitterly about this aspect of the Bill. When the local government authorities around Australia all wake up individually to this point they likewise will object, I am sure. I seek to delete the sub-clauses because there has been absolutely no attempt by this Government to explain why it wants these projects included in this way. 
At his Press conference on 16 July the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said: 'There are certain Government activities in Australia, roads and telephones being among them, which we regard as having a lower priority than some other forms of Government activity'. This became obvious when the telephone charges were so heavily increased last week. It is now the turn of Australia's road system, and the authorities responsible for expanding and maintaining the roads are now to feel the effects of the low priority given to them by the Government, and openly acknowledged by the Prime Minister. 
The legislation before the House will result in a serious cut back in the funds made available to State and local government authorities for road construction and maintenance, and the Government is endeavouring to conceal this fact with a smoke screen of deception by introducing its National Highways program. Let me make it clear that the Opposition welcomes the development of a national highways system. In fact, it is in a very real sense the Opposition's program, since the LiberalCountry Party Government instituted the national highways system studies, on the basis of which the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads presented me, as the then Minister, with a report in February 1972 which formed the basis for the present scheme. 
These 3 Bills are like the curate's egg - good in parts and very bad in others. However the support for the Government's scheme would be more readily forthcoming if ambiguities inherent in the scheme were resolved, in particular the differences between the list of roads that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  says it is his intention to declare as national highways, and the highways which the national highways study team declared to be 'significantly deficient' and as mentioned in the Minister's speech. I am particularly concerned that the Minister says nothing of the Princes, East and Western highways in Victoria, although the study team linked these with the highways detailed by the Minister. 
The program makes much of the problems of the Hume Highway, and rightly so, being a direct trunk route between Sydney and Melbourne. But does the Minister know that the figures for March 1974 show that traffic counters at Traralgon on the Princes Highway have a daily count of 9,000 vehicles whereas the Hume Highway at Seymour has a count of only 8,500 vehicles. There is a clear case for higher road standards for this alternate route to Sydney which services the Latrobe Valley and the Gippsland area. 
Now we come to the other bad parts of the egg, and this relates to this Government's attitude to freeways. For construction of urban arterial roads the Australian Government gave $423m over the last 3 years, with the annual amounts increasing by about 20 per cent. It is obvious that even this amount was not nearly enough, because we have a tremendous backlog of uncompleted road improvement works in urban areas. But now the Government intends providing only $355m for these works in the next 3 years. This is a reduction of 16 per cent on the last 3 years but when the allocation for 1974-75, the first year of the new three-year program, is compared with the last year of the last program, there is an actual reduction of nearly 30 per cent. This remains the same for the next 3 years. 
The Minister, in his second reading speech on these Bills, compounded the mistake made by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads in its report on roads in Australia. Both in the Minister's speech, and in the report, a superb case was put for the need for urban arterial roads including freeways. In his speech the Minister said: 
The Road Needs Survey conducted by the Bureau of Roads and State road authorities showed that at June, 1972, this category of road performed the major proportion of the traffic task in urban areas by carrying the greatest volume of traffic and highest proportion of heavy vehicles. 
The Minister went on to say: 
Whilst urban arterial and sub-arterial roads constitute only 20 per cent of urban road mileage they carry up to 75 per cent of the total vehicle miles of travel in the cities. 
They also comprise only 2 per cent of all roads in Australia and carry about 50 per cent of all road travel. 
Approximately 780 miles, or 17 per cent, of the arterial and sub-arterial roads in built up urban areas are carrying traffic volumes in excess of 20,000 vehicles per day. 
That is what the Minister said. But what he proposes appears to be a direct contradiction of what he believes. Quite clearly the Minister needs to come clean on his attitude. I pointed out in my speech on the second reading of the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill that the Government's attitude reflected such contradictions. These contradictions must be ironed out before the Government's highways program can command credibility and general acceptance. 
The Government has rejected the proposals of the Bureau of Roads report in two significant areas: It has cut back on the recommended total of expenditure on roads of all types by $2 19m, while maintaining the total for national highways at the figure proposed by the Bureau, namely, $400m, for the 3-year period. This has resulted in a misallocation of funds as between the different categories of roads when compared with the findings of the Bureau. The Minister made the extraordinary announcement that 'the State roads included in this scheme might in future be constructed, at least in part, by the Australian Government itself. I understand that when he was challenged about this matter at the Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting in Darwin, the Minister said this will not occur for 3 years. The States are not satisfied with that reassurance and want further reassurance on this point. The above objections to the National Roads Bill in its present form are serious. 
What is totally indefensible about the introduction of the Bill, however, is that it is being used as a vehicle of deception, a key element in a confidence trick; the pea in the thimble if you like - now you see it, now you don't. The result of passing the 3 Bills - the National Roads Bill, the Roads Grants Bill and the Transport (Planning and Research Bill) - in the form proposed by the Government, would mean that the States and local government authorities will have less real funds for road construction and maintenance. There will be serious interference with the priorities set by State governments based on need and usage, by taking $400m for highways which State needs might well have called for allocation elsewhere either as a whole or in part. 
The Bureau recommended that a total of $l,345m be appropriated for expenditure on roads, and that $400m - under 30 per cent - be spent on national highways. The Government's proposal is that $1,1 26m be spent and that the figure for national highways remain at $400m or 36 per cent of the total. This has resulted in a cutting back of the total sum provided in the triennium 1974-77 to $700m for all other roads compared with $870m provided in various forms of road assistance in the previous 3 years. This reduction of $170m has resulted in a big reduction in the sums appropriated for rural arterial and rural local roads. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a document which shows that the allocation for rural local roads - the roads for which the shire councils are responsible - has been slashed from $248m or 31 per cent of the total to SI 56m or 14 per cent of the total. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="089131197408013_61_1.jpg"></graphic>

I repeat that the table shows that the allocation for rural local roads has been slashed from $248m or 31 per cent of the total to $l56m or 14 per cent of the total. At the same time the allocation for rural arterial roads- in fairness, some miles of which have now been reclassified as national highways - has been cut from $132m or 16 per cent of the total to $105m or 10 per cent of the total. This is far less in real money terms than earlier grants, without even taking account of inflation. It is no wonder that the States are bitter and it is no wonder that the local government authorities feel that 'they have come to the end of the line'. That quote is from the  President  of the New South Wales 
Shires Association, Councillor Smith, who in a statement on 24 July said: 'The attitude of the Federal Government towards country roads is the greatest financial setback that I have experienced in all my years in local government'. 
I hope it is clear to the Government that if it wants a comprehensive national roads scheme it will have to fund it entirely separately from the grants for other categories of roads. To rob the States and local government of their rightful share, and then to fiddle the books to cover up is just not good enough. If the Government is not willing to cut back on the national roads allocation of funds, it should increase the allocation for roads of all types right across the board. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has consistently stated in his speeches: . . . local government has been called upon to provide more and more services to more and more people. This is not something it has sought for itself; it is something demanded by the people and the resources of local government are manifestly inadequate to meet those demands. 
What we seek to do is liberate local government from its forced dependence on State administrations that cannot give it the resources it needs. 
I wish each level of government to be in a position to perform better its assigned functions for the better welfare of all our citizens wherever they live. 
They are great words. They are not worth the paper they are written on. In the face of this Bill how can the Prime Minister justify such a stance because what the Bill effectively does is to reduce the level of Commonwealth commitment on roads to local government bodies and force them to seek further grants from the States - the very point the Prime Minister was making - which are unable to meet such demands. He hopes that the Australian Grants Commission will act like Santa Claus in the Budget in order to relieve them from that situation. 
In the second reading speech the Minister said that comparisons of the nature I have made are misinformed and that the only really satisfactory comparison is the overall percentage of rural versus urban. The Minister stated that the Government's proposals under these Bills would have allocated 61 per cent of total funds to rural roads and 39 per cent to urban roads. This is a gigantic bluff. It is a particularly blatant case of fiddling the books. 
The table the Minister used shows that the. 61 per cent of so-called rural roads totalling $667m is made up of - $105m for rural arterial roads or 10 per cent of the total; $156m for rural local roads or 14 per cent of the total; $370m for national highways or 34 per cent of the total. Classifying the expenditure on national highways as expenditure on rural roads is a piece of gross deception. The $400m for national highways is being allocated to 8,800 miles out of the Australia-wide road total in excess of 500,000- half a million miles. It will be cold comfort to the 727 local government authorities outside the capital cities to know that such munificence is being bestowed on national highways when their own allocations are being cut by 17 per cent. Only a fraction of these 727 authorities will gain any direct advantage at all from the national highways scheme. 
To answer this criticism the Minister uses another form of confidence trick. He says in his second reading speech: 
Previously local government authorities relied on Commonwealth Aid Roads grants. Whilst local government is still eligible for assistance under the legislation these authorities will now have to turn more to State governments for assistance. 
That is quite contrary to what the Prime Minister said in that earlier quotation. 
The Minister went on to say: 
I emphasise what I said earlier, namely, that with the Australian Government meeting the full cost of national roads, State governments will be able to meet this increased demand for financial assistance from their local authorities. 
This is a smoke-screen of evasion. The Commonwealth's assumption of financial responsibility for national roads will, of course, save the State, governments some money, but nothing like the amount the Minister pretends. Because $400m is planned to be spent by the Commonwealth on national roads over the next 3 years, it does not mean that the States are $400m better off and can give pro rata more assistance to local government. 
The amount by which the States will benefit from the national road funds is the amount which the States would have spent in the ordinary course of events on roads now classified as national highways and which they will now be relieved of the responsibility of spending on roads in this category. This will be nothing like $400m; Let me give the example of New South Wales. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a document setting out a comparison of the grants by the Government for the 3 years between 1974-75 to 1976-77 with grants in 1973-74 under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act 1969 and recommendations by the Bureau of Roads. 
I will just finish the point I was making. There is a complete difference between Treasury with its financial interests and control and the point that we were making in the debate. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 5 agreed to. 
Clause 6 (Purposes for which financial assistance may be applied) 
This clause proposes to seek from the States- (Honourable members interjecting) 
 I am going to be gagged again. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
 There has been no debate on any of these- 
The second reading speech did not explain the clause- 
 It is dictatorship. 
Question put. 

 - Mr Chairman, in reply to the Minister- 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put - 
That the Sub-clauses proposed to be omitted  (Mr  Nixon's amendment) stand part of the clause. 
The Committee divided (The  Chairman- Mr G.  G.  D.  Scholes) 
Ayes .. 60 
Noes .    47 
Majority . .13 

<graphic href="089131197408024_25_1_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="089131197408024_25_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="089131197408024_25_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
When the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  was addressing the Chair just a few minutes ago he said that telegrams had been received from only 13 councils and that ten of the telegrams came from the one area. I think that they were the figures he used. Perhaps he said that six of the telegrams came from the one area. He stated that no telegrams had been received from any city councils. The first point I make is that the reason for that is that no local council, almost until today, has been aware of the significance of this legislation. Nowhere in the Minister's second reading speech are the people of Australia told what is contained in the clauses of the Bill. Local government has not been made aware of the fact that it will be totally beholden to this Government. This will apply not only in relation to the funds which local government receives from the Australian Government and expends. I agree entirely that the Minister should have the right to oversee the expenditure of Australian Government money through State and local government programs. We do not object to that. 
We object most strongly to the Australian Government having the right to oversee and control programs financed with money raised by the local governments through rates paid by ratepayers and expended locally by the local government. A similar situation applies in relation to State taxes. There is no justification whatsoever for this Government to intrude so heavily into State government administration unless the States agree to the oversight of moneys raised by State taxes for State programs. Indeed, this principle strikes at a very important point. This Bill will prevent an elected State government which wants to go to the people with a policy of taxing motorists to raise money for roads from laying down its program. The whole of that program can be overruled by the Australian Government. 
I think the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  who is a reasonably fair minded gentleman will agree with me when I again make the point that it is fair that the Australian Government oversee the expenditure of Australian Government money on roads in a local area. It is not fair nor is it right or proper that the Australian Government should control the expenditure of money raised by way of rates by local government or by way of taxes by State governments and thus control local government or State administration. I repeat that the reason why other local councils have not sent telegrams is that the Minister for Transport in his second reading speech deceived them on this point. There was not one point of explanation in the speech directed to this matter. It is quite unfair for the Minister to claim that we as an Opposition are trying to frustrate the activities of the Government. If the Minister wants this power let him call a meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council and secure agreement from the State Ministers. He has not tried that. Earlier he talked about the need for co-operation. Last night the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  talked in terms of co-operation and how the Government wished to co-operate with the States. There is no sense of co-operation in this matter. This is a complete dictatorship from Canberra. This is nothing more or less than centralist control from Canberra. 
In the last part of the Minister's address he said that the Australian Government wanted to clear up the bottlenecks. That is just as easily done by administrative arrangements and in co-operation with the States through the use of Australian Government money as it is by directing the expenditure of State funds. This is a completely unwarranted intrusion into local government, both in the cities and the suburbs and also in the countryside. The second point I make is that there is a marked change in the level of expenditure available for local government in this year's program as against last year's. The total amount made available for the States in this year's program is S239m. The total amount made available to the States in last year's program and in the last Commonwealth Aid Roads Act was S279m. It is a complete deception to say that the difference is made up by the $400m which goes to the national highways program. The Minister should raise extra funds and stick to the report of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads in regard to the recommended allocation of funds. The Government makes great play of having these bodies report to and advise the Government. Then it totally ignores the reports. 
In relation to the other point, it is completely improper and unfair for a Minister to delegate to a public servant the right to oversee the administrative control of State or local government programs. That strikes right at the heart of the Constitution. No Act of this Parliament should convey that power and privilege without first seeking the agreement either of the Australian people or of the elected State governments. The Australian Government is trying to subvert the Constitution and to seek power in another fashion. It is completely improper and quite wrong of the Minister to tackle this matter in such a fashion. Clause 4(1) is specific. It states: 
A Minister may notify a State the date before which a program of projects in respect of a period to which this section applies, being projects of a specified kind, is to be submitted to him for approval, and may, in the notice, inform the State- 
These are the important words -  that the program should include all the projects of that kind that are to be carried out by the State and by municipal, shire and other local authorities in that period. 
Sub-clauses (2), (3), (4) and (5) and, I think, (6) and (7) of clause 4 give the Australian Government power to control the use of its own funds. But it is within sub-clause (1) that the power is given to the Government to control the expenditure by a State government of funds raised by State taxation and expenditure by local government of funds it has raised through rates. It is to that point that we object. Whilst the local government authorities themselves are not aware of that provision, the State governments have sent me telegrams bearing heavily on that point. I have read those telegrams into the Hansard report. Anyone who turns to the Hansard report of my speech in the debate last night on the motion for the second reading of this Bill will see that the States have objected very strongly to the Australian Government taking over the control of not only the expenditure of its own funds but also the expenditure by the State governments of money they have derived from State taxes and by local government authorities of the money they have derived from local government rates. That is why I have made the point that this is the most centralised approach that has ever been taken in any piece of legislation ever to come before this Parliament. Never before in the history of the Parliament have we seen a piece of legislation that attempts to subvert the Constitution in such a fashion and attempts to give such control to the Australian Government. That is why the Opposition is opposed to this provision. I move: 
Omit sub-clause  (1). 
I refer to clause 4 and seek leave to have amendments Nos. 3 to 7 inclusive considered cognately. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (7), omit ", with the concurrence of the Minister of State for Urban and Regional Development and ". 
In sub-clause (4), omit "the Minister of State for Urban and Regional Development, with the concurrence of the Minister and after consultation with the appropriate Minister of a State", substitute "the 
Minister after consultation with the appropriate Minister of a State ". 
In sub-clause (5), omit "the Minister of State for Northern Development, with the concurrence of the Minister and' after consultation with the appropriate Minister of the State of Queensland ", substitute " the Minister after consultation with the appropriate Minister of the State of Queensland ". 
Omit sub-clause (6). 
In sub-clause (1), omit ", with the concurrence of the Minister of State for Urban and 'Regional Development,". 
These amendments are intended to correct a situation which has arisen for some peculiar reason unknown either to the Parliament or the people outside. A typical example is to be found in sub-clause (3). It reads: 
For the purposes of this Act, the Minister, with the concurrence of the Minister of State for Urban and Regional Development and after consultation with the appropriate Minister of a State . . . 
Sub-clause. (4) states quite the reverse: 
The Minister for State for Urban and Regional Development, with the concurrence of the Minister . . . 
Sub-clause (5) reads: 
The Minister of State for Northern Development, with the concurrence of the Minister . . . 
And so it goes on right through the subclauses. 
We believe that only one Minister ought to be responsible and that any administrative arrangements that Minister wants to make with the Minister for Urban and Regional Development are a matter for the Federal Government in the Cabinet room or wherever else it deals; it is not a matter to be enshrined in this legislation. Nobody should tell me that the fights between the Department of Urban and Regional Development and the Department of Transport must be enshrined in legislation so that the States do not know where the buck finally settles. These sub-clauses raise the question of consultations with the Minister for Transport or his delegate, perhaps a second division officer. That officer would go across to the Department of Urban and Regional Development to seek concurrence and the officer would say: 'I have to raise this with the Minister'. So we have one Minister in one department talking to a second division officer in the other department. How on earth is any State government or any local government body to get resolution of the questions they raise? There is no point in enshrining in legislation the fights between power hungry departments. A simple solution, and a clear instruction for the States and local government bodies, would be for them to be able to come straight to the responsible Minister. We respect the position of the Minister for Transport so far as this Bill is concerned. We do not want it diluted by involving a whole catalogue of other Ministers. 
 It is not a matter of what the Minister wants. It is a matter of what we think is best 'for the States and the local government bodies who have to deal with the problems. So we think this provision ought to be removed. 
I want to make one other point. There is simply no parallel between a Minister for Transport or his delegate granting a single voyage permit for a ship to sail up the coast and, as under this Bill, a Minister for Transport giving power to a delegate to override the authorities of other constitutional governments, either State or local. The case the Minister used is not analogous in any sense at all. So to talk as he did when he was on his feet previously is quite erroneous. For these reasons, I have moved the amendments. 
I draw the Committee's attention to clause 10 (1) (c) which states: 
If the Treasurer so directs, as soon as practicable after such date as the Treasurer specifies, a statement in writing setting out such other information in relation to amounts expended or set aside for expenditure by the State on road works or in relation to expenditure by a municipal, shire or other local authority on road works, as the Treasurer specifies. 
This clause seeks to give the Treasurer the power to write to any local government body in Australia and demand from it, at any time he chooses, detailed information regarding roadwork expenditure in that local government authority area. The whole clause means that if there is some internal upset in a shire, such as flood, fire or famine, and there is some unexpected expenditure, the information is sent to the Federal Treasurer. If at the end of the year the expenditure does not total the allocation, because of the unexpected flood, the shire will probably not get any of the next year's road funds. I have never seen a better example of attempted bureaucratic control than to ask local government bodies to be responsible to the Federal Treasurer. It is complete nonsense. I have never known such a proposal. It seeks to interfere in the expenditure of every dollar raised by local government rates, paid for by local ratepapers. The Federal Treasurer wants to have a say in the matter. He wants to know the full program, including the expenditure program, of such a body. There is no need for the provision. 
As in all the other cases, there is not one word of explanation in the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  why such a provision is necessary. The second reading speech does not give any information on any of these points in relation to which we have moved amendments. The second reading speech on this Bill could have clarified many matters. People outside the Parliament could be of the view that the Bill is a quite harmless one, in comparison with what they have been used to, when in point of fact it is completely different from the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act. The second reading speech does not inform the people of Australia on that point. This is another example of not one local government authority being notified of this provision. They must give an explanation to the Federal Treasurer on every dollar they spend on road making or on bridge making. If they paint a white strip down the middle of a road, they must tell the Treasurer. If they erect a road safety sign, they must tell the Federal Treasurer and tell him how much it cost. I have never known such pettyfogging bureaucracy. The Minister has given no reason for it and no justification for it. Therefore, we oppose the clause. 
Motion (by  Mr  Daly) agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 11 (Special conditions as to repayments.) 
I draw the Committee's attention specifically, to save time, to the last three or four lines of clause 11, which state:   . . local authority has, in the year to which the program applies, expended any moneys on the carrying out of projects of that kind that were not included in the program of projects of that kind approved in respect of the State. 
As I understand it, this section implies that if by chance a local government body were to expend money without the knowledge of the State Government the Federal Minister could seek a recovery of the money expended on that program. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the sitting of the House was suspended for lunch I was making the point that what clause 11 refers to- 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I have an amendment relating to clause15 which reads: 
A Minister referred to in section 4 may, either generally or otherwise as provided by the instrument or delegation, by writing under his hand delegate to an officer of the Australian Public Service any of his powers under that section. 
A power so delegated may be exercised in accordance with the instrument of delegation. 
A delegate of a Minister is, in the exercise of his powers under this Act. subject to the directions of the Minister. 
A delegation under this section is revocable at will and does not prevent the exercise of a power by a Minister. 
Clause 15 of the Bill provides for the Minister to delegate his authority. I move: 
Omit the clause. 
This clause is very much the centre of the whole problem with this legislation in that it gives the Federal Minister the right to delegate to any officer in his department the authority to override decisions taken by elected State governments or elected local government bodies. I register the Opposition's objection to that and will seek to move against it. The difficulty with the previous amendment was that on all matters that related to Australian Government representation on State bodies the Australian Government could dictate to the States what bodies ought to be formed in respect of the planning and administration of their road systems. Also the Australian Government could force representation on anybody if it so desired. We object to both those provisions. Because of the exigencies of time I do not press the debate any further at this time but I want the local government bodies to know full well what the Australian Government has planned for them in this legislation. 
I have 5 amendments which refer to clauses 4, 6 and 1 5, which read in part: 
Clause 4. 
The Minister may declare a road in a State that facilitates, or a proposed road in a State, that would, if constructed, facilitate trade and commerce, or the development of trade and commerce, with other countries to be an export road for the purposes of this Act, and may revoke or vary such a declaration. 
The Minister may declare a road in a State that facilitates, or a proposed road in a State that would, if constructed, facilitate, trade and commerce, or the development of trade and commerce, among the States to be a major commercial road for the purposes of this Act, and may revoke or vary such a declaration. 
Clause 6. 
The Minister shall not approve a program that includes a project by way of the construction or maintenance of a part of a national road - 
in the parts of the States of New South Wales and Victoria that constitute the AlburyWodonga Area for the purposes of the Albury-Wodonga Area Development Agreement a copy of which is set out in the Schedule to the Albury-Wodonga Development Act 1974; or 
in a place declared by the Minister of State for Urban and Regional Development, with the concurrence for the Minister, to be a growth centre for the purposes of this Act, unless the Minister of State for Urban and Regional Development or an officer authorized by that Minister has concurred in the inclusion of the project in the program. 
The Minister may approve particulars of a project that is, or is intended to be, included, in a program referred to in sub-section (2) or (5). 
Clause 15. 
The Minister may, either generally or otherwise as provided by the instrument of delegation, by writing under his hand, delegate to an officer of the Australian Public Service any of his powers under sections 5 and 6. 
A power so delegated may be exercised by the delegate in accordance with the instrument of delegation. 
A delegate is, in the exercise of his powers and the performance of his functions under this Act, subject to the directions of the Minister. 
A delegation under this section is revocable at will and does not prevent the exercise of a power by the Minister. 
I seek leave to move all 5 amendments together. 
I move: 
In clause 4, sub-clause (3), after "Minister may", insert " enter into an agreement with a State,". 
In clause 4, sub-clause (4), after "Minister may", insert " enter into an agreement with a State,". 
In clause 6, omit paragraph (b) of sub-clause (6). 
In clause 6, sub-clause (6), omit "or an officer authorized by that Minister ". 
Omit clause IS. 
The first objection that the Opposition has to the National Roads Bill relates to clause 4 (3). The Opposition holds the view that clause  ought to contain the words 'the Minister may enter into an agreement with a State to declare a road'. The clause at present provides quite an open cheque. Under this provision the Minister, without any reference to the State, can declare any road he likes to be a national highway. He can frustrate the planning of any of the States or local government authorities in this way. Because the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  claims that he likes to work in co-operation with the States, there should be no difficulty whatsoever in his being able to enter into an agreement with a State to declare a road to be a national highway. I think that it is a very important point to remember in regard to State and local governments. This move represents a complete contradiction of the Constitution in which the power lies. It is subverting the Constitution and it is quite wrong in principle. For that reason, the Opposition opposes the clause. 
The second amendment is to clause 4 (4). In this case, the Minister may declare a road in a State that would, if constructed, facilitate trade and commerce or the development of trade and commerce amongst the States to be a major commercial road. We agree that the Commonwealth should be able so to construct a road or take over a road for that purpose. We are fully in agreement with that principle. What we object to is the arbitrary way in which the Commonwealth can do this without any guarantees whatsoever to the States that anything will be done along the lines that the States or local government bodies themselves request. There again, we have moved an amendment to provide that the Minister may enter into an agreement with a State. Surely that is not asking too much. 
The next clause to which we take objection is clause 6 (6). I have moved the amendment which has been circulated to this clause to omit paragraph (b) and the words 'or an officer authorised by that Minister'. Paragraph (b) and the remainder of the clause state:  in  a  place declared by the Minister of State for Urban and Regional Development, with the concurrence of the Minister, to be a growth centre for the purposes of this Act, unless the Minister of State for Urban and Regional Development or an officer authorized by that Minister has concurred in the inclusion of the project in the program. 
We believe that the words 'or an officer authorised by that Minister', should be struck out of the last part and also that paragraph (b) should also be struck out. I do not believe that the Minister for Urban and Regional Develop- ment  (Mr Uren)  has any right to delegate an officer who will then have the right to override elected State governments and elected local government bodies. We are totally opposed to that concept. We heard the Minister for Transport who is at the table use the analogy of giving a ship a single voyage permit. Such action is not in contradiction of any Commonwealth, State or local government laws. That is not a fair analogy. In this case a delegated officer can overrule the wishes of an elected State government or a democratically elected local government body. For those reasons, I have moved the amendment to that clause. 
The final amendment deals with clause 15. I seek to omit clause 15 (1), (2), (3) and (4). Once again, this clause gives the Minister a power to delegate authority to any officer of his Department. I repeat that such an officer can override the wishes of a fully and democratically elected State government or local government body. This is quite improper. The Minister himself should answer any specific correspondence from State governments or local government bodies. It is quite wrong in principle for a delegated officer to be able to override ministers of a State parliament or local government officers. For those reasons, 1 have moved the amendments, copies of which have been circulated, to those clauses. 
-Mr Acting  Chairman,  we have just heard the usual diatribe from the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  on matters affecting the Country Party. Today he put himself in almost the same classification as the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in his hatred of those people whom he cannot beat in a genuine election. The only way he can beat them is by a redistribution and by abolishing seats. The whole purpose of this legislation is not the cause of one vote one value, as so righteously claimed by those who sit on the Government side. Its aim is no more or less than to perpetuate a redistribution of this Parliament that will have the effect not only of reducing the Country Party in terms of numbers in this House but also of reducing the number of Liberals in this House. That is the purpose of the legislation, and the Minister for Services and Property is the guilty man. He has confessed to his guilt for, as the member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  said, when the Minister came back from Canada this is what he had to say: 'Labor to change all Federal electorates'. That is what the Minister said. This is not a case of the Distribution Commissioners changing all electorates. The Minister said: 'The Labor Party will change all electorates and the Country Party will lose seats'. He made that as a firm statement on either 'AM ' or ' PM ' and he said it also at his Press conference in Sydney. He went on to say: 
The Federal Government is planning a major redistribution of all Federal electorates as soon as its electoral changes are approved at a joint sitting of Parliament. The Electoral Office is understood to have already prepared a list of names for Distribution Commissioners. 
The Electoral Office has apparently prepared a list but the Minister has pre-empted its decision already by declaring that the Country Party will lose seats. There is no doubt at all in my mind or in the mind of anybody on this side of the Parliament that the Distribution Commissioners will come under pressure from the Minister for Services and Property such as they have never come under before in the history of a redistribution of this Parliament.  Sir, if  I could make a second point, the Minister for Services and Property wants to reduce the variation from 20 per cent to 10 per cent so that he will be better able to introduce redistribution on a faster basis than previously. That is, the demographic changes will force a need for redistribution more often. I say that the Distribution Commissioners ought to be very careful how they handle the first Bill because obviously the Minister for Services and Property will sack them before the second redistribution comes down. 
The people of Australia ought to be made aware of the real motives of this Minister in his attitude to this whole Bill. The attitude of the Australian Labor Party to the principle of one vote one value is clearly demonstrated by the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that have been quoted already today. It was also clearly stated in his submission in relation to the last redistribution in New South Wales. The Prime Minister then submitted to the Distribution Commissioners that an extra 4,000 voters should be taken from the seat of Prospect and added to the seat of Reid. The upshot of that would have been a further move away from the principle of one vote one value because the Prime Minister's proposal would have increased the electorate of Prospect from 3.68 per cent to 11 per cent below the quota and would have made the electorate of Reid 16.82 percent above the quota. 
The whole purpose of that was that the Prime Minister's son was, I understand, proposing to be a candidate for that seat and he had to beat  Dr Klugman.  The Prime Minister was unable to secure that massive change, that massive gerrymander. Fortunately the Distribution Commissioners whom I, as the then responsible Minister, had appointed were fair minded men of great principle who were not going to be suborned or overborne by the Leader of the Opposition, as the present Prime Minister then was, simply to get his son into this Parliament. That is the real attitude of the Labor Party to the principle of one vote one value. Its own Prime Minister, who is now sitting at the table, tried to get the Distribution Commissioners to fall for that trick, a base trick indeed. 
Both the honourable members for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  and the Special Minister of State made reference to the way of life in country areas. I suspect that neither of them has ever dirtied his shins, knees, boots or even hands at any time in the countryside. I invite them, together with the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt),  who has presided over the greatest destruction of rural industry since Federation, who is not in the House at this the first time that we of the Opposition who sit in this chamber of the Parliament have had an opportunity to nail him to the desk and who is badly represented in this chamber by the Minister for sugar at the best of times- I invite them, as well as the Minister for gerrymander, who is sitting at the table at the moment, to a meeting on Thursday night at Narromine. They have probably never heard of it. It is in the electorate of Darling. The honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  has probably never heard of it either. I invite them to attend the meeting on Thursday night and to sit back and listen to what the people of the countryside are saying about the Labor Government. They would not have the courage to do it. 
This Bill is a measure of the determination of the Labor Government to bring down the greatest gerrymander in history. Since I have been a member of this Parliament- since 1961-1 have heard the honourable member for Grayndler, who is also the Minister for Services and Property, talk a great deal about electoral matters. In Opposition he used to sit not far from where the honourable member for MacPherson is now sitting. In those days he used to rail against the then Government on redistribution matters. He always used to talk about the principle of one vote one value. It was only a few months ago that the Minister for Services and Property told the world at large, by way of a leak, that it was his intention to dispose of the problem of the number of electors in a constituency by working instead on the basis of counting the number of people in it. The base reason for doing that, of course, is that he thinks that will advantage the Labor Party's cause in the holding of office. The whole approach by the Minister during his parliamentary life has been a sham. One of the few mistakes the Prime Minister has made- perhaps I am wrong; perhaps he has not made a mistake and knows as well as I do that the Minister's single determination is to bring down the greatest gerrymander in history. The Minister is the only member of the Labor Party who has the courage to do it. That is probably the only reason why the Prime Minister appointed him to that position. They are indeed determined to bring down a great gerrymander. 
The point has been clearly made that the wishes of the people at an election should be reflected in the result of the election. The facts are that in 1972 the Australian Labor Party received 49.6 per cent of the votes and 53.6 per cent of the seats and won Government. That was under a redistribution undertaken during the time when I was the Minister responsible for these matters. If I remember correctly during the course of the debate when that redistribution came into the House there was not one charge of gerrymander. There was not one such charge made by any sensible member of Parliament anyway. I will be fascinated when the redistribution which is proposed in this legislation introduced by the Minister for gerrymander takes place if there is not one charge of gerrymander. If there is not, I will give a garden party for the wharf labourers. There is one essential factor required and that is that the distribution commissioners in a redistribution must be men of integrity. They should not be over-borne or overweighed by ministerial opinion, as the Minister for Services and Property has tried to do. I charge the Minister with the heavy responsibility of making sure that when the distribution commissioners are appointed the redistribution is run on proper lines, as it has in the past. 
It is a fact- the honourable members for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  tried to ignore it but it is a simple fact- that the only redistribution that did not present the perfect result in terms of seats won for percentage of votes won was the 1949 redistribution which was brought in by Labor itself. On that occasion the Labor Government tried to gerrymander the electorates and all the prima donnas wanted safe seats with a majority of about 20,000 votes. When the results of the election were known the Labor Party found itself out of office because of that redistribution. Apart from that one redistribution, I think that in every other redistribution the election results have clearly carried the people's will. There has been a change of government when there has been a swing against the government and the election results have been, indeed, very fair. 
Let me conclude on one point. The people of Australia are concerned to know whether they are being treated properly and equitably in electoral matters. The simple fact is that since this 20 per cent variation of a quota was introduced in 1902 it has been supported by every parliament until this time. It was supported by the great Labor Prime Ministers Curtin and Chifley, and even as far back as Scullin. It has been supported by political parties of all colours. Now, for some reason the Minister for Services and Property, who is sitting at the table, is trying to tell us that by reducing the variation from 20 per cent to 10 per cent we have reached the great state of one vote one value. That argument will not wash with the people of Australia. It is not true and the people of Australia will see the Government for the fraud that it is. 
-Mr Acting  Chairman,  we have just heard the usual diatribe from the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  on matters affecting the Country Party. Today he put himself in almost the same classification as the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in his hatred of those people whom he cannot beat in a genuine election. The only way he can beat them is by a redistribution and by abolishing seats. The whole purpose of this legislation is not the cause of one vote one value, as so righteously claimed by those who sit on the Government side. Its aim is no more or less than to perpetuate a redistribution of this Parliament that will have the effect not only of reducing the Country Party in terms of numbers in this House but also of reducing the number of Liberals in this House. That is the purpose of the legislation, and the Minister for Services and Property is the guilty man. He has confessed to his guilt for, as the member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  said, when the Minister came back from Canada this is what he had to say: 'Labor to change all Federal electorates'. That is what the Minister said. This is not a case of the Distribution Commissioners changing all electorates. The Minister said: 'The Labor Party will change all electorates and the Country Party will lose seats'. He made that as a firm statement on either 'AM' or ' PM ' and he said it also at his Press conference in Sydney. He went on to say: 
The Federal Government is planning a major redistribution of all Federal electorates as soon as its electoral changes are approved at a joint sitting of Parliament. The Electoral Office is understood to have already prepared a list of names for Distribution Commissioners. 
The Electoral Office has apparently prepared a list but the Minister has pre-empted its decision already by declaring that the Country Party will lose seats. There is no doubt at all in my mind or in the mind of anybody on this side of the Parliament that the Distribution Commissioners will come under pressure from the Minister for Services and Property such as they have never come under before in the history of a redistribution of this Parliament.  Sir, if  I could make a second point, the Minister for Services and Property wants to reduce the variation from 20 per cent to 10 per cent so that he will be better able to introduce redistribution on a faster basis than previously. That is, the demographic changes will force a need for redistribution more often. I say that the Distribution Commissioners ought to be very careful how they handle the first Bill because obviously the Minister for Services and Property will sack them before the second redistribution comes down. 
The people of Australia ought to be made aware of the real motives of this Minister in his attitude to this whole Bill. The attitude of the Australian Labor Party to the principle of one vote one value is clearly demonstrated by the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that have been quoted already today. It was also clearly stated in his submission in relation to the last redistribution in New South Wales. The Prime Minister then submitted to the Distribution Commissioners that an extra 4,000 voters should be taken from the seat of Prospect and added to the seat of Reid. The upshot of that would have been a further move away from the principle of one vote one value because the Prime Minister's proposal would have increased the electorate of Prospect from 3.68 per cent to 1 1 per cent below the quota and would have made the electorate of Reid 16.82 per cent above the quota. 
The whole purpose of that was that the Prime Minister's son was, I understand, proposing to be a candidate for that seat and he had to beat  Dr Klugman.  The Prime Minister was unable to secure that massive change, that massive gerrymander. Fortunately the Distribution Commissioners whom I, as the then responsible Minister, had appointed were fair minded men of great principle who were not going to be suborned or overborne by the Leader of the Opposition, as the present Prime Minister then was, simply to get his son into this Parliament. That is the real attitude of the Labor Party to the principle of one vote one value. Its own Prime Minister, who is now sitting at the table, tried to get the Distribution Commissioners to fall for that trick, a base trick indeed. 
Both the honourable members for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  and the Special Minister of State made reference to the way of life in country areas. I suspect that neither of them has ever dirtied his shins, knees, boots or even hands at any time in the countryside. I invite them, together with the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt),  who has presided over the greatest destruction of rural industry since Federation, who is not in the House at this the first time that we of the Opposition who sit in this chamber of the Parliament have had an opportunity to nail him to the desk and who is badly represented in this chamber by the Minister for sugar at the best of times- I invite them, as well as the Minister for gerrymander, who is sitting at the table at the moment, to a meeting on Thursday night at Narromine. They have probably never heard of it. It is in the electorate of Darling. The honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  has probably never heard of it either. I invite them to attend the meeting on Thursday night and to sit back and listen to what the people of the countryside are saying about the Labor Government. They would not have the courage to do it. 
This Bill is a measure of the determination of the Labor Government to bring down the greatest gerrymander in history. Since I have been a member of this Parliament- since 1961-1 have heard the honourable member for Grayndler, who is also the Minister for Services and Property, talk a great deal about electoral matters. In Opposition he used to sit not far from where the honourable member for Macpherson is now sitting. In those days he used to rail against the then Government on redistribution matters. He always used to talk about the principle of one vote one value. It was only a few months ago that the Minister for Services and Property told the world at large, by way of a leak, that it was his intention to dispose of the problem of the number of electors in a constituency by working instead on the basis of counting the number of people in it. The base reason for doing that, of course, is that he thinks that will advantage the Labor Party's cause in the holding of office. The whole approach by the Minister during his parliamentary life has been a sham. One of the few mistakes the Prime Minister has made- perhaps I am wrong; perhaps he has not made a mistake and knows as well as I do that the Minister's single determination is to bring down the greatest gerrymander in history. The Minister is the only member of the Labor Party who has the courage to do it. That is probably the only reason why the Prime Minister appointed him to that position. They are indeed determined to bring down a great gerrymander. 
The point has been clearly made that the wishes of the people at an election should be reflected in the result of the election. The facts are that in 1972 the Australian Labor Party received 49.6 per cent of the votes and 53.6 per cent of the seats and won Government. That was under a redistribution undertaken during the time when I was the Minister responsible for these matters. If I remember correctly during the course of the debate when that redistribution came into the House there was not one charge of gerrymander. There was not one such charge made by any sensible member of Parliament anyway. I will be fascinated when the redistribution which is proposed in this legislation introduced by the Minister for gerrymander takes place if there is not one charge of gerrymander. If there is not, I will give a garden party for the wharf labourers. There is one essential factor required and that is that the distribution commissioners in a redistribution must be men of integrity. They should not be over-borne or overweighed by ministerial opinion, as the Minister for Services and Property has tried to do. I charge the Minister with the heavy responsibility of making sure that when the distribution commissioners are appointed the redistribution is run on proper lines, as it has in the past. 
It is a fact- the honourable members for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  tried to ignore it but it is a simple fact- that the only redistribution that did not present the perfect result in terms of seats won for percentage of votes won was the 1949 redistribution which was brought in by Labor itself. On that occasion the Labor Government tried to gerrymander the electorates and all the prima donnas wanted safe seats with a majority of about 20,000 votes. When the results of the election were known the Labor Party found itself out of office because of that redistribution. Apart from that one redistribution, I think that in every other redistribution the election results have clearly carried the people's will. There has been a change of government when there has been a swing against the government and the election results have been, indeed, very fair. 
Let me conclude on one point. The people of Australia are concerned to know whether they are being treated properly and equitably in electoral matters. The simple fact is that since this 20 per cent variation of a quota was introduced in 1902 it has been supported by every parliament until this time. It was supported by the great Labor Prime Ministers Curtin and Chifley, and even as far back as Scullin. It has been supported by political parties of all colours. Now, for some reason the Minister for Services and Property, who is sitting at the table, is trying to tell us that by reducing the variation from 20 per cent to 10 per cent we have reached the great state of one vote one value. That argument will not wash with the people of Australia. It is not true and the people of Australia will see the Government for the fraud that it is. 
I accept the explanation of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  I am delighted that he has now so defined the clause. There was one other aspect with which I wish to deal. An amendment of particular significance that the Government has accepted is that which deletes the words 'or an officer authorised by the Minister'.  Mr Chairman,  you will recall that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  could have given the power to a delegated public servant to override decisions taken by the elected State governments or the elected local government bodies throughout Australia. That was a particularly objectionable part of this Bill to which we were opposed. I am delighted now that such an officer no longer has that power and that the Commonwealth can now enter into proper consultation with the States. 
One other point needs to be made. During his remarks the Minister for Urban and Regional Development got on his high horse, as we are accustomed to seeing him do these days. I simply say this: The Opposition has a much better and more clearly defined approach to problems of urban and regional development that has the Minister. What we need to have from the Minister is a clear definition of what he is after. He goes from one State to another making statements like this: 'I am going to buy back the Dandenongs; I am going to do this, in the La Trobe Valley and I am going to do this out of Sydney.' The Minister should put his money where his mouth is and do something. He is making a mess of Albury-Wodonga and pity help the States in having to deal with him as Minister on this matter. 
Senate 's amendments Nos 3 and 4 agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
Motion ( by  Mr Charles  Jones) agreed to: 
That  Mr Uren, Mr Daly  and the mover be appointed a committee to draw up reasons for the House of Representatives disagreeing to the amendments Nos 1 and 2 of the Senate. 
-I am delighted that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has seen fit to accept this amendment that I moved originally in the House and which the Senate agreed to. I am concerned to hear the Minister say that this precludes any future growth centre being declared. I find that an extraordinary statement. I do not believe it. If the Australian Government is going to try to pretend that clause 6 (b) will preclude the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, who has his own constitutional authority and power, from declaring a region fit to be a growth centre, I think we have reached the highest point of plain ridiculousness that I have ever heard. I do not believe the Act in any way derogates the power of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I think it is nonsense for the Minister to try to pretend it does. Do not tell me that the administrative arrangements of this Government are so confused that it cannot even sort itself out. That was the point in moving the amendment in the first place. 
I am pleased the Senate once again agreed to the amendment because otherwise the States would find themselves in an extraordinary position of not knowing who is king of the roads as a result of legislation going through this House. The Czar has been routed. Now he is crying poor mouth and saying we are blocking Government legislation. It is absolute nonsense to pretend that this will stop future declaration of growth centres throughout Australia or the building of roads associated with them. The Government can make its own simple administrative arrangements as previous governments have done historically down through the years. I am pleased that the Senate has again proved its real worth to the nation by instituting these amendments. I hope that the people of Australia know exactly what it does. 
-I have made my position and that of the Opposition clear in respect of this amendment. The Opposition accepts the amendment in the spirit in which the Minister has moved it and it is subject to the acceptance of a further amendment which I shall be moving later on. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendment agreed to. 
-The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  said that he prefers to be referred to as a Fuehrer rather than a Czar. Be that as it may, it seems to me that he is like Napoleon because he has just made the greatest retreat since Napoleon retreated from Moscow. The fact is that he has backed right away from the position he took. He went out on a limb but then produced an axe to chop that limb off. As a result he fell crashing to the ground. The Fuehrer across the table is just like the last Fuehrer of history, Adolf Hitler. The analogy can be drawn that whereas Hitler was attacked by bombs in his underground shelter, the Minister at the table has been bombed by telegrams from the States and from local government authorities telling him that they did not like the legislation. Under the weight and fusillade of telegrams and protests from local government associations around Australia- I might say that this was well organised by those associations and my congratulations go to them- the Minister, like his predecessor the Fuehrer of Germany, crumbled. This is the first reason we are back here today. 
The second reason we are back here today is that the so-called obstructionist Senate, about which the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  was so pleased to talk earlier, has done its job by democracy, the nation, the State governments and local government bodies throughout Australia. Local government bodies ought to recognise now, if they had not done so before, just how important it is that the Senate be as it is and not controlled by the Labor centralists and socialists of this nation who are trying to destroy our democratic system through a process of anarchy. 
With those few preambles, let me come back to the legislation. I was delighted that the State governments responded as vigorously as they did to the legislation. The Ministers for Transport in Victoria, New South Wales, Western Australia and Queensland let the Minister know exactly what they thought of the legislation. I was disappointed that the South Australian Minister did not join the band. However, I quote some words of the South Australian Minister who said: 
If you think that we are going to let you tell us how much money we have to raise and how we are to spend it even down to local government level you had better have another . . . 
I delete the expletive-  think about it. I tell you straight Charlie this is not on. 
Those very famous words with all the expletives deleted- and there is a page and a bit of what was said- came from the South Australian Minister. This was part of a very public telephone conversation between the Minister for Transport and the South Australian Minister. The Minister for Transport was told in the bar of Parliament House- and about 8 witnesses were presentexactly what the South Australian Minister thought about him and his legislation. The point is that the position taken by the Opposition in the Senate following the position taken by the Opposition in the House of Representatives is supported not only by so-called conservatives and tories around Australia but by the radical Labor Minister for Transport in South Australia. If the Minister would like the conversation to be incorporated in Hansard I will seek leave for that to be done. There are quite a few expletives deleted. There was '(Expletive deleted) drongo, (expletive deleted) this'- all referring to the 
Minister. It just shows that, away from this ivory tower, the people of Australia recognise that the Senate did its proper job. The Senate did it with this Bill just as it did with the Trade Practices Bill. The proof of that is that the Minister has accepted the amendments. 
It is the wish of the Opposition to co-operate in this matter. The Opposition is delighted that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  should accept the modified amendment that was moved in the Senate. Just let me recount exactly what the Bill, as it read previously, did in respect of the powers of the central Government. The relevant clause would have given the Australian Government the right to call on every local government body and every State government throughout Australia to submit to Canberra any project involving the spending of money on road work or road maintenance. The most minor road work on which a shire in my electorate of Gippsland might need to spend money might have had to be submitted to the Federal Government for approval, even if the expenditure was from local ratepayers' money. That is how ridiculous this Bill was in its original drafting. It is no wonder that the Minister was described as a tsar when he wanted such control. In his own words, he wanted to be described as a fuehrer sitting as a dictator over every bit of road construction and maintenance- even the erection of a road sign or the painting of a white line down the middle of the main street of Orbost where I live. That is how ridiculous this Bill was. 
As I said, fortunately the Minister, as a result of the thousands of telegrams that bombarded him in his office downstairs, succumbed to the realities of life and realised that it is not a practicable proposition that the Australian Government should so control all roads. For that reason he has accepted the Opposition's amendment to take away the power of the Australian Government over local rural roads, rural arterial roads and local urban roads in the cities throughout Australia. The one area that is left is that covering urban arterial roads. I still have qualms about our accepting this amendment, except for one thing. I believe that the State goverment. and the State Ministers are powerful enough in their own right to resist the all-power dominance of the Australian Government. After listening to the Minister's speech a moment ago I can understand completely why the State governments, and the local councils in Melbourne and the cities generally, were nervous about this Bill. The Minister just gave us a treatise on how he, as the Fuehrer, would handle all roads in the cities throughout Australia. He does not do this in a spirit of co-operation; he does it in a very dogmatic, dictatorial and 'I am right and that is all about it' sense. We want the Minister to do as the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  claims he does; that is, to co-operate with the States and local authorities in the cities in overcoming these problems. 
All wisdom does not reside in the Minister for Transport in Canberra or the Minister for Urban and Regional Development in Canberra, or in their departments. The fact is that a great deal of expertise has been built up by local authorities in the handling of this motor car problem in the cities of Australia. If the Minister for Transport thinks that he can go to Sydney or Melbourne and suddenly cure all their problems with a miserable Bill relating to urban transport, such as we saw come into this House a few months ago, he has another think coming. The fact is that he cannot do it. The Opposition accepts the amendment in order to expedite this Bill. But again I say that I am nervous about the attitude of the Minister for Transport in this matter. When similar legislation comes before us in 3 years time we will be looking at the history of the Minister's intrusion into local government matters in the cities of Australia. 
I probably will be the Minister; so the States again will be able to look to me for co-operation, in the good old fashion style that we had, in getting these things cured. As for the Minister for Transport using the experience of Los Angeles and pretending that in 5 minutes he is going to solve the problem, I believe he has another think coming. It will take a great deal of co-operation with local government bodies, city authorities and the State governments to cure this problem. To pretend that all wisdom resides in the Minister for Transport in Canberra is nonsense. I think the Minister will find that out in due course. If he does not cure the problem he will be held responsible, and I will be the first to point the finger at him. We expect him to cure it and not just talk about it. He has been doing enough talking about this Bill. We expect this problem to be cured. One other aspect of this Bill needs to be tidied up. I will be moving an amendment to clause 3 of the Bill in order to confine the definition of urban arterial roads. This is involved in our acceptance of the amendment moved by the Minister for Transport. 
-Once again I am delighted that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  should be generous enough to accept the amendments which were moved in this House and which were passed in the Senate. The Roads Grants Bill is much clearer and much cleaner. There is much less administrative difficulty for all those people outside who have to work with the Department of Transport in the administration of its functions. The removal from the Bill of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development makes the position much simpler. At least now we know where the buck rests. As the Bill was previously drafted the States might have a proposition which would have to come to the Government. They would not be sure who would be in charge. When they read the Bill they would not have been sure whether they had to go to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development or his delegate or to the Minister for Transport or his delegate. At least the States know that the buck rests with the Minister for Transport. They can look to him for a solution. The Minister can be held politically responsible for his failures. As I said earlier, the administrative agreement between the Minister for Transport, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development and their Departments is a matter for normal administration between departments. The difficulty between the 2 Ministers should not be enshrined in legislation. The State governments are not interested in whether it is the Minister for Urban and Regional Development or the Minister for Transport who is responsible. Therefore we want to see that the States know where to go and have the matter taken from there. I am also pleased to see that the Minister has accepted the amendment which removes the Federal Treasurer from this Bill. Clause 10 (1) (c) stated: . . . if the Treasurer so directs, as soon as practicable after such date as the Treasurer specifies, a statement in writing setting out such other information in relation to amounts expended or set aside for expenditure by the State on road works or in relation to expenditure by a municipal, shire or other local authority on road works, as the Treasurer specifies . . . 
That was an extraordinary provision which gave the Federal Treasurer the right to intrude in the expenditure programs of every local government authority throughout Australia. Again I am delighted that the Minister has accepted the deletion of that provision. A more ridiculous proposition to involve the Federal Treasurer in such a situation could not be thought of or entertained. The Minister has been generous enough to accept that amendment. I wish he would be equally as generous in relation to the role which the Senate played in getting a good Bill. This is not a case of obstructionism. Nor, as the Minister claims in his letter which went to all local government bodies, is it a case of the Opposition frustrating the passage of this Bill. I have a copy of the letter which the Minister sent at public expense to all local government bodies throughout Australia. The Opposition wrote to all local government bodies too, but it did it at its own expense and not at public expense. I would like to quote what the Minister said in his letter. He stated: 
Although the Bills have passed through the House of Representatives without amendment they may be delayed in the Senate by the Opposition who are seeking substantial amendments. Such action can only lead to frustration of the Government's transport policy and may completely dry up the flow of Australian Government road funds to the States and most importantly to local authorities. 
Further on he stated: 
These Bills are an integral part of the Government's overall policies for transport and urban development. The Australian Government must be more closely associated with decision making in these matters if it is to ensure that Australia's transport problems are dealt with properly. The Opposition is trying to stifle these initiatives even though all 3 levels of Government must participate in the solution of existing transport problems. In the short term, of course, their opposition can only lead to difficulties in the continuing provision of funds to local councils. 
That is proven to be nonsense by the very action the Government has taken in accepting the amendments. 
The one point that I want to make clear- I make this not only to the Minister but to the Prime Minister as well- is the disappointment that local government bodies have expressed to me, and which I outlined in my second reading speech, at the level of funds being made available for the different categories of roads. The smoke screen put up by the Government in regard to national highways has not hidden from local government bodies the simple fact that the level of funds made available to them for their road making activities has been seriously depleted. One of the difficulties that we have as an opposition is that we are unable to redirect funds to the priorities that we believe are necessary or allocate more funds to these areas. We look forward to the day when we get back into government when we can make sure that local government bodies are properly treated in this area. I am delighted to see that we now have a much simpler Bill as a result of the Government accepting the amendments. 
I wish to move an amendment to the definition of 'urban arterial road ' in clause 3 which reads: urban arterial road' means a road or proposed road in an urban area that is for the time being declared by the Minister to be an urban arterial road, or urban sub-arterial road, for the purposes of this Act; 
I move: 
Add at the end of the definition of'urban arterial road ' the words ', being a road that is, or a proposed road that, if constructed, would be, a Class 6 road or a Class 7 road according to the Functional Classification of Roads included in the Report on Roads in Australia 1973 prepared by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads'. 
The Opposition is concerned because it appears from our reading of the Bill that the Minister can, for any purpose at all, declare a road to be an urban arterial road, and that would prevent the State proceeding with any development it might have in mind for that road. To take a hypothetical case, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  leaning on his friend the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  might say: 'I want all those roads through the Dandenongs declared urban arterial roads so that no progress can be made on the upgrading of the roads even though the local people may want it. ' That is an extreme case. It is highly unlikely. 
The amendment expresses the sort of concern we have as an Opposition. The Minister for Transport has been good enough to accept a closer definition of an urban arterial road. The acceptance of my amendment simply means that the States know full well that the road to be declared an urban arterial road now has to meet the criteria as laid down in the Report on Roads in Australia- that is, a Class 6 or Class 7 roadwhereas previously the Bill could have been read to include any urban local road that, for any reason, the Minister could declare to be an urban arterial road. I thank the Minister for his cooperation in accepting that amendment because I believe that it will overcome a lot of the fears presently held by the States. 
I formally move: 
That the ruling be dissented from. 
Opposition members- The new boy. 
-I have moved dissent from  Mr Speaker's  ruling, so sit down. 
-I second the motion. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has been forced to move the suspension of Standing Orders so that a reasonable discussion may be held on the rights or wrongs of what is contained in paragraph 4 in the terms of the matter of public importance brought before the Parliament today. Paragraph 4 reads: 
The indemnity payments admitted to have been made to the Waterside Workers Federation. 
In the face of the fact that the Minister for Transport has just admitted that the royal commission has not yet commenced its inquiry, we are submitting that there is enough evidence to show that clause 4 should be debated in this House today and that the subject matter of that clause should be considered for inclusion in the matters to be studied by the royal commission. It has been stated by  Mr Fitzgibbon  that some $370,000 has been collected from shipowners. 

 -Mr Speaker, I believe that Standing Orders ought to be suspended so that the points I want to bring out in relation to clause 4 of the matter of public importance can be debated. I do not want to debate those points now. The positive fact is that on  Mr Fitzgibbon  's own words $370,000 has been paid by shipowners to the waterside workers. This is why the matter ought to be debated in this House and why we are moving the suspension of Standing Orders. The second point is that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has promised immunity to the Waterside Workers Federation on this very question. 
I am not suggesting for one moment that there was,  Mr Speaker.  Not for one moment have I made any suggestion or allegation that there was any collusion between you and the Government. I do not like very much the suggestion that you think I am making such an allegation. 
-No one could infer that I had suggested that there was collusion. With respect,  Mr Speaker,  I suggest that you look at the Hansard report. No one could infer that I had suggested there was any collusion between the Chair and the Government on this matter. 
-No one could infer that from what I said. If it were not the Chair that had said that, I would ask for a retraction. 

 -Mr Speaker, I feel like seeking a withdrawal of your implication that I had alleged that there was collusion, but I will let that pass. I believe that there is an involvement by Government Ministers. That is the truth. They are not prepared to allow this matter to be debated. The cuckolding Minister for Transport himself has just entered the chamber. He is the man who suggested in the first place the levies that have been imposed on shipowners. He is the guilty party. He is seeking immunity for his waterside worker friends. He does not worry about Australia. He holds Australia to ransom. (Opposition members interjecting) - 
We moved for the suspension of Standing Orders to get a proper debate on these matters. There are bad smells about this whole business. The terms of reference of the royal commission are drawn too narrowly. The Minister for Transport is in the House. He should agree to the suspension of Standing Orders to allow proper debate on the question. Unless he does, a grave suspicion will hang not only over him but over the rest of the Australian Labor Party. 
-I thank the House. I might say,  Mr Speaker,  that there is no way by which I could forget your presence. You remind me of your presence every time I make a speech in this House. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,.it is on the point - 
If I may just explain to you,  Sir, the  Minister tabled a letter from one of the unions that I named. I want to apologise to that union. The information I used came from Eliot V. Elliott. 
-I move: 
That the time of the Minister for Transport be extended. 
The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  is shaking his head. He does not agree with the extension of time for the Minister. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I am sure that every member on this side of the House is prepared to give the Minister the opportunity to explain his position. It is a very serious charge and his own Minister will not even assist him. 
I rise on a point of order. 
On 19 August Refrigerated Express Lines advised me that the 'Sloman Alstertor' was subject to industrial dispute prior to sailing and that only after the line had paid a figure of $ 1,074.92 by cheque to the Seamen's Union had it been allowed to sail. On 20 August I authorised the sending of a telex to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General and the Minister for Labor and Immigration, enclosing a copy of the telex from the line. Unfortunately that was not despatched by my Department until the next day. On 2 1 August I went to the Prime Minister in the middle of the Budget discussions - 
From Peter N, Dent, Rel Sydney 
To Hon. C. K.Jones 
Sloman Alstertor at Fremantle 
Further to our telex of 9th August we regret to advise the vessel was subjected to industrial troubles prior to sailing from Fremantle. Principally these include absence of tug crews/linesmen on15 August 
Only after paying $1,074.92 by bank cheque to Seamen's Union account No. S090091 for which obtained S.U.A. receipt from  Mr Elliott  the vessel was permitted to sail on 16th under Libyan Government charter. 
We suggest a meeting with officers of your department the Department of Labor and Immigration and the Attorney General's Department in Sydney when convenient so that after studying the sequence of 
1 ) your advice on how to proceed on this matter. 
) your opinions of the legal situation involved. 
your suggestions for this company obtaining return of the abovementioned $1,074.92 plus demurrage and other charges resulting from the illegal interference referred to. 
For your guidance we expect to have the detailed documentation available from our Fremantle agents in Sydney within one week. 
If you deem that other departments are involved in this matter we invite you to pass the contents of this telex to your ministerial colleagues in these departments. 
Thanking you in anticipation, 
Peter N.Dent 
Refrigerated Express Lines (A/Asia) Pry Ltd. 
To Prime Minister 
From C. K. Jones, Minister for Transport 
I have received today representations from Peter Dent, Refrigerated Express Lines (A/ Asia) Pry Ltd, 37 Pitt Street, Sydney. In view of nature of these representations I am forwarding you a copy of the telex received and my reply. 
Furthermore I understand that a similar demand was recently made by the Seamens Union of the Australian Newsprint Mills in respect of a shipment of newsprint on M.V. Thunderbird' from Hobart to Sydney. In this case it has been alleged that the amount involved is approximately $18,000. 
To Minister, C/- Dept Transport Canberra 
Hon. C. K.Jones 
Minister for Transport 
9/8/74 
Our agents in Fremantle have received demand from Australian Seamen's Union representative in Fremantle claiming that he represented head office Seamen's Union, Sydney, say that because m.v. Sloman Alstertor under charter to our company carried a cargo of motor vehicles from Portland, Victoria, to Fremantle, West Australia, this week the vessel will not be permitted to sail with her cargo for the Libyan government from Fremantle until we pay into the seamen's union in Sydney a sum of money equal to the difference between Australian wages for Australian flag coastal container ships and the German wages on our first class modern fully refrigerated conventional cargo liner. We understand this amounts to between 1,500 and 2,000 Australian dollars being for the period of approximately six days coastwise. No indication has been given concerning the disposal of the funds after they have been received by the seamen 's union. 
As the vessel will shortly complete loading your reply today is respectfully requested to the following questions: 
Can you give us any guidance in this matter from government point of view. 
b) Should we pay this money and if so to whom. 
Does a legal basis exist for such a claim by the seamen's union who have so far refused to put their claim in writing. 
For your guidance the vessel requires the use of linesmen, tugs and pilot to clear the port of Fremantle. There has been no involvement of WWF in this issue as yet. 
Coastal permit No. 22899 issued in Melbourne 31 July 1 974 refers to the cargo concerned. 
Thanking you in anticipation, 
Peter N.Dent 
Refrigerated Express Lines (A/asia) Pty Ltd 37 Pitt Street, Sydney. 
To Peter N.Dent 
Refrigerated Express Lines Pty Ltd 
From C. K. Jones, Minister for Transport, Canberra. 
I refer to your telegram dated 9 August concerning "Sloman Alstertor". Prior to issuing permit for 'Sloman Alstertor' I notified the secretary ACTU on 22 July of the proposed lifting of motor vehicles. In the absence of any response or objection from the ACTU I find it surprising that the action now reported by you should have been taken by the seamen's union. 
You will be aware that the Navigation Act requires that seamen on ships licensed to engage in the coasting trade should be paid wages at the current rates ruling in Australia but no such stipulation is made in relation to unlicensed ships for which permits may be issued to carry coastal cargo. 
There is therefore no legal basis under the Navigation Act to support the demands alleged to have been made by the seamen's union. 
In the circumstances I feel your company is justified in seeking to have the union 's demands documented. 
Whether the union's request is acceded to (with or without a written claim) is, I believe, a matter for you to decide. 
In the event of an industrial dispute arising the normal arbitration process would involve notification of the dispute to the appropriate industrial tribunal either State or Commonwealth depending on the award under which the union or unions involved are operating. 
In view of the nature of your representations I am referring a copy of your representations to my colleagues the Minister for Labor and Immigration and the Attorney-General '. 
-I will go into the details of the last point in a moment but firstly I shall deal with something that the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  said when we moved for the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  to have an extension of time in which to finish his remarks. The Leader of the House made the most miserable excuse possible for curtailing this debate by suggesting that we were cutting into private members' time on Grievance Day. The fact is that he would not enable a censure debate to be held on 23 August when we sought it nor would he bring it on on Tuesday. He permitted that debate yesterday which forced us to raise this matter of public importance today, so cutting into private members' time. The fact that he is not prepared to support the Minister for Transport in answering the serious charge made against him is a disgrace. 
The Minister for Transport commenced his speech by referring to a 1958 report and making various allegations about what the Liberal and Country Parties may or not have done as a government. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made specific allegations. This case cannot rest on what the Minister has put before the House today. The allegations have not been answered in sufficient detail. He has not explained the tardiness of his approach to the question or the tardiness of the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  Let me explain to the House what this matter is all about. The facts are that extortion payments have been demanded and made. This is clear from all the evidence available to us from newspapers over a period of time. In fact I can quote from the chief extortionist of all, Elliot V. Elliott, who said that they had demanded that the difference between the wages paid to each member of the crew of the 'Thunderbird' and the rate that would have been paid for Australian crews, including leave entitlements for the period, be paid. The point is that Elliot V. Elliott did not demand that those payments go to the crew. The Minister for Transport supports the idea that such payments should go to members of the crew. Elliot V. Elliott asked that these payments be paid into a certain bank account of the Seamen's Union. As the honourable member for Wannon rightly pointed out, a letter from the Australian Newsprint Mills Limited goes so far as to name the number of that Seamen's Union bank account. It is S090091. The Australian Newsprint Mills paid $18,000 into that account. There are allegations in subsequent newspaper articles of amounts up to $70,000 being paid. 
-The letter to which I am referring is dated 30 July and is entirely different. It is addressed to  Mr H.  Souter of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I will have it incorporated in Hansard if the Minister so desires. 
It is included in Hansard. 
-I seek leave to have that letter incorporated in Hansard. 
Dear Mr Soutar 
Further to our conversation on 30 July concerning the vessel 'Thunderbird', I enclose copy of a letter written to the Federal Minister,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, on 26 July and telex sent to him on Monday, 29 July. These, I think, are self explanatory. 
Later on Monday, 29 July, Elliott advised  Mr Deane  of Hetherington-Kingsbury of a resolution by the Seafarers Unions that the difference in money amount between Australian rates and leave provisions and ITF rates and provisions applicable to crew members of the 'Thunderbird' whilst engaged on the Australian coast be paid weekly into account No. S09009 1 of the Seamens Union by bank cheque. 
In doing so Elliott rejected a suggestion by Deane that, in any event, this should not apply for the seven days during which berthing of the vessel had been held up by Elliott's actions. 
A payment of SI 8,000 by means of a bank cheque was made by Hetherington-Kingsbury to Elliott on July 30, accompanied by a letter reading somewhat as follows: 
Further to our conversation on Monday, 29 July 1974, we enclose a bank cheque for $ 1 8,000. This amount is paid without prejudice and on the understanding that the vessel 'Thunderbird' will be released immediately to enable it to discharge newsprint. 
The cheque relates to portion of the difference in money amounts between Australian rates and leave provisions and ITF rates and provisions applicable to crew members of the vessel 'Thunderbird' whilst engaged in the carriage of newsprint between Australian ports. 
Your receipt is requested. 
We understand Elliott has now advised firemen and deckhands that it is in order to berth the 'Thunderbird ' and the vessel is expected to discharge newsprint in Sydney on 3 1 July. 
Deane has been unable to obtain from Elliott any confirmation of the reasons for his demand and he has in fact refused to do so. Whilst Hetherington-Kingsbury 's letter protects them to some extent, the action by Elliott is, in my opinion, one of the most unsavoury I have yet encountered for the following reasons: 
As arranged several years ago with the Waterside Workers Federation, representing the ITF, if a request is made to augment ITF rates to bring them up to Australian rates, the amount has always been paid to the ship 'screw. 
On this occasion the crew of the 'Thunderbird' could make such a request and this would lead to double payment by Hetherington-Kingsbury unless all sums paid to the Australian Seamen 's Union are recovered. 
In the absence of any written statement or acknowledgment by Elliott the payment to the Seamens Union could be regarded as a bribe, a Christmas present, or whatever they like to call it. 
I have never heard of any similar demand, but understand it is not unusual for the Seafarers Unions to be paid 'slush money' when overseas vessels are engaged in the carriage of Australian goods between Australian ports and amounting to 1 per cent of the freight rate. 
Yours sincerely, R. W. Henry Managing Director 
-The first thing I want to do is to lodge a protest on behalf of the Opposition that this very important Budget Bill should be introduced into the House for consideration in detail by the Parliament before the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has had a chance to present to the Parliament his analysis of the Budget as a whole. It is an improper practice. I am quite sure that we could have facilitated the passage of this legislation, both through this House and the Senate, had the Government been prepared to co-operate. The legislation could have been passed through the House by the due date, 1 October. I understand that that is the point of time at which the Government wants to start collecting the exorbitant charges which are provided for under this legislation. 
The legislation is of major importance to the Australian people. The Post Office, as an effective monopoly, provides services to the community which affect the quality of life of the Australian people. What that in turn means is that increases in the prices of these services will have a major impact on both the rate of inflation and the people's awareness of the rate of inflation. The proposed increases are very substantial. They include an increase of 43 per cent in the basic postage rate, an increase of 33 per cent in the telephone service connection fee for new applicants, a 30 per cent increase in the local telephone call fee, and an overall increase of 50 per cent in telegram charges. They are just a few examples. These increases will have a direct inflationary impact and, as their justification is not required before the Prices Justification Tribunal, it is the duty of this Parliament to scrutinise them carefully. 
A scrutiny of these charges must be looked at in the light of approved broad criteria, including economic circumstances. It is therefore quite reasonable that the Opposition should wish to wait for the presentation of the Budget before approving these proposals. I call the attention of the House to the fact that on 23 July the Opposition opposed similar measures both in this House and in the Senate. They were not these measures but lesser measures, I might say. We believed at that time that it was improper for the Government to introduce such measures prior to the introduction of its total Budget package. The postal services have run at a consistent loss since 1964-65. This loss is estimated in the Budget papers to increase from $21m in 1972-73 to $55m in both 1973-74 and 1974-75, even assuming that these increased charges will be put into effect. The Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  estimates that if these increased charges are not approved the postal service will incur a loss in this financial year of $ 100m. This is no less than five times the loss of only 2 years ago. 
Because the postal service is labour intensive it is vulnerable to wage increases. The telecommunications service, on the other hand, has a high capital content and is consistently and increasingly profitable. Clearly, the overall problem rests with the postal service. From a study of the accounts it is quite clear that a very alarming deterioration is occurring in the financial condition of the Post Office. The Vernon Commission in April estimated that postal service expenses in 1974-75 would rise by 10 per cent on the 1973-74 level. Now, only 4 months later, we are told that the increase will not be 10 per cent but a whacking 1 8 per cent, and this is in spite of severe restrictions on staff growth. 
This Parliament is clearly entitled to a detailed explanation of this situation. I believe that the Postmaster-General has been derelict in his duty in that the second reading speech presented to this House by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is at the table, says nothing on this point. In April the loss for postal services during 1974-75 was estimated at $65m. Now, with an increase in tariffs of the order of 43 per cent for basic postal charges, this loss of $65m is reduced by a mere $10m. One does not have to be a mathematical genius to draw a pretty frightening conclusion about the sorts of charges that would be necessary, in theory, on the basis of the Minister's assumption for that loss to be eliminated. 
Back in April the Vernon Commission thought that postal charges would need to increase at an average rate of 15 per cent. The Commission explained that this would mean that the cost of posting a letter would rise from 7c to 10c in less than 3 years. It has happened in less than 5 months. The Parliament is entitled to an updated projection of postal charges in the light of the recent cost data. We are entitled to a full explanation of the reasons for this deterioration. Clearly wages are rising, but one would have thought that productivity was rising also. What the Minister has failed to say is the extent to which industrial disputation may be contributing to the problem. It should be a cause of national concern that the Vernon Commission reported that in the 6 months to June 1973 there were no less than 28 black bans imposed in the Sydney Mail Exchange; in other words, about one a week. Measured by articles handled per man hour, productivity at the Sydney Mail Exchange fell by about 10 per cent absolutely between 1964-65 and 1972-73. We are entitled to some explanation of what the Government intends to do about this. It is very simple to talk of the need to increase charges to meet expenses. It is even more simple, and probably misleading, for the Budget documents on the Post Office to say: 
The record demand for telephone services in 1973-74 indicates that the present level of charges for that service is relatively low. 
There is no evidence to support that bald assertion. Indeed, there is no evidence to support the assertion of the Minister that these increased charges will yield the revenue estimated. The Vernon Commission itself admitted that it would not be possible to calculate accurately the tariff increases necessary to offset trading losses, since changes in tariffs affect demand. The crunch- it is a most important, indeed critical, crunch- is that we do not know and we are not told to what extent they affect demand. The Commission admitted that it was not able to work out the elasticity of demand for postal services; yet we are asked to approve increases of 40 per cent to 50 per cent without any estimate by the Minister of their impact on demand for postal services. Discussion over revenue and outlay really begs the question. The central issue is the Government's economic philosophy and its social guidelines for the postal services. The Minister asserts that they must pay their way. The problem is that we are never really told clearly why. One explanation is contained in the second reading speech, in which the Minister said: 
The Government is not prepared to allocate more from the Budget to the Post Office because this could only be at the expense of our priority programs in the fields of education, welfare and health. 
Are we therefore to assume by this process of reasoning that it is more equitable in principle for low income earners to pay increases of 43 per cent in basic postage rates than it is for this program to be financed from the progressive taxation scale? The situation is even more puzzling when we are told by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  that the national broadcasting and television service is a service to the community as a whole and the Government believes that the cost of the service should therefore be met out of general taxation receipts rather than through a licence fee. Why? It is because these flat charges bear more heavily on the less affluent. The Minister should tell us what is the distinction in principle between these charges and the other charges I have mentioned. 
The political opportunism of the Government is plain for all to see when it adopts such a callous approach to financing public activities. I am not advocating that a rapidly deteriorating loss situation should be permanently and totally met from public revenue. What I am saying is that we should expect some statement from the Minister as to the social role envisaged for the postal and telecommunications services. Contrary to what the Minister said in his second reading speech, the Vernon Commission did not unilaterally choose a self-sufficiency role for these services. It said instead that it was reasonable to suggest that if an uneconomic service is necessary for reasons of public policy the corporation providing the service should receive a subvention from the Government. 
What I am saying then is that we do not really know what the public policy of this Government is. This is a matter of prime importance because we are not considering a normal free market situation. On the contrary, we are considering a situation where a publicly entrenched monopoly is in the comfortable postion of imposing its own charges. To explain that a little further- it is able to charge the community for personnel, installations and services which are selected not by the public through competition but by bureaucratic decision. As the Vernon Commission rightly says, we should not be too rigorous in the light of those factors in applying normal commercial criteria. What we should be rigorous in doing is examining these increases in the light of our present economic circumstances. For example, in a total economic context, is it less inflationary to meet these losses for a limited period from public revenue than to add them directly to the consumer price index? 
The thrust of my approach,  Mr Speaker,  has been a call for greater information and greater clarity of policy. An example of this is the proposed increases in telecommunications charges. Telegram charges are to increase by 50 per cent in all cases, due to the substantial losses incurred by this service. Yet it is by no means certain that increases of 50 per cent are the answer to this problem. The decline in telegram usage is, in fact, the principal reason for these increases due to the rapid growth in the use of telephone and telex services. Telex charges themselves are to increase, but once again we are not told what the total effect on demand for telex as against telegram services will be. We can only assume that the purpose is to make each individual component of the telecommunications sector selfsupporting. Yet this policy of increasing the charges for unprofitable services ignores the overall profitability situation of telecommunications, and the consequent fact is that if the services listed need such large increases then there must be other services which are highly profitable indeed. Are we to see the charges for those services reduced? As it is, with these increased charges telecommunication charges will earn a profit this year of $1 10m, although in relation to the assets this is less than 4 per cent. Yet once again we are told by the Minister that the criterion is supposed to be a revenue sufficient to meet trading costs, depreciation and capital requirements. The criterion is not supposed to be a return on assets. The Minister made a great play on words in his speech because the Opposition refused to pass the increases proposed in late July. We said then that the proposals were inflationary and I quoted as support no less a source than the Treasurer himself, who took a similar stand in September 1971. Talking as Shadow Treasurer about postal charge increases, he said : 
To us this seems to run contrary to what is described as the overall strategy of the Budget, that is, the halting of inflation. Many of these charges can only aggravate inflation ... It increases charges the impact of which will be felt not only by individuals whose purchasing power will be reduced unless they can increase their incomes but also by business undertakings which have the ability to pass on the increased charges. To say the least, this Budget will accelerate inflation. 
This is the Treasurer who the other night introduced a Budget foreshadowing increased business charges to an extent greater than was thought possible. But he is still in good company, because he was supported in 1971 by the then Leader of the Opposition, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who, it will be recalled, during the last election campaign had this to say: 'I am the only man in Australia who can reduce inflation'. We have seen the greatest height in inflation since 18 May that has ever been known in the history of this country. Let me quote what the Prime Minister said when he was Leader of the Opposition. How the horse can change its colour. He said: 
Postal and petrol increases in the current Budget will inevitably produce an identical effect, as will payroll tax . . . There will be immediate rises in costs to all consumers and there will be an inevitable  flowthrough  as these charges are passed on later in the year. All these rises could and would have been avoided by a government which genuinely sought to hold prices down. How can we take seriously the rhetoric of Ministers on inflation when the Government makes so consistent and comprehensive a contribution to the rapidity with which living costs increase? 
We are now living in times of highest inflation which he and his Ministers have caused. How can this nation take seriously the statements that these economic managers or mismanagers now make? The course they have adopted is the course of which they were critical 3 years ago. In July, the mini-Budget was supposed to deal with inflation but it contained not one item that would help correct the course inflation was taking. Indeed quite to the contrary, it was totally inflationary in effect. That has been seen, of course, in the very way in which inflation has heightened since then. In the last debate on postal charges on 25 July I quoted from a number of industry sources that very clearly showed the inflationary hike that would be created by increased post and telegraph charges at that time. I quoted the words of  Mr F.  J. Darling Executive Director of the Employers Federation of New South Wales,  Mr K.  D. Williams,  President  of the Australian Chamber of Commerce,  Mr C.  F. Sullivan, the Acting Director of the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures, and  Mr J.  B. Griffin, of the Retail Traders Association of New South Wales. Each of those individuals described the proposals of 25 July of the Minister to increase postal charges as being inflationary. The Minister in justification of his stand at the time, quoted during his speech last Tuesday night from a couple of newspaper articles which supported his stand. But he was very selective in his approach. I wish to quote from a newspaper which should be particularly well-known to one honourable member who is present in the House, that is, the 'Geelong Advertiser' of Saturday, 27 July 1974. 1 have not heard the honourable member to whom I am referring stand up in this House and proudly quote from the same leading article as the one from which I am about to quote. It reads: 
The suggestion made by  Mr Nixon  (Country Party, Victoria) in the House of Representatives that the proposed increases in postal charges should be deferred until their effects on inflation could be determined is one of the few sane suggestions which has been made in Canberra with regard to the current economic crisis and the shock minibudget designed to deal with it. But of course,  Mr Nixon's  motion was defeated on Party lines. 
The one thing of which the readers of the newspaper were not made aware was that the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  who is a resident of the area in which the newspaper is printed, voted against the proposal I put forward. The article continues: 
Pointing out that the new postal charges would impose a burden of $ 140m on the public,  Mr Nixon  said: 'The rationale for this, they claim, is the problem of inflation. I would be one of the last to deny that inflation in Australia is serious, but the real concern is whether the proposals are ami- inflationary or whether they are simply measures to raise funds for a bankrupt government. 
That is what I said. I was accurately reported. That is slightly different from the selected pieces of newspaper material that the Minister chose to use in his speech on Tuesday night. 
It was propaganda. The article continues: 
That, indeed, is the real concern. Announcing the minibudget proposals last Tuesday, the Federal Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  said: 'I say, without exaggeration, that the Australian economy now faces a highly dangerous situation. The whole community will have to suffer for a while to beat inflation '. 
Yet, the next day, his colleague, the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns,  in a radio broadcast, said it was very difficult to see what could be anti-inflationary in the mini-budget, and he repeated that statement later in the House of Representatives amid raucous laughter from the Opposition. The  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  also expressed a pessimistic view with regard to the anti-inflationary prospects of the various proposals. 
That article was written at the time the Minister introduced the previous Bill. He is now sitting at the table in charge of a Bill which compounds the situation- indeed, which has increased the charge for postage stamps by lc more than the amount set on 23 July. So he is compounding the situation and making it even worse. The leading article to which I have referred and which I think is an excellent one goes on to say: 
Instead, numbers of country post offices have closed, mail deliveries have been curtailed, telegraphic services have been restricted and complaints of inexplicable delays in effecting delivery of letters are legion. This situation has led to the establishment of hundreds of private courier services. This practice is illegal as, by law, the Post Office has a monopoly on mail delivery, but all it can do about the matter, apparently, is to complain that it is being robbed of the 'cream ' of postal business. This is entirely its own fault, and if the 'customary' decline in service follows the latest proposal to increase postal charges, it will lose still more cream. Then, presumably, it will become necessary to raise charges again; and so, ad infinitum. 
What has happened only 8 weeks later? The Minister has proposed that the charges be increased again. The article continues: 
As the Government has declined to hold the inquiry requested by  Mr Nixon,  it now rests with the Opposition strength in the Senate to make a move. If it would see its way to rejecting the enabling legislation, as it has done in the case of members' salary increases, it could be doing a service not only to the economy of Australia, but to the PostmasterGeneral 's Department itself. 
That is an occasion on which the 'Geelong Advertiser' recognised the value of the action taken by the Senate. 
It is a good newspaper. It presents a sensible, sane and balanced point of view. It has quite clearly recognised the importance of the Senate, which the Government is setting out to destroy by its claims of obstructionism. 
I have already said that the Minister's second reading speech is totally inadequate in its explanation of the financial expectations. For example, the previous Bills were said to be Bills which would raise an extra $140m; yet in his second reading speech the Minister said that the loss of funds as a result of the Opposition's refusal to pass the previous Bills would amount to $30m over a period of 8 weeks. Surely that figure should be only $22. 3m, which is one-sixth of $140m. It is plain that by increasing postal charges from 7c to 10c, the local call fee from 4.75c to 6c, the telephone connection fee from $60 to $80, business rentals from $30 to $85 and household rentals to $65, the Government is intent on making a further profit out of the increased charges now being proposed. The simple fact of the matter is that the PostmasterGeneral's Department has lost only 8 weeks revenue as a result of the Opposition's actions and will gain an extra 44 weeks at least at the higher rates. There is no doubt that the Government is proposing to make a profit out of the delay. In July the Minister claimed that the proposals would have given a profit of $60m to the Postmaster-General's Department. The loss in the 8 weeks period, as I have said, was $22. 3m. So a greater profit will accrue from the further increases proposed. It is totally outrageous that the Government should proceed to increase profits further for this reason and it is both stupid and irresponsible to assert that the higher increases now being proposed are a result of the delay. 
In his second reading speech the Minister stated that he did not propose, indeed he found it inequitable, to require the residential telephone subscriber to pay more because of the delay. How he can state that there is less equity for a telephone subscriber than a poor pensioner who has no telephone and who must use the mail and therefore who must pay the increased price of 10c for postage stamps beats me. That assertion is as inequitable as it is not to charge for television and radio services but to charge more for the necessary services of the Post Office. The whole approach of the Government to this Bill shows once more its lack of credibility in general financial management. 
I started out by saying that I am disappointed that the Government is forcing this Bill through this House today before the Leader of the Opposition has been given an opportunity to present to the Parliament and the nation his attitude and approach to the whole of the Budget Papers. The Opposition is not opposing this Bill on this occasion. It has given the Government an opportunity to withdraw it. The Opposition has forced the Government to withdraw a similar proposition and to reconsider the position. The Government not only has not taken into account the Opposition's suggestion, but also has been silly enough and stupid enough to increase the charges further. I do not think the people of Australia will forget that. 
-As I said during the second reading debate, clause 17 relates to the capacity of the Australian National Line to invest money 'in any other manner approved by the Treasurer' and I raised the possibility of the ANL being able to use large profits made by it as a means of nationalisation. I accept the assurances of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  in this regard and I withdraw my objections to this clause. Clause 18 also presented a possible problem. I felt it gave the ANL the right to charge capital items against revenue. The Minister has given an assurance that this will not occur and therefore the objection is withdrawn. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 19 (Proper accounts to be kept). 
-This clause, as I explained during my second reading speech, will enable the Commission when undertaking a trade at the direction of the Minister for Transport, to obtain a subvention from the Treasury to offset any loss directly against that trade. Previously the Commission had to balance a loss in such trade against its profit in other trades. I believe there are inherent dangers in this proposal of a Minister- not necessarily the present Minister but a future Minister- as an act of political spite or because of a whim decided to direct the Australian National Line into a trade, because taxpayers' money would be involved and the taxpayers, the Parliament and other Australian shipping companies should be protected. Therefore I move: 
At the end of the clause add the following sub-section: '(5) The Minister shall cause a copy of any direction given by him under sub-section ( 1 ) to be laid before each House of the Parliament within IS sitting days of that House after the direction is made by him. '. 
This amendment, if accepted, will make the matter public. There will be no way by which any future Minister can direct the Australian National Line to operate in a particular trade without such direction being made public and the reasons for the direction being known to the Parliament. I thank the Minister for indicating that he intends to accept this amendment. 
I thank the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  for moving this amendment which is exactly the same as one I had proposed moving. It puts the matter in proper order. I also accept the Minister's assurances in respect of paragraphs (a) and (b) of clause 16 which he gave in closing the second reading debate. The Opposition agrees to this amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 17 and 18- by leave- taken together. 
-The Bill we are debating- the Australian Shipping Commission Bill- appears unexceptional at first glance. For the most part it is welcomed by the Opposition. In his second reading speech the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  set out the purposes of the Bill. Its first purpose is to change the title of the Act from the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act to the Australian Shipping Commission Act. With the much wider role undertaken by the Australian National Line following its re-entry into the overseas trade by a policy decision of a previous Liberal-Country Party government, it is proper that this change should be made. It is apparent that the Australian National Line will play a growing and significant role in overseas trade. The Jeremiahs who ridiculed the decision by the 
Gorton-McEwen Government to put a container ship into the European trade and roll-on roll-off vessels into the Australia. Japan trade must now eat their words. The success of the ANL in its overseas trade speaks volumes for the foresight of the right honourable John McEwen during his time in this Parliament. Its success and expansion in those trades, and in the United StatesAustralia trade with its partners, are matters of some pride. Therefore it is proper that this Bill, covering the activities of the Australian National Line, should properly reflect the wider functions of the Line. 
The second purpose is to increase the number of commissioners from five to seven. Down through the years the commissioners have served the Line well and doubtless have enjoyed oversighting the growth and expansion of the Line. The Minister has not indicated why he has found it necessary to increase the number of part-time commissioners. I hope it is not just a case of jobs for the boys. The Minister has not indicated who will be appointed. I trust that the prejudice of the Minister against the business world and people of real business skill will not be displayed. The Opposition agrees with the appointment of a full-time  chairman  of the Commission. It has long been thought that some difficulty might occur if a full-time  chairman  were appointed in that he might well intrude into the functions and role of general manager. However, given the size of the operation of the Australian National Line today, clearly the role of  chairman  is heavy, requiring more than a part-time  chairman  could be expected to give. Again the Minister has not indicated who might be appointed to this fulltime position. Obviously the choice is important. Whoever is chosen Will have to follow in the steps of, firstly,  Sir John  Williams and then  Mr Bert  Weymouth, both of whom had tremendous knowledge, drive, enthusiasm and interest in the shipping industry. That ANL is operating so successfully today is a matter in which both of them can take some pride. I look forward with interest to the announcement. 
Another of the provisions in the Bill is to eliminate an anomaly in the present Act relating to the rights and benefits of the Commission's officers formerly employed by the Public Service. They will be on the same footing with respect to rights and benefits as if they were still in the Pub.lic Service. They will be regarded as equivalent to officers in other statutory authorities. The Opposition raises no objection to this provision. Before I turn to the other provision in the Bill about which the Opposition has reservations I want to say something about a statement the Minister made in his second reading speech. He said: 
The problem of securing suitable tonnage has also been the main difficulty standing in the way of total Australian flag participation in the Christmas Island rock phosphate trade. Early this year I decided not to renew the exemption of this trade from the coasting provisions of the Navigation Act. Such an exemption had been granted by our predecessors in government, the effect of which was to enable the use of foreign flag vessels for carrying phosphate from Christmas Island to Australia. I have asked the Australian National Line to seek suitable tonnage on the world market - 
Obviously not in an Australian-built ship-  to ensure that sufficient Australian manned tonnage is available to handle the total trade. Negotiations are currently under way for the Line to acquire its first vessel for this trade and I expect to be in a position to make an announcement shortly. 
There is no justification, need or call for the banning of foreign-owned ships carrying rock phosphate from Christmas Island. It is a prostitution of section 17 of the Shipping Commission Act to put ANL into this trade simply to satisfy and featherbed Australian seamen. The whole thrust of this Government is extraordinary to say the least. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  talks glibly about the proper use of resources and promptly sacks thousands of people because of imports from cheap labour countries. Then we see the Minister for Transport forcing up the price of superphosphate again by forcing phosphate rock to be carted in Australian bottoms only. There are 2 million tons of rock imported from Christmas Island and it has been estimated that rock carted in Australian manned ships would cost an extra $1.50 to $2 per tonne. In other words the Minister for Transport is going to force up by another $3m to $4m the price of basic phosphate rock. No one can say that this is in the national interest. It is not necessary, nor is it making the best use of resources. 
The purpose of section 17 of the Act is to gain for the Minister the right to instruct ANL to enter a trade in the national interest. Forcing up the cost of superphosphate to farmers again is not in the national interest. Superphosphate prices already are being forced up because of increased rock prices and because of the abolition of the bounty paid by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. This provision can have the effect only of further escalating costs and prices. It is typical of the Government's attitude to practice double standards because it talks about the proper use of resources but practices it selectively. 
The final purpose of the Bill as described in the Minister's second reading speech is to alter the basis on which the Commission is reimbursed for losses in the operation of a shipping service undertaken at the direction of the Minister for Transport. The present situation is that the Minister can direct the ANL to provide a service in some trade or other believed to be in the national interest. If that trade creates losses for the ANL, those losses must be offset by the profits on other operations. It is now proposed that such losses will be identified separately and then a subvention will be made directly from Consolidated Revenue to offset the losses. There is nothing novel in this approach. There is a similar provision in section 25 of the Australian Airlines Act, in section 28 of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act and in section 44 of the Commonwealth Railways Act. But there is one difference- Trans-Australia Airlines is subject to the 2 airlines agreement and hardly likely therefore to be called on for some costly initiative. The Commonweath Railways has no comparable competitors running on tracks alongside, and the Serum Laboratories is operating in an entirely different atmosphere and field. ANL is operating in a highly capital intensive and competitive field. It is a field in which private enterprise has given long and distinguished service and has a proper role to perform. 
I am concerned that the thrust of this Bill is to give ANL certain advantages over its competitors. Let me example this concern. Under this provision the Minister can, by way of whim, for political reasons, or for spite, instruct ANL to enter a certain trade. This request can in fact have no relation to national interest. If ANL at the request of the Minister then enters what might be a marginal trade the splitting of whatever traffic there is between ANL and the other established shipping line would put them both in a loss situation. The other company either falls out of the trade or goes bankrupt trying to compete. But so far as ANL is concerned, any losses would be met by the taxpayer and its overall position would not be affected. Furthermore there is no requirement for explanation. As I have said, there are other parameters affecting other Government authorities which operate under similar power and which do not apply to ANL Therefore in the Committee stage I will be moving an amendment that will go some way to protect the taxpayer, ANL, other shipping companies and indeed the Minister himself. 
One of the great disappointments about the Minister for Transport, who is at the table, is that he thinks of himself only as Minister in charge of ANL and does not realise he has a direct responsibility to protect the interests of other Australian shipping companies. Let me remind the Minister that prior to the 1972 election he promised low interest loans, depreciation allowances, and investment and taxation allowances to shipowners as well as a shipbuilding subsidy for construction in Australian shipyards. That these have been proven to be idle words is seen simply by the fact that those pre-election pledges have been broken. What has happened to the inter-departmental committee set up by this Government for the purpose of helping shipping companies? Representatives came in good faith and gave information as to what was required for them to enter the overseas trades in a competitive and viable capacity, and nothing has happened. It appears that the Minister would prefer to soak the taxpayer for shallow nationalistic reasons than to have a policy based on equity. 
The Minister also made promises to effect changes to the Tasmanian problem that have not been honoured. The fact is that since his Government took office the problems of strikes, shortages, delays and rising costs in the Tasmanian trade have been multiplied a thousand times. The Tasmanian economy is in the worst state since the depression of the 1930s and no amount of rhetoric or bluster by the Minister can hide that fact. I doubt that there is any other area of Government activity where the failure of the Government to honour its promises can be so clearly seen. On return to office a LiberalCountry Party Government will fill the gaps in Tasmania's shipping requirements by the use of section 17 of the Act. We will honour the broken promises of Labor and place Tasmanian industry and the Tasmanian people in a position of equality with the mainland. 
The honourable member for Denison ought not to interject. He, with his other Tasmanian colleagues, sat silent in this place for three or four weeks and did nothing until they were forced to their feet by the actions of the Opposition. 
Four further points of concern with the Bill flow out of clauses 16, 17, 18 and 19. In clause 16 the Minister seeks to omit sub-sections 3 and 7. Sub-section 3 provides that ANL will pay interest on any loans, at a rate not less than that paid on Australian Government loans raised from the public. The omission of this sub-clause means that ANL will not automatically pay that rate of interest but will pay an interest rate set at the discretion of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  and it could be nil. Now taken in conjunction with the other changes that the Bill proposes, this could at the whim of the Treasurer give a massive advantage to ANL against other Australian shipping companies. As well as having the power under section 17 of the Act to direct ANL to enter a trade he also has the power under section 19 of the Act to approve the freight rates in such a trade. Let me give an example. The Minister can decide that he has had the Conference system. After all, for the last 10 years in Opposition he gave all the reasons why he believed it to be a failure. He has been stony silent since Labor came to office. Let me take the Australia-United Kingdom Conference as an example. He could instruct ANL to pull out of the Conference, set up its own freight line to the United Kingdom and then set freight rates that would attract business but be totally uneconomic. The loss sustained by ANL would be subsidised by the payer. Similarly, this provision could have devastating effects on coastal shipping. No established Australian shipping company could compete. 
I am aware that this proposed change brings ANL into line with other Government authorities and business undertakings but I seek an assurance from the Minister that the Government will not give the Australian Shipping Commission any preferred interest rate and thus give it a hidden subsidy. I had proposed to move an amendment on this matter in the Committee stage but I am told that the Minister is now prepared to seek, by way of amendment, the removal of that sub-clause. Again omission of sub-clause 7 would seem to make loans to the Commission part of the capital of the Commission under section 28 and therefore part of the amount on which interest is not payable whilst any dividend is paid under section 29(1). Again this is at the discretion of the Treasurer and could be nil. I understand that the change is to bring this Act in line with the requirement of the statute law revision committee recommendations but again I seek an assurance from the Minister that there is no cause for my fear. 
Clause 1 7 widens the terms on which the Commission can invest monies from fixed deposit Commonwealth securities to 'any other manner approved by the Treasurer'. Now it would seem on the face of it that, where the Commission receives a loss of any single trade and under this Bill obtains full recompense by an appropriation from this Parliament, the earning profits on its other trades do not pay interest, dividends, income tax, or sales tax which clause 19 provides and charge capital items against revenue that the Commission would have substantial funds to invest Again I seek an assurance from the Minister that the proposal in clause 17 will not be a device to permit the Commission to begin investing in a wide range of business activities that is in effect nationalisation by the back door. 
Clause 18 changes the method of accounting. I am informed by the Minister that the changes come about simply because of a request from the Public Accounts Committee which seeks to put the Commission on common accounting methods with other Government business undertakings. So whilst believing this to be desirable the change nevertheless raises a question. Prima facie it would appear that the Commission could now charge items of a capital nature against revenue. If this is the case the Commission could use the provision as a device to increase the apparent loss on services carried on at the direction of the Minister and hence justify an increased subsidy. I seek an explanation and assurance from the Minister that this will not and, indeed, cannot happen. 
The next problem relates to clause 1 9, section 36. There is a quite subtle change to the provision. The new subsection ( 1 ) says: 'The Commission is subject to taxation under the laws of Australia.' 
But if we look at the tax law itself, section 23 (d) exempts from income tax, 'a public authority, constituted under any Act'. By this Bill, section 36 (2) of the present Act is repealed, and it specifically says: 'The Commission is not a public authority for the purposes of paragraph (d) of section 23 of the Income Tax and Social Services Contribution Assessment Act 1 936- 1 966 '. 
In plain words this Bill seeks to remove from the Commission an obligation to pay tax and, what is even more significant the necessity to pay sales tax. This provision is in direct contravention of the Australian Coastal Shipping Agreement which provides that the Commonwealth undertakes to 'levy on the Commission all rates and taxes and charges including income tax'. 
Let me sum up my objections to this Bill as it is now presented. The Commission does not have to balance any loss trade with its profit trade if it is directed to enter that loss trade but will now obtain a subsidy from the taxpayer to offset any loss. This means that substantial profits should accrue. They can be invested in any manner desirable, thus allowing the Commission to expand into any business activity like an octopus with its tentacles everywhere. At the same time, unlike its competitors, it may pay no income tax, no sales tax and such charges. Also, it can increase its profits on some trades and increase the subsidy on its loss trade by charging capital items to revenue while the whole time paying interest at a rate which could be nil and dividends which could also be nil. 
I have had discussions with the Minister for Transport and he has agreed to certain amendments to the Bill and to give certain assurances that will not only bring the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission into line with other business undertakings and the requirements of the Parliament but will also keep the Commission on the same footing as its competitors in the shipping industry. What I am seeking for the shipping industry is something similar to the 2 airline policy under which neither side gains an unfair advantage through government support because of sheer competition provides the Australian people with the best service possible under given circumstances. For that reason and the following discussions with the Minister I propose to move an amendment to clause 13 of the Bill, and I seek the assurances relating to my concern with the other clauses, 17 and 18. 1 know that the Minister himself proposes to move amendments to clauses 16 and 19 of the Bill. 
-Again this comes very much to the fundamental complaint that I had and mentioned in my speech at the second reading stage. I am glad that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has seen the error that was, now I am told, apparently allowed to creep into the Bill. Part of the total package that gave me some concern was the competitive position in which Australian shipping companies would have found themselves against ANL had all these clauses remained as they were originally stated. It is quite wrong in principle, when there is a coastal shipping agreement, that ANL should be exempted from tax and other Commonwealth charges. I am delighted that the Minister has moved the amendment. The Opposition certainly agrees with it. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 20 to 22- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
 The Schedule. 
The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting any number expressed in words that is used to identify a section of that Act, of another Act or of an Imperial Act, and substituting that number expressed in figures:- 
Sections 33 (3), 39 (2), 44 (a), 44 (b) and 49 (4). 
The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting the words 'of this Act' and 'of this section' 
Sections 13 (4), 33 (3) and 39 (2). 
-There are many items in the estimates for the Department of Transport which require discussion here but, unfortunately, with only 10 minutes allowed per  speaker,  it is not possible to ask the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  all of the questions that one would need to. The trouble is that question time in this House is becoming a farce. None of the Ministers answers questions properly. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  stands up- he is getting far too big for his boots- and plainly does not answer the questions asked of him. 
The fact is that during his term as Minister for Transport, the Minister has shown that he is very subservient to the communist dominated maritime unions, and it is well known that he cannot make a decision about the use of a foreign flag ship unless he rings up the Australian communists in the maritime unions and seeks their approval. 
-It is true. We aU know that the communist controlled unions are providing the funds that elect the - 
The Minister for Science will know of the disastrous beef prices and the equally disastrous loss of overseas markets, and that large numbers of cattle are likely to be forced on the market in the summer months. The Minister also will know that refrigerated space for the storage of beef in Australia is both scarce and awfully expensive. Is the Minister aware that the world's largest and cheapest refrigerator lies a few hundred miles south of Australia in the 
Antarctic at the Australian base of Mawson? Will he therefore investigate the practicability of shipping meat there in container loads for storage and for reselling on the world market at a more appropriate time? 
-A whole range of matters should be discussed in our consideration of the estimates for the PostmasterGeneral's Department but as each  speaker  has only 10 minutes it is impossible to deal with many matters in depth. Doubtless Opposition speakers will try to debate problems associated with the postal service and telecommunications generally and express their views. One of the troubles of the Post Office is that there has been a steady falling off in services. No longer does there seem to be the will to get the mail through. Some postal workers seem more interested in seeing what they can get through their pay packets than in giving service to the people. This is a pity and I am sure the Australian public would agree that the old code of getting the mail through at all costs was a much appreciated approach taken by postal workers. Many Post Office workers are as anxious as ever to give the sort of service for which the Post Office has been known over the years but many seem to be in the hands of radicals who want to use their power to cause industrial trouble and general difficulty for the Australian community. As a result of the deterioration in service a number of firms have established private courier services for their mail. They find it cheaper to fill a bag with mail at the head office in Melbourne and send it to Sydney with a man who distributes it than to use the resources of the Post Office. They have found the private courier service less costly, more reliable and quicker. 
The cost of the Post Office to the Australian taxpayer is enormous. I was staggered to see in an edition of a postal newspaper a statement by the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  claiming that the Post Office should make a profit so that there could be an extension of the services provided to the public. I ask the Committee to consider that proposal. What a paradoxical situation we have. This socialist Government attacks the profit-making private sector and claims that it does not need to make profits to plough back into business yet the Postmaster-General seeks a profit to feed back into the Post Office. A moment ago the honourable member for Clare  (Mr England)  reminded me that the Government decided to abolish the $25 radio and television licence fee, the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  asserting that radio and television provided a service to people. I do not challenge that television is a service to the people but I suggest that a far more necessary service to all sections of the community- the old, the young, the sick and business interests- is the provision of Post Office and telecommunication services. But the charges for these services are being increased to an exorbitant level, particularly those applying in the postal service. 
In an earlier mini-Budget the Government proposed increasing the normal letter rate from 7c to 9c but this proposal was rejected because the Opposition regarded the mini-Budget as inflationary and not attacking the problem of inflation. A few weeks later in this Budget the Government proposed that the rate should be increased to 10c. 
-That is the best word to use to describe it. I plead with the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who is representing the Postmaster-General in this chamber to consider a request that I have received from a number of constituents or to refer it to the PostmasterGeneral for his considerations. The Christmas period is fast approaching and the request is that the postage rate for sending Christmas cards should be the former charge of 7c. I ask the PostmasterGeneral to consider using the many millions of 7c stamps that are going to waste for the mailing of Christmas cards. This may be regarded as subsidising the posting of Christmas cards but at present the nation is going through a period of economic stress, unemployment and unhappiness and it would be a massive psychological gesture, to say the least, if the PostmasterGeneral agreed to allow Christmas cards to be posted at the old charge of 7c. This would make a vast difference to a number of people who would then be able to afford to send Christmas cards to friends and relatives and it would bring a great deal of cheer from one side of Australia to the other. I doubt whether there is one section of the community that does not send out Christmas cards. If the Government is genuine in its claim to have a humane approach to the problems of the Australian people it should give them a psychological lift by encouraging the exchange of Christmas cards. I suggest that if the request were granted the Post Office might gain because more people would be encouraged to send Christmas cards than would be prepared to send them for the present 10c charge. Many old friends say to me: 'Do not send me a Christmas card and I will not send you one'. That will be the general approach of many people with respect to Christmas cards this year. 

There is no risk of the honourable member getting a card from me, even if it cost only 7c to send it. The generosity of my heart does not reach out that far. 
-The Minister for Tourism and Recreation tends to spread goodwill in his area of responsibility. I wish he could get some of that goodwill into the usurious Postmaster-General's Department. That Department is a profitmaking and usurious organisation with no heart. The only counter to my claim that it has no heart is for the Postmater-General to consider my reasonable proposal which would not cost much to implement. Let us see whether the PostmasterGeneral, the Special Minister of State, the Government and the Post Office have any heart. Let them stop raking in the sheckels all the time and make some allowance for the postage of Christmas cards. 
In the short time remaining to me I refer to the question of the use of walkie-talkie radios, as they are known, by amateurs. The licence fee for these radios has been doubled- from $6 to $12. Many people use these instruments in other than a commercial sense. They are used, for instance, by organisers of country shows and by people who go fishing at sea. The latter leave walkietalkies at home for safety reasons so that when at sea they can communicate with people on shore. I think it was wrong to impose a licence fee initially. I refer also to the need of the citizen 's radio movement for there to be in Australia an established band for walkie-talkies and radio operators the same as exists in Canada, Italy, Japan, New Zealand and, I think, the United States of America. The Postmaster-General's Department seems a bit hidebound in not being prepared to allow a section of the total radio band in Australia to be used by citizens across the nation. 
-These 3 Bills are to enable borrowings to be made on behalf of Qantas Airways Ltd, Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia for new aircraft. In the case of Qantas, the Export-Import Bank of the United States of America has agreed to finance 30 per cent of the cost of the tenth Boeing 747 aircraft and has agreed to Australia obtaining finance for a further 10 per cent from a private export funding corporation. The remainder of the finance for the 3 aircraft involved has to be met by the Australian Government borrowing on behalf of Qantas. With respect to TAA, Export-Import Bank facilities are not available on this occasion and consequently the Australian Government will borrow the entire amount and will act as intermediary in the arrangements. The third Bill, which is traditionally introduced at the same time as the Loans (Australian National Airlines Commission) Bill, is the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill which provides a Government guarantee for a $ 19m loan to be raised by Ansett Airlines for the purchase of two more Boeing 727 aircraft. 
The Opposition does not oppose these arrangments or the aircraft involved. The acquisition of three additional Boeing 747 aircraft brings to eleven the Qantas fleet of these aircraft. The procurement decisions of Qantas must be dictated by market requirements. This is a critical time for world airlines which are experiencing the combined effects of greatly increased fuel costs and a dramatic slow-down in passenger growth. Recently one international aviation executive said that the world would come to realise that the golden age of air transport- an era of increasing services and decreasing fares- was over. British Airways is in a serious financial position. Pan American Airways and Trans World Airlines are contemplating merger. Qantas is relatively well placed, due in no small part to the effect on its profitability of the introduction of Boeing 747 aircraft which are being phased in as the older Boeing 707 aircraft are being phased out. 
In addition, Australia is self-sufficient in aviation kerosene. This has helped to reduce fuel costs. This brings me to the extraordinary actions of the Government in respect of fuel prices. Recently we read that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  in his usual bumble-footed fashion, had decided to increase the price of aviation fuel to overseas airlines, including Qantas, from 1 5c per gallon to 35c per gallon. We read of a $25m windfall being created for oil producers including, of course, the so-called multinational corporations. We have not been told whether the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  who is sitting at the table, was party to this but it all came out of the charge that overseas airlines somehow were taking on board more fuel than they needed because of the lower price. 
The fact that unilateral action by any government is contrary to the International Air Transport Association agreement- an international agreement- seems not to bother this Government one whit and whatever its failings LATA does bring some rationalisation into the international airways industry and is, therefore, deserving of proper consideration. The upshot of the whole affair has been to cause the SecretaryGeneral of LATA to come to Australia to prevent the collapse of the international agreement because of the stupidity of the Australian Government acting in haste. As a result of his visit we now read that the price of aviation fuel had not been increased after all. What is the truth of the matter? Perhaps the Minister at the table might care to tell us. One thing is certain; the whole episode is another example of this Government's shooting from the hip and not hitting any target. 
One result of the world increase in fuel prices is that the prospects for the Concorde look increasingly bleak as this aircraft is not only extremely expensive but is also a large user of fuel and has a limited pay load of about only 110 seats. Because of range restrictions its effective time to London is a little less than that made possible by the new long-range Boeing 747 SPs. Both Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans- Australia Airlines under this legislation are seeking to purchase 2 additional 727-200 series tri-jets The airlines apparently believe that these are very suitable aircraft for the present traffic on domestic routes. However, the domestic airlines are being pressed by the Minister for Transport to move beyond these aircraft into the new generation of wide bodies- aircraft such as the DC 10, the Lockheed TriStar or the Air Bus A300. The advantage of these aircraft is said to be their relative quietness due to the new technology engines they use. But clearly there is argument in the industry as to the truth on this matter. Exactly how much quieter they really are than the latest versions of the Boeing 727s is a matter of some debate. Tests so far show that the new Boeing 727-200 model is at least the equal of the wide bodied aircraft. 
The problem as far as the airlines are concerned is that these are very large capacity aircraft. Given a limited market growth estimated to be no more than 4 per cent per annum and the impact on operating costs of new Government charges, the effects of the introduction of a 300-seat airbus such as the Lockheed TriStar on airline profitability are obvious. In addition, there is the added problem of the time required and the expenses involved in introducing a new aircraft type with the need for orderly and planned development of airport, terminal area and engineering support facilities. The decision on what aircraft to purchase will be, as far as the domestic airlines are concerned, the aviation decision of the decade. Each aircraft will cost in the vicinity of A$20m. In the case of the wide bodies, I do not believe that the Minister should be too aggressive in insisting upon a premature introduction of these aircraft. I know that the Minister hopes the introduction of wide-bodied jets will solve the problems of overcrowding at Sydney Airport. But there are other complex problems involved in their introduction and it would not be in the interests of anyone if the result was an increase in air fares, uneconomic airlines and a reduction in the ability of the Australian public to have access to air travel. Above all, what is urgently needed from the Minister for Transport is some indication of what noise standards he is specifically seeking. Something more specific is required than the Minister's cupping his ear under the aircraft at Mascot. Some scientifically valid noise requirement guidelines should be published. 
Australia has the unenviable reputation of having the highest government charges in the  world applicable to its airline industry. I seek leave to include in Hansard- and I am sorry that I was not able to give these figures to the Minister earlier but he was not in the House at the timefigures from Qantas Airways Ltd showing landing charges at different ports around the world. They show as of 16 August 1973 that for a Boeing 747 the landing fees at Sydney are $2,538 or 250 per cent greater than Auckland, and in most cases around the world the variation is even greater. For example, the charge in London is $815 compared to $2,538 in Sydney, $453 in Honolulu and $830 in Singapore. These figures will have changed with alterations to currency values and also because of increases in cost but doubtless the relativities are much the same. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! Does the honourable member seek leave to have this material incorporated in Hansard? 
Yes. 
-The sheer desperation of the Queensland Labor Party is exhibited by that pathetic speech which we have just heard tonight from the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh).  Here he is, amongst all Labor members, elected by Communist Party funds, and he tries to dredge up some story about the League of Rights and the Country Party in Queensland. What a pathetic performance! The honourable member, elected on Communist Party funds, has the cheek to come into this place and dredge up some scurrilous story about the League of Rights and the Country Party. No wonder the Country Party will win the election up there. 
-I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Gippsland speaking on matters appertaining to airport charges, navigation charges and aeroplanes, pilots' pay, and other such matters.  (Mr Nixon having submitted his. motion in writing)- 
I am sorry to have to do this with respect to this Bill, but quite clearly there is no way in the world that, as shadow Minister for Transport, I am going to be allowed to debate properly the issues regarding civil aviation in Australia today without the suspension of Standing Orders. I must move this motion because there are very serious matters affecting civil aviation going on in the community today, that you,  Mr Speaker,  have ruled out of order as not being part - 
-We are debating the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill and the Air Navigation Bill, the purpose of which is to amend  th#  Air Navigation Act by increasing air navigation charges. In his second reading speech on the Air Navigation Bill the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  sets out information in relation to the cost of the provision, operation and maintenance of air navigation facilities and services throughout Australia, which amounts to approximately $ 1 40m. He stated: 
Revenue received from the users of those facilities and services totalled $75m. Of this amount, $33m came from air navigation charges paid by aircraft operators, SI I.Sm from hangar and building rentals and terminal concession charges and the like, and $30.5m from aviation fuel taxes. This left a deficit between revenue and expenditure of $65m. . . 
The Minister goes on to point out in his second reading speech that special aerodromes for general aviation aircraft- Archerfield, Bankstown, Cambridge, Essendon, Jandakot, Moorabbin and Parafield, are being provided in all capital cities by the taxpayer. He states: 
Last year, these aerodromes alone cost $IOm to operate and maintain. In addition, facilities have been provided at other airports largely for general aviation aircraft, things like light aircraft aprons and taxiways, traffic control and flight service units, communications and fire units. 
The Minister goes on to point out that: 
Total recovery from the general aviation industry including air navigation charges, commercial revenue and aviation fuel tax amounted to less than $4.5m, a recovery rate of only 44 per cent. 
He points out further 
The Government sees no reason why all sectors of the aviation industry should not pay their way at least to the extent of the 80 per cent recovery target set by the Government. 
The Minister also points out rightly that this 80 per cent recovery target was set by the previous Government, although it had never moved seriously to reach that target because it recognised that general aviation was not in a position to maintain the sort of services required by the Australian people and at the same time meet such increased charges. The previous LiberalCountry Party governments showed much more sympathy for the problems of general aviation than has been shown to it by the present Government. The Government has moved very harshly in the last 2 years to implement its decision to set the recovery target for these services at 80 per cent. Last year it increased general navigation charges by 100 per cent and air navigation charges by 1 5 per cent. This year there has been a 50 per cent increase in general navigation charges and a 15 per cent increase in air navigation charges. There has been a general downturn in the economy affecting general aviation very seriously. It is quite paradoxical that the Government should, when it is talking about tackling the problems of inflation, so increase charges for those services it provides to general aviation which must then pass on the charges at another point. Or course, the higher cost to general aviation has to be passed on to the consumer. The Minister has not only steeply increased the fixed costs. These new increases in costs are to be extended into a number of new areas. They include the new charge for the issue of flight crew and air crew licences, the new charge for services provided in respect of airworthiness matters, even an application fee for the service affecting the issue or variation of certificates of registration will be charged for. Apparently, a building fee will be even charged on land controlled by the air transport group of the Department of Transport for anybody in general aviation who builds on Government land. The Minister states in his second reading speech, as reported at page 3441 of Hansard: 
It is intended, of course, to charge for many other services provided by the Department. The specific services mentioned are illustrative only. It is further intended that the full commercial cost of providing these services will be recovered. 
No honourable member in the Parliament knows what that means. Earlier in his second reading speech, the Minister points out: 
The actual charges have not yet been determined but will be tabled in the Parliament as amendments to the Regulations before implementation. 
So not only do we not know what the charges will be; also we do not know the areas in which those charges are to be made. For that reason I propose to move an amendment to the motion that the Bill be read a second time. The amendment stands in my name and copies of it are being circulated to honourable members. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not opposing the passage of this Bill- 
I say that we are not opposing the Bill because it is a Budget Bill and the Opposition has agreed that the Budget Bills must be passed- 
The House is of the opinion that in view of the effect on the inflationary spiral, the Government should state in some detail the proposed increase in fees and charges covering a wide variety of other services provided to the aviation industry. 
I think that it is quite improper that any parliament should pass a Bill seeking to increase charges when those increases are not stipulated by the Minister, but will be covered individually by him at some future time. Therefore, to put the matter in order I think that the Minister should tell us clearly in what areas these new charges will be raised. I think that it is quite wrong for the Minister just to allude in his second reading speech to the fact that certain extra charges will be made. 
Last week during the debate on the Loans (Australian National Airlines Commission) Bill I tried to point out some of the problems that were facing general aviation and civil aviation. I had some difficulty with the  Deputy Speaker  at the time. He would not let me proceed along those lines. I want to raise these questions today because, as that  Deputy Speaker  said, they obviously fit more correctly into the context of these Bills. I have received a long submission from general aviation. I am only sorry that I do not have a chance to read it all into the Hansard record or to have it included in Hansard. However, I would like to read some portions of it. It states: 
It is one thing to share money between forms of transport It is quite another to deprive one form and to pursue a policy of repression towards it, which is what is occurring in air transport. 
The policy which has dictated the imposition of an 80 per cent cost return means that the 'industry', instead of being the province of the operational and service orientated members of the Department and the airlines, is controlled by those whose interests are purely economic. 
Why has the ATG (Air Transport Group) segment of the Department of Transport been singled out to accept the burden of 80 per cent cost return and not the other 2 groups? That is, rail and road transport. Is it because of the Minister's bigoted belief that only the wealthy travel by air? 
This morning we have heard the Minister describe air travel as a luxury travel. I would like him to go out and check the position of the ordinary tourist today who uses civil aviation to find out how wrong that statement is. Air travel today is not luxury travel in a nation the size of Australia. The honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  could not get to Parliament every week if it was not for air travel. Other honourable members could not get here either. 
We cannot get home because the Minister for Transport has caused a strike in the airlines. That is why we cannot get home. I will come to that in a moment. I ask: What other sections of the public transport services has a similar requirement to raise 80 per cent of its service fees? Indeed, what other countries do not have a separate identifiable civil aviation authority? Can any member of this House name countries that do not have a separate identifiable civil aviation department? I can give honourable members five. They are: Equatorial Guinearather like Australia with air transport merged with other sections of transport- Fiji, Gambia, Ruanda and Western Samoa. So we are in the big league. We have really put civil aviation into the big league in this country. The submission goes on to quote from the Budget speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  which has implications extending well beyond its surface reference to the financial recovery of costs. It quotes the Treasurer as follows: 
The Department of Transport provides a wide variety of services to the aviation industry for which little or no charge is made. The Government sees no reason why these costs should not also be recovered. Accordingly, we propose that charges for these sen-ices should be introduced in 1974-75 and increased progressively so as to achieve full recovery by 1976-77. 
The submission states further. 
Before dealing with the effect of the 80 per cent recovery policy, it should be noted that the second paragraph quoted clearly indicates a 100 per cent recovery program. To the pilot and/or the airlines, it will mean that all licence renewals, publications, etc., will be a charge item and the gap between charges and recovery will widen even further . 
This will be the position, given the figures that the Minister has cited in his second reading speech. The submission goes on to state: 
From the 'recovery' items, the bulk of the return is achieved through air navigation charges, and aviation fuel tax. To provide the 80 per cent recovery figure charges would need to be increased by a  phenominal- 
I ask the House to note this-  $37. 17m in the year quoted above. However, air navigation charges can only be increased up to a maximum of 15 per cent per annum and the aviation fuel tax increases are restricted to the increase proposed from time to time on motor spirit. With inflation at 15 percent per annum - 
Obviously this submission was written before last week when the latest figures suggested an inflation rate of 25 per cent or 30 per cent per annum. The submission goes on: 
Increases from these sources can never bridge the gap between costs and recovery. What then is the aim of the Government? There is only one, that is to reduce expenditure so as to bring the total costs closer to the total return. How is it proposed to achieve this saving? By the introduction of some or all of the following measures: Disposal of certain Government aerodromes- closure or transfer, reduction in the size of the departmental aircraft fleet - 
I do not disagree with that statement. I understand that the Minister uses the aircraft like a private taxi service. 
My remarks may be a slight exaggeration,  Mr Speaker,  but basically they are true. I was at the Canberra airport one day when a departmental aircraft came from Melbourne to land at Canberra to pick up the Minister for Transport to take him to Newcastle. That was last year. 1 saw it myself. 
I just mention that as an aside,  Mr Speaker. 
The submission I have from the air industry suggests the ways that the Government is proposing to tackle this cost problem. It states: 
Withdrawal of departmental rescue and fire fighting services from capital city secondary airports, revision of criteria for the provision of rescue and fire fighting at aerodromes with regular public transport services, review of hours of operation of airways operations and related services, to relate capacity, cost and operational need for services, review of formula for payment of, and need for, meteorological services, introduction of a passenger service charge, withdrawal of regular public transport services from Wynyard or Devonport, withdraw or restrict the use of facilities, review operational standards, reduce maintenance. 
The submission concludes with these remarks: 
The industry is on a path leading to contraction, reduced services, and reduced safety standards. It is time for the aviation conscious public of Australia to see the inevitable result unless there is a dramatic change forced upon the Minister for Transport. 
They are very strong words about what has been one of the prides of Australia, that is, the former Department of Civil Aviation and its general activities. The Minister for Transport has a heavy responsibility to see that there is no slackening in the safety and other services at airports throughout Australia. The people of Australia demand safety and it is not proper for the Minister to make changes to the practised safety provisions of aerodromes around Australia without a proper inquiry. I believe that the Minister, if he is so mad keen to cut the air services group within the Department of Transport down to size as he seems to be, ought to set up a special committee of the House of Representatives to study the question, instead of going off on an ad hoc basis closing down fire services and reducing safety standards in general. I am told that if there is a breakdown in radio services after 5 p.m. at some airports around Australia, officials do not even have the right to call a technician or a maintenance man and the fault cannot be fixed until next day. I am told also that if aircraft land at Townsville or Cairns after 5 o'clock fire services are not available because the Government does not wish to pay double time to the people who run the services. It is time that the Minister set out to shake himself out of his lethargy and do something constructive for the air transport group instead of hacking away at it. 
There is a threat to remove fire services from aerodromes such as Archerfield in Queensland, Bankstown, Dubbo, Camden, Tamworth Moorabbin, Parafield, Jandakot, Geraldton and Devonport or Wynyard. I quoted from copies of minutes of a meeting between the air transport group and the unions concerned. It is quite improper for the Minister to consider reducing services of this nature. It is no good the Minister saying during question time that when  Senator Cotton  was Minister for Civil Aviation he also had this matter under consideration. That is an entirely different thing. There is a difference between having something under consideration and putting it into practice. When it comes to safety, there is no way that a valuation or a price can be put on it. If the Minister for Transport is going to keep following that approach, then the whole of the operations of air transport will be in difficulty. There are places in civil aviation where savings can be made and properly made. I have a submission from the Professional Radio Employees Institute and it states: 
PREIA  is opposed to operational control - 
I point out to the House that operational control is not the control of the aircraft in flight and is not related to safety, which is what is called area control or approach control. Operational control is simply a bureaucratic controlling of all aircraft in Australia from day to day. The PREI proved to me in the submission that there is absolutely no justification for the extension of operational control to ports such as Port Hedland and Alice Springs. But the Minister backed right off under pressure from the Civil Air Operations Officers Association of Australia. He squibbed it. 
-He did, he squibbed it. He talks about the proper use of resources. He is a union man and the honourable member for Hunter knows it. The Minister is a union lackey, no more and no less. 
-The Minister cannot handle the pilots. He made the greatest mess up in his life with the pilots. They are on strike because of him. 
I have done bareback riding and have ridden calves in shows. I will show you how much guts I have. The PREI has proved demonstrably that the Minister is prepared to spend a lot of money under this operational control to satisfy the members of the Civil Air Operations Officers Association of Australia. At the same time, he does not justify the proper use of resources. At the same time he is taking away improperly fire services from a number of airports around Australia. He has a lot to answer for. Before there is any further dismantling of safety services, the Minister should put down in this Parliament a statement of his intention and let it be debated. Safety standards in civil aviation are not a matter for political point scoring; they are a matter of great public interest and should not be tampered with without proper consideration and debate. I have just been informed that there will be a big debate in the next hour or so as to who will be the Treasurer. The Minister for Transport might be moved out of his portfolio. He is making such a muck of it along with the muck that the Treasurer has made of his portfolio. 
It seems that civil aviation in this country is heading the same way as the Post Office, that is, towards a reduction in back-up services being provided. If the cost of amalgamating the Department of Civil Aviation with the Department of Transport is to be cuts in safety, services and departmental responsibilities, the sooner the former Department is put on its own feet again the better. The Minister keeps on stating that he is seeking a better use of resources, but there are two clear examples of his double standards in this regard. The first relates to Western Australia. Ansett Airlines of Australia was given a licence to operate on the route from Perth to Darwin and stops in between, so long as expensive demands were not made by it for aerodrome reconstruction. To meet the special need within that parameter Ansett bought F28 jets. Now we find the Minister saying not only that TAA should traverse the same route- that might be fair enough- but also that the Government is prepared to spend millions of dollars upgrading areodromes and facilities to carry DC9s, especially for TAA. The second example of his double standard is the withdrawal of $120,000 subsidy on the air service to King Island and Flinders Island. The Tasmanian Year Book shows that 23,000 passengers went to King Island and 1 1,000 to Flinders Island. Therefore the subsidy was about $4 per head. At the same time the Minister for Transport introduced a subsidy of $lm on the 'Empress of Australia' service. 
From passenger figures taken out by the Department of Industrial Development in Tasmania, that subsidy works out at about $20 a head. Here is a Government withdrawing a subsidy to the people of an island, who have no alternative transport, and putting a subsidy on tourist traffic where there is alternative transport. Furthermore, the result is that the people of Flinders Island and King Island now have to make do with a smaller aircraft- an Aero Commander aircraft- servicing their needs whilst in Western Australia, to make Trans-Australia Airlines happy the Minister will spend millions of dollars doubling up on an already efficient jet service with larger aircraft, thus reducing profitability. 
I have a copy of the submission that the Minister's representative made to the royal commission in Western Australia pointing out the costs involved. There is a cost of $250,000 at Kununurra and costs of $500,000 for strengthening and $650,000 for lengthening the runway at Port Hedland. The Minister talks about proper use of resources. Double standards is all he knows about. This Government must rank as the most inconsistent ever in history. One has only to consider the Qantas pay dispute to see another example. For years, both in Opposition and in Government, the Labor Party treated the right to negotiate as a sacred cow and, failing negotiation, arbitrators' decisions were said by Labor to have the force of law and therefore indisputable. 
I can see a direct connection. 
If you let me go on, I will make the point. 
-Right. I will refer to air navigation charges. Qantas has pilots and hostesses. Pilots fly the planes in and land at Sydney airport, the dearest international airport in the world at which Qantas planes land. Those planes have pilots who are affected by salary. 
Well, I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as will allow the honourable member for Gippsland to debate properly the issues affecting air navigation charges, aerodromes, pilots, hostesses, and like matters. 
Somebody will second it, do not worry. 
-Did you hear that threat,  Mr Speaker? 
This is a case of democracy at work. 
Democracy at work. 
I am being gagged on the proper consideration of a Bill. He is going to move that the question be put. 
I will enjoy it, do not worry. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
-The purpose of the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Bill 1974 was set out in the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport (  Mr Charles  Jones). 
-He's flying up in the air somewhere. The purpose of the Bill is to appropriate funds to be allocated to the States for a variety of urban public transport projects that have been submitted by the States to the Commonwealth for approval. The total sum of money to be allocated is $66.1 lm. It is expected that $27. 85m will be allocated in 1974-75 and the remainder during the balance of the program period. In his second reading speech the Minister listed the projects that have been approved from the States. There is a wide variety of projects from each State. I cite, for example, the money made available for bus cleaning equipment in Sydney, additional fuel storage at Sydney Depot, bus workshop equipment at Chullora and Randwick, improvements for 50 buses not contained in an original contract- and so it goes on in relation to New South Wales. 
There is also an appropriation for train cleaning equipment. Project number 12 is of particular interest. It refers to electric rail cars. It raises the question whether the Government, while it is sponsoring the provision of $80m for urban passenger train services, should still be prepared to spend what appears to be $3m on 14 electric rail cars of the older type. I ask the Minister. What type of electric rail cars will be obtained? Will they be the traditional type which New South Wales has been buying? Does the Government expect that the urban public transport trains system will be completed and the State will be provided with 14 electric rail cars? Provision is made for hydrofoils for the Manly service, spare parts for Manly hydrofoils, ferries for the Manly service and the like. In Victoria funds are to be appropriated for the Glen Waverley model line route construction, signal box amalgamations throughout the metropolitan area of Melbourne and upgrading communication networks, and also the replacement of Melbourne and Metropolitan Tramways Board vehicles with 37 trams at a cost of $4. 84m and a contribution towards the acquisition of 50 new buses. In Queensland there is provision for a variety of programs including an electrification program and the purchase of 30 new buses. I am not sure whether the amount of $ 1.23m is the total sum for the 30 new buses or whether it is a contribution which is being made at this point in time. 
So each of the States has in its own way secured a variety of projects that have been approved by the Australian Government for an allocation of funds. I must congratulate the Minister on the presentation of the second reading speech. He has been a slow learner but at last he is beginning to learn that when he brings down a second reading speech in this House what we want to see are the facts. I congratulate him on the difference, the marked difference between his first speech on 1 1 July this year and this speech. I had to chide him somewhat over his speech on 1 1 July. I quote from my own speech. I said: 
Instead of being a correct technical document for the benefit of those interested in the principles in the Bill, it is a statement full of contradictions, self-aggrandisement, misleading statements, misrepresentations, inaccuracies and political bias. It is a far cry from the traditional and proper practice expected from such a document. 
As I say, I do genuinely congratulate the Minister tonight because slow learner though he may be he has at least learnt his lesson.  His  second reading speech is not so full of political opportunism and self aggrandisement. It does now set out what the program is all about. The Opposition welcomes this Bill because it is really the continuation of the program that was started by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government back in 1969 when the Right Honourable John Gorton said in his policy speech that we would undertake studies for upgrading urban transport, and as a result of that, as history shows, the Bureau of Transport Economics made a study of a variety of proposals that were submitted to us to test their viability and whether or not they were worthy of public fund investment. I might say that as a result there was a promise in the 1972 Liberal-Country Party policy speech to continue an urban public transport upgrading program. I am delighted that the Labor Government has so swiftly joined in this program. In my speech on 30 July I pointed out that nowhere in Labor Party Policy right up to the election policy of December 1972 was there any mention of upgrading urban transport. Never in the 23 years that we were in Government did the Labor Party once mention the necessity to upgrade urban public transport, and not until that Party had seen the work that we had done did it follow our move. I know that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who was then the Leader of the Opposition was given a copy of the report of the Bureau of Transport Economics and then, like a latter-day saint, he came out with a policy of upgrading public transport. 
We welcome the measure. We have some concern about how it is being implemented and the problems which it is creating for the States. For example, I understand that Victoria sought $33.87m for projects to commence in 1974-75, but under the terms of this Bill that State will receive only $2 1.74m, or a reduction on what was sought of $ 12m. As I understand it, Victoria was refused money for a number of projects. The Australian Government provided funds for upgrading some rail routes but failed to make funds available for the provision of additional trains to operate on the routes, even though funds for this purpose were sought by Victoria. The additional rail track between Greensborough and Eltham was rejected by the Australian Government on the ground that it was not possible for it to evaluate the project in time for inclusion in the 1 974-75 program of assistance. 
This brings me to a general complaint made by the States. I ask the Minister to see whether something be done about the length of time taken to evaluate programs submitted by the States because, almost without exception, the States are complaining that the time-table is such that the financial year is almost over before evaluation takes place and money is made available. Indeed with inflation running the way it is, there is a fair amount of erosion of the real value of the money being given to the States. The Victorian Government submitted its 1974 train replacement program on the basis that twothirds of the estimated $ 10m to be expended in 1974-75 would be met by the Australian Government. But the amount actually allocated by the Australian Government for the train replacement program for 1974-75 was only $4. 1 7m, which is $2. 5m less than the State anticipated it would receive by way of Australian Government assistance for its train replacement program. Some 93 old trains are yet to be replaced. Victoria wishes to increase its rate of replacement to 15 trains a year. 
The method of allocating funds for train and other vehicle replacement on a year by year basis used by the Federal Government makes longterm ordering of replacement vehicles a risk for the States. Proper planning is hindered and confidence to enter contracts is weakened by the Australian Government's unwillingness to make allocations for the replacement of trains, trams and buses beyond one year. Is the restriction of an allocation to one year related in any way to the introduction of standard vehicles- plans which have yet to be proven realistic? I am referring to the urban public transport train. I regret I have not had an opportunity to accept the kind invitation of the Minister for Transport to see it. I hope I will be able to see it privately, because of commitments I have not been able to see it on the day on which it has been displayed. 
-No, I have not declared it black. I would like to look at it because I understand that it is too wide for the Victorian rail system. 
-The Minister said it. He used the word 'muck-up'. I understand the States are beginning to believe that it is a bit of a muck-up, as the Minister put it. For example, I understand the train is too wide for the present rail system in Victoria. New South Wales is moving towards a system using double-deck carriages, but as I understand it the urban passenger train has a single-deck car. Therefore I am not sure whether the $18m that the Australian Government is investing in the urban passenger train system is wisely invested, when one considers the fact that the Government demands such detail even down to time tabling from the States in respect of programs that they submit. It seems to me- I say that most kindly- that the Minister is being somewhat heavy handed in his approach to the States. The Federal Government requires the States to forward detailed submissions in order to obtain financial assistance for urban public transport. I make the point again that the Federal Government has allocated $18m for a standard train project and has even constructed a model- a muck-up, or mock-up, call it what you will- of the standard train without the viability of the project being proven and at a time when all the States- I am speaking specifically of Victoria have a real need to replace trains. In Victoria's case the red trains need to be replaced as quickly as possible, but this is retarded because of lack of funds. 
The Minister should realise that the failure of the Federal Government to provide Victoria with the funds for the train replacement program has a far reaching effect on that State's railways works program and also on urban transport upgrading plans generally. The present Government has held office for nearly 2 years. One of the promises on which it was elected was a plan worked over by a previous Liberal-Country Party Government, but this Government has stolen it. I do not hold any grudge about that but point it out as a fact of life. Having done this, the Government should improve the mechanics of its handling of the whole matter. The States complain that the receipt of Commonwealth moneys is a most protracted affair and, as I understand it in Victoria 's case, no money has been received in respect of the 1973-74 program. The $9.6m promised for projects commenced in 1973-74 if received tomorrow would be reduced through inflation to $8.1m, a loss of real purchasing power of $ 1.5m. I think the Minister should realise that when these promises are made by the Australian Government they ought to be honoured as quickly as possible. 
State authorities are still involved in the collection of extensive details demanded by the Federal Government before the amounts approved by Federal Parliament for 1973-74 will be made available. Provision of Commonwealth assistance for public transport is clearly necessary in view of the financial straitjacket in which the States are now placed. At the moment the Australian Government is attempting to make decisions on the basis of the most detailed operating information, even down to the level of timetabling. I think the Minister will agree that this can only result in inefficiency, frustration, long delays and an impossible diversification of responsibilities. Unless this lengthy and detailed administrative mess is cleared up quickly only the public will suffer. I do not see any reason why the public should wait any longer. 
New South Wales also has some difficulties with the program because forward planning for rail-car and bus acquisitions has been interrupted to some degree by the Australian Government 's desire to develop this standard train and a standard bus. Firstly, there is the question of suitability of standard vehicles for all cities of Australia. New South Wales rightly points out the differences between the cities, including topography and basic requirements, and suggests different solutions. Basically, what is sought is planning for production continuity to avoid a stop-start situation that could lead to a production dislocation and staff retrenchments. There is a significant time lapse between the initiation of procedures for the letting of a contract and the delivery of the first car. It is not just a question of getting the money. Considerable gearing-up and organisational work is required to get a program of this nature off the ground. 
Having made those points, I ask the Minister to please consider the machinery involved in the evaluation of the projects and the time it seems to be taking for some of the projects to be evaluated. More importantly, would he please consider the means by which money is then made available. If it is correct that Victoria, or indeed any of the States, has not yet received moneys that were made available-,through a Bill introduced to this House on 1 1 July and passed through the Parliament by the end of July, there is certainly something wrong with the machinery in respect of dealing with the whole question. The Opposition supports this Bill. As I have said, it is a further flow-out of initiatives that were taken by an earlier Liberal-Country Party government. 
Debate interrupted. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-The Prime Minister will know that during his 5-week junket overseas the Boeing 707 aircraft will be unused in London for 8 days apart from an hour's return flight to Dublin. Whilst I will say more about this matter during the grievance debate I ask: Will the Prime Minister accede to the commonsense request of Qantas Airways Ltd to allow the plane, which has an earning capacity of $20,000 a day, to be used during this peak Christmas holiday period? 
-The hypocrisy of the speech by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  can easily be shown by 2 simple statements. First, Labor kept itself in power in Queensland for 42 years with the greatest known gerrymander ever in Australia's history. Secondly, according to the map supplied to the Distribution Commissioners for the proposed Federal redistribution, it is proposed that the Australian Labor Party will get 62 per cent of the seats with 49.6 per cent of the votes, as in the May election. That is what the new proposals from the Labor Party represent Australia-wide. I dismiss the whole speech on these 2 grounds. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-There is one thing about the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  He cannot accuse the members sitting behind him of yawning while either the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or the Minister himself was speaking, the simple reason being that he has no support behind him. Look at the empty benches- one, two, three, four, five, six members of the Labor Party concerned with unemployment, every one of them nervous Nellies, bellyachers. Other Labor Party members are not even here to defend the Government because they are so ashamed of the Minister for Labor and Immigration, who has sat over the greatest unemployment in this nation's history. He is the most destructive Minister for Labor that this Parliament has ever seen. He has brought about a situation where there are 180,000 unemployedthe last figures that I know of-with 200,000 school leavers to come into the work force. He is about as tough as the seat of my saddle. He cares not one whit for one of those unemployed people. He is the most shameful shedder of crocodile tears as a Minister for Labor that this Parliament has ever known. 
Let us look at the record. The Minister talks about his judgments 'My judgment was right', he says in a pious fashion. 'My judgment is right'. Let us look at his judgment. On 20 July: 'Your job's safe. No worker will suffer', says Cameron, with a 25 per cent tariff cut. 'Your job's safe '. How right he is! I am reminded of the story  Sir Robert  Menzies used to tell: 'If you want one opinion ask 2 economists'. If you want one opinion about the state of the work force and the unemployment level ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration. He will give both answers, yes and no. He is the most shameful Minister ever to have disgraced the benches of this Parliament. In an almost Sunday morning sermon he blamed overseas conditions for the state of the economy in Australia. This Minister for Labor and Immigration is, like his Prime Minister, always blaming somebody else and does not take any blame himself. Let us see what one of the few honest men in this Parliament has had to say about overseas conditions. 
And it is certainly not you; that is impossible. You are one of the nervous Nelly bellyachers the Prime Minister spoke about and you have not got the courage to come in here and stand on your feet and say something about the position. This honest member of the Labor Party said this: 
The major causes of price increases in Australia during the past year are not to be found in external factors. We have suffered less than most others from the oil price escalation. 
Rather, our problems arise from the conjunction of the demand and cost pressures experienced during 1973 and the momentum built up then is still having its effects, despite the abatement of demand pressures. 
Those are the words of the present Treasureruntil next week- the Honourable Frank Crean, one of the few honest members of the Labor Party. Unlike the Minister for Labor and Immigration, the Treasurer is prepared to admit where he is wrong. He is prepared to tell the truth. The fact is that this Government must be the most inconsistent, confused and inept government in our history. It is presiding over the greatest level of unemployment in our history, a situation brought about by the Labor Government, a government that one would have thought would have been concerned with the jobs of the people of Australia. The nervous Nellies are not prepared to rise in the Parliament and bring forward this issue; the Opposition has to do this. I have had to rise to my feet on at least two or three occasions to draw to the attention of the Minister for Labor and Immigration by means of motions similar to the one we are debating today the stupidity of his and the Government's policies. He has done nothing about the position. In May, the Prime Minister said this: 
In Australia alone unemployment and inflation do not march side by side. 
Unemployment and inflation did not march side by side in Australia for years. 
I will give the Minister another quote in a minute. That was the historical position in Australia. Unemployment and inflation did not march side by side down through 23 years of good management by the Liberal and Country Parties. No sooner was the Labor Government in power than we had, as the Prime Minister says, unemployment and inflation marching side by side. The fact is that there was economic management by the previous Government which avoided a situation in which unemployment and inflation marched side by side. It is true to say that all the comparable countries in the western world have continually had unemployment and inflation marching side by side down through those 23 years. But because of good economic management by the Liberal and Country Party Government, never did it happen in Australia. Let it be recorded and made known that all the problems do not come from outside, and let us have no more of these cheap tricks by the Prime Minister to deceive the people of Australia. 
Let me quote somebody else in the Labor Party who is honest. There is more than one person in the Labor Party who is honest. On 24 October- this puts the Minister for Labor right back in his box where he deserves to be and proves how shallow and deceptive he has been this morning- it was stated: 
The Federal Government knew its economic policies could lead to 1 80,000 people being thrown out of work. 
Those are the words of the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Labor Party and the  Deputy  Prime Minister of Australia  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  Let me repeat those words so that the Minister for Labor and Immigration might at least understand them. I know that he is a bit thick between the ears, so I shall quote them a second time: 
The Federal Government knew its economic policies could lead to 1 80,000 people being thrown out of work. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns,  said that on 24 October this year. What has the Minister got to say now about external policies? What has he got to say now about Government policies? The truth is that he is a failure. 
He is a great failure. He is such a failure that the Queensland branch of the Australian Labor Party said: 'Please do not send the Minister for Labor and Immigration to Queensland to campaign for the Queensland election. Keep him out. ' That is what they said about the Minister. He is a rank failure and is known to be a rank failure throughout the whole of the Labor Party organisation. The Minister ought to read what Bob Hawke said about him. I cannot quote it in the Parliament. It is unparliamentary. I would dearly love to have it incorporated in Hansard. I wonder whether I can find a way of having it incorporated in Hansard. 
It is unparliamentary. I cannot do it. The fact is that the  Deputy  Prime Minister made it plain for all to see that he recognised the position. He and the Treasurer were the two leading figures in the economic kitchen Cabinet who recognised that it has been the disastrous policies of their Government that has led to this situation. Let us have no more humbug from the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Let us have a little bit of honesty. While I am talking about honesty, let us have a little more honesty from the Prime Minister. We heard him in a television interview last night state to the people of Australia that this position is due to external problems. He stated that no comparable country in the western world has suffered any differently from us. This is disgraceful. Why does the Prime 
Minister not show a bit of honesty and a bit of truth on matters of great moment of this nature. Does the Minister realise that there are 180,000 people without jobs? Does he realise that there are 200,000 school-leavers coming into the workforce? Does he care at all? Does he have any sympathy in his bones for people who are out of work? I turn to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because I am making no impression on this leather-faced, hard-hearted Minister for Labor. He does not have any interest in his job, apart from his pay, or sympathy with the people who are unemployed. 
The employment position has been the direct result of the 25 per cent tariff cut across the board which has led to the great flood of imports of textiles, shoes, electronic goods, motor cars and motor car parts. All the high labour intensive industries have been flooded out by the stupidity of the Government's policies and because of some economic clap trap that has been fed to the Government by a few backroom boys. The Ministers do not take notice of their own departments. The Government stands absolutely condemned for its callous approach to the whole problem of unemployment. Members of the Government have shown that they are more concerned with maintaining office than with anything else while they have been in government. They will go to any length to maintain office. The Minister for Labor and Immigration is one of the architects of these destructive policies. I believe that when the Prime Minister reshuffles his Cabinet- it is a pity that he cannot shuffle some of his Ministers out of the Ministry, but he has not the power to do it- he should make the present Minister for Labor and Immigration Minister for Public Works or give him some portfolio right out of the public arena. I agree with The Leader of the Queensland Labor Party. The Minister for Labor ought not to go up to Queensland. He would cost the Labor Party more votes than ever. I invite the Minister for Labor to come down to Gippsland and try to explain to retrenched workers there why they are out of work. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  said that during the time that I was Minister for Shipping and Transport I maintained that the problem of the 'Straitsman' was a matter for the Tasmanian Government and the Tasmanian Transport Commission. That is correct. I think that position has been borne out by history. I see that my position in those days is supported by the very words used in the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  He said: 
Shortly after taking office we commenced negotiations with the Tasmanian Government. In the course of these discussions the Tasmanians indicated they wished to assume direct responsibility for the operation of the service. 
That situation is no different from the position that obtained right through. It was clearly a matter for the Tasmanian Government at that time. 
The honourable member for Braddon must find himself in a somewhat ambivalent position. He is certainly ambidextrous in his approach to this whole question. No matter what the honourable member for Braddon says, the fact is that he is one of the figures in this House who led to the final heartbreak of Captain Houfe. 
-Just let me tell the story and if you do not like it you can get up and rebut it where you like. The fact is that on 10 October Captain Houfe received a telegram sent by Ron Davies MHR that says this: 
The Federal Parliamentary Party today approved the following policy decision. The Federal Labor Government will require the Australian National Line to assume responsibility for the King Island shipping service and, for this purpose, to negotiate with the owners of the vessel Straitsman which was specifically designed for this purpose. 
The fact is that the Minister at the table, whatever else he has done, bucketed, in plain terms, the 'Straitsman'. In this House and outside it he bucketed it and said that the 'Straitsman' was not worth two bob.  His  first complaint was that it was too big for the service.  His  second complaint was that it was badly designed for the service. He is recorded in Hansard as saying so. The Labor Government went back on an undertaking given and signed by the honourable member for Braddon himself. Captain Houfe 's situation unfortunately has worsened immensely because of the failure of the Labor Government to honour the undertaking given on 10 October 1972. 
Captain Houfe is a remarkable individual. He has provided a service to King Island for some 25 years with a number of ships- the 'Malaita', the 'Darega', the 'King Islander' and finally the ship of his dreams, the ship that he really believed would do the job and would service King Island thoroughly and well, the 'Straitsman'. He was told finally by the Minister for Transport that the ship was not suitable for that service. As a result Captain Houfe has suffered immense financial loss over the procrastination following the receipt of that telegram. Whatever his circumstance was at the time of the change of government the fact is that he was still in business and the telegram from the honourable member for Braddon offered him what he thought was some relief from the immense financial stress that he underwent. It is a very sad case indeed. Having given 25 years of service to King Island - 
You made your speech. Be quiet. He was totally disregarded. He got the telegram which contained what was claimed to be a policy decision. The Minister quoted it. Captain Houfe is suffering a broken heart as a result of it 
No matter what the Minister at the table says about me closing him down, he knows that is nonsense. 
The Minister is saying that I closed him down. He knows that is nonsense. 
You often talk nonsense. 
You get yourself in immense trouble by talking nonsense. It is a wonder you are still a Minister today after the past week. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The honourable member for Gippsland will speak through the Chair. 
-The Minister has a habit of putting his foot right where his mouth is and biting his big toe. He is doing it again. The simple fact is that Captain Houfe in suffering a broken heart as a result of circumstances brought about by the Minister. 
The honourable member for Braddon gave a policy commitment of the Labor Government. 
I address a question to the Minister for Transport. Will the Minister give the basis for the assertion he made to ship owners that the Arab states are about to practise international blackmail by refusing to provide oil unless it is carried in either Australian flag ships or Arab flag ships? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Apart from the charter cost of the Boeing 707, what were the additional costs and charges met by the taxpayer in relation to individual members of the party on the last overseas tour. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What amounts were paid in commission for the paintings (a) 'Woman V and (b) 'House under Construction'. 
What gallery or agent collected the commission. 
I explained in the course of my speech in the second reading debate the concern the Opposition has with regard to this Bill. I will not take up the time of the Committee for any period, because I know the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  wants to get on to the Racial Discrimination Bill. The fact that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has indicated his intention to accept my amendment, which will deal with our concern, enables me to abbreviate my remarks. I should like to recapitulate in very short terms the concern expressed to me by the States and by the road federation bodies throughout Australiathat is, the transport operators- that the Bill gives the Commonwealth Railways, or the Australian National Railways Commission as we perhaps now should call it, power much wider than that required for the purposes which the Bill is said to enact. For that reason I move: 
In proposed section 31B (1), after 'may', insert '(as incidental or supplementary to, or in association with, the transport of passengers or goods on the railways) '. 
This amendment limits powers or the capacity of the Commonwealth Railways to activities rather like those of the State railways which in some cases also operate rather large road transport concerns. It is fair to say that the Commonwealth Railways should have the same power in this regard as the State railways. At the same time, it eliminates the fear that was expressed by the States and by road transport operators by preventing the Commonwealth Railays burgeoning out into one large road transport operating group. Having moved the amendment, I thank the Minister for his co-operation. 
-The purposes of this Bill are set out in the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  I do not propose to go all over it other than to refer to the preamble m which the Minister stated:  to create the Australian National Railways Commission, thus providing Tor the increasingly wider functions and responsibilities of Commonwealth Railways including the transfer of State railways; to ensure that the powers, duties and functions of the proposed Commission are, where possible, consistent with other statutory authorities with a similar nature; to make amendments to the Act, which will bring it into line with current commercial practices of statutory authorities; and to overcome administrative problems raised by the Auditor-General. At the same time the opportunity will be taken to make several amendments of a machinery nature . . . 
Therefore, the main purpose of the Bill is to cloak Commonwealth Railways with the power to take over the administration of a State railway system where a Sate has agreed to that takeover. I will go into that later. One of the by-products of the Bill is a name change from Commonwealth Railways to Australian National Railways. The Opposition does not oppose this change. We think that it is a bit jingoistic in a nationalistic sense, but I am told that the cost of the name change will be more than $lm for stationery alone, without the cost of repainting all the wagons and signs around Australia. 
-It will cost $ 1 m. 
-Yes. At a time when the Government is preaching restraint on the part of Government enterprise and saying that all these things are to go before a costing committee of Cabinet, one is left to wonder whether this change is desirable at this point. Having made the point, I leave it at that. 
In his second reading speech the Minister, in his normal fashion, could not resist making a few political points. I have to say to him- the Minister is absent at the moment, but I am sure that he will come into the chamber when he hears me. I must say to him that I think the points he has made are rather inane and indeed foolish. For example, in his second reading speech the Minister said: 
It was only when the present Government came to office with a commitment to create a modern and efficient rail system for Australia, that legislation emerged. Unfortunately this was the pattern of railway development under our predecessors. The previous Government bogged down nationally important projects such at the Tarcoola-Alice Springs une and Adelaide 's standard gauge connection. 
I do not want to spend a lot of time on this matter. The simple fact is that what the Minister said is not true. The previous Government allocated $3.4m in the 1972-73 Budget, for the TarcoolaAlice Springs line. It is sheer nonsense for the Minister to make a cheap point like that. 
The Minister has had difficulty with a number of pieces of legislation which he has brought into this House- legislation that has been much wider than what was required for the purposes explained in his second reading speeches. On reflection and after some pressure from the Opposition he has inevitably had to amend his Bills. I instance the Air Navigation Bill, the Roads Grants Bill and the Australian Shipping Commission Bill. He was forced to amend all those Bills. Recognising that, when this Bill was presented I thought that I should study it with some care, and I have done so. 
The Minister asserted in his second reading speech that the previous Government had fahed to assist the railways but he then went on in his speech to make the point that Commonwealth Railways has played a very proud and important part in the railway systems of Australia. I agree with that. The fact is, of course, that Commonwealth Railways has always had the support of governments ever since its inception. It has been one of the leaders in railway technology and innovation. It has always been prepared to try new things. It has operated in the most difficult parts of Australia in terms of remotenessprobably one of the most difficult parts of the world. 
It opened up some of the best country. Some of the projects now operating would not be in existence were it not for the Commonwealth Railways. The previous Government agreed to the reconstruction or rebuilding of a new line from Tarcoola to Alice Springs. I have made my point on that matter. It is, as the Minister rightly said in his speech, one of the largest railway projects undertaken by a government for many years. It is 830 kilometres long. I do not know the distance from Lands End to John O 'Groats in the United Kingdom but it is probably not 830 kilometres. That is the distance from Sydney to Melbourne. I suppose that the project has been the biggest undertaking in the world in railway construction for half a century. One must recognise the requirements of Commonwealth Railways for this project- the provision of ballast, the rail sleepers alone, the construction of numerous gradings and bridges. They point to the size of the project. There is one peculiarity in the Minister's speech and I want to come to that. 
I do not know whether he is being shunted. 
-He may be off the rails. In the copy of his speech which he supplied to me he speaks of the task ahead of Commonwealth Railways. There is one interesting point. He refers to the laying of hundreds of thousands of sleepers and the building of a telecommunications system as being all part of the massive task which Commonwealth Railways faces. When I looked at the copy of his speech and I read about the laying of hundreds of thousands of sleepers I noticed that a word had been painted out with white ink. On holding it up te the light, as I am doing now, I could see that the word painted out was 'concrete '. So really he was talking the laying of hundreds of thousands of concrete sleepers. I am reminded of the trouble the previous Government had over the question of concrete or timber sleepers in the provision of railways. I came under attack because I said that we would use timber sleepers for maintenance on the present Trans-Australia Railway and not concrete sleepers. A cost feasibility study was carried out by the Bureau of Transport Economics and, depending on whether a depreciation rate of 10 per cent or 7 per cent was used, either concrete or timber was the better product for the task. At the 10 per cent rate it was $3. 8m dearer to use timber sleepers when considering the life expectancy of both sorts of sleeper. The Minister issued a Press statement which reads in part: 
Following an evaluation by the Bureau of Transport Economics of the relative merits of concrete and timber sleepers the previous Minister,  Mr Nixon,  announced that timber sleepers would be used in maintenance work on the Trans-Australian Railway, while price and social factors are compatible '  Mr Jones  said. 

 Mr Jones stated that the Bureau's report showed not only that concrete sleepers could adequately meet the technical requirements of the railways but that their use was more economic than timber sleepers under certain conditions. 
Under these circumstances both alternatives must be given an equal opportunity of tendering for any contracts. ' 
I have therefore instructed the Commissioner of Commonwealth Railways to call tenders for both concrete and timber sleepers for the maintenance program on the TransAustralian Railway and also for new line construction such as the proposed Tarcoola to Alice Springs railway. ' 
The word 'concrete' has been painted out of the second reading speech. I do not have a suspicious mind but the Minister can be devious at times. I ask him a straight question: Is there a fait accompli concerning concrete sleepers which he is hiding from us or is he honouring the terms of his Press statement which was in similar terms to my own attitude with regard to the Tarcoola to Alice Springs railway? Is he honouring the Press statement dated 17 January 1973? I think that is a good question and we ought to know the answer. The real point is that in those days, when inflation was running at 4 per cent or 5 per cent "compared with 20 per cent today, timber sleepers of the dimensions of 9 ft 6 in. by 8 ft 3 in. cost $7.53 each. Timber sleepers of the dimensions 10 ft 5 in. by 8 ft 6 in. were worth $6.44 and concrete sleepers were worth $8.25. The question emerges as to whether timber sleepers or concrete sleepers are cheaper over the long haul today. I just hope that the Minister has not sold out in that respect. I ask him why the word 'concrete' was painted out of his second reading speech. It is an interesting question. 
-I will show the Minister my copy so that he can see for himself. In his speech the Minister rightly drew attention to the increasing loss incurred by the State railways. One of the reasons that is given is the curtailment of fuel supplies as a result of a serious strike throughout Australia last year. I often wonder whether unionists who were involved directly in strikes of that nature are aware of the spin-off from actions taken when they go on strike. I understand that the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  will speak on this matter. He is a trade unionist from away back and he might be able to answer that question. 
The fact is that a great deal of the loss accrued by the State railways is caused by strikes. It has been admitted by the Minister in his speech. It has affected the State railway system but it has also affected the Commonwealth railway system. The Minister did not mention that in his second reading speech. The Commonwealth Railways Annual Report for 1973-74 points out that Commonwealth Railways incurred a $7.2m loss in the last year of operations. That is a 120 per cent increase in terms of loss compared with the previous year. One of the main reasons for this loss is given by the Commissioner for Commonwealth Railways. I quote from his annual report: 
During this 12 months' period average wages and salaries per employee rose by no less than 30 per cent compared with increases of 1 1 per cent in 1972-73, 4 per cent in 1971-72, and 4 per cent in 1 970-7 1 . 
The Commissioner's report points directly to the tremendous increase in wages as another cause for the increased losses incurred by the Commonwealth Railways. The Minister has made much of the transfer of the State railways to the 
Australian Government. He had this to say about it: 
Honourable members will be aware that the present Premier of New South Wales recently announced, amongst other things, the withdrawal of his State from the transfer discussions. 
That is the transfer of the State railway system to the Commonwealth. The Minister continued: 
New South Wales thus joins the other States that have Liberal or Country Party governments, in refusing to meaningfully discuss the Prime Minister's offer. This snortsighted approach, reflecting their inability to see beyond their own State borders, is hindering the development of Australia. 
These words were used in a speech only a few weeks after the Terrigal conference of the ALP during which, as I understood it from the great splurge of publicity that came out, the States rights question was paramount in the mind of every Minister. Reports indicated that there was a change in Canberra and that from now on the Federal Government, according to the Terrigal conference, was going to be very concerned with State's lights and it was not going to strong-arm the States or bluster about them or anything else, but the very first speech on administrative matters to come before this Parliament after the Terrigal conference just shows how ridiculous that claim really was and how it was really a lot of whitewash or, in fact worse, eyewash. The words I have just quoted from the Minister's speech did not go unnoticed. I have received from the Minister for Transport in New South Wales a letter in which he answers this criticism. He says: 
In agreeing originally to discussions on the takeover proposal, New South Wales made it clear at the outset that such discussions were without commitment. Our main purpose was to establish a dialogue and we were hopeful that alternatives to a complete takeover would be fully explored. Moreover, we wanted to ascertain what the terms of the takeover would be and to determine the ultimate effect on the State's Budget. The officers representing New South Wales- the Chief Commissioner, Public Transport Commission, the Under Secretary, The Treasury, and the Under Secretary, Ministry of Transport and Highways- were never able to get a clear indication of Commonwealth intentions on these vital matters' 
What was apparent from the outset, however, was that the Commonwealth was not prepared to discuss alternatives such as the development of the Railways of Australia as a cooperative venture between the Commonwealth and the  States. New South Wales is ready to resume discussions on this basis and to assist you in appreciating our position I have attached a copy of the letter I sent to  Mr Jones  on this subject, and of his reply. 
I do not go into that at this stage but I make the point that the Minister is being a bit unfair in his approach to New South Wales and to the other Liberal and Country Party States when quite obviously there have been 2 divergent attitudes. The Minister for Transport, who is at the table, has been for the grab and the takeover and the 
State ministers have been seeking co-operation, and in the light of the Terrigal conference surely that could have been expected by them. The Minister can bluster as much as he likes, but the simple fact is that the States do have a constitutional place in this nation of Australia and he cannot ignore this whether he likes it or not. 
This brings me to my real concern with the Bill. The Minister says that South Australia is near agreement with the Australian Government on the takeover of that State's railway system. Concern has been expressed to me as the Opposition spokesman on transport matters that the South Australian Government may in the negotiations that are taking place between the Australian Government and that State Government T emphasise the word 'may'- put some real restrictions on road transport as pan of that deal. My reply has been to say that this is not directly affected by this Bill and that there will have to be some future enabling legislation to come into this House for a takeover of South Australian railways. I will be looking closely at the Bill in that respect when the time comes. 
The States have all raised with me their concern over clauses 15 and 22 of the Bill. Clause 15 says: 
After section 3 1 of the Principal Act the following sections are inserted: 31 A. The Commission may provide to Australia and authorities of Australia, for reward, land transport and engineering services and such other services as can conveniently be provided by the use of the resources of the Commission. 
The view has been taken by some of the States, and indeed by the Australian Road Transport Federation and by many road transport operators that the use of the words 'the Commission may provide to Australia' means 'Australia' in the broad geographical terms, but I am advised that the proposed new section 3 1 A will not cause any concern because the word 'Australia' in the sense of this Bill means the same as the word Commonwealth' meant in the old legislation. I understand that the Attorney-General's Department has advised on this matter and we are taking the narrow definition of 'Australia' to mean the same as 'Commonwealth' used to mean in previous legislation. New section 31a need not concern the States if that advice is correct. No doubt the States' own Attorneys-General will be looking at the matter. It is with proposed new section 31b that the real problem seems to lie. The proposed new section reads: 
Without limiting the powers of the Commission to transport passengers and goods on the railways, the Commission may transport passengers and goods for reward by land, otherwise than on the railways, between- 
a place in a Territory and another place in that Territory; 
a place in a State and a place in another State; 
a place in a Territory and a place outside that Territory; 
to the extent necessary to carry out an arrangement under section 3 1 C, places in the one State; or 
to the extent provided by sub-section (2), places in the one State. 
This clause has caused alarm with the States. I have received a letter from  Mr Meagher,  the Victorian Minister of Transport, which says: 
Clause IS Section 3lB permits the Commonwealth to transport passengers and goods for reward by land' other than on the railways between a 'place in a State and a place in another State'. This Clause gives the Commonwealth practically a free hand in provision of interstate transport. 
If the legislation is enacted, the Australian National Railways Commission, as an instrument of the Commonwealth Government, could under Clause 15: 
Operate road passenger or freight services on intercapital and other interstate routes in direct competition with the State railways. 
Greatly expand the ambit of its "piggyback" services by setting up its own road/rail/road operations between the Eastern States and Western Australia, utilising rail only over its own lines '. 
Further, by using the powers provided for under Section 3 lc of the Bill the ANRC could: 
In conjunction with such services, operate road pickup and delivery services in capital cities or anywhere else within the States. 
Operate road services from any place in Victoria to and from any port in Victoria (or in any other State) to carry any goods to be or that have been shipped, by the Australian Shipping Commission or any other shipping line. 
Operate road passenger services to and from Melbourne airport from and to any place in Victoria for passengers of the Australian National Airlines Commission or any other Australian or overseas airline. 
Using the protection of proposed Section 57H- that is clause 22- all these things could be done without payment of State registration fees, fuel or vehicle taxes, or road maintenance charges. In other words, if the Commonwealth can 't compulsorily take over a State railway system, it can, using its almost unlimited access to funds for capital expansion, set out to undermine the economic viability of that System by competing on unequal terms. 
The Road Transport Federation and its various affiliated bodies have sent me a great number of telegrams. I do not know whether the Minister has seen them. I have telegrams from  Mr Dewey,  the  President  of the Bus Proprietors Association of New South Wales; from  Mr Cassell,  the Secretary of the Tasmanian Road Transport Association; from  Mr Bender,  the  Chairman  of the Passenger Division of the Australian Road Transport Federation;  B from  Mr Michael  Schrader, the Executive Director of the Bus Proprietors Association of Victoria; from  Mr Forbes,  the  President  of the Long Distance Road Transport Association of Australia; from  Mr 
Uniacke, the  President  of the Australian Road Transport Federation; and from  Mr McRae,  the  President  of the Master Carriers Association of New South Wales. I am not sure they are all the telegrams I have received, but they all express the same and common concern that the power in proposed new section 3 1b gives the Commission an absolutely open cheque in setting up road transport operations anywhere in Australia in competition with private road operators. 
The majority of road operators are not multinational organisations. They are very small operators, mostly with one or two trucks. It is a highly competitive business and a very cut-throat business. The last thing the operators deserve is having a big brother government coming in against them with all these tax free advantages. Also, the Bill will allow the Government to use road transport in competition with State rail systems and cause further loss to those systems thus allowing the Federal Government to bludgeon any State into handing over its rail system. They are the allegations that have been made. I have had discussions about them over a couple of days with the Minister. He has made it clear to me that it is not his intention that the Australian National Railways Commission should act in the way I have just described. He has, therefore, agreed to an amendment to the Bill. 
So far as clause 22 is concerned, the problem seen by the States and the road transport operators is that the Comrail road transport company would be free of State registration fees, fuel or vehicle taxes and road maintenance charges. In looking at this clause, I have to recognise that most of the State railways themselves have road transport haulage sectors- some big and some small. In my view, the Australian National Railways Commission, Comrail as it was, should not be in a position of either advantage or disadvantage compared with its State railway counterparts. Therefore, I will not seek to amend clause 22. 1 am informed that my proposed amendment to clause 15 will obtain the necessary balance required. It will legalise some contract work now undertaken by private transport operators for Comrail. It will put Comrail on the same basis as State railways in respect of their domestic road operations. Because the work being undertaken is incidental or supplementary to Comrail 's ordinary work, it will not be able to burgeon out against the private road transport operators. So, for that reason, I propose to move during the Committee stage an amendment which has been agreed to by the Minister. The Opposition supports the Bill. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the cost of chartering the Boeing 707 used by him in his last overseas tour. 
What are the names and designations of all the passengers who used the Boeing 707 during the tour. 
-The purposes of the Bill has been explained in the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  but can best be seen by looking at the Bill itself. The objects and functions of the proposed Road Safety and Standards Authority are: The promotion of road safety; the promotion of the means for the control and reduction of noise, fumes and other emissions from road vehicles; and the protection of the interests of persons who buy or otherwise acquire road vehicles in the design, construction, durability, performance, maintenance and repair of their vehicles, so far as those matters relate to matters with respect to which the Parliament has power to make laws, etc. 
The Bill goes on to provide that the functions of the Authority are to further the objects for which it is established by investigating and reporting to the Minister on matters relating to road safety and road vehicles; undertaking, or arranging for, research in relation to road safety and road vehicles; fostering the co-ordination of activities in Australia relating to road safety; advising the Minister in respect of the grant of financial assistance by the Parliament to the States in connection with road safety; formulating standards for highways and other roads and proposals in relation to traffic management, traffic laws, road signs and other matters and things relating to road safety; preparing reports for relevant departments and authorities of Australia on the road safety aspects of transport and urban development programs that are or are to be, directly or indirectly financed to a significant degree by Australia; collecting and disseminating, or arranging for the collection and dissemination of, statistics and other information relating to road safety; formulating standards for  road vehicles; and testing, or arranging for the testing of, road vehicles for compliance with standards and certifying, or arranging for the certification of, compliance of road vehicles with those standards, including certification by means of marks affixed to road vehicles. 
The history of this proposal goes back to the findings of an expert group on road safety which was set up in November 1970 and which reflected the concern of the Government of the day in this Parliament on the increasing number of road accidents. In March 1971 the expert group ran the first ever national symposium on road safety which was held over 3 days in the national capital. Approximately 70 papers were presented from experts within Australia and from overseas on every aspect of this great problem. After further detailed study and consultation, the expert group reported to the Parliament. I tabled that report in this Parliament in October 1972, and the Government of the day accepted the findings and announced, in November 1972, its decision to set up a national office on road safety. This Bill,  Vh  years later, puts the recommendations of the expert group into effect. 
I pay a tribute to the members of and the work done by that expert group. Its members never sought or achieved much public acclaim for the work they did. However, the members of the group deserve recognition by this Parliament. I should like to recall their names. Under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Meares, the group comprised  Mr J.  A. Brabham, O.B.E., Brigadier E. F. Campbell, O.B.E.,  Mr P.  J. Kenny,  Mr P.  G. Pak-Poy, Professor J. S. Robertson,  Mr S.  E. Solomon, O.B.E., and  Mr M.  F. Sweeny, D.F.C. As can be seen from the names, a great number of skills were brought to that expert committee by its members. Undoubtedly, this is a proud day for those men, when this Authority is now finally getting under way. 
I am delighted that the Bill has the support of the Parliament and indeed, of the House of Representatives Select Committee, which reported in September 1973 on the need for an authority of this nature. That Select Committee has been very active in gathering evidence on the question of road safety around Australia for two or three years, and it is making a great contribution to the general question of road safety. 
Even the  Chairman-  and I say this in a non-partisan fashion- is doing a service to the Parliament on the matter of road safety. 
The figures quoted by the Minister on road accidents present a very graphic picture. In 1973, 3679 people were killed, and in 1974, 3571 people were killed. In the 10 years ended December 1973, 34 000 good Australian citizens were killed and over 850 000 were injured in road accidents on Australian roads. It is quite clear that the dimensions of the probl em are horrific. Each of us in this House will have personal knowledge of tragedy that has come unexpectedly into a home because of road accidents. The personal hurt and sorrow is immense to those who are left behind after a death or to those who must care for the permanently maimed, once active but now scarred for life. Anything more that can be done to reduce this carnage on the roads should be done. 
I was delighted to see in the Minister's second reading explanation that there have been significant changes in accident levels. The Minister said that in the 3-year period from 1970 to 1973 vehicle occupant fatalities declined from 2693 in 1970 to 2463 in 1973, a drop of 9 per cent. Over the same period, total motor vehicles on the register had gone up from 4.8m to 5.6m, an increase of 17 per cent. This meant that the occupant fatality rate per 10 000 vehicles registered dropped from about 5.6 to 4.4. Those figures could be said to be the turning of the tide on the matter of road accidents. They are the result of much hard work over a number of years by many people. 
There have been several distinct moves that deserve comment. I refer first to the introduction of safety design rules for motor vehicles. Over a period of years these safety design rules have transformed motor cars on Australian roads, and I doubt whether the motorist has even been aware of most of them. However, I recall as far back as 1968 attending Australian Transport Advisory Council meetings, comprising Commonwealth and State Ministers, that were approving design rules for numerous items relating to the safety of cars- internal features such as door latches, sun visors, and the like. Without the motorist even being aware, almost every significant part of the car now needs to meet certain basic tests for safety and reliability. 
I should like to congratulate the Ministers of ATAC and their advisers who, down through the years, have plugged on with this program. The program of safety design rules has not been a headline-grabbing cure for the road accident problem. However, safer seats, interior fittings, window glass, brakes, tyres and bodies have played an important part in reducing the chance  of death and serious accident. The most advanced approach on road safety in Australia has been in the State of Victoria, whose Government was the first to introduce legislation for the compulsory wearing of seat belts. Doubtless it was inspired by the low accident result achieved by the Snowy Mountains Authority which had fitted belts to all its vehicles working in the mountains. The Snowy Mountains Authority was probably the first body of its kind in the world to take such action. The results in, firstly, the Snowy Mountains and then in Victoria were inspiring, and other States and Territories soon followed. 
Victoria has had a fairly comprehensive program for a number of years and has not been afraid to show new and separate initiatives in road safety. The reduction of the speed limit from 70 to 60 miles per hour has also produced telling statistics. The road safety effort has had the support of the major daily newspapers in Victoria, particularly the Melbourne 'Sun', which has run a continuous campaign on public awareness and education. Without doubt, the effort of the 'Sun' has been a most telling weapon in the battle to reduce the carnage on Victoria's roads. Victoria's figures on road deaths were a plateau until 1 970, and from then on have been reduced or held in check. Other States also have put up equally impressive performances in latter years. 
This Bill is welcomed by the Opposition. It flows out of work that commenced under the last Liberal-Country Party Government. What we are concerned about is that the Bill should be properly based. I am unable to discover the head of power upon which the Bill is based. From a paper I have received from the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library on this matter it appears that clause 4 of the Bill has been drafted in such a way as to deny any attempt to exceed the constitutional powers and to make the fullest use of constitutional powers without attempting a complete statement of them. Sub-clause (1) specifically mentions trade and commerce among the States and the Territories, and the use of vehicles by the Government or by statutory authorities. These constitutional sources of power are in effect stated by some but not necessarily all the relevant sources, and the incidental power is not expressly mentioned. The Library points out that this could be a wise drafting approach as in particular circumstances other sources of power, for example, the defence power, may become operative. Further it is possible that following some future High Court decision another source of power will be available or, strictly, will be held to have been available. 
The Library points out that clearly the Australian Parliament has no express power to make laws on the subjects of road safety, control of nuisances by road vehicles or standards for road vehicles. 
The point I wish to make is that clearly the objectives of the proposed functions of the Authority can only be achieved and reach their full promise if the Authority proceeds to secure the full support and co-operation of the States, which clearly have the power in many of the fields of activity proposed for study by the Road Safety and Standards Authority. Therefore I would make a plea to the Minister to ensure that this co-operation is sought by the Authority. For example, can the States be sure that there will be no cut in funds to the States for their own road safety programs? How can the Authority intrude into a State coroner's inquiry into a road death? Yet I see under the functions of the Authority that all these things are relevant to its activities. There are a thousand questions of this nature that the Minister has not attempted to explain or answer. I hope that the Authority will take the example of the civil defence body based at Mount Macedon as its example. I believe that to be a perfect example of proper co-operative federalist approach between the Commonwealth and the States. The Opposition welcomes and supports the Bill. 
-In the opening remarks of his second reading speech the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  had this to say: 
The object of the Bill is to re-establish the Inter-State Commission in accordance with the provisions of section 10 1 of the Constitution, which states: 
There shall be an Inter-State Commission, with such  powers  of adjudication - 
I will not weary the House by reading the whole of the section. The Minister went on to say, and this is the part which concerns me: 
Honourable members will note that the Constitution refers to the trade and commerce provisions and laws made thereunder. However it is not the Government's intention at this time for the Inter-State Commission to operate under these provisions other than in the field of transport. 
I submit to the Committee that the definition of goods is a much wider definition than is required if this Commission is to deal only with transport. Transport is obviously an integral part of trade, but the concept of trade is larger than just simply transport. It involves goods as well. The reference in the definition to minerals and petroleum is an obvious attempt to use the InterState Commission to control the production and movement of those resources right back to their base. Therefore, I move: 
Omit the definition of goods '. 
-The explanation of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  is not satisfactory. I thank the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  for the additional information he has provided in this debate. But one is inclined to wonder when one reads the definition provided, which states:  'Goods 'includes- 
ships, aircraft and vehicles; 
One would assume, therefore, that the InterState Commission is wanting to control transport by those means; by ships, aircraft and vehicles. But then the next section reads: 
animals (including fish); 
I do not know whether the Minister is living in the horse and buggy age and thinks he is going to control the drays that go down a country road, or what. But to include fish really boggles the mind as to what the Minister might mean. If he does not mean that this new Inter-State Commission is going to invent some new transport form, or he is going to invent some new transport form whereby porpoises are going to tow Australia's freight overseas, or something, or around the coast in the years ahead, he means the alternative, which is that he is going to control the transport of animals. The transport of livestock throughout Australia will be controlled under the definition of this measure and that will include fish. If the transport of livestock is included, what about the transport of other products? The inclusion of this reference really means control of trade and commerce throughout Australia. The Minister goes on to prove his own point by including under the definition of 'goods': 
minerals (including petroleum) and slurry; and 
gas; 
If these are to be included in the definition of 'goods', it means that the arrangements for the carriage of crude oil from Barrow Island can be upset by this Commission. All commercial negotiations and contracts in the field of trade and commerce are put to one side. The Minister does not even know what the Bill means. That is what he indicates when he gets up and talks as he has done. Therefore, the Opposition moves for the deletion of the word 'goods'. 
-The first suggestion that a Bill to re-establish the InterState Commission would be introduced in this month's sitting of the Parliament appeared in a newspaper article on 3 April. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made an announcement about it on 7 April and the Bill was introduced into this House on 9 April. Now- 12 days later- the Government has brought on this Bill for full debate through all of its stages. It is rushing the Bill through the Parliament. 
As it stands this Bill represents the most blatant attempt that the Government had made to gain control over industry and trade in Australia. The Bill seeks to create a commission that will exercise supreme power in those areas. It embodies far reaching and sweeping changes not only in the field of transport but also over the entire range of industry and production in this country. Yet the Bill is being steamrolled through the Parliament before the public has an opportunity to learn of its contents. The Opposition believes that the measures contained in this Bill are too important to be rushed through the Parliament without proper scrutiny and public consideration. The Opposition wishes to defer the Bill until the next session because it is much wider than a Bill dealing only with transport matters. 
I remind the House that in his Speech at the opening of Parliament the Governor-General stated that the Inter-State Commission would plan and provide means of communication between the States. The Commission which is proposed in this Bill deals not only with transport but also the whole range of trade and commerce in Australia. The draftsman's skill has been taxed to its limit and the provisions of the Constitution have been stretched beyond their proper meaning in order to bring forth a piece of legislation which is horrendous in its scope and potentially ruinous in its effect on all trade and commerce in Australia. With the passage of this Bill the creeping octopus of socialism would no longer be limited in its advance but would be brought into the open and embodied in this institution which the Government is asking this Parliament to create. The Commission will be in reality a device by which complete Federal Government control may be brought about in this country. Section 101 of the Constitution states: 
There shall be an Inter-State Commission, with such powers as the Parliament deems necessary for the execution and maintenance, within the Commonwealth, of the provisions of this Constitution relating to trade and commerce. . . . 
Although under the Constitution the Commonwealth has been granted power over trade and commerce between the States, and with overseas countries, section 92 of the Constitution states that trade, commerce and intercourse among the States shall be absolutely free. Thus the Commonwealth's power over trade does not extend to intra-State trade and may not be exercised in such a way as to impair the freedom of interstate trade. Section 92 has been a stumbling block for the repeated attempts to restrict, curtail or control interstate trade. It is the one section of the Constitution upon which private enterprise in Australia has been able to rely in order to resist the encroachments of governments, both State and Commonwealth. The attempt to nationalise the public banks in 1947 foundered on section 92. 
In replying to a question asked of him in the House last week the Prime Minister compared the proposed Inter-State Commission with the American Inter-State Commerce Commission. It is clear that the present Bill has been modelled on the United States Commission. However it should be remembered that the United States Constitution contains no provision equivalent to our section 92. The Opposition is confident that the High Court of Australia will uphold the provisions of the Constitution relating to trade and commerce, especially the freedom of trade guaranteed by section 92. However, there is a danger that the High Court will be so snowed under with litigation that many of the actions of the Commission will go unchecked. Although the Opposition believes that the proper forum for determining questions of the validity of Commonwealth legislation is the High Court or the 
Supreme Courts of the States with Federal jurisdiction it rejects the Government's policy of pursuing legislation of questionable constitutional validity and leaving it to be challenged before the courts. That imposes an intolerable strain on the Constitution. It is part of the policy of the Government to undermine the whole constitutional framework of government as it exists in Australia. 
One of the major ways in which the Bill would alter the constitutional balance of power is in its effect on the States. The Bill contains provisions which would undermine the authority of a State over transport within that State. The Bill would practically take control of road transport and the railways out of the hands of the States. Furthermore, the Bill would also create confusion as far as the Commonwealth is concerned. The Bill contains provisions which would mean that decisions or actions of the Inter-State Commission would override the decisions of all other statutory authorities, including the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Trade Practices Commission. What will be the status of the Airlines Agreement and what will be the position of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission? The Parliament is being asked to approve in haste and without proper consideration and debate extensive and fundamental amendments to many other Acts which it has already passed. 
Although only short, this Bill would bring forth a monster. At one stroke it would alter the entire constitutional balance and, indeed, the whole structure of transport, trade and industry as they exist in Australia at the present time. The Government will not be permitted to push such a far-reaching piece of legislation through the Parliament without the public being informed. We know that this Bill is the brain-child of the Prime Minister. Why does the Prime Minister not come into the House and defend his own handiwork instead of sending in the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  as a front man? If this Commission were to proceed as proposed the Minister for Transport would be in charge of an adminstrative backwater in a Department with no policy capacity. 
I would now like to turn to the Bill and to examine some of its provisions in detail. The definition of 'goods' as contained in clause 3(1) shows how the Government is attempting to control not only transport but also the whole area of trade and commerce. The definition includes not merely ships, aircraft and vehicles but also minerals, petroleum and gas. Transport is an integral part of trade, but the concept of trade is larger than only transport. It involves goods as well. 
The reference in the definition to minerals and petroleum is an obvious attempt to use the InterState Commission to control the production and movement of those resources. Similarly the definitions of 'inter-State transport' and 'overseas transport' contain the phrase 'transport of goods . . . that are the subject of such trade or commerce'. The meaning of those words is ambiguous, but it would appear that their intention is to enable the Commission to exercise powers of control over goods which are the subject of trade at every stage of their extraction, production and manufacture. The draftsman is clearly attempting to use the subject matter of transport as a means of reaching back to control every stage of the trading process. Such an attempt is clearly not permissible. 
Clause 3 (2) of the Bill contains a definition of what is a service which is probably the most blatant example of the fact that this Commission is really intended to embrace much more. In clause 3 (2) a service is defined in such a way as would allow the Inter-State Commission to control all matters connected with transport, such as the ancillary services which are essential to transportation. Thus the repair and servicing of vehicles, ships and aeroplanes and even the provision of fuel supplies would be within the control of the Commission. The clause also permits the control of all facilities connected with transport, such as terminals, wharves, warehouses, depots and stations. Finally, clause 3 (2) allows the Commission to control the financial arrangements associated with the establishment of transport services. Thus it is within the power of the Commission to determine the question of whether a piece of machinery is hired, leased or purchased outright. The scope of this provision is breathtaking in its width. It would allow Government control not only of all transport in Australia but also of the facilities associated with it. 
Another feature of this Bill is that nowhere does it distinguish between private transport and public transport. I use the phrase 'private transport' in the sense that every person who owns a motor car or other vehicle for personal or family transport will be subject to the Inter-State Commission. As it stands, the Bill does not prevent the Commission from controlling, if it wished to do so, any private citizen who drives his motor car from one State to another. There are other clauses in the Bill which are so wide that the Commission is permitted to exercise powers and undertake functions which Parliament has never permitted any other single body to have. I have already mentioned the power granted to the Commission in clause 13 (1) to override the determinations of other tribunals established by Acts of this Parliament. Clause 13 (1) also permits the Commission 'to exercise all or any of the powers ... of any authority . . . under any law of Australia'. In other words, the Commission may take over the functions of the Australian National Airlines Commission or operate an airline. This, in combination with the power granted to the Commission in clause 17 to prevent any person engaging in interstate transport without the licence or consent of the Commission, would mean effectively an end to the 2-airlines policy. The Commission has power under clause 13(1) to take over the operations of the Australian National Line. 
There is no provision for the Commission in the exercise of its powers to be subject to the power of the Minister or even of Parliament. Once this legislation is passed, an all-powerful and supreme body will have been created which will exercise its wide powers without reference to the wishes of the Government of the day or of this Parliament. The powers vested in this Commission are wider than any which have been granted to another body in Australia. It is true that the Constitution provides for the existence of an interstate commission, but the Commission which this Bill proposes to establish is far beyond the spirit and intention of the Constitution. The Government is attempting to establish by indirect means a body which the Constitution never contemplated. 
The Opposition believes that the need exists for a body which will have power to regulate transport in Australia within the limitations provided for in the Constitution. The Constitution gives the Commonwealth power over interstate and overseas transport, but the Commonwealth must not exercise its power over interstate trade in such a manner as would restrict, curtail or control interstate trade. There is a considerable amount of judicial authority to support the view that the Commonwealth has power to regulate interstate and overseas transport, and the extent of this power of regulation is quite adequate to permit the planned and co-ordinated development of transport services in Australia. The Opposition would support a Bill to create an interstate commission which was intended to be a regulatory body in the field of transport. It must be remembered that the Constitution contemplates as the functions of such a commission the execution and maintenance of the provisions relating to trade and commerce. Since the States have been left with control over intrastate trade and transport, a commission exercising power of regulation and advice would be a purely federal body in the sense that its functions would be to uphold the Constitutional provisions as they relate both to State and Commonwealth powers over transport. Such a commission would be in line with the spirit and intention of the Constitution. 
The Commission proposed in this Bill is not a body which is truly federal in its nature. Rather, it is an attempt to use the Constitutional provisions to create a commission which will be an arm of the central Government in its conquest not only of the States but also of all transport and trading activity in Australia. If the Government wants to show its bona fides in its wish to create an interstate commission for which the Constitution provides and which will exercise regulatory power over transport in a manner which is truly in keeping with the federal nature of the Constitution, the Opposition will support such legislation. But this Bill departs in horrendous fashion from the words used in the GovernorGeneral's Speech that a commission would be for the purpose of providing a means of communication between the States. It endeavours to sneak in by the back door provisions that were tested previously before the High Court of Australia and negated by that court during the life of the Interstate Commmission from 1912 to 1920. 
The Bill is a monster, and the Minister is being used as a dumb stalking horse for its introduction. The Bill in no way parallels the findings of the private seminar run by the Department of Transport late in September 1974. For these reasons the Opposition proposes to seek the agreement of the Government to allow the Bill to lie on the table until the Budget session. This will allow public discussion and debate and proper information to be circulated on this very important and vital Bill. Failing acceptance of its amendment, the Opposition will be forced to oppose the Bill as a measure of its dismay and horror at the pressure tactics of the Government on this important Bill. I will then seek to move a number of amendments in the Committee stage to bring some sense of reality and common sense to the measure. I make it clear that the amendments are not final and may be added to in another place, but they reflect the concern of the State governments which have made representations to me, the Road Transport Division which has made representations to me, and the shipping and airline companies in Australia and the other bodies that have made representations to me. I now move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the Bill be withdrawn and not proceeded with until after presentation of the Budget to enable the principles of the Bill to be more fully investigated'. 
-The stupidity of this Government is no better shown than by the scenes we have just witnessed. This Bill has come before the House of Parliament for an hour and a half so far today and there have been 3 Opposition speakers. Now we are to be permitted the luxury of another 30 minutes debate in the Committee stages. The people of Australia will be aware of the blow that this is to parliamentary procedure. I must register my strong objections because I have 14 amendments to move to this most significant Bill. 
The only real reason for the Government moving the gag at this time is that it wants to save the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  from a demonstration of absolute ignorance on this Bill. He proved, prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner, that he did not know what the Bill was about. During the suspension of the sitting he was locked up in his air-conditioned office with the air-conditioning turned down 10 degrees cooler so that he could stay cool. He was being briefed by officers who provided him with a typewritten script in support of the Bill. That just shows the level of debate which we have reached in this Parliament. Then we had the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  complaining about my absence last week because I was attending a Country Party conference. I told him on the telephone this morning in a private conservation that I was attending a Country Party conference. I asked him - 
Indeed,  Mr Chairman.  I just say in passing that the Minister talked about a private conversation I had with him. In reply I have one sentence more to say about that. 
I have no option but to agree to this procedure, much as I dislike it and much as it is an abuse of the privilege of Parliament by the sheer jack boot dictatorship style of the Government of the day. It can be described as nothing more nor less. For the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  to describe the Opposition's tactics as humbug is simple, sheer humbug in itself. It is a disappointment to me that the Minister should carry on in such a way. We are trying to debate a Bill that carries implications which affect every man in the street. For the Minister to say that all we are trying to do is wanting to protect the multinationals again is sheer humbug in itself. It is absolute arrant nonsense. Furthermore, I have found out that the reason he is forcing this Bill through today is that he wants to get off to Perth. That is why he is not prepared to let the Bill be properly debated over a period of time. He chides me for being out of the House last week when the Bill was not even under discussion. 
I was stung to reply by the Minister's own speech,  Mr Chairman.  I think you must show some tolerance in that regard. 
I was seeking to include in Hansard, so that the world might know of them, the amendments that the Opposition believes are necessary to bring this Bill into reasonable shape. I had got as far as proposed new clause 5a. The proposed new clause reads: 
Nothing in this Act or in any regulations made in pursuance of this Act will affect or authorise action in connection with the obligation of any of the parties under or the provisions or purposes of- 
-Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  I appreciate your action. I hope that the Minister is generous enough to agree to the suggestion you have made. I seek leave to have the amendments incorporated in Hansard. 
After clause 5, insert the following new clause: ' 5  a.  Nothing in this Act or in any regulations made in pursuance of this Act will affect or authorise action in connection with the obligation of any of the parties under or the provisions or purposes of or the operations of the agreement referred to in sub-section 3 (4) of the Airlines Agreement Act 1952-1973 and the agreement referred to in section 3 (3) of that Act as affected by the foregoing agreement and the agreement referred to in section 3 (2) of that Act as affected by each of the foregoing agreements and the agreement referred to in section 3 ( 1 ) of that Act as affected by each of the foregoing agreements'. 
At the end of clause 10 add the following sub-clause: '(2) Any adjudication by the Commission under subsection (1) shall be by way of an order made by the Commission which shall be subject to the provisions of sections 46, 47 and 48 of the Acts Interpretation Act '. - 
Omit clause 13. 
In clause 14, paragraph (1) (a), omit all words after 'Constitution' (first occurring), substitute 'with respect to inter-State transport'. 
In clause 14, omit paragraph (1) (d) 
10) In clause 14, omit sub-clause (11). 
1 1 ) In clause 16, omit sub-clause (5). 
12) In clause 16, omit sub-clause (8). 
13) In clause 16, omit sub-clauses ( 10) and (11), substitute the following sub-clause: '(10) The several courts of the States are invested with federal jurisdiction and jurisdiction is conferred on the several courts of the Territories within the limits of their several jurisdictions to hear and determine any prosecution application on their proceedings under this section'. 
Omit clause 17. 

That the amendments as circulated be agreed to. 
Because other Opposition members wish to speak on the various amendments and because we have exactly 20 minutes left to do it, I will confine myself to speaking on only two or three of the amendments. Proposed clause 5a states: 
Nothing in this Act or in any regulations made in pursuance of this Act will affect or authorise action in connection with the obligation of any of the parties under or the provisions or purposes of or the operations of the agreement referred to in sub-section 3 (4) of the Airlines Agreement Act 1952-1973 and the agreement referred to in section 3 (3) of that Act as affected by the foregoing agreement and the agreement referred to in section 3 (2) of that Act as affected by each of the foregoing agreements and the agreement referred to in section 3 ( 1 ) of that Act as affected by each of the foregoing agreements. 
That is a very fundamental clause because this Parliament has debated an airlines agreement over a number of years. It seems to the Opposition that this Inter-State Commission is now going to have the right to overrule an Act of this Parliament, carried by a majority vote in this Parliament. If ever I have heard an example of the fourth arm of government, that is it. I hope therefore that the Government will see the sense of at least preventing this Inter-State Commission from becoming the commissar of all commissars and a dictator to the Parliament of the nation, overriding the authority not only of this Parliament but of the Parliaments of the States, and overriding the actions of the States. It is very important that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  at least show some recognition of the problems that the Opposition is raising. 
I want to turn specifically to clause 13. 1 have sought to omit the clause because the flimsy reasons put forward by the Minister in his second reading speech provide no justification, in the view of the Opposition, for the creation of such a monstrous instrument of bureaucracy. The Government already has powers to deal with the matters referred to by the Minister through the Prices Justification Tribunal, the Trade Practices Commission and other bodies. Its real motives are obviously undisclosed by the Government and this can only create further fear and uncertainty in a vital national industry. It has been put to me by the Victorian Government that the public will inevitably suffer increased fares and freight charges and a higher cost of living if this Bill is passed in its present form. The Constitution requires uniform freight charges throughout the nation. Victorian rail fares in particular have decreased in recent times, and this federal measure can mean only increased charges, fares and freight across the board. One has only to look at the price increases in recent times in respect of federally controlled concerns such as Trans-Australia Airlines, the Australian National Railways and the Australian National Line and compare them with the movement in State transport rates over the same period. On the same point, it is noted by the State of Victoria that decisions of the Commission in the pricing area will override those of the Prices Justification Tribunal. I have a telegram from the Premier of New South Wales who had this to say about the Bill: 
Government's haste with debate prevents complete examination of implications of Bill and is quite inappropriate for legislation of this importance vitally affecting interests of all 
States. Proper course would have been to seek prior consulatation with States. 
The Opposition believes that if there is going to be an interstate commission it ought to have on it State representation. That is what a federal body is all about. That is what the Opposition would seek to do if it were in government. It would not set up some commissar all by itself. 
-When the honourable member can get more than 4 votes in his Caucus he will have a right to speak in that manner. Interstate and overseas transport are so interconnected that it would be virtually impossible for the Commission to operate without dictation to States on internal transport policies and operations. Transport charges are most important components of the States' budgets and social policies and the Commission's influence on these charges would be prejudicial to the States' constitutional powers. The proposed power under clause  16(5)  to make orders having the force of Commonwealth law could limit or alter the basic functions of State transport authorities. These are the realities that have been pointed out by the Premier of New South Wales in speaking of the wide effect of this Bill which has been so effectively gagged by this Government so that there can be no public debate on a major issue facing the nation. 
In relation to the ministerial power of direction of the Commission, and reviewing the Bill as a whole, there is potential for a most dangerous concentration of political power, free of customary democratic checks and balances and quite contrary to the whole concept of federalism. In this area, and a whole host of related areas, the Victorian Government believes that the State will be denied the right to determine policy, for example, decentralisation policies, which may include incentives by way of reduced freight charges to private companies to relocate in rural areas, can be affected by this Commission. This is quite apart from inroads into State transport policy. For example, clause 9 presumably empowers the Commission to rule out of order any limitations placed on road or other transport under the transport policies of the State. The Federal Government justifies the Bill by reference to the unco-ordinated approach in relation to transport already apparent' between the States; for example, rail gauges, the approach to road networks. The argument is invalid. These factors are largely historical and the trend now is towards co-ordination of the approaches and policies of the States. The proposed council of States and the appointment of federal affairs ministers reflects this trend, which will provide coordination and prevent the repetition of history without any need for federal interference. 
I make the point again that there has been no attempt by this Government to seek the cooperation of the States on the matter of the InterState Commission Bill. This Bill runs far wider than the Bill which was proposed in either the Governor-General's speech or the Minister's second reading speech. It carries clauses that are much wider even than those referred to by the Minister for Transport, affecting trade and commerce and prices. The Minister now attacks the Opposition in the House, saying that it is not interested in the subject of prices. The simple truth is that had the Minister been honest in his approach to this Bill he would have laid down in his second reading speech all the aspects that the Bill will cover, including prices and including trade and commerce. The Opposition now has no option but to force debate for a longer time in another place so that the public may be made aware of the horrendous and horrific Bill that has been introduced by this Government. It is a Bill that is socialist in intent, without a doubt, and it is quite clear from methods adopted by the Government in gagging the debate tonight that it will stop at nothing to have this Bill passed in the form in which it wants it at this time. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Now that meat prices are low, company profits are low, there is a slowdown in foreign capital, the multi-nationals are under control, there is a different Treasurer and Whitlam only cannot control inflation, where does the Prime Minister put the blame for the high inflation that is wrecking the Australian economy? 
-The House is debating the Loans (Australian Shipping Commission) Bill 1975, the purposes of which was set out in the speech delivered by the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  The Bill seeks approval of the Parliament to borrowings by Australia not exceeding the equivalent of US$68m-$A50m- to assist the Australian Shipping Commission, that is, the Australian National Line, in financing the purchase of 2 bulk ore carriers from the Gotaverken shipyards in Sweden at an estimated cost of approximately 286 million Swedish kroners, that is, $A54m. The vessels are due for delivery in July 1 976 and May 1977. The 2 vessels, each of 120,000 tons, are being purchased for the Western AustralianJapan iron ore trade under arrangements with Nippon Steel. These are not the first bulk ships ordered for the trade. Two such ships were ordered previously from the Blominvos yards at Hamburg, each of 1 40 000 tons. 
The proposed loans for the 2 vessels just mentioned were paid for out of Consolidated Revenue in the last Budget. One is inclined to wonder why a different approach is taken by the Government in respect of these 2 ships. Can it be that the dislike of the Government for foreign money has now disappeared, or is it the record 
Budget deficit facing the Government that has caused the Treasurer to change his approach. In his second reading speech, the Treasurer said: 
This is the first occasion on which Parliament has been asked to approve borrowings on behalf of the ANL. 
Yet, it has been common in the past for Parliament to approve loans of this type for Qantas or Trans-Australia Airlines. One must express astonishment at the general funding methods of the Government. This morning the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  exposed the fact that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has the right to borrow $4,000m from overseas. I understand that this amount has been reduced to $2,000m. No statement of intention or purpose was given to the Parliament on that proposal. So, the nation must wonder at the extraordinary methods of financing that this Government adopts. Compared with the situation in which the Minister for Minerals and Energy is permitted to roam overseas and find $4,000m is the position of the Federal Treasurer who is seeking the approval of the Parliament to go overseas and to find a mere $50m for the purchase of these 2 ships. The Treasury has long held responsibility for the raising of Australian monetary requirements overseas. I am staggered that the Government would allow 2 authorities of the one Government to be competing overseas for funds in this way. It seems quite extraordinary that the Government would allow the Minister for Minerals and Energy to be roaming overseas in competition with the Australian Treasurer and Treasury seeking funds. 
The Bill, as is usual with such Bills, does not state what interest rate is required of ANL. The terms and conditions, according to the second reading speech are, firstly, that there is to be a 5 -year to 7-year loan and, secondly, arrangements for the loan will be similar to those approved by the Parliament for previous loans for Qantas and TAA in recent years. In particular, the Government will be the borrower in the first place and the proceeds will be made available to the ANL on terms and conditions to be determined pursuant to clause 7 of the Bill. These terms and conditions will be identical with those under which Australia itself borrows the money. The ANL will be required to meet all charges under the loan agreements. This position calls to mind the Australian Shipping Commission Bill debated in October last year. The House will recall that that Bill, until amended, proposed that the Australian National Line might have the right to borrow money interest free. This would have placed the ANL in a quite unfair position compared with its competitors. So that Bill was properly amended. 
The Opposition supports this Bill. We welcome the growth of the use of Australian ships in the overseas trade in conditions which are economically sensible and economically viable. Over months past we have heard claims that great store is placed on the need for efficiency and economy in transport by the Minister for Transport. We are seeing the Government sending general aviation in Australia to the wall in adopting that argument. The Minister has said that general aviation has to provide the costs of its whole operations. These are costs over which it has no control and very often they are caused only by departmental growth. But worse Still is the purchasing overseas of a ship for the purpose of carrying superphosphate for the Christmas Island to Australia trade. The Minister told the House a few months ago that early last year he had decided not to renew the exemption of this trade from the coasting provisions of the Navigation Act. Such an exemption had been granted by the previous Government, the effect of which was to enable the use of a foreign flag vessel for carrying phosphate from Christmas Island to Australia. 
The Minister said that he had asked the Australian National Line to seek suitable tonnage on the world market to ensure that sufficient Aus.tralian manned tonnage was available to handle the total trade. There are 2 million tonnes of rock imported from Christmas Island and it has been estimated that rock carted in Australian manned ships would cost an extra $1.50 to $2 per tonne. In other words, the Minister for Transport will force up the price of basic phosphate rock by another $3m to $4m. The estimates from the Minister himself claim that the extra cost would be only $1.5m. However, the lie has been put to that. The British Phosphate Commission went before the Industries Assistance Commission and, from the Commission's evidence, it is quite plain that the extra cost of Australia having an Australian manned ship in the superphosphate trade will be $6.5m to superphosphate users throughout Australia. There is no justification, need or call for the banning of foreign owned ships from carrying rock phosphate from Christmas Island. 
No one can argue that this is in the national interest that it is necessary or that it is making the best use of resources. Forcing up the cost of phosphate to farmers again is not in the national interest. Honourable members ought to recall to mind that it is only some months ago that the bounty on superphosphate was lifted totally making the product already more expensive for the farmers. This later pOliCy can have the effect only of further escalating costs and prices. I have to say that I find this typical of the Government. It is a practice of double standards. It talks about the proper use of resources but practises this policy very selectively. 
No effort has been made by the Minister to explain the effect on costs of the cartage of iron ore by the use of Australian ships in this trade. One would believe that cost increases could be minimal as this trade involves extremely large tonnages being carried over extremely long distances with constant crewing costs. For instance, a ship from Hamburg would have a 140 000 tonne capacity and a ship from Gotaverken would have a capacity of 120 000 tonnes. So in this trade there may well be some economic justification for the reasons which have been given. But this contrasts with the effect on the cost of the carriage of phosphate. Quite clearly, the decision in relation to that trade was taken simply to featherbed the Seamen's Union of Australia. 
One question that should be asked of the Minister is why he has not permitted private Aus.tralian shipowners to enter the trade. In the Minister's discussions with the oil industry he has proposed that Australian shipowners should have half of the tankers that are to carry the Australian flag into the oU trade. Why have not the Australian shipowners been given an opportunity in this trade? The Minister has claimed many times to me that he has a very evenhanded approach to these matters. His evenhandedness has been shown to be very far away on this occasion. Again there is an apparent inconsistency in the Government's claim that the best use of resources is one of the main criteria upon which its judgments are made. In Une with the policy effected by this Bill the Government has announced that 40 per cent of the oil trade will be carried in Australian manned ships. Yet it has been estimated that the oil tanker policy will cost the Australian motorist approximately another $15m a year for fuel. This is at a time when 80 per cent of Australia's requirements come from local sources. Clearly after 1980 the cost of Australian manned tankers will be almost prohibitive. More importantly, of course, the general question as to whether the pOliCy is in breach of the Trade Practices Act is a serious one. The Minister should make a statement in this House on that matter alone. 
Finally I want to ask a question about the replacement of these ships with Australian built ships. As I understood it the Labor Party, when it came into office, had a commitment for Australian buildings to replace all imported ships. That commitment, like many others of the Labor Government, seems to have gone out the window. There has been no definitive statement by the Government for months in respect of its shipbuilding policy. The shipbuilding industry is in total despair. It is time the Government laid down clear guidelines as to what the industry can expect in respect of a shipbuilding policy. 
I know that a draft proposal is floating around somewhere. The industry is being asked for its attitude; but the industry is in total despair at the Government's lackadaisical approach to shipbuilding policy. There are now probably more imported ships on the Australian coast than ever before in our history. There has been no clear statement by the Government as to what it proposes to do about the replacement of those ships with Australian buildings. In the meantime several yards, I think at least 3 or 4 - 
There is a young man who takes a keen interest. He can name each of the companies that have gone completely out of business since Labor came to office. Just as the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has presided over the greatest unemployment in history and just as the Federal Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has presided over the greatest inflation rate in the history of this nation, so the Minister for Transport has presided over the greatest destruction ever of the shipbuilding industry in this nation. The Government really has nothing to be proud of at all in its total approach to the problems of the nation. The Opposition supports this Bill. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he receive a letter from Mount Darwin in Rhodesia informing him that local residents had raised funds to help Darwin people hurt in Cyclone Tracy. 
If so, has he replied to that letter; if not, why not. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What are the names and designations of all the passengers who travelled on the Boeing 707 aircraft during his last trip overseas. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the charter cost of the Boeing 707 aircraft used on the recent overseas trip to the Commonwealth Heads of State Meeting. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  commenced his address by complaining about the lack of objectivity of the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley).  He went on to say that the honourable member for Chisholm, in earlier days, used to teach him. Having just heard a lot of political rhetoric without a great deal of substance or sense from the honourable member for La Trobe, I can understand the reason why he is one of the few failures as a student that the honourable member for Chisholm had. All I can say is that to teach the honourable member for 
La Trobe must have been too much of a task for any one man. 
The honourable member for La Trobe went on to say that he was going to vote for the motion. He then complained bitterly about what has happened in the electorates of Henty and Casey. Apparently he is sorry that the Minister for gerrymander who is sitting at the table did not quite gerrymander the electorates enough to fix up his colleagues. I must say, though, with great respect to the honourable member for Henty, that I think he was shedding crocodile tears; he is most pleased that the Minister for gerrymander supported him and failed to support the honourable member for Henty. 
Yes it is a sexist redistribution which picks on the only lady in this House from Victoria. It just shows that the old bias of the Minister spreads even to sex. He is opposed to the one woman in the House of Representatives. Obviously, she does not pander to him enough and therefore he makes sure the boundaries are drawn in such a way that the only fair woman in the House will leave us if this redistribution is agreed to. I guess that is reason enough for the Labor Party to throw out this redistribution proposal. It ought to stop this sexist attitude and be fair about redistribution. 
There are many good reasons why this proposed redistribution ought not to be agreed to by the Parliament at this time. The Minister knows as well as I do and as well as every member of this House does that there is no call for a redistribution in Australia at this point in time. The 10 per cent allowance is the meanest and most miserable allowance of tolerance, between large country electorates and the small push-bike pedalling city electorates, provided in any country in the world. Even so, every seat in Tasmania complies with the 10 per cent allowance. But the Minister for gerrymander made sure Tasmania was examined again so he could refiddle the boundaries and push them this way, that way and another way, in the great hope that the Labor Party could be perpetuated in office. 
The honourable member for La Trobe complained that it takes 5 votes in the La Trobe seat to equal 3 votes in the seat of Mallee. Does he know, being such an ardent enthusiast of the principle of one vote one value, that in the whole of Tasmania there are only 247 301 electors and they have 10 senators and 5 members of the House of Representatives to represent them. Where is the honourable member's fairness now? I represent 58 000 people in my electorate. 
Why is he not moving to correct that situation? It is humbug for them to come into the House and talk about one vote one value when they stand for that sort of difference between Tasmania and Victoria and complain because of the few votes difference in their particular States. 
The honourable member for La Trobe is one of the Victorian members who is prepared to vote to get rid of a country seat. The reason, of course, is that the Labor Party does not hold any country seats in the State of Victoria and it has no chance of winning any there. Labor candidates almost lose their deposit when they come down my way. There was one occasion when I even trebled the Labor vote. In fairness to the Minister for gerrymander I have to say that under the "proposed redistribution I will do even better than that. I thank the Minister kindly for the way he has drawn the boundaries as far as the electorate of Gippsland is concerned. But I have to be a statesman, and while I would like to accept this proposal for Gippsland I find that, in the national interest, I have to reject the redistribution proposals. So do not give us any more talk about one vote one value. The simple fact is- and this explains my stance- that with 45 per cent of the primary vote the ALP, under this proposal, could get a majority of 5 seats in the Parliament, yet it would take 55 per cent of the primary vote for the Liberal Party and Country Party to get the same 5 seats majority. That is the difference and that comes to the real nub of the whole redistribution proposal. It is a clear gerrymander. It is not right for the Minister to get up and say that I am attacking the Distribution Commissioners; it is not right, it is not fair and it is not true. I am not attacking the Distribution Commissioners. What I am attacking is the criteria that this Parliament passed and the Minister for gerrymander introduced. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member has been deliberately referring- and it is quite obviously deliberate- to the Minister at the table not by his correct name or title, which is the Minister for Services and Property. I call upon the honourable member withdraw that statement and in future to refer to the Minister as the Minister for Services and Property or the Minister at the table. 
I withdraw the remark,  Mr Speaker.  I am referring to the Minister for Services and Property who has brought down a gerrymander. I will use those words if you like it that way, if he is so sensitive and needs the protection of the Chair. I am sure I will find that out at the end of the debate. The Minister for Services and 
Property, who is in charge of this gerrymander, went to Canada to study its electoral laws and electoral systems. When he came back he got off the plane and he said: 'I have got the answer to members of the Country Party. I will fix them. They will have heart attacks when I finish with them. I will introduce laws into the Parliament that will get rid of these people we cannot beat by elections. I know we cannot beat them by elections but I will get rid of them in other ways. I will introduce laws that will do that'. That is exactly what he seeks to do. He introduces into this BUI changes to the electoral system that will make it impossible for any fair-minded Distribution Commissioner to bring down a fair redistribution. He has so tightened the electoral laws controlling Distribution Commissioners that he has made their task impossible. 

 His proposals mean that 45 per cent of the primary vote will give Labor a 5 seat majority and it will take 55 per cent of the primary vote to give the Liberal and National Country Parties a majority of 5 seats. There is no question that this is the greatest gerrymander in history. I say with some modesty that I was the Minister in charge of the last redistribution. The fairness and correctness of it is seen in the figures. Compare the figures I have just quoted with these figures: Labor won 5 1 per cent of the seats with 49.5 per cent of the vote. Labor got into power with 49.5 per cent of the vote. That is the system the people of Australia want. They want a redistribution that will reflect the true feeling of the people in the electorate; not one of these fiddled things that the Minister has been at. They want a truly fair redistribution. I will be the first to vote for a truly fair redistribution when it comes in but this is not a truly fair redistribution. 
Another test that can be applied as to the fairness and correctness of this redistribution is in the figures of Malcolm Mackerras. It seems to me that psephologists, as they are called, are rather like economists. If one wants 2 opinions about the economy one should ask one economist. If one wants 2 opinions about election figures one should ask one psephologist. That seems to be the pattern. But the facts are that on the present distribution a swing of one or two per cent, from the figures I have quoted, will change the Government. But under the proposed redistribution it will take a swing of 4 per cent to 5 per cent to change the Government. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  knows that full well because he is one of the backroom boys who helped the Minister for Services and Property design this scheme prior to 1972. The Minister for Services and Property who sits in this House is, I think, entitled to the name 'Father of the House1. Am I correct? 

 - His trouble is that he is dead scared members of his Party might realise he is the grandfather of the House and this might be his swan song. I am told by a person very close to him that early in the morning when he wakes up he looks at the newspapers to see what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is up to with changes of portfolios. The Prime Minister might recognise that the Minister is the grandfather of the House and too old to be useful and put him out to grass. I think that after this redistribution is rejected, as it will be because of the unique tightness and compatibility between the 2 Opposition parties both here and in the Senate, he will be looking at the newspapers on Saturday when the Prime Minister, I understand, intends to announce a number of changes to portfolios. 
It is no wonder the Minister is nervous, has a red face and is concerned when he knows that he is on the way to grass in disgrace- not in honour as he would like, but in disgrace. He cannot even look forward to the pastures of Ireland because those pastures have already been filled by an exparliamentarian from another place. So the Minister definitely has real concern for his future. He knows that this is his swan song. He has been here for 43 years. I remember when I was first elected to this House that the present Minister railed against the Country Party night after night and attacked the Country Party only because he could never beat it at the elections. In fact I used to say to him: 'Come to my electorate'. I used to hope the honourable member for Grayndler would come to my electorate. Every time he opened his mouth I got more votes. That is how he has been. He used to go round the countryside of the North Coast of New South Wales before elections. He got the shock of his life after the elections to find out that the local Country Party member's votes had increased. He did not realise that he was in fact doing the Labor cause a lot of harm. 
Another aspect of this proposal that causes me concern- again it leads to this talk about gerrymanderis that I am told, and I should like the Minister to nail these rumours, that when the Minister was seeking to appoint a third Commissioner he asked various members the political colour of certain people who might be eligible. I am told that one Sunday morning in Perth he called on a fellow who was mowing his lawn. He asked him whether he could take time off to have a cup of coffee and when he found out that the fellow's political views were not quite leftist enough or biased enough - 
-Or socialist enough, thank you- I understand that he did not appoint that man in Perth as the third Distribution Commissioner. That is a story widely told. I think the Minister would be doing the House a great service if he would publish the short list for the third Commissioner put to him by the Chief Electoral Officer, just to nail that story as an untruth. I personally do not believe it. I do not think the Minister would stoop to that. Nevertheless, as the story has a great deal of currency I think the Minister, in fairness to himself, ought to nail it as being untrue. That would do him a lot of good. 
I am disappointed that the seat of Wimmera is to be abolished. It is a great historical seat. It has produced many fine members of Parliament, none finer than the present member, my colleague Bob King. I can understand why a petition with 10 000 signatures was prepared to present to the Parliament to try to retain the seat of Wimmera. But because the Minister is so intent on getting this gerrymander through he obviously will not accept the course I have suggested and agree to the retention of that seat. 
In the time that is left to me I wish to take up a point made by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  I give him full marks for it. He recognised that there are some differences between a city seat and a country seat. He was being honest- a bit unfairly honest, but nevertheless honest. In my electorate I have 16 shires to service, compared with the one or two of the honourable member for Burke. 
Shires to service. The honourable member recognises that there is a vast difference between the servicing of electorates in the country and the city. But the honourable member did not go on to say that the sorts of assistance we have been given and the extra staff and the like are also given to the honourable member for Burke. The Minister has been generous to country members, but he ought to be more generous and try to help a little more. Many good reasons have been given why this redistribution ought to be rejected. It is our responsibility as an Opposition to make sure that these degenerate socialists are not perpetuated in office for life. For those great statesmanlike and national reasons I will oppose this redistribution. 
-These Bills set out to implement the major recommendations of the Vernon Commission of Inquiry into the Australian Post Office. Honourable members will recall that this Commission was constituted on 22 February 1973 and that its report was presented to the then Governor-General on 1 9 April 1974 and to the House of 23 July 1974. The major recommendations of the Commission which are embodied in the present legislation are as follows: To separate postal services from telecommunication services; to establish an independent statutory commission to run each service as a monopoly; to incorporate the Overseas Telecommunications Commission into the Telecommunications Commission although the staff providing the international services will retain their identity as a working group. In each case the proposed duty of the commission is to 'perform its functions in such a manner as will, in the opinion of the Commission, best meet the reasonable needs of the Austraiian people ' for its respective services. 
No power is given to the Minister to give general policy directions to the Commission, but the Commission must report to the Minister on request and also make an annual report. The Commissions will have power to determine their own charges but the approval of the Minister will be required for the following charges: Standard postal articles, registered publications, standard telephone rentals, telephone calls and telegrams. If the Minister does not approve the charges submitted by the Commission, the Commission at the end of the financial year is entitled to recover the revenue foregone. This is based on a fairly elaborate formula which is designed to take into account the actual financial performance during the year in question and changes in general economic conditions which may have affected performance in any event. 
The Commission in each case will comprise 7 commissioners as follows: The managing director, who will be full time; one commissioner who will be an officer of the Department of the Minister administering the Act; one commissioner representing officers and employees of the Commission; and four others. The Bills also make provision for the position of Chief General Manager of the Commission who is to be appointed by the Governor-General. It appears, therefore, that the 2 chief executive officers of the Commission will not be servants of the Commission but of the Governor-General as appointed by the Parliament. Each Bill establishes a commission service which will have rights equivalent to those of the Public Service in relation to retirement, promotion, superannuation and so on. These arrangements are apparently satisfactory to the existing staff. 
Industrial relations are to come under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and not the Public Service Board and Arbitrator. The Commission in each case has to pursue a financial policy directed to cover all expenditure for the year and to provide one half of its capital requirements for the year. The Treasury will provide the balance at interest, although the Commission is given the power to borrow moneys from other sources with the approval of the Treasury. The Commissions will not be subject to taxation under any Federal or State law. They may not enter into a contract exceeding $500,000 or lease land for a period exceeding 10 years without the approval of the Minister. All compulsory acquisitions of land will be made by the Minister for Services and Property. 
The Wireless Telegraphy Act will continue to be administered by the Minister and not the Commission. The Commission will have a monopoly on telecommunication services with the exception of such things as railway and tramway authorities for their internal communications, holders of licences under the Wireless Telegraphy Act and the Broadcasting and Television Act and private installations only capable of use on the land of which the person is the owner or occupier. The monopoly of the Postal Commission will extend only to letters up to 500 grams in weight and will not apply to letters relating to affairs of a person and carried by an employee of that person. The Telecommunications Commission will have fairly extensive powers to enter private property and erect telecommunication installations. It must, however, pay compensation for damage, whether temporary or permanent. 
The most important sections of the 3 Bills are those dealing with the functions, powers and financing of the Commissions and it is to these sections of the Bills which I now wish to direct some remarks. Before doing so, I will mention that there are important clauses in the Bill dealing with staffing, conciliation and arbitration, offences and the like. Many of the proposals put forward in these clauses would emanate, I have no doubt, from the detailed examination made of the recommendations of the Commission by the inter-departmental working group to which the Minister referred in his second reading speech, and are generally of a non-controversial nature so far as the main thrust of the Bills is concerned. 
Before I go on to discuss the 3 Bills in detail I would like to make some general observations about the proposals put forward in all 3 Bills taken as a whole. Firstly, the Opposition is not opposing the establishment of the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission, because this decision embodies the broad principles of the Vernon Commission's proposals to which the Opposition has already given general support. This support has been given in the hope that the implementation of the Commission's recommendations would effect an improvement in the efficiency and standard of services rendered by both the telecommunications and postal services. It is anticipated- and this was the hope of the Vernon Committee- that dismantling the unwieldly and in many ways obsolete structure of the Post Office and the creation of 2 statutory corporations would pave the way for a more efficient administrative and organisational structure; that it would foster enthusiasm and enterprise, qualities described by the Melbourne 'Age' as being as rare as a Blue Mauritius' in the Post Office; and that it would do something to improve the black record of persistent industrial unrest. 
I turn to the question of improving efficiency. It does not automatically follow that the Post Office will become more efficient because it is going to be run by 2 corporations rather than one Government department. However a reading of the Vernon report and in particular Volume 2 of the consultants' report confirms the belief that an organisational restructure of this kind is the prerequisite of any improvement in the Post Office's performance. For example, in their report, Price Waterhouse &amp; Co. say: 
We believe that Postal and Communication Services should be treated as business entities. However the required business orientation is unlikely to develop until better business direction and greater management autonomy is developed . . . there is very little decision-making authority given to management to acquire funds for expansion, establish tariffs, recruit staff and negotiate industrial relations matters. All personnel are classified as public servants and this tends to mitigate against the development of a business orientation. 
The report by Messrs Cresap, McCormick and Paget recommends separation of the executive direction and management of telecommunications from that of the postal services on the grounds that such separation 'would reduce to manageable proportions, the scope and variety of issues with which top executives, both centrally and in the field, must deal'. 
These and similar arguments no doubt helped to persuade the Commission to recommend the separation of postal services and telecommunications. The Commission's report reads: 
The problems of administration and organisation of the Australia Post Office are unlikely to grow less with the years; indeed they are more likely to increase. The separation of the two services will provide a unique opportunity for the reconsideration of all aspects of their future organisation and financing and hopefully will put them in better shape to cope with future community needs. 
The Opposition accepts the Commissioner's recommendations on this point, and consequently accepts the relevant provisions of the Bills before the House in the belief that the organisational changes do not guarantee greater efficiency, greater enthusiasm and greater enterprise, but that they are prerequisites for the attainment of these desirable ends. 
As mentioned earlier, the Opposition believes that any worthwhile reforms of the organisation of the Australian Post Office must face up to the Australian Post Office's black record of industrial unrest. The Cresap, McCormick and Paget report speaks of 'the negative effect of industrial relations upon the efficiency of the postal system'. This particularly applies to the Sydney Mail Exchange at Redfern, which has an unenviable record of black bans and work stoppages. The Commissioner's report states: 
During the year ended 30 June 1973 there were 70 1 work stoppages at the Sydney Mail Exchange involving staff engaged in mail processing, resulting in the loss of 10 993 man-hours. 
No wonder it is almost impossible to get a letter from Sydney- 
Stoppages by craft unions in the same period numbered twenty-one for the loss of 845 man-hours. 
. During the 1972-73 year only one other stoppage occurred in a central mail exchange when 93 manhours were lost at Adelaide. 
I think there is a story in that. I understand from an article in the 'Bulletin' that: 
If you want to know how things are at the Redfern Mail Exchange, or whether PMG linesmen are likely to go on strike, you don't need to wait until you read it in the papers. 
You simply (if in Sydney) dial 21 1-2212. If in Melbourne you dial an unlisted number, 328-4274. 
I think it says something for the present industrial climate in the Australian Post Office that, at a time when unsatisfied demand for telephone services has been increasing to a total of 105 000 in January 1974- this is according to the Commission's report- top priority should be given to the installation of a service such as this. It seems that along with the Totalisator Agency Board racing service, stock exchange reports, dialaprayer and tele-bible, telephone subscribers are to be given the advantage of dial-a-strike. Seriously, though, it must be the objective of any re-organisation of the Australian Post Office to investigate and ameliorate the circumstances which have given rise to a situation which would be farcical if it were not disastrous to the Australian public and to the Australian economy. 
The Vernon Commission, in its report, states:  the proposed formation of 2 statutory corporations to administer postal and telecommunications services respectively and the creation of 2 new management structures, should provide an opportunity for re-organisation of the industrial relations and personnel functions; placing of responsibility for salaries and conditions of employment directly with management should go a long way towards removing staff organisation objectives to some of the rigidities necessarily accompanying Public Service Board jurisdiction ... 
I can only say Amen to that. It is quite obviously not an easy problem to solve. Apart from the rigidities of the Public Service Board referred to there are also the rivalries, the intransigence and the empire-building of the staff organisations involved. There are no fewer than 28 registered staff industrial organisations with members employed in the Australian Post Office. The Commission reports on this matter in a rather defeatist mood by stating: 
It would seem sensible that action be taken at some stage to rationalise staff organisation representation but this seems a matter principally for organisations and their members to decide. 
I read somewhere of one well known trade unionist, George Slater, making caustic comments about the activities of other trade unions. It is a pity he does not turn to his own domestic problems and see whether he can resolve some of the problems of the Post Office. One thing is clear: However assiduously the proposed new Commissions apply themselves to the task of streamlining their administration, they will not be able to attain a higher level of efficiency without better co-operation from the trade unions. The Vernon Commission 's report states: 
Responsibility also falls on the central executives of the staff organisations to control and prevent unauthorised industrial action within the Exchange. 
If, as it is to be hoped, greater operational efficiency in the postal and telecommunications services is achieved, it is important to see that the results are enjoyed by the community in the form of better services and more reasonable tariffs. The whole matter sounds too much like a Cinderella story to me. The Bills before the House do not set these benefits up as being the prime objectives of the Commissions. As  Senator Durack,  the shadow Minister for the PostmasterGeneral 's Department in another place, said:  the Opposition sees the dangers that by setting up these independent Commissions, by giving them in some cases unrealistic financial objectives, and by putting emphasis on their commercial operation and the 'user pays' principlewhich the Government seems to have been doingthere may be in fact a diminution in services. There may be a cut-back of services on the grounds of economy, particularly those services in rural and remote areas of Australia. 
I warn the proposed new Commissions that if they start cutting back on services too hard they will have grave political difficulties. It is in this area that the Opposition takes issue with the Government over the provisions in clause 7 of both the Postal Services Bill and the Telecommunications Bill which outline the duties of the 2 Commissions. We feel that to create 2 powerful, monopolistic authorities with a large degree of independence from Government control necessitates the fixing in far more definite terms of the objectives which the Commissions should be seeking to attain. During a debate on 20 May the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  stated: 
Generally we are not opposed to the general statement that the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission be responsive to what might be called social and rural aims. 
I am glad to read the reassurance of the Minister on this matter because the important point which he concedes is not written into the Bill. Insofar as the Bill reflects the views expressed in the Vernon Commission's report this omission is not surprising because the Commission's views on the social and rural aims of the Australian Post Office are something less than crystal clear. The report states: 
The Commission considers that it is not correct to define the role of the APO today in simple terms which describe it as a social service or as a business undertaking. It clearly has elements of both in its role and the real difficulty in interpretation arises in particular cases when the business responsibility and the social responsibility are not readily compatible. 
I am frankly disappointed that the Commission should have discarded this problem into its 'too hard' basket. The Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  who is at the table has never displayed any social conscience or awareness of the needs of the people who are disadvantaged by living in those rural or remote areas. Right from the time of coming into the Government the Minister has displayed a canny coldness towards those people who are mentioned in the Commission's report. We in the Opposition will be watching with a great deal of interest that aspect of the Commission's activities. The PostmasterGeneral, in his second reading speech, spoke of the added challenges of vast areas and sparse populations which characterise much of Australia. I wonder whether he will do anything in order to come to grips with these challenges or whether those words, like the words of the Special Minister of State, are so much rhetoric. 
If the Postmaster-General gives an answer will it just be to echo the smug utterances of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  from his 4 square mile empire of Grayndler that the Post Office customers should cover the cost of the services which they use. That is not the answer which the Vernon Commission arrives at. The Commission says that it sees the Australian Post Office as an organisation which provides for the reasonable cost of its services, to be recouped from revenues received from customers. What is a reasonable cost for having a telephone connected? Is it $80 as it would be for a city subscriber? Is it $2,500 as in the case of a subscriber who lives 15 miles from an exchange? Or is it $10,000 as it is in some remote parts of Australia? I think the figures could be even higher. What is a reasonable price to pay for a daily newspaper? Is it the 10c which it costs in Sydney or is it 18c which it costs to have the newspaper mailed to a person in the country? 
It is quite clear from the answer which the Special Minister of State gave to my colleague the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  at question dme that service will not mean a thing. Cost recovery is to be the new holy cow. In this connection some concern has been expressed about the future of the established category system of determining postal rates for registered publications. On 19 September 1973 agreement was reached for a schedule of charges which was to be in force until 1 October 1976. Will the Bills before the House negative that arrangement or will the terms of the Postal and Telecommunications Commissions (Transitional Provisions) Bill preserve the schedule? On my interpretation of the Bill it would, but I ask the Special Minister of State for reassurance on this point. Is the Minister able to answer the question in relation to the categories? 

 - Mr Speaker, I remind you of the phrase 'The Tyranny of Distance' which is the title of a widely acclaimed book written by an old school mate of mine, Professor Geoffrey Blainey. 'The Tyranny of Distance' is one of the great determinants affecting the social, political and economic development of Australia. Nowhere is this more so than in the field of communications. Some people are unfairly disadvantaged by the costs inflicted on them by isolation. It should be the objective of governments dedicated to fostering equality of opportunity to make sure that those in the cities are not more equal than those in the outback. I am sorry that the Commission did not take the opportunity of calling for a report on this question, similar to the expert reports submitted to it by Price, Waterhouse and Company, and by Cressap, McCormick and Paget. I have in mind a study of the social and economic costs of isolation and inadequate communications. 
In its own submission to the Commission, the National Country Party wrote: 
The Party: 
Understands fully that Government policy directs Post Office to render some services at uneconomic rates. The Party submits that the Post Office losses on these services should be recouped by direct Treasury subvention, and not taken from Post Office revenue. 
The Commission regrettably did not accept that proposal. The Commission acknowledges that there is a conflict between the commercial and the social responsibility of a statutory authority, and suggests that the best way of resolving such a conflict is by imaginative use of tariff structures. 
The Opposition feels that more precise instructions must be given to the Commission on this fundamental issue and has amended the Bill accordingly in the Senate. I am delighted that the Minister and the Government have accepted the amendments and I hope that the Commission will follow the instructions laid down. The other main proposal on which the Opposition joins issue with the Government is the merger of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission into the proposed Australian Telecommunications Commission. The Commission of Inquiry reported that the OTC was a substantial and profitable business which had made only a small initial demand for public funds. It pointed out that, before interest charges the Australian Post Office in 1 972-73 earned 6.3 per cent on funds of $3,070m. The OTC earned 22.4 per cent on funds of $70m. The Commissioners were unable to reach a common view on the question whether the OTC should remain as a separate entity or whether it should be merged into the proposed Australian Telecommunications Commission. The Opposition agrees with the view put forward by the  Chairman  of the Commission. The  Chairman  believes that it would be altogether premature to take a decision at this time to merge the well established OTC with an ATC, not yet in being. The situation will be seen in proper perspective only when the new Commission is properly established and when the boards and managements of the 2 Commissions have been able to study the practical interworking of the national and international systems. 
The Opposition has moved an appropriate amendment in the Senate to prevent the merger of the OTC into the ATC, only to be told by the Government that it proposes to introduce a separate Bill later that obviously will separate the OTC from the Commission. So we are today giving the Government these Bills and I take it we will be presented with another Bill to take out the OTC. Is that what was proposed in the Minister's second reading speech last night? 
Well, you accept the proposal that the OTC should be out? 
-To take it out? 
-A separation Bill? 
We are giving you these - 

 -Yes, Mr Speaker. I suspect that this is a matter of vital importance to the nation. We are giving the Government these Bills with amendments. They are being accepted in good faith. Now we are told that another Bill will be introduced which will drastically alter our approach. However, we will deal with that when the time comes. 
While on the subject of telecommunications, I would like briefly to raise one particular problem that has been brought to my attention and also, I understand, to the attention of the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland).  I refer to the high level of charges imposed by the Postmaster-General's Department for daily news feed on the broad band link between Melbourne and Hobart. I am a little surprised that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  has not interested himself in this question. This link is the standby bearer for the telephone service between Tasmania and Melbourne. 
The news staff of television station TVT6 has asked me to point out that the prohibitive charges of approximately $200 a day prevent this station presenting the day's news on that same day. The staff points out that this broad band link is a national facility paid for by taxpayers, and that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has a dedicated link for its own purposes, costing $ 150,000 a year. On the face of it, this is an anomalous situation where there is discriminatory application of the 'user pays' principle. If it applies to television station TVT6, it probably applies to other stations as well. The amendments which the Opposition has moved are aimed at making the proposed Bills more workable and more relevant. 
As I have said, the Opposition is of the opinion that radical reconstruction of the PostmasterGeneral's Department is the necessary prerequisite of restoring efficiency, morale and industrial harmony. But these essential objectives are not ends in themselves; they are the means to an end. That end is better and more economical service to the community. An obvious case is the restoration of Saturday services. The Special Minister of State was fairly long on words on this question of Saturday services but he was a little short on action. He may be able to tell us something about that. The Commissioner's report, in part, stated: 
The postal re-organisations of fully developing the postal services and of achieving the objectives set for it will be inhibited if management is restricted in the hours during which it can provide services. 
The report goes on to say: 
. provided employees are properly paid, they should have no objection to providing the services called for by management which has the responsibility of interpreting and providing for the public's postal needs. 
If the public's needs are to be met, it must be the Commissions which run the postal and telecommunication services and not the trade union militants. 
In an electronic age there is no excuse for having services of the level of the Pony Express, especially when the Commission's report shows that the horse is no longer fit for work. If the Commissions, which this legislation is designed to establish, cannot restore communication services particularly postal services to an acceptable level then they had better sell the whole business to the highest bidder to see what private enterprise can do. 
The Opposition does welcome the fact that the Government has accepted the amendments that we believe will permit more of the social consequences and the importance of this service to be taken into account. We look to the Commissions and to the Government to take these amendments seriously. We do not oppose the measures. 
-On 30 June the Australian National Line had on order 6 vessels that could have been constructed in Australian yards if the Government had wanted that to happen. In fact only 3 of the vessels are being constructed in Australia. So much for the Government's cheap claim that it has assisted the Australian shipbuilding industry. The industry knows that such a claim is false and that under this Government it has suffered a greater decline than has occurred at any other time since 1945. The present outlook for the industry is particularly grim. 
-The Bills we are debating are the Railways (South Australia) Bill and the Railways (Tasmania) Bill. The purpose of the Bills is to give legislative effect to the takeover of the rural railway services in South Australia and both the metropolitan and rural services in Tasmania along the lines set out in the papers tabled in the House several weeks ago entided 'Principles to Govern the Transfer of the non-metropolitan South Australian Railway system to the Australian Government' and 'Principles to Govern the Transfer of the Tasmanian Government Railway System to the Australian Government'. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  pointed out in his second reading speech that there is a constitutional provision in relation to these measures, namely, section 5 1 of the Constitution, which gives the Australian Parliament power with respect to: 
The acquisition, with the consent of a State, of any railways of the State on terms arranged between the Commonwealth and the State. 
The Minister made the point that this proposal was considered worthy enough by our founding fathers to be included in the Constitution. He then made this odd comment: 
The transfer of the State railways to the Australian Government has been portrayed by the Opposition as a centralist and socialist measure. 
I do not know who wrote his speech for him. The Bill certainly is a centralist measure- I would not quibble with that description- but to describe the transfer of a railway system from a State-owned instrumentality to a Federal-owned instrumentality as some form of socialist measure makes the mind boggle a little. The Minister went on to talk about the need for a government with a national outlook. We have heard this fine rhetoric from the Minister before. He said:  . . . Australia has had to wait for a Government with a truly national approach to transport problems before the vision of the framers of the Constitution could commence to be realised. 
The Minister not only aimed his attack at the previous Government but at previous Labor governments which also had not seen the need for this measure to proceed in this way, as will be demonstrated later. As for this being a Government with a truly national approach to transport, I do not believe for one moment that the taking over of the rural services of the South Australian railways, or indeed the taking over of the Tasmanian railway system, can be described in any way as a massive national approach when compared with the great railway standardisation program that previous Liberal-Country Party governments undertook over previous years. The Minister pointed to what he believes are the major problems that have flowed from the decentralised control of railway systems under present arrangements. He referred to such matters as the duplication of facilities and administrations. That is an extroadinary complaint when one looks at the provisions of this Bill which will maintain staff at the present levels. Indeed, they cannot be reduced. Operation costs obviously will not be reduced by staff reductions because there is provision for all staff to be taken care of under this Bill. 
The Minister then talked about the inefficient operating procedures at present in the State railway systems. I think that railway workers throughout New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland would love that attack on them. He also talked about the poor utilisation of available resources but he did not give any example. He referred to the limited standardisation of equipment and the lack of a uniform approach to railway policy. He totally ignored the fact that the railways commissioners of the various States had been meeting and overcoming these problems. They have been doing so for a number of years and have been reducing the area of conflict between one railway system and another. Some of the complaints the Minister raised do have a measure of currency but the fact is that there have been tremendous achievements as a result of the railways commissioners meeting over the years. I doubt that the passage of these Bills will stop the commissioners from meeting and going properly about their affairs as they ought to do. 
The Minister then pointed to some of the technical difficulties relating to trains in one State and another as a reason for the Commonwealth taking over the State railway systems. One of the examples he gave was that there are more than 9 different designs of car carrying waggons. I think that only 5 States are involved in carrying cars by train, so it must be more than just coincidence that there are 9 designs for such waggons. I suspect it is something to do with the cars themselves, their size, their length, height and breadth. I suspect that an over simplified approach, as the Minister pretends, cannot be taken. He then talked about the changing of train crews and the remarshalling of trains at State borders, saying that this wastes both time and resources. This argument has some appeal but I think a closer examination may demonstrate that the change of train crews coincides with the completion of their working hours for a period. As an excuse for the transfer of these rail systems the Minister used such a thing as the fact that hand brakes are located in different places on freight waggons used on different systems. Indeed, he stooped to using the small problem of shunters steps on waggons from different systems varying in height, design and location on the waggons. Some of these may be important, some of them may even be costly, but they scarcely justify the expenditure by the Federal Government of an excessive $200m for the takeover of the South Australian and Tasmanian railway systems. 
Many inquiries have been held into the rail operations of the various States. One of the most comprehensive and recent ones was the Bland Committee inquiry, the report of which was tabled in the Victorian Parliament last session. It certainly pointed to much more major reasons than those which I have just read and which were advanced by the Minister for Transport as his reasons for taking over the State railway systems. In the Bland Committee report there was reference to the use being made of a number of railway stations in country areas and of a number of railway lines in the areas and of the need for some rationalisation of some of these services. They are the major reasons put up by the Bland Committee for a change in the railway system. 
The Minister has said that this Bill provides specifically that little change can flow out of the takeover by the Commonwealth of the State railways because clause 9 specifically requires the agreement of the State Minister to any proposed closure of lines or reduction in services. To use an old expression- I do not know whether it is parliamentary but it is a well known Australian expression- I think the Minister has been conned. Here is a situation where the Federal Minister takes over the State railway systems, advancing the argument that only by so doing can he rationalise these services that are in poor shape. We have heard him make speeches before attacking the poor rail services in those States. He advances the argument that there is only one way, and that is for centralised control, and that the Commonwealth has the answers. 
Clause 9 specifically requires a State Minister's agreement to any such closure. Imagine the political situation that will occur in South Australia when the Federal Minister for Transport tries to close down a line or a railway station that has not been used much. Of course his colleague in South Australia will refuse to agree to such closure and the Minister will be left with a lot of egg on his face. It seems to me that all the advantages in this respect lie with the State Minister. Again, the Australian National Railways may recommend a change of fare structure in Adelaide and there may be a great political row. Clause 8 says that where general fares,, freight rates and other charges at the commencement date have established a relative advantage to the users, that advantage shall not be diminished. I do not know how the Federal Minister for Transport expects to restructure either the fares or freight rates in South Australia while that clause remains. As I said, it seems to me that the Minister at the table has been conned into accepting this proposal. It seems also that all the advantage lies not with the Federal Minister or with the Australian National Railways, which will find that its proposals will not be able to be proceeded with because the Minister has fallen into the trap set up by these clauses. 
In his second reading speech the Minister spoke about the problems existing between the 2 States and the practical differences between one rail systems and another. He said: 
It is no wonder then that the railways were basically incapable of coping with increased capital costs and the spirited- and mainly united and co-ordinated- competition provided by the road hauliers and freight forwarders. As a result freight has been diverted to inadequate highways with consequent economic and social costs to the community as a whole, in the form of higher road maintenance costs and the human misery and personal financial burden road accidents bring. 
I can say only that that is a gross oversimplification of the facts. Indeed I find the whole speech somewhat oversimplified. Certainly it will lead to high expectancy from both the users in Tasmania and the users in South 
Australia. I do not believe for one moment that the Minister will be able to satisfy that expectancy. 
I believe that that extract from the speech makes the Minister look just a little foolish. He ought to know that within a State door to door operations by road hauliers are much more economic than the use of rail. Take the situation of a manufacturer making a product who can put the product on a truck and send it 100 miles across country to the point of delivery. The product would be handled only twice- at the loading stage and the unloading stage. Compare that with the requirement to use rail, if such a requirement were introduced. The product would have to be loaded on to a road haulier then put on a train- when the train turns up, that is- and finally sent to its destination to be unloaded again on to a road haulier for delivery to the consumer's door. Obviously that is an expensive and inefficient operation. Within the States a great deal of that circumstance prevails. Yet conversely in interstate haulage, rail has increased its volume of carriage of freight immensely. The Minister should know that road hauliers themselves demonstrate the capacity of rail to carry large volumes of freight on long haulage because they hire a great number of rail trains- complete trains as I understand it- for example, on the Sydney to Melbourne run. Rail can and does compete under these circumstances more effectively, favourably and indeed economically with road. 
Later in the second reading speech the Minister went into his usual expansive attitude to Government actions in respect of transport. He is the living example of the old adage that success has a thousand fathers. He talks about how the Government is implementing the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway program, the Adelaide-Crystal Brook program and even the urban transport program. Not one of those programs was initiated by this Government; they were all initiated by the previous Liberal-National Country Party Government. All policy decisions in respect of them were taken by the previous Government. 
It is a pity that the Minister cannot really have a win on one of these programs. This is the first Bill- I compliment the Ministerin which the first single initiative of a Labor Government in the transport field is seen that is sensible and that was not proposed and prepared to be implemented by the previous Government. Of course, it is more to the philosophy of the 
Labor Government than it would be to a Liberal-National Country Party Government. This is a policy of centralism. If follows very closely the lines that have been taken by the Minister and the whole of the Government. So one can expect this sort of initiative, this new centralist initiative, to be expanded by this Government. As I have said, it is about the only decent initiative- if one can call it decent; it is the only initiative, perhaps I had better phrase it that way- that I have seen taken in the transport field by this Government that was not taken by the previous Liberal-National Country Party Government. It is the later statement in the Minister's speech that I find the most fascinating. He says: 
One may ask why the Government does not just provide the States with sufficient funds to bring their railways up to an acceptable standard; I must admit this solution has an elementary plausibility in that it would appease the States. But it would be a denial of our responsibility to the railways and the people of Australia- that awesome responsibility that accompanies the spending of public money. We cannot, and will not, divorce the responsibility of raising funds from the spending of them. 
That is a fine piece of verbiage, I must say. Inherent in the last part of that statement- 'we cannot, and will not, divorce the responsibility of raising funds from the spending of them'- is obviously a proposal that this Government will set out to control the expenditure of all tax funds that are raised by the central government. Every member of this House knows that all taxation revenue comes to the central government. Is it the wish of the Minister and his Government to control the expenditure of all the funds that are raised? I suggest that such a proposition is untenable. The Minister says in his speech that major transport projects have been subject to vigorous cost benefit analysis by the Bureau of Transport Economics. Has this proposal been subjected to analysis by the Bureau of Transport Economics? The Minister did not say that it had been, and I do not recall seeing tabled in the Houseperhaps I have not been reading my mail cor.rectly: there is such a volume of it these days- an analysis by the BTE of the proposal to take over the South Australian and Tasmanian railways systems. Yet the proposal is costing $200m or more. Did the BTE in fact make such an examination? 
I think he is a bit deaf at times. He does not wish to hear. If I could divert from the Bills just for a moment, let me say that it is rather in line with the Minister's proposal that 40 per cent of imported oil should be carried in Aus.tralian bottoms, or in Australian ships. The fact that that will cost the Australian consumer a minimum of some $12m and probably $20m, and a growing amount year by year because of the feather-bedding of Australian crews on Australian ships, goes by the board and does not seem to matter. I ask the Minister again: Was this $200m South Australian and Tasmanian proposal subject to a BTE cost-benefit analysis? Was the oil proposal subjected to a cost-benefit analysis? 
I am asking the questions too. I am not getting much of an answer. I do not think the Minister knows. He is so unprepared for the debate on these Bills that he does not know the answer; so he tries to bluff his way through. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy  Speaker; I shall be delighted to do that, as long as the Minister is able to answer the questions. That is really the key to the whole issue. Then the Minister stated: 
The South Australian Government has decided to retain the SAR metropolitan railways, because it sees a need to coordinate all urban passenger transport under one authority. 
How does the Minister rationalise the difference between his approaches to raising money and spending it on the metropolitan railways and on the rural railways? He said that he has the awesome responsibility of spending the money, but apparently that applies only to the rural railway sector. 
The fact is, of course, that  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, stood the Minister up and told him to go to some other place and play marbles, that in fact he would not get the metropolitan railways to play with. It might be part of the Labor Party's policy that main-line railways be taken over by the Federal Government, but it certainly is not part of its policy to take over the metropolitan railways. I think it is quite clear that the Premier of South Australia has told the Minister to take his marbles some place else. Then the Minister told us: 
However, the staff to man the metropolitan system -  that is in South Australia-  will be ANR employees who will work under the general direction of the State Transport Authority. 
The Minister went on with these fine words: 
This means that all SAR employees will be transferred to the ANR. This arrangement offers advantages for both the 
Australian National Railways and the State Transport Authority as it preventsduplication of manpower resources, personnel and training facilities. 
That is quite contrary to what the Minister said in his speech about 4 paragraphs before that. Then he went on with this fine bit of verbiage: 
It also enables the employees of the ANR to continue to enjoy the social advantages of living in a large city as well as leaving the present career patterns of many railway employees unchanged. 
Apparently that is the Minister's excuse for not being able to secure the takeover of the metropolitan railway system- and a fine excuse it is, I must say. The main reason for acceptance by the South Australian and Tasmanian Governments seems to be a financial one. In practical terms, the financial inducements are lump sums of $5m to Tasmania and $10m to South Australia, as well as a takeover of debts incurred by the railways over past years. The Minister made it quite clear that in his view there had been an unwillingness or an incapacity on the part of the States to incur the necessary capital outlays for adequate railway development. He said: 
In recent decades, the increasing need for new capital investment in railways and the inability or reluctance of State governments to meet this need has magnified the difficulties resulting from this diversity of interests and approaches. 
He goes on to state: 
It is no wonder then that the railways were basically incapable of coping with increased capital costs and the spirited- and mainly united and co-ordinated- competition provided by the road hauliers and freight forwarders. 
There are a number of factors causing this position. It is certainly not just the States' inability or reluctance to meet the need for capital investment. For a start, the States have not had sufficient money to finance railways either from their own resources or from federal grants. There is a situation in all States in which the railways simply have to continue with certain uneconomic services in order to provide for essential community needs. It is obvious that any State government will be most reluctant to close down a well established service if the result is that hardship will be caused to too many people. All States are faced with heavy maintenance costs for both rolling stock and track. They are also faced with large capital outlays to provide new rolling stock. Transportation planning is still so new as a technique that the long term benefits which would come from comprehensive State-wide integrated plans have not yet had time to become effective. State railways and road transport systems have developed in comparative isolation from one another. This has made it difficult or impossible to eliminate branch railway lines in many instances even though the service could be done more efficiently by road. In other words, the State governments have had no option other than to continue to provide some services at the expense of the community as a whole. It seems that rather than look at what appears to be the simple solution for development- that is, to hand over the responsibility to the Australian Governmentit would be better to get down to long range development planning at the Australian Government and State levels. 
One of the effects of these Bills may be that the Australian Government will introduce road and other services incidental to rail services. Certainly there are constitutional limits as to how far the Australian Railways Commission could go with such services. However, the limits are not clearly defined so that it is possible to see conflicts arising and the imposition of certain services upon the States at the expense of existing undertakings. I hope that the Minister will pay true regard to the spirit of the amendment I moved to the Australian National Railways Bill in respect of the bus and other road services within the States which should not be put into the position of having to compete with the Commission. Alternatively, the Commission should not pre-empt private enterprise in setting up a service which is considered to be ancillary or incidental. 
Whilst no one can be certain just how far the Australian Government will go in setting up services related to railways, I hope that commonsense will prevail and that proper use will be made of the established and efficient private road hauliers. What really happens as a result of these Federal-State government agreements is that instead of a highly desirable central coordination with each State continuing to have the ultimate policy direction of its railway service in its own hands, the Australian Government takes over full ownership and control. A significant aspect of future State development and internal management will be given away. The effects of this will spill over into other areas of State administration and planning. Long range State regional planning proposals which depend in any way upon railways will be influenced by federal control and the Australian Government. The Australian Government will be put into the position of being able to acquire land for the purposes related to railway development. In other words, significant areas of State administration and control are being given up. The long-term effects and full extent of direct federal power which can be imposed as a result of the agreements is not easy to predict. It seems that the proper way in which the Australian Government can best provide assistance in the overall rail transportation scene is in the interstate field. Itwould seem natural and proper that main trunk routes be handed over to the Australian Railways Commission and be operated by it. Country services within the States are essentially a State government matter because the State governments know the problems. As for metropolitan services, of course there should be no thought of Australian Government ownership and control. Indeed, the Bill concerning South Australia does not envisage that particular point. I want to draw particular attention to the difference between the deal, if we could call it such, that South Australia got and the deal that Tasmania got. I trust that my colleague the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  will be given time to speak to these Bills and that he will not be gagged, as is the practice of the Government. 
The number of differences- extraordinary differences concerning financial and other implications- between the 2 agreements has been drawn to the attention of Tasmania by  Mr Bingham,  the Leader of the Opposition in that State. I think that all Tasmanians would be wise to read his constructive approach to this matter. For example, he has pointed out that South Australia gets a down payment of $10m whilst Tasmania gets only $5m. He says that the Commonwealth is taking over a debt of $124m in South Australia but in Tasmania the debt is $63m. He says that the Commonwealth is also picking up other South Australian debts in connection with railways dating back to 1949. Added to this the Commonwealth is making $26.4m available to South Australia.  Mr Bingham  deals with this subject in some detail. I know that my colleague the honourable member for Wentworth will deal with this matter in some detail. But there is certainly no parallel between the 2 agreements. The arrangement with Tasmania is obviously an ad hoc one. I would think that the best deal that the Minister has been able to arrive at is certainly unsatisfactory from Tasmania's point of view. I would think that Tasmanians are hostile and very unhappy about the proposals put forward. 
The Opposition holds the view that because the Bills are the result of agreements between the Federal and State sovereign governments they should not be opposed. The Opposition believes that the State parliaments themselves should decide whether or not they are prepared to allow the central government dominate this important area of State activity. 

 Mi WALLIS (Grey) (3.57)- I rise to support .the Bills. Whilst the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  would not claim that the unification of Australian railways is his original concept I think that at least we are reaching the stage where this concept has been given some teeth and we are now proceeding to overcome one of our biggest hurdles, namely, the disastrous decisions of the last century to operate railway systems with different rail gauges. This hurdle was recognised even by our founding fathers who drew up the Constitution. They saw that there would be a need at some time for the Commonwealth to move into the field of rail transportation. That is why provision is made in section 5 1 (xxxiii) of the Constitution for the Australian Parliament to have power with respect to: 
The acquisition, with the consent of a State, of any railways of the State on terms arranged between the Commonwealth and the State. 
The Railways (South Australia) Bill and the Railways (Tasmania) Bill propose to give effect to what was envisaged by the founding fathers. 
A few years ago the provincial city of Port Pirie, which is in my electorate, had 3 different railway gauges- gauges of 3 feet 6 inches, 4 feet 814 inches and 5 feet 3 inches- a situation which clearly illustrated the difficulties. Since that time the standardisation of the Broken Hill to Port Pirie line has done away with the need for the 3 feet 6 inches gauge. The standardisation of the line from Crystal Brook to Adelaide will, of course, reduce the gauges to one. Port Pirie was unique in that it had 3 railway gauges within the one railway yard. 
Australia certainly has paid a price for the lack of foresight by the colonial governments of the last century. The lack of a standardised rail gauge is probably one of the greatest hurdles that this country has had to overcome. The fact that we have different rail gauges has been the result of the insularity of the various colonial governments which looked on themselves as separate entities. They did not co-operate with one another and as a result this abominable disadvantage has been placed on us. 
Many thinking people certainly have done their best over the last few years to try to overcome these problems. I know that the standardisation of the Broken Hill to Port Pirie line was carried out during the time of the previous Government. The introduction of new rolling stock ideas such as bogie exchange has allowed inter-system working where different gauges existed. But all the problems have not been overcome despite the fact that there has been some progress over the last few years and I think some greater cooperation between the various railway authorities. We still have many difficulties to overcome. 
The Minister mentioned some of these difficulties in his second reading speech. Perhaps I could mention a few. They include the break of gauge itself, different types of rolling stock, different types of locos, different designs in the various systems, different signalling systems, and different forms of control in each of the States. An inhibiting factor in the past has been the jealousy between the States. These problems have all added to the Australian transport difficulties and have certainly retarded the development of this country. We would hope that with these 2 Bills we are starting to take a big step forward. One of the disadvantages with a country such as ours is its small population and its large area, and we cannot afford to go along with these problems much longer. 
The fact that the Minister has introduced these Bills is a step in the right direction and a step towards the achievement of that goal. I am sure that honourable members on both sides of the House would like to see a standardised system throughout Australia. I would hope that we would all agree that there should not be problems at the State borders. Of course, for quite some time this Government has recognised the problems that exist. I think these problems have been recognised in the Labor Party's platform. Since coming to power the Government has taken some quite positive steps to ensure that its long term aims are put into effect, at least in part. We have taken a number of initiatives since we became the Government. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  said that the initiatives for the standardisation of the Adelaide to Crystal Brook line and the new Tarcoola to Alice Springs line were initiatives taken when the previous Government was in office. 
-The measures contained in this Bill were announced on 18 December 1973. It is now more than 18 months since the Government stated its policies as regards the level of support to be given to the Australian shipbuilding industry. In the interval the industry's confidence has suffered considerably as a result of the Government's laxity on developments in both the Australian market and overseas. Since the Labor Government came to office the Australian shipbuilding industry has entered into a period of uncertainty and decline which will have a critical influence on the future of the industry. The time has come to refute the statements made by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  that the Australian shipbuilding industry under the Labor Government has been more active than under the former Government. This claim is absolutely false. On 12 October 1973 in an address to the Australian Ship Repairers Group, the Minister for Transport stated: 
Since we took office the number of ships on order has risen from 39 to 60 (50 per cent) and the number of ships for which tenders have been called has risen from 6 to 7 1. 
That statement is a prime example of the dishonesty with which the Labor Party approaches these matters. The important figure for such comparisons is not the number of ships on order or under construction but the total deadweight tonnage. Prior to December 1972 the total deadweight tonnage of commercial vessels on order was 332 150 tons. In September 1973 the equivalent figure was 239 985 tons. So in fact there was a decline of 92 165 tons rather than an increase since Labor took office. Nor is this the whole story. Of the 14 freight earning vessels on order, one half of them totalling 192 825 deadweight tons comprised carry over orders placed prior to December 1 972. From this it can be seen that the new freight earning vessels and supply ships ordered since the present Government took office represent a mere 47 160 tons. 
By December 1974 the situation had not improved. The total deadweight tonnage on order was 268 750 compared with 262 850 at the same time in 1973. Speaking in the House on 22 October 1974, the Minister for Transport said: 
In the 12 months ended 2 December 1972 there were 30 ships on order or under construction. During the last 12 months- in our term of office- 68 ships have been on order or under construction. 
What the Minister omitted to mention was that at least 16 of the 68 vessels were part of the 39 ships on order when the previous Government went out of office. Moreover, only 19 of the 68 vessels were larger than 1000 tons deadweight. In other words, most were very small vessels. In fact, 32 of them were prawn trawlers and the remainder consisted of an assortment of barges, fishing vessels and tugs. It is false for the Minister for Transport to claim that the Australian shipbuilding industry has seen an improvement since the Labor Party came to power; on the contrary it has declined. And its decline has been due to the policy of the Minister. The decline is easily illustrated by the fact that 4 major shipbuilding yards have closed and only two remain in business, all since Labor came to office. The Labor Government's policy on assistance to the shipbuilding industry is best illustrated by the construction of new ships being undertaken for the Government shipping line, the Australian National Line. When Labor came to power the ANL had 2 steel carriers of approximately 7800 tons deadweight on order from the Newcastle State Dockyard and a 13 000 tons deadweight bulk carrier on order from a Japanese yard. On 30 June 1 974 the ANL had an order for 6 vessels which, had the Government wanted, could have been constructed in Australian yards.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I suggest that if the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  wants to count numbers in respect of a possible spill he do it at another time and pay some attention to the speech I am making. 
-I think the Minister ought to stop caucusing and worry about his numbers on another occasion. He is one of those who is to get the axe. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has already numbered him. He is finished as a Minister and he rightly deserves to be. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The Bill before the House is the Ship Construction Bounty Bill. 
-On 30 June 1974 the ANL had an order for 6 vessels which, had the Government wanted, could have been constructed in Australian yards. Only three of these vessels are being constructed in Australia. So much for the Government's cheap claim that it has assisted the Australian shipbuilding industry. The industry knows that such a claim is false and that under this Government it has suffered a greater decline than at any time since 1945. The present outlook for the industry is particularly grim. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Ring the bells. (The bells being rung) 
You cannot move out Gough; it is a quorum. Did you notice that the Prime Minister left the chamber after attention was drawn to the state of the House,  Mr Deputy  Speaker? 
-The attempt by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  to apologise for the Government's forced closure of Evans Deakin Industries Ltd is pathetic and tragic and it does not even sound true. He must be very dry after a speech of that nature. The fact is that just as Evans Deakin will close so has Walkers Ltd closed and so has the Adelaide Ship Construction company closed. Only 2 shipyards out of six remain open after 2 years of this Labor Government. As the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  pointed out, quite properly, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  went to the Evans Deakin shipyard in 1972 and promised that he would make sure that there would be enough ships available for construction to keep Evans Deakin in business. He failed to keep that promise. 
The honourable member can cry as much as he likes until the cows come home; they will not give any milk. I shall continue my remarks where I left off in the Committee stage of this Bill the other night. All of these matters referred to introduce a large element of uncertainty regarding the operation of this new bounty system. I believe that this will have an adverse effect on the Australian shipbuilding industry simply because of the adverse effect it will have on the investment decisions of shipowners wishing to build ships in Australia. One of the means by which the Australian shipbuilding industry can increase its productivitywhich it must do- is through the modernisation and updating of shipbuilding facilities. This will require an injection of substantial capital into the industry, and so long as the industry is uncertain as to its future that investment will not be forthcoming. 
I should now like to make some general observations on the Australian shipbuilding industry and indicate the Opposition's thinking on these issues. The basic problem of the Australian shipbuilding industry is that of a market. There has not been a stable market in Australia for shipbuilders. Instead we have had a stop-go situation which has resulted in confusion as to the long term prospects, and investment decisions have been based on the wrong criteria- and caused by the Labor Government. It has also meant that the skilled work force which is essential to a sound shipbuilding industry has not been given the confidence and long term security which is required in order to ensure productivity and the maintenance of skills- again caused by the Labor Government. 
For the industry to be efficient and competitive it must have confidence, and to have the confidence which is necessary to ensure the large injection of capital there must be some continuity of markets. One of the main reasons for lack of confidence in the Australian shipbuilding market is the nature of the ships which have been constructed in Australia since 1947, when financial assistance was first granted to the industry. There has been a conspicuous lack of rationalisation and specialisation in the Australian shipbuilding industry. Each yard produces vessels from the smallest to the largest types. Nor is there any continuity in production. Australian vessels are one-up exercises with all the waste involved in such an approach. There are few instances of vessels of the same specification or plan. The economies in shipbuilding which have been achieved overseas as a result of the standardisation of construction and of models are strikingly absent from the Australian industry. 
Of course, one of the reasons that Australian yards are not able to construct 10 or 30 or even 100 vessels of the same specification is that they do not receive orders for more than one or two vessels which are the same. There are some exceptions. The Whyalla yard constructed the 'Lake' series for the Australian National Line in the 1950s. Recently the Broken Hill Pry Co Ltd designed and constructed 2 roll-on roll-off steel product carriers. The design work has been acclaimed throughout the world, yet the company has been able to construct only 2 vessels at a cost of $12m each. I venture to say that if a dozen or more similar vessels could be built the cost of each vessel would decline considerably. 
To stay in business the Australian shipbuilding industry has been forced to do too much. Instead of attempting to construct every conceivable size and type of vessel- from the largest tanker to the smallest patrol boat- it would be better for the industry to specialise. It is in these circumstances that it can not only become viable but it would also stand a good chance of becoming competitive in international terms. Although our labour costs are expensive by world standards Australia has the cheapest steel in the world. I also believe that the type of vessel most used in Australian waters and in the Australian export trade could easily be constructed here on a mass production basis. I am referring to a bulk carrier in the 25 000 to 30 000 dead weight tons range. 
Apart from these questions concerning rationalisation of the Australian shipbuilding industry there is also the overriding question of the type of financial assistance which the industry should obtain. I refer to the questions concerning the credit arrangements and the support through the taxation system which the shipbuilding industry should have. The 1969 Tariff Board inquiry as well as the inter-departmental committee established in 1971 both opposed the concept of providing extended government credit facilities to the shipbuilding industry. The Coombs Task Force report was opposed to the existing limited subsidy to the industry on account of the cost to the community and to the public revenue which resulted from the bounty. It can be assumed that any taxation concessions proposals would have met with resolute opposition. Again I am reminded of a promise by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  in 1972- another promise of aid to the shipbuilding industry broken. 
The level of Government support for shipbuilding overseas through extended credit arrangements and accelerated depreciation is quite considerable. For instance, the 1972 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development survey found that in Japan 85 per cent credit was provided for the shipbuilding industry at 6.5 per cent interest with two-thirds of this amount publicly financed and repayable over a 10-year period after a 3-year period of grace and one-third privately financed repayable over an 8-year period. For export vessels there existed joint public and private finance for 70 per cent of the capital cost of a ship repayable over 8 years at 7.5 per cent interest. 
In the United Kingdom and the United States there are similar schemes. The Opposition believes that the only way in which a healthy Aus.tralian shipbuilding and shipping industry will be brought about is through the provision of liberal credit and depreciation arrangements which recognise the special risks involved in shipowning. The nature of the shipping industry and the risks involved are such that capital will be attracted into the industry only if imaginative and flexible credit and depreciation measures are made available. Australia is the world's only island continent. We are one of the great trading nations of the world. Our prosperity depends upon our ability to export our own products and resources and to import the goods which are produced in other parts of the world. It is incomprehensible that a nation such as ours should not be one of the world's leading maritime powers. The annual cost to Australia of freight is of the order of $ 1 ,000m. The savings in foreign exchange and the acquisition of skills and resources would more than offset the cost involved in creating a national fleet. A large proportion of the real profits that we should obtain from the export of natural resources is lost to this country because of the costs involved in shipping. 
The Opposition believes that Australia is not only capable of becoming a large-scale maritime nation but also that one of the functions of the national Government is to encourage this development. What needs to be done in shipbuilding is to give the Australian shipbuilding yards terms that are at least equal to those of overseas yards. Give them a chance to compete. The other action required from the Government to make Australia a great maritime nation is to make the Australian flag ships more competitive with ships from comparable overseas countries. By comparable countries I mean countries that have a similar standard of living to Australia. Let us take as an example a Norwegian ship which carries a complement of nineteen. In Australia a similar ship would require a crew of thirty. 
The trouble is that there is too much featherbedding of crews in the Australian shipping industry. Australia will never become a maritime nation of any consequence while this Government is prepared to featherbed the crews in overseas trade. A comparable situation could be found in a 70 000 ton tanker with an Australian crew travelling around the world. It would cost $3.8m a year more than an overseas tanker crewed by a British crew, and Britain has a reasonable standard of living to be sure. We cannot have a featherbedded shipping industry when the crewing rates are so high and expect Australia to become a maritime nation. It is quite the reverse of proper policy. It will not lead to Australia becoming a great maritime nation except at great cost to the Australian consumer. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill but it does not believe that it will have any success at all in leading to a decent shipbuilding industry in this country. 
-The Telecommunications Bill 1975, as amended by the Senate on 2 1 May, was passed by the House of Representatives on 28 May and was received back in the Senate on 29 May. So, it is to all intents and purposes the law of the land. That is to say, an Australian Telecommunications Commission has been established to take over from the erstwhile Postmaster-General's Department those functions, duties and responsibilities which relate to the operations of the national telecommunications service. The Senate was unable to agree to the inclusion in the Bill of the Government's proposal to give to the Australian Telecommunications Commission the power to take over from the Overseas Telecommunications Commission the international telecommunications service. 
Accordingly, the Senate amended the BUI by deleting the clauses providing for this amalgamation or take-over. Speaking in another place at the conclusion of the debate on the Bill, the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  said that the Government opposed the amendment and would have to decide whether it would accept it at a later date. In this House in his second reading speech on the Postal Services Bill the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  said: 
Although the Government proposes to proceed with the 3 Bills as amended by the Senate, it objects to the removal of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission from the ambit of the relevant Bills and proposes to take separate action. 
This Bill represents the action which the Government proposes to take. The purpose of the Bill, in essence, is to reintroduce into the Telecommunications Act which was passed last week those clauses which were removed by the Senate amendments, and to incorporate the functions of the OTC (Australia) in the brand new Australian Telecommunications Commission. Before going on to discuss the points made by the Special Minister of State in his second reading speech on 29 May, I make the general observation that, in introducing legislation simply restoring provisions that were amended by the Senate, the Government is adopting a novel, if not unique, tactic. Further than that I do not wish to go at this moment. I will now deal in detail with some of the points the Minister raised. The Minister said: 
Following the majority recommendation of the Vernon Commission of Inquiry into the Australian Post Office, the Government decided to merge the national and international telecommunications services in one commission, the Australian Telecommunications Commission. 
No recommendation was made in the Vernon report, there being 2 different views. The report of the Royal Commission, some 600 pages of it I might add, was presented to the GovernorGeneral on 19 April 1974 and just 3 working days later on 24 April 1974 the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced the Government's acceptance of the principal recommendations, including the incorporation of the OTC. The 
Government is obstinately adhering to this decision which, at best, must be termed hasty. The Minister also said:  . . . amendment to these Bills in another place had the effect of preserving an illogical division of control over the common functions of national and international  telecommunciations  services. The Government is convinced that a comprehensive national approach to telecommunications services is essential, as in the United Kingdom, New Zealand, West Germany, Sweden and France where the internal and external telecommunications services are under the control of single Government authorities. 
A reading of the existing Overseas Telecommunications Act and the new Telecommunications Act shows a clear line of division between the OTC's activities and those of the new ATC. The key difference between the two is that in respect of international telecommunications all faculties, such as satellites and cables, require multilateral agreements with other countries whereas domestic telecommunications are a matter for unilateral decision by Australia alone. As revealed in its annual reports, the OTC has a fine reputation in the international sphere. These international requirements must remain no matter what type of new international services are introduced, including direct telephone dialling. The only inference which can be drawn from the Minister's statements is that the necessary international facilities and arrangements will remain but that they will be under the control of another organisation. Surely the key thing at risk here is that the fine OTC machine for international negotiation in the multilateral environment will be dissipated and lost if the OTC were absorbed by the much larger ATC. 
The Minister cites countries to suit his argument but, as is well known, the existence of separate organisations to carry out these two separate and different functions is by no means uncommon in some of the most technologically advanced countries, such as the United States of America, Japan and Canada. The Minister went on to say: 
Increasingly, services are being operated on a world-wide subscriber-to-subscriber basis and there is no logical reason for separate control of international services. 
The implication is that when there are subscriber-to-subscriber services the international organisation, that is, OTC, becomes redundant or should be under the control of the domestic organisation. Surely, no matter what happens in the future, Australia will require these submarine cable links, satellites and the other technical equipment currently controlled by the OTC. As at least the last 3 annual reports of the OTC have shown, it has been ready for direct overseas dialling for some years. The argument concerned with overseas STD is a red herring designed to confuse the situation. No Australian is disadvantaged in his use of overseas services by the existence of the OTC, but the removal of the OTC would place this at risk. The Minister continued: 
Regarding the statements made by the honourable member for Gippsland yesterday about the efficiency and profitability of OTC there should be no illusion on this matter. Because of the exclusive area of telecommunications operated by OTC, that is the provision of international links only, the costs of which are reducing as more sophisticated bearer equipment is developed, the overseas telecommunications organisation of every country throughout the world is making a profit. 
The OTC does not operate in the exclusive area of the provision of international links. In addition to Australia's cable and satellite links and other associated and necessary facilities, such as telephone and telex exchanges and operating centres, the OTC provides Australia's coastal radio service to ships at sea through some 14 radio stations around the coastline. As shown in the transcript of proceedings of the Vernon Commission, many of the OTC services are unprofitable. In reply to a question on this matter  Mr White,  the General Manager of the OTC, said: 
I suppose the first thing I should say is that of the 200-odd places to which we provide a service only about 70 are profitable. The balance we provide in order to provide a service to the Australian community so that they can communicate to these places. 
We operate a coastal radio service which has 2 principal objectives. One is to provide commercial communications with ships at sea, and we do this at a substantial loss, but we do it because the service has to be provided. The other is to provide a safety watch on the distress frequencies under what is called the safety of life at sea service, the SOLAS service. 
With regard to the coastal radio service, the OTC's most recent annual report, 1973-74, reveals an operating loss of $ 1.7m for the year. The Minister in his second reading speech in this regard said: 
On the other hand it is equally true that the cost of providing domestic services is increasing in every country in the world and although the national network has to be provided and maintained at a high standard without which OTC could not operate at all, the costs of doing this are not reflected in the payments made by OTC to the Australian Post Office. For this reason OTC in Australia and overseas counterparts will continue to appear efficient because they are operating in a narrow profit-making pool of communications at the expense of the local telephone user. 
The OTC's most recent annual report reveals that in 1973-74 it paid to the Australian Post Office over $ 13m for the use of the domestic network. This was an increase of almost $3m on the previous year and represented over 30 per cent of all OTC expenses. As could be expected, these figures have increased significantly since that time and I understand that now it could be in the order of $20m, in addition to taxes and dividends paid to the Government. In referring to this question,  Sir James  Vernon in the report of the Royal Commission said: 
As regards the reasonableness of charges paid by the OTC to the  APO  the basis for payment can be objectively examined and if appropriate, adjustment can be made. However, the ability of the relatively prosperous international operation to 'subsidise' the less profitable national service is very limited. 
Whilst not in the public domain, the PostmasterGeneral is aware that negotiated and formally agreed financial arrangments covering payments made by the OTC to the Australian Post Office exist. They have been freely entered into by both parties and were updated as recently as 1 April 1975. If these were revealed they would show that the payments made are equated to OTC's paying the full going domestic rate for the use made of the Australian Post Office network to carry calls to the subscriber. The Minister said: 
It is logical to merge the 2 organisations as this will permit better co-ordination of total operations, simplified billing arrangements and improved service to customers. 
The Minister's comment on billing arrangements is in conflict with his own statement that 'arrangements have been made to preserve separate accounting for the international service '. 
With regard to improved service, OTC's record stands high with its Australian users. The outcry from these very same users- the Overseas Telecommunications Users Action Committeemust arise from their fear that merger would mean a deterioration of service, not an improvement. Regrettably, and I think mistakenly, the Minister launched an attack on the OTC's record in regard to its relations with the Papua New Guinea Department of Posts and Telegraphs. In particular, the Minister said: 
OTC always had an excuse for refusing calls for assistance from the Papua New Guinea Department of Posts and Telegraphs and was endeavouring to retain control of Papua New Guinea's external communications. 
The OTC has a connection with Papua New Guinea going back to October 1946 and is obviously proud of its record. When Papua New Guinea assumed self-government on 1 December 1973 and as a consequence took over the radio stations under OTC control, no fewer than 59 indigenous OTC staff were transferred to the Papua New Guinea Department of Posts and Telegraphs. Ten of them had recently returned from a training course in Sydney as international telecommunications officers. Also, a number of OTC's Australian personnel continued working at Port Moresby, Lae and Rabaul on loan until trained local staff could replace them. OTC staff are continuing to operate and maintain the SEACOM- South-East Asia communicationscable station at Madang and are providing training for Department of Posts and Telegraphs personnel at that station. I do not call that a bad record of co-operation. 
The Minister went on to criticise the OTC for its choice of Madang, instead of Lae, as the site for an ARM cross-bar exchange. Much of the key material relevant to this issue is not publicly available. However, all significant action for the development of facilities in Papua New Guinea was taken with the approval of the then Postmaster-General in accordance with the Overseas Telecommunications Act. In the case of the Madang exchange as cited by the Minister, approval to proceed was given by the Postmaster-General of the day only after he had consulted with his Department and reached agreement with the then Minister for External Territories. The technically complex Madang v. Lae situation has its origins in the fact that the SEACOM cable, originally planned to land at Lae, had to be located at Madang because sea bottom conditions at Lae were totally unsuitable. 
With regard to assistance with staffing, not only is the Minister's information totally incorrect but the very reverse is true, as can be shown. The last 3 annual reports of the OTC reveal in the sidelined sections OTC's record in the training of Papua New Guineans to ensure a smooth takeover on self-government. The OTC staff magazine 'Transit' reveals that OTC made avail.able a number of key personnel from its Aus- tralian staff for secondment to the Papua New Guinea Department of Posts and Telegraphs after self-government. In addition, at the present time a senior OTC officer is working for that Department as head of its international services division. 
With regard to a new cable between Papua New Guinea and Australia the Press reports in the Papua New Guinea 'Post Courier' for July 1974 reveal that accord exists between OTC and the Department of Posts and Telegraphs to lay a $8m cable between Port Moresby and Cairnsnot Madang and Cairns, as incorrectly stated by the Minister. OTC's relations with the Papua New Guinea Department of Posts and Telegraphs have improved dramatically since selfgovernment, when responsibility for telecommunications in that country was taken over by the local people replacing the previous expatriate senior staff, mostly drawn from the Australian Post Office. The Minister said: 
The merging of the 2 organisations would avoid continuing and protracted negotiations between two separate managements on technological planning and cost sharing. These negotiations and the diverse aims of the two separate managements required the Postmaster-General of the previous Government . . . to have an APO/OTC Policy Liaison Committee formed in 1969. 

 Sir James Vernon said in his report: 
The single organisation that would develop from the merging of the two systems might appear at first sight an attractive simplification of the present situation, where the existence of two independent organisations has undoubtedly given rise to arguments in respect of the planning of the networks and their inter-working arrangements. Planning and co-ordination will always be necessary however as between national and international networks and the study group approach referred to previously would seem to be an effective way of exposing differing viewpoints and resolving complex issues. The  Chairman  does not believe that problems disappear and that planning is necessarily optimised by the creation of a single central planning authority. 
That was  Sir James  Vernon's view of things. The key point here is that negotiations between the overseas and domestic services on technological planning and cost sharing are necessary whether OTC is merged or not, unless the real intention is for domestic priority to inhibit technical development of the overseas services and for concealed cross-subsidisation of revenues to occur. That could be the plot the Minister has in mind. The Minister said: 
In moving to merge the services into one Commission, the Government has no intention of dismembering the Overseas Telecommunications Commission organisation and of submerging it in the large national organisation. On the contrary, the Interim Australian Telecommunications Commission proposes the retention of an international unit reporting directly to the Managing Director, who will be the chief executive officer of the Commission and a member of the Commission itself. The Interim Commission has already taken steps to overcome certain problems foreseen by  Sir James  Vernon. Arrangements were made for a senior OTC officer to be detached to assist in developing an organisation and a relationship between the international unit and the rest of the organisation of the Australian Telecommunications Commission. At its May meeting, the Interim Australian Telecommunications Commission adopted a series of proposals which were the outcome of this work. 
If the legislation were passed, no provision for any continued existence for OTC would exist. On the contrary, it would repeal the Overseas Telecommunications Act, thereby abolishing the OTC as a corporate entity. If indeed separate identity for the overseas services is part of the Government's wishes, why has this not been included in the Bill? In its absence, one can only assume that the Government intends or is indifferent to OTC's disappearance as an organisation. In the absence of statutory safeguards, no agreement between managements can prevent the process of retribution against OTC which the legislation clearly envisages. 
The statement that arrangements are being made concerning the future role of OTC in the new Commission changes nothing. It has to be expected that, following the Government's announcement of its intentions, discussions will take place between officials of the OTC and the Australian Post Office. One can imagine that in such discussions OTC would endeavour to achieve the best possible arrangements for the continuity of overseas services. All such discussions must be held within the framework of the draft legislation, which makes no provision for the continued separate existence of OTC. Continued independence by retention of the Overseas Telecommunications Act is essential if the Government's professed intention of ensuring that the capability built up by OTC is not destroyed is to have any meaning. 
In conclusion, let me say that the Opposition is opposed to the Bill because it thinks it is unnecessary. The commissioners who inquired into the Australian Post Office were unable to reach a common view on the question of whether the Overseas Telecommunications Commission should remain as a separate entity or should be merged into the proposed Australian Telecommunications Commission. The Opposition agrees with the view put forward by the  Chairman  of the Commission. The Commission's report states: ... the  Chairman  believes that it would be altogether premature to take a decision at this time to merge the wellestablished OTC with an ATC not yet in being. 
The situation will be seen in proper perspective only when the new Commission is properly established and when the boards of management of the 2 commissions have been able to study the practical inter-working of the national and international systems. The Opposition opposes the Bill. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
When the final charter cost of the Boeing 707 used for the Commonwealth Heads of State Conference is available, will he forward the figures to me at my Orbost office. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
What progress has been made with the enlarging of shipyards in Australia to build replacements for the ships imported from overseas. 
-We are debating the Railways Agreement (South Australia) Bill 1975, the purpose of which is to approve the transfer of the non-metropolitan section of the South Australian Railways to the Australian Government. The Railways (South Australia) Bill was presented in late May, along with the Railways (Tasmania) Bill, and debated in this House on 2 June 1975. It passed through this House and then through the Senate. During the previous debate I pointed out the Opposition's attitude to the Bill. I said at the time that the matter involved an agreement between 2 sovereign governments and therefore it ought to be left to the State Parliament of South Australia to ratify the agreement brought down by the sovereign government if it so desired. History shows what happened to the Bill dealing with this matter in South Australia. The South Australian people went to an election on the issue and, in point of fact, the South Australian Government lost 3 country seats, if I am not mistaken. 
Three country seats were lost over the Bill, which rather says to me that certainly no mandate was given to the Federal Government on this matter. When the Bill was last debated I pointed out that the Opposition would not impede the passage of the Bill at that time for the reason that it had been a matter of agreement between 2 sovereign governments. I explained perfectly plainly our attitude towards the Bill. 
The first point I make is that we believe that the $200m that this legislation and the Tasmanian Railways Bill will cost the taxpayers would be far better invested in improving the State's railway system. I cannot understand what the South Australian people think they are going to get out of this, apart from it giving a bit of relief to the South Australian Premier's budgeting problems. It certainly will not lead to a better 
Tail service in South Australia. The Australian taxpayer, who is funding this proposal, certainly will not see any benefit for the $202m-odd- I understand that the amount involved is in excess of that- which will be invested. I said previously that more equitable decisions should be made at the local level in respect of the railway systems. I hold the view very strongly- I repeat this- that centralised control will not improve the railway system of South Australia. I said at the time- I repeat it- that the Federal Minister for Transport, the Australian Government, or indeed any future Minister, would be unable to do anything in South Australia, even if they wanted to, because there is a veto clause in the agreement which gives the South Australian Minister for Transport or the South Australian Government the right to veto any measure which may be proposed by the Australian Government. So, no savings can be made without the approval of the South Australian Government. 
Let me take the first point: One would have thought that some rationalisation and, indeed, prompt savings would have been achieved by the takeover of South Australian railways under this measure. For example, let me refer to the position in regard to staff. There can be no reductions in staff. Any proposals to reduce the levels of staff are specifically excluded by the measure itself. So, there can be no savings in that area. One would have thought that some rationalisation would have followed the merger of the Australian National Railways and the South Australian railways into one system. But, again, clause 9 of the Bill specifically prevents any change to the status quo in respect of the railway system in South Australia without the approval of the State Minister. What chance has the Federal Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  of rationalising a railway system when there would be all the political hoo-ha should there be a close-down or threatened close-down or threatened change of any of the services in South Australia? Clause 8 prevents any rationalisation of the fare structure or the freight structure of the railway system. No relative advantage presently given to any South Australian industry can be altered without the approval of the South Australian Minister. So, there is very little that the Federal Minister for Transport can do to improve the South Australian railways system. On 26 May 1975 the Minister gave reasons to justify the transfer of South Australian railways to the Australian National railways system. He made a number of fine statements, one of which was as follows: 
One may ask why the Government does not just provide the States with sufficient funds to bring their railways up to an acceptable standard. I must admit this solution has an elementary plausibility, in that it would appease the States. But it would be a denial of our responsibility to the railways and the people of Australia- that awesome responsibility that accompanies the spending of public money. We cannot, and will not, divorce the responsibility for raising funds from the spending of them. 
That principle seems to be somewhat ambiguous. He applied that principle importantly to the non-metropolitan railway system of South Australia; but he does not apply it to the metropolitan system of South Australia. In fact, he was unable to secure agreement with the Premier of South Australia on the takeover of the metropolitan section of that State 's railway system. Apparently he was able to secure such an agreement in Tasmania but not in South Australia. So, the fine principle that he lays down as being a fundamental reason for taking over this railway system' falls to the ground in his first experience. One is led to the conclusion that the Minister has failed to prove any gain for the Australian taxpayer, for the rail user or for the nation. 
As I have said, this Bill and the Railways (Tasmania) Bill will cost the taxpayers in excess of $200m. The method of financing is quite extraordinary. I notice that in the Sixth Schedule attached to the back of this new Bill the Minister sets out how this money is to be paid. We are entering the hire purchase business. We are buying these railway systems on hire purchase. I know that the funds of the Commonwealth are pretty sketchy at the moment- I heard the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  tell us this last weekbut an extraordinary situation is outlined on the back page of the Bill. The Australian Government will pay an interest rate of 8.2 per cent for the first year of operation of the Agreement up to 1977 on the money that it will repay. From then on, the interest rate varies and the amount of repayment varies. The interest rate varies from 8.2 per cent down to 5.9 per cent in July 1977. It then drops to 5 per cent, increases to 6.8 per cent and again drops to 5.7 per cent. For the next year the interest rate is 5.4 per cent, and then it increases to 8.3 per cent for the repayment to be made in 1983. The Australian Government finally pays off this railways debt in the year 2005. 
I am citing the figures which appear in the Sixth Schedule on page 15 of the new Bill. I do not understand what has happened. It looks as though the Government put its fingers into the lottery barrel and drew out a figure for what the interest rate should be. It also looks as though the Government put its fingers into the lottery barrel to decide what annual sums ought to be repaid. Again, the Sixth Schedule to the Bill shows that the amount of the payment jumps from $5m in one year to $6m in the next, then goes down to $4m in the next year, increases to $6m in the next, and then goes to $ 10m, $3m and $ 17m in the following years. We must be in for a flush year in 1983. In October 1 983 the debt repayment to be made by the Australian Government totals $20m. In the next year it drops to $ 1 5m. I point out to the nation that we are in for a lousy year in 1989 because in that year we can afford to repay only $3m to South Australia. And so the figures go on. The whole thing lacks consistency. There is no explanation from the Government of the variation in interest rates. There is no explanation by the Government of the variation in the repayments that are to be made. 
I have made the point and I make it again: I believe that this vast sum of money would be much better expended if it were to be spent on capital works in the railway system. No one would deny that all the Australian railway systems need capital injection. Yet under this legislation we are placed in the extraordinary position of spending $200m of the taxpayers' funds to gain nothing apart from a transfer of ownership. We gain no rationalisation and no savings. I think that this has been done merely to satisfy the ego of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  It seems to me that he launched this whole matter in the first place. 
I agree that it would be very difficult. He has a very deep ego. When I look at what other countries have done in respect of capital investment in railways, I just wonder what this $200m could do in respect of fully automated railway yards for a start. I notice that railways such as the Austrian Federal Railways, the British Railways, the Canadian Pacific Railways and the French National Railways all have fully automated railway yards. The French 
National Railways has 7 automated railway yards, the German Federal Railways has 3 fully automated yards, the Italian State Railways has 3 automated yards, the Japanese National Railways has 7 such yards and even the tiny state of Luxembourg has an automated railway yard. South Africa has 2 automated yards, Sweden has one and Switzerland has four. They are very expensive, but they are very good in terms of cost saving. Then we come to Australia. Apparently, in its wisdom, the Western Australian Government has established one automated yard. I suggest to the House that the $200m set aside for expenditure under this legislation would do much more for the railway systems of Australia if it were invested in automatic railway yards in South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales. It is true that the Premier of South Australia will relieve his Budget situation as a result of this Bill. But this Government should not have the responsibility of solving the Budget problems of only the Premier of South Australia. He has broad enough shoulders to solve his own difficulties. 
I turn now to the user pays principle that is so much espoused by the Prime Minister and also heavily espoused by the Minister for Transport. We can see the user pays principle being put into operation in the general aviation industry throughout Australia. I ask honourable members to look at the position in which the general aviation system has been placed by the adoption of that principle. The user pays principle has almost wrecked the general aviation industry throughout Australia. The Minister for Transport is adamant that the user must pay. He claims this in almost every speech he makes. Yet I see no evidence of him saying that the railway users must pay the full cost of operating the railways; nor do I see any studies to show what the costs might be. The Minister fails to recognise that the railways traditionally have been a service to the people of Australia from one end of the country to the other. The people look upon the railways as a service. If he starts adopting the principle that the user must pay in respect of the railways, there will be some tremendous shocks in South Australia when the Government finally manages to screw up the fares and the freight rates. 
I am inclined to ask: Why is it that we are taking over this railway system? I remember that the Prime Minister made this promise as a policy speech pronouncement in 1972. I think that at that time he was fond of using the phrase 'comparable countries'. The Prime Minister claimed at the time that almost every country with a federal system comparable to that in Australia had a unitary rail system. But he has misled the Parliament and the Australian people on this point. 
-It might not be for the first time, but he certainly has done it on this occasion. The Prime Minister cited the position in Canada. The simple fact is that there is a mixed system of railway ownership in Canada. There is a system owned by the Canadian Government and there is a great variety of privately owned railways. In the United States of America there is the same mix of privately-owned and public railway systems. Let me cite the case of Switzerland. It is about the size of Tasmania. It may well be wise for us to consider the proposition of one government owning one railway in a State the size of Tasmania. The Tasmanian Government owned the Tasmanian railway until big brother stepped in and decided that he would like to take it over. West Germany might be the size of Victoria. It is probably sensible for a small country like West Germany to have one railway system owned by one government. But the simple fact is that the Prime Minister has misled the Australian people on this matter. I pay tribute to John O'Hara for an article which he wrote for the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 5 August this year. I read it to the House because I think it tells us what is in the Prime Minister's mind more accurately than I or the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan),  who is sitting at the table, can do. It states: 
A month spent in search of the Whitlam Government's prepared case for a takeover of the States' railways system has established, literally, that there is none. The grandiose scheme, which could involve the Federal Government in a total commitment of some $3,000-$4,000m - 
The Prime Minister might have to go to the Arabs to try to raise another loan- or more in the long term - 
Or even more money than that- turns out to be the personal hobbyhorse of none other than the Master himself- the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam. 
I could have written this myself. The article continues: 
As such, and in keeping with his preference for governing by edict rather than consultation and justification,  Mr Whitlam  has foisted the proposition on his Transport Minister,  Mr Jones,  and has left  Mr Jones  to make a plausible case for it as he goes along. 
I am afraid that poor  Mr Jones  has failed dismally to do that. 
-Dr Cairns has gone. The article states: 
Ostensibly  Mr Jones's  department has been in the throes of making out a prepared case since being asked for it a month ago, but so far the opus has not emerged. 
This is not to say that there may be no good grounds for a takeover. Certainly it would relieve the State Governments of most, if not all, of their immediate budgetary problems if they could get the same kind of deal South Australia's Dunstan Government got, although its benefits to travellers remain obscure. 
I think that puts the matter completely in a proper nutshell. No studies have been made by this Government. No studies were made by the Bureau of Transport Economics. No cost benefit analysis was made of the value of taking over a project such as the South Australian railway system. The Prime Minister has introduced this as a grandiose scheme to resolve the transport difficulties of Australia. The fact is that it is a complete nothing. For example, it cannot be compared with the standardisation of the Australian railway system which we managed over a period of years when we were in government. Every mainland State capital from Perth to Brisbane was joined by standardised rail. There is no comparison. 
No gains can be made in this project. It is a pointless and thoughtless political proposal which will cost the taxpayers a great deal of money and, in the end, lead to very little good result. One or two other points need to be made. I am told that the BTE is to carry out an evaluation. The Minister has reaffirmed this in his speech. South Australians ought to be aware of it. If they are of any mind that they will get some gains out of this takeover I ask them to look at the Minister's second reading speech. He states: 
Long overdue improvements and economies can be made- our first task will be to prepare a program of improvements for the South Australian region of ANR- a program that will be carefully evaluated by the Bureau of Transport Economics to ensure that maximum benefits are obtained from the finances that will be provided. 
No BTE study was made in the first instance about the value of taking over the South Australian railways. That was a political decision. No benefit can be shown. Yet for every dollar which we spend now the BTE will be asked to make a study to see that there is a proper and reasonable yield from that investment. That might be fine. One may not be able to argue against the need for BTE studies, but why was not a BTE study made in the first place, published and laid on the table in accordance with the great open government policy which we have? Why did the Government not have a BTE study made and tell us the truth about the gains which could be made? 
Now every dollar which will be spent in South Australia will be subjected to a BTE study. I would like to know how some of the remote country freight lines which have a heavy yield and traffic only in the wheat season, with very little for the rest of the year, can demonstrate a real yield which will satisfy the BTE that money ought to be spent. I would like to know how the low passenger traffic on some of these lines can cause the BTE to bring down a report which will encourage investment. I think South Australia will get a raw deal out of the whole matter. I say one thing about the Minister's speech. I have been at him ever since he became a Minister on this subject. For the first time it is noted for its lack of length. It is brief. I congratulate him on it. It is about the briefest speech he has made since he became a Minister. But, more importantly, for the first time a second reading speech does not carry the political dogma which his speeches normally do. The Minister has refrained at long last. He has learnt the lesson that second, reading speeches should not be a bible, taken from the sayings of chairman Gough, from Labor Party meetings and annual conferences, or from platform and policy. 
For the first time he made a technical speech which sets out the facts in relation to the case and does not contain political dogma. I congratulate the Minister on having learnt a hard lesson the hard way. I have been nearly 3 years training him but I am gradually getting him to the point. He is gradually understanding what this Parliament is about and that when he makes a speech it ought to be a speech of fact and nothing else. Now that he has come into the House I congratulate him again on that point. There are a couple of questions I would like him to answer, if he is able to do so. Concern has been expressed to me by farmer organisations in South Australia about what will happen to the silos which are built on railway territory. No answer has been given in relation to those silos. The farmers would like to know whether they will retain control of the silos. They provided funds for them. They would like to know the answer to that question. 
As the Minister was not in the House earlier, I shall repeat a question. Can he explain the sixth schedule which causes South Australia to repay at different interest rates every year? There are different repayments in terms of millions of dollars each year. This schedule is found at the back of the Bill. What causes the interest rate to run from 8.2 per cent per annum to 5.9 per cent, then back to  1  per cent and so on? Why is there a change? The final question I have through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  is: Will the Minister assure the House that the amendment we moved to the 
Australian National Railways Bill will be followed in spirit and that the Australian Government will not set up road transport operators to run all over the place in competition with the private road operators wherever rationalisation of the railway system takes place? Concern has been expressed to me in South Australia because there is great fear about what the Australian Government might do. I remind the Minister of the amendment which he accepted. I trust he will follow the spirit of that amendment. I have set out the Opposition's view to this Bill. We do not like it. We would not have a bar of it if we were in government. We think there is a better way of spending $200m than paying off South Australia's debts. It should be responsible for its own bad management over the years. We could do a lot better with the $200m which is to be spent to upgrade the South Australian railway system. I repeat that we will let the Bill go through. It is an agreement between 2 sovereign governments. As the South Australian Parliament has had an election on the issue the Bill has the right to pass. 
-Nowhere can the Labor failure be more plainly seen and nowhere can the Labor failure be more explicitly defined than in its attitude to Tasmania's shipping and transport problems. Nowhere can the sheer miscalculation or misleading by a government and the sheer deception of Labor policy be more clearly exposed than in the shipping problems of Tasmania. When Labor was in Opposition over 23 years it filled  Hansard  with the easy answers of how to solve the shipping problems of Tasmania. How simple were those solutions. 
Neither the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  nor the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  is in the House at the moment which shows how little interest they have in this subject. Both honourable members and exDeputy Prime Minister Barnard found it so easy to solve the shipping problems of Tasmania. Senators in another place used to join the happy queue providing the simple answers. I ask honourable members to listen to this fine piece of hyperbole from thhonourable member for Wilmot: . . . today I directed a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  concerning the high freight rates charged by the Australian National Line for goods transported between Tasmania and the mainland. In one of the worst replies I have ever heard in this House the Minister raved about unions and what they were doing to the ANL, as though they were the causes of all of Tasmania's troubles. The fact is that freight rates for most commodities have increased by 30 per cent in the last 2 years. 
The honourable member for Wilmot then said: 
I do not know how an island with and island economy, which is as isolated as Tasmania is and with a populaton of under 400 000, can continue meeting this type of freight rise. 
That was a level of 30 per cent in  2  years. How does the honourable member for Wilmot like a level of  65  per cent in  2  years under the present Government? The honourable member is not even in the House, which shows his real lack of interest and concern for Tasmania. He is not even in the House to answer for his own failings. 
I acknowledge that the honourable member for Braddon has come into the chamber and I will deal with him in a minute. The honourable member for Wilmot also had this to say: 
The Tasmanian mainland trade ... is now to be slugged with a 1214 per cent increase in freight at one go. Tasmanian industrialists and primary producers, manufacturers and consumers are being asked to rescue the ANL from its losses last year. We regard this as unjust and detrimental. 
What does the honourable member think of 40 per cent in one year if he is concerned about a  12V4  .per cent freight rise? No wonder the honourable member is not even in the House to answer for that. The honourable member, in the first quote which I gave, attacked me for blaming the situation on strikes. It seems that I am in good company because the Minister for Transport  (Mr 
Charles Jones), on  28  July in the  Sydney Morning Herald  was reported as follows: 
The Federal Minister for Transport,  Mr Jones,  says strikes by maritime unions are the main cause behind the 40 per cent increase in Australian National Line freight rates. 
So I am in good company- the Minister joins me and puts the blame on strikes. But there is a difference. The Minister and the Labor Party made an agreement with the unions, and told Tasmania .that they had made an agreement, that strikes would not be allowed to interfere with Tasmanian trade. What has happened to that agreement? It has been a failure, as the Government has been a failure. 
Let us see what the honourable member for Braddon had to say about Tasmania when he was a member of the Opposition. He said: 
I agree with business leaders in Tasmania who pointed out that industrial disputes can surely be settled and should not be allowed to take control of the Australian National Line business. If it is otherwise, the Minister should be sacked. 
I agree with that proposition. I think the present Minister for Transport should be sacked. The honourable member for Wilmot has finally turned up to show some interest in the problems of Tasmania. Welcome to the debate. The Minister and the Government have both failed dismally in answering these very serious problems. The honourable members for Braddon, Wilmot, Franklin  (Mr Sherry)-  who is not here- and Denison  (Mr Coates)  go around the electorates in Tasmania like roaring lions complaining about - 
They go around their electorates like roaring lions complaining about what we used to do in government in handling the Tasmanian problem. Now they sit here like tame pussy cats, saying nothing and doing nothing. That is how good they are to Tasmania. They have done nothing. The honourable member for Wilmot is the man who sent around a telegram urging an uprising of the Tasmanian members of Parliament on this question. Where is he now? He is sitting there like a lame duck, saying nothing and doing nothing. They are the honourable members who, when the Australian Shipping Commission Act was being changed, made great political capital out of the fact that under the new section  17  of the Act the Minister and the Labor Government would be able to solve all Tasmania's problems because they would be able to subsidise any freight rates in Tasmania and would be able to maintain a steady level of freight rates. Of course, they have not done it. 
When I was the Minister and when my colleague the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  was the Minister they were joined in their complaints over the years by other roaring lions in the Senate-  Senator O  'Byrne, who now holds the lofty position of  President  of the Senate, and  Senator Wriedt  who is now the Minister for Agriculture and the Leader of the Government in the Senate. They are 2 more roaring lions in the electorate but 2 tame lambs in the Australian Labor Party's system.  Senator Wriedt  is a proven failure as Minister for Agriculture- the greatest disaster agriculture has had in the history of the nation. He has not done one thing for Tasmania. The really guilty men are the Minister for Transport and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  The Minister for Transport, who is sitting opposite me, used to harangue my colleague the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party and me with words like 'disaster', 'shocking', 'sell-out', 'bungling' and 'incompetent'. They were all aimed at me by the present Minister for Transport. 
Let me remind the House that in 2 years there has been a 65 per cent freight increase to Tasmania, all caused by the economic mismanagement of this Minister and the Government of the day. The Minister will respond with the greatest piece of rhetoric one has ever heard. He will respond in the good old angry Charlie Jones fashion, but he will do nothing. I warn the people of Tasmania that he will do nothing, as the honourable members who sit behind him have done nothing. The real ambiguity in Labor's policy can be seen in the fact that the Minister will allow the east-west railway systems to lose some $200m on their freight lines. They have not moved their freights for 4 years and have forced the Associated Steamships Pty Ltd out of business in servicing Western Australia. That is what the Minister will allow. The railways will then have a monopoly. We will see what happens to the freight rates for servicing Western Australia once the railways achieve a monopoly. 
Let us think of the effect of this catastrophic freight rise on Darwin which has been through the horrors of cyclone Tracy. Does the Minister not know that as a result of the 40 per cent rise it now costs $7 1 a tonne for steel to go from Sydney to Darwin? It costs only $30 per tonne from Singapore. From looking at those comparisons one wonders how we will keep Australian industry alive. The Minister has even had the cheek to imply that he fathered the $1.8m wheat subsidy. The fact is that the $1.8m is provided by the wheat growers of Australia and it is a convention which is enshrined in law in this Parliament; it has nothing to do with the Minister for Transport. His claim that it is a lofty Government action to help Tasmania is sheer nonsense. The real lack of credibility in this whole matter rests on the Prime Minister's shoulders. He is the leader of the Government. It was he who said in 1972: 'We will give an equalised freight rate to mainland capital cities'. What has he done? He has sat by and watched a 65 per cent increase in freight rates occur while the Nimmo Committee travels around the world at the taxpayers' expense and does not report to the nation. Where is the Nimmo report? Why did the Minister for Transport not hold back with these charges until the Nimmo Committee reported? He has failed in his duty. I am told that in the Bass by-election the Prime Minister assured Tasmanians that there would be no freight increases and that the Opposition's claim that there would be freight increases was bungling and untrue. 
The honourable member should read the Hobart  Mercury  of 24 July if he thinks that what I am saying is untrue. There is one other matter I want to raise in the time left and that is the Government's refusal to allow the ship  Wanaka  to be imported by William Holyman &amp; Sons Pty Ltd to enter the Tasmanian trade. The company wants to replace the  William Holyman,  which was built in 1961, with the  Wanaka.  Let us compare the 2 ships. The  William Holyman  requires 46 dock workers; the  Wanaka  requires 12 dock workers. The  Wanaka  is 3 times as fast. Is the Minister afraid to allow it to come in because he is scared that the dock workers will vote against Labor? Is he worried that he may lose a bit of union support? Is that his problem? Imagine the difference the  Wanaka  could make to the Tasmanian trade. I appeal to the honourable member for Wilmot and the honourable member for Braddon in the dying hours of their term in this Parliament. I appeal to the honourable member for Denison who has not said a word for the industries of Tasmania since he came here. He has said less than the honourable member for Franklin. I have not been able to find a quote in  Hansard  from the honourable member for Franklin on this issue. That shows how much he has done. 
Let me come back to the issue. Imagine the difference the  Wanaka  could make in terms of costs to the Tasmanian trade. The day before yesterday the Minister received a telex advising that Holymans had 36 hours left. That time expired at midnight last night. But I am told that if the Minister were to contact Holymans immediately and give them permission to import the ship they could still make an arrangement to get that ship into the Tasmanian trade. I think there is a heavy responsibility on the Minister to let it in. I will tell him my attitude towards the shipbuilding policy. What is the difference between Holymans allowing the  Wanaka  to come in and the Minister allowing 6 oil tankers to come in without a requirement on the Australian companies to re-build those oil tankers in Australia? They are all 70 000-tonners, all capable of being rebuilt in Australian yards. But the Minister has not placed a requirement on the oil industry to rebuild those tankers at Australian yards. He has given them the right to import 6 tankers without a requirement to rebuild at Australian yards. 
Never mind where. They will get them. He has not laid down one condition. I have seen the draft arrangement and there is no condition laid down that they should be rebuilt at Australian yards. The Minister will do it for the oil companies to promote his own nationalistic policy, which is stupid and costly anyway, but why will he not allow Holymans to bring in this ship and give them 3 years to put up a proposition to rebuild at Australian yards? The Opposition will expedite that view. It will help and support the Government in any trouble it has industrially or in any other way. The Government must solve the shipping problems of Tasmania. It has failed miserably in this whole matter. The Opposition will not make political capital out of it if the Minister allows the  Wanaka  in and gives Holymans 3 years in which to put up a proposition for rebuilding at Australian yards. The Minister said in a letter to Holymans: 
As you are aware importation of a vessel can only be approved in circumstances where the company undertakes to comply with the policy. 
That is what he said. He will do it for the oil companies. He has not mentioned replacement for the oil companies but he will not do it for Holymans. Why is that? Why is there an ambiguity and a difference? It is Tasmania that is suffering. At the moment we can get oil carted more cheaply by overseas ships than by Australian ships. It is $2m a year cheaper per ship. But the Minister will not replace those overseas ships and he will not allow Holymans to bring in the  Wanaka  under any conditions. 
The Australian Labor Party stands condemned. The Prime Minister stands condemned for the action he has taken. The various members of the Labor Party who sit in this House have been condemned by the Tasmanian people in particular. I point to one honourable member here, the new honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman),  who is proof positive of that fact. He beat the former  Deputy  Prime Minister of Australia, the leading Labor figure in the Tasmanian Labor Party from the leading Labor family for 40 years. The people of Bass recognise the humbug and hyprocrisy of the Labor Government. They recognise just how unfair and untrue it is in respect of its policies towards Tasmania. They voted overwhelmingly for my colleague the new honourable member for Bass. I warn each of the Tasmanian members sitting here that they are finished politically because they have failed. Their Prime Minister has failed. Their Minister for Transport has failed to do what he said for 23 years he would do. There has been a 65 per cent freight rise in 2 years. The Government has wrecked the Tasmanian economy. The Minister is responsible for wrecking the Tasmanian economy, and there is not even a blush on his face. Honourable members opposite are the guilty men, and I say that the Government stands condemned for what it promised when in Opposition for 23 years and for what it has not done in the 3 years it has been in office. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has he yet ascertained the charter cost of the Boeing 707 used for the Commonwealth Heads of State Conference; if so, what are the details. 
-Will the Prime Minister sort out the administrative muddle between 2 of his Ministers, the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Minerals and Energy? Does he know that 2 Australian built oil rigs worth over $50m are unable to find work and are not allowed to be exported to find work because of the stupidity of his 2 Ministers? 
-The Tasman Bridge Restoration Bill (No. 2) is a relatively small Bill but an important one. The purpose of the Bill is to modify an agreement that has already been arranged between this Government and the Tasmanian Government relating to a modification of the Tasman Bridge on the Derwent River at Hobart to be carried out concurrendy with restoration of that bridge. The Bill provides authority for the Commission to add a fifth lane to the Tasman Bridge whilst at the same time reconstructing the broken sections of that bridge. 
The House will recall that the first Bill on this matter came into the Parliament on 10 April and was assented to on 19 May this year. The House will also recall that the reason for both of these Bills was the collision of the  Lake Illawarra  with the Tasman Bridge in January of this year when 3 spans of the bridge collapsed. It was a tragic event and it caused the loss of lives of at least 12 known persons, including some of the members of the crew of the  Lake Illawarra  and a number of people in cars who unfortunately went over the end of the broken section. This event has certainly disrupted the life of the city of Hobart, there being some 50 000 people living on the eastern shore who feel quite inconvenienced through the lack of the use of this bridge. There are people who live on one side of the city and who work on the other and pupils going to school whose life has been disrupted. It is claimed that the life of the people on the eastern shore of the river is broken as a result of the collapse of this bridge. I understand that these people have a 51 -mile trek now through Risdon and Bridgewater around to Hobart on a road which apparently is not designed to carry the sort of traffic it is expected to carry now. There is a very telling article in the  Australian  of May this year in connection with this matter and I should like to read a quote from that article. It is headed: 'The social decline of a divided city'. The article states: 
Five months after the ore carrier Lake Illawarra rammed the Tasman Bridge, killing 12 and isolating the bedrooms of the city from the boardrooms, Hoban remains a city in shock. 
It is a city that has lost its innocence. Without the bridge much of its rural peace has evaporated as workers battle to commute by ferry across the River Derwent 
To the people of Sydney and Melbourne commuting times of up to one hour are commonplace, but they have their cars and trains. The residents of Hobart 's eastern shore have been denied their cars and feel they have been stripped of their autonomy and freedom. 
This is the important part of this article: 
The first tentative results of two major social surveys into the results of the collapse are depressing. Researchers see the first indication of increasing delinquency, crime, marital breakdowns, addiction to alcohol and sedatives in the heavily urban eastern shore communities where some women spend their afternoons weeping in frustration at being isolated and alone. 
The50 000 people on the eastern shore, separated from the city's centre by a circuitous 80km (50 mile) road trip or an hour-long queue and a ferry trip across the1¼ kilometre Derwent, feel isolated and resentful. 
As yet they have no hospital, few shops and a growing fear that all the reasons they loved living in Hobart are gone forever. 
Perhaps worst of all, is the feeling that the Government is not doing enough quickly enough to rebuild the Tasman Bridge and restore the links that fostered trade and held families together. 
No decision - 
That is when this newspaper article was written-  has yet been made on how, and some say if, the bridge will be repaired. 
That position has been clarified by the latest decisions. 
The State Labor Government will announce the method of repair in about one month, - 
That was in May-  but no one, including the Premier,  Mr Neilson,  expects the bridge to re-open much before 1978. 
Until then, eastern shore residents, and to a lesser extent, the 100,000 on the city side will unhappily rely on nine ferries to commute across the Derwent. 
Later this year, there will also be a temporary bridge a few kilometres upstream from the Tasman, but it will initially have only one lane, and that will be reserved for emergency and commercial vehicles during peak hours. 
A second permanent bridge, even farther upstream, is scheduled to be built before 1980, and there is every possibility it will be in service before the Tasman is repaired, 
I would say that that has every prospect of being true, having regard to the way this Government behaves.  probably by a steel span supported by a single pier. 
There is a general feeling in Hobart that neither the ministers nor the Public Service mandarins and their minions were up to dealing with a major catastrophe. 
-The honourable member for Wilmot, the great expert, interjects and says, 'What Liberal wrote that?'. Fancy the honourable member introducing politics into a disaster of this nature. I am ashamed of the honourable member for Wilmot. I read to him what is obviously a very carefully taken social survey of the problems of the people of eastern Hobart and he introduces politics into the matter. I am ashamed of the honourable member for Wilmot. I thought better of him. The House will recall that when this disaster occurred the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was overseas on one of his many regular holiday jaunts - 
I am forced to bring politics into the matter in response to the interjection by the honourable member for Wilmot - 

 -Mr Chairman, in dealing with the estimates for the Department of Transport there are a number of matters which time will not permit me to mention. However, I shall raise, first, the matter of the level of the air navigation charges proposed in the Budget Speech and set out on page 65 of the statements accompanying the Budget Speech. Air navigation charges affect general aviation, the members of the 2-airlines agreement and international operators whose aircraft come to Australia. The figures show that the actual revenue raised from air navigation charges in 1974-75 amounted to $44.9m. In 1975-76, this Budget year, it is estimated that between 1 December this year and 30 June next year there will be a collection of air navigation charges amounting to $77m, or an increase of $32. lm or 71 per cent over the previous year. That is an extraordinary rate of increase. It is even worse than an increase of 71 per cent when one realises that that extra amount of $32. 1 m has to be collected in 7 months. Unless there is some information on this matter that I have not got- if there is I hope that the Minister will inform me about it- the real collection rate proposed in this Budget Will represent an increase of 122 per cent over the previous year. One can imagine the effect that this will have on the fare structure of the civil airlines. One can imagine the effect that it Will have on general aviation throughout the nation, which is already in a very traumatic state because of previous steep increases in charges of this nature. 
-That is absolutely right. Australia is now in the unique position of having not only the highest postal charges in the world but also the highest air navigation charges in the world. It might soon have the highest rate of inflation for a Western country of comparable size, but I put that matter to one side at the moment. I am concerned that this increase in air navigation charges has not been explained by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  I hope that he will take time in this debate to explain it, because the airlines agreement of 1961 provided for a simple increase of 10 per cent in air navigation charges, not for an increase of 122 per cent. In 1973 the Minister himself signed a 2- airlines agreement in which the rate of increase in air navigation charges was lifted to 15 per cent. The Minister's signature is on that agreement. 
I should like to know how it is that now suddenly we are faced with an increase of 122 per cent in air navigation charges for a period of 7 months this financial year, if the Budget figures are accurate. I hope that the Minister will take the opportunity to explain this matter. Does he propose to move outside the 2-airlines agreement and raise that extra revenue from general aviation, or does he propose to break the 2- airlines agreement and force Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia to increase their fares to a much higher figure by forcing them to accept a higher rate than 15 per cent for air navigation charges? Does the Minister propose to force the international airlines to increase their fares because of the increased rate of air navigation charges? This information cannot be found in the Budget Speech. There may be some factor in it that I have not noticed or been able to discover. I hope the Minister will put my mind at rest. Clause 1 1 of the agreement the Minister signed states: ... the Commonwealth will increase the rate of air navigation charges to international operators by the same percentage as that applied from time to time in respect of the operations of the Commission and the Operating Company. 
It is quite clear, therefore, that if the Minister is to honour the letter of the agreement he is unable to move outside the agreement. So whatever fees he charges under the airlines agreement, which can be increased by only 15 per cent a year, he cannot charge the international aviators fees which increase by more than 15 per cent a year. I ask the Minister how he proposes to raise $32m in 7 months at a rate of 122 per cent under those tight parameters and guidelines. He has a real responsibility to let the Parliament know what is in his mind. While I am on the question of air navigation charges, I should like to congratulate the Cessna Flying Club Inc. of South Australia which prepared a report on the aviation cost recovery program. It made a most definitive case for a review of the decision taken in respect of this whole question; that is, to raise from the industry 80 per cent of the cost of the services by 1978. It makes a case to show that the Government has a heavy responsibility in this area. The report states: 
We are faced with a situation whereby our national and intrastate airline movements are peculiarly low and confined to peaks. 
This, of course, requires that the system be equipped and staffed on the basis of what is necessary to service those peaks. 
The 2 airline policy dictated by the government for Australia has resulted in the essential services being required to cope with short periods of intense activity, interspersed with long periods of spasmodic activity. 
Therefore, for the majority of the time, the system is grossly overequipped and overstaffed. 
The report continues: 
This is nevertheless acceptable if we allow that it is the government's role to provide essential services for use when needed. 
Even though the utilisation factor is probably closer to 25 per cent, the recent Darwin cyclone disaster evidenced that such essential services were indeed essential and quite as important as say, the Defence Forces. 
The report states that it is the responsibility of the taxpayer to provide these services; not the airline user. A copy of this report was sent to the Minister, who finally acknowledged it on 26 August. The report contains a series of recommendations and findings. I do not have time to go into them today, but I hope the Minister will take the recommendations on board. I have replied personally to the Cessna Flying Club saying that if we are returned to government I will put a halt to the program and assess the criteria on which this cost recovery program has been established. I will also compare the user pays principle that the Minister is applying to the airlines with the user pays principle applying to railways and roads to see what is the difference. The paradox of the Government's position is that it is prepared to charge the airlines 80 per cent of the recovery of service costs but is not prepared to charge the users of road and rail this proportion. In the Minister's reply to the Club he said: 
Meanwhile I thank you for sending me the report and you may rest assured that I found your observations of value to me during consideration, with my Cabinet colleagues, of the Budget papers. 
That comment led to a 122 per cent increase in air navigation charges in a 7-month period. The other matter I want to raise in the 3 minutes left to me is that of urban transport. The Committee will recall that in 1972 the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  campaigned vigorously on the problems of urban transport, promising some $ 1 , 100m- I think that was the figure- to upgrade urban transport if elected to government. Indeed, he held Press conferences around Australia. I have copies of what was said at them and no doubt the Minister for Transport has them. The Prime Minister promised in the first 3 years of government to spend $3 76m in Sydney and $274m in Melbourne for urban transport- a total of about $650m. I draw to the attention of the Minister for Transport that only $ 140.5m has been committed to this area in the first 3 years of this Government. I want to know why the Prime Minister has not honoured that promise. There is no doubt that he misled the Australian people in the cities. 
As a Government we put up a positive proposal that we would have carried through. The Prime Minister came out with some elaborate extravaganza proposal. I said at the time that I felt that he could not honour the promise. He has proven me correct. I ask the Minister for Transport: What has happened to the grandiose schemes of supporting the metropolitan urban transport systems? I have discovered that $ 1 40.5m is the amount that has been made available for this purpose. I have been told by the States that a blanket stop has been put to a number of projects for the ensuing year. No doubt the Minister will tell us that this is because of the economic conditions. Of course he, along with his Cabinet colleagues he mentioned in the letter I quoted, created the economic conditions. The people of Australia ought to know that that great promise in 1972 when the Prime Minister swept into the cities has not been honoured either in spirit or in intent. It is a shame in my view that the people could be so easily deluded on a matter of such fundamental importance. 
There are several other matters that require explanation. Unfortunately under the tight limits of debating time in Committee on the EstimatesI think one hour is given to the important portfolio of Transport- with so many honourable members wishing to discuss matters of importance, I shall not be able to raise them. The Minister has not told the Parliament what he proposes to do about oil tankers. No funds are made available in the estimates for the purchase, the lease or anything else in relation to oil tankers. He ought to explain why he let Commonwealth Hostels Ltd in on a late tender for airport concessions, which was quite improper. He ought to tell us about the promise the Prime Minister and he made about the Hume Highway going through Tumut. I said at the time that that was silly. Now Tumut is being disappointed. 
It sounds strange to hear the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  talking about too much power being in too few hands in the media when his Government introduced the charges to force the small newspapers, radio stations and television stations right out of business. Increased postal, communication and landline charges very seriously affect the viability of those organisations. I want to focus public attention on what I believe to be a subterfuge upon which the Whitlam Labor Government has embarked. I refer to the vaguely labelled Australian Government Liaison Service. The public might be excused for not realising how much a sinister activity can be hidden behind that apparently unimaginative title. 
Whilst the public might be excused, there are some who cannot be excused for lack of knowledge on this matter. For example, the working journalists who service this Press Gallery must see a real and unfair threat to their jobs and to their role in this place. I cannot excuse the Public Service journalists section of the Canberra Branch of the Australian Journalists Association. I cannot excuse those in the Public Service who are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the Australian Information Service. I cannot excuse any media source which accepts and publishes articles from the AGLS which are blatant political propaganda, for such media are forfeiting the very freedoms which newspapers and free peoples have guarded so jealously for centuries. 
As I understand the matter, a Cabinet decision was taken in December to set up the AGLS to 'facilitate the distribution of Government information of a factual nature of a non-partisan kind' to the country and suburban Press. Any study of the telexes shows that a number of articles which were sent out are both partisan and political. Why has the Government found it necessary or desirable to set up such machinery? Is it saying that 120 or more journalists in the Gallery are not able to cope with their jobs? Is it because the Government has sympathy for the losing battle which country newspapers and radio stations are fighting in the face of prohibitive mail, telephone and landline imposts meted out by this so-called benevolent Government? Not likely. Does the Government claim that the media is not giving it a fair go? That may be its assessment, but if that is the real answer, its socialist answer must be to control what is published. What other explanation is possible? 
In socialist regimes the world over the prime requisite for controlling a populace is to control freedom of drought, speech, action and religion. The way to do that is to control the mass media, by abolishing the free Press, by setting up government newspapers and radio stations, by censorship and even by gaoling and deporting newspaper men and women as has happened in India. Because of the system to which  Dr J.  F. Cairns often refers this Government has to find a way to live with the free Press just as it has to live with a free enterprise society, although that may irk the Government. Labor's stated objective is to change Australia from a capitalist, free enterprise, democratic society to a socialist state. 
How then can anyone believe that there can be any free enterprise in a socialist society and least of all but most importantly a free Press? Wherever socialism or communism take over the Press and radio become state controlled. Wherever there is a coup one of the first objectives is to take over the mass communication media. Wherever a junta falls foul of the people it imposes censorship or closes down the free Press. Conquer the free Press and you conquer the people. Whether people believe the worst of Labor's intentions concerning control of the Press, whether any allegations or criticisms which I make are 100 per cent right or whether the people within the news industry are convinced that there is real risk, no government so accused can be given the benefit of any doubt in the matter of freedom. If we err at all in this matter of Press freedom it must be on the side of over-caution and over-suspicion. 
There are now between 800 and 1000 speech writers, researchers, public relations experts and journalists employed by the Government or by government authorities. The Government is bleeding the heart of the news industry by taking some of its most senior and experienced men and women. As journalists become more and more dependent on the Government for employment and as the mass media employs fewer and fewer journalists because of cost pressures causing closures and economies, the classic socialist climate is reached and the balance of journalistic employment begins to transfer from the private to the public sector. Labor has inflicted heavy financial imposts on the media in the very areas where it is most vulnerable- post and telecommunications charges. Anything which it does is unlikely to be in the interests of the Press itself. 
In the matter of the Australian Government Liaison Service I want to make my position clear. I am not now criticising the left wing bias in a government instrumentality. I am not now criticising the inflated ministerial staff syndrome of the Whitlam Government. I am not now criticising its jobs for the boys policy. I am seeking to sound a solemn warning to the people of Australia and to the people within the media industry, which they will ignore at their own and their country's peril, that one of the fundamental principles of freedom has been breached. Perhaps the Whitlam Government has decided to be less subtle or someone had goofed because it has now clearly over-stepped the dividing line between a legitimate information adjunct of government and political propaganda. Its objective, not its objectivity, is showing. It has finally ensured that Public Service journalists now tie their careers to the government of the day just as do Ministers' Press secretaries and other personal staff. 
I have no doubt about the Whitlam Government 's commitment to control the media through station licensing, Australian Broadcasting Control Board edicts, trade practices and monopoly legislation, Party ownership of shares, infiltration of the media by its own faithful, misuse of the Australian Broadcasting Commission network and the forcing of newspapers and stations out of business through selective taxes and charges. That it should seek to create a special elite of Public Service journalists has its precedent in other socialist countries. If this Government has its way there will ultimately be no free Press to nationalise. It could claim yet another first- a new formula for nationalising the mass media and how to take away a people's freedom without their knowing it. 
-This is the first time that we have dealt with the estimates of the Postmaster-General's Department since we turned the activities of the Department over to 2 commissions- the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission. I think it proper at this time that the Committee should study the initial impact which the transfer of these roles to the 2 commissions has had. I have to say that if Leilani were to start in the Melbourne Cup and to get off to as bad a start as these commissions have got off to, not even Andrew Peacock would believe she could win. 
The simple fact is that one could not say with any pride that the Australian Postal Commission or the Australian Telecommunications Commission has got off to a good start. In the opinion of the people, they seem to have grown into some sort of monster. I think on their first day of operation the first thing they did was to take a large increase in staff. They certainly took a large increase in pay for doing what is said to be the very same work they were doing previously, with the same responsibility and the same work load for less pay. It is a bit hard for the people of Australia to follow. I hope that the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  might be able to tell us why it was found necessary to have this great jump in pay and staff. I know it has been said that the Commissions had to take over the role of the Public Service Board. That was one of the reasons why they had to take on so many highly classified executives. But if the Minister tells me that the executive staff of the Telecommunications Commission had to be increased by 40 or 21 per cent because of the job that the Public Service Board used to do, I think that we ought to have an inquiry into the Public Service Board. Furthermore, as I understand it the number of second division officers in the Postal Commission increased from 45 to 52. As I say, all these things were done at a very great cost. 
Then came the second shock- increased charges. I know that the Government is responsible for the high rate of inflation and the failure to control the economy. We all know that the Government is a failure and,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I think that even you will agree with that. The Government has not been able to control the economy and therefore organisations such as the Postal Commission are put in the embarrassing position of finding themselves unable to make their way. The people of Australia were shocked and stunned by the savagery of the increases. Australians now have the privilege of having the highest postal rates in the world. If that is something for the Postal Commission to crow about in its first year of operation, it is in for a long hard run. The simple fact which ought to be brought home to the people of Australia is that since Labor came to government- since,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  your government came to office- postage stamps have gone up from 7c to 18c.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  if you, sitting in that chair could be proud of that fact, I would be amazed. As we know, it is cheaper to bulk post 25 letters to New Zealand and have them airmailed separately back to Australia. The cost per letter is 12c and a person saves 6c on each. So what does the Postal Commission decide to do? It decides to ban that practice. I understand that people who were in the television programs,  Division 4  and  Callan  who cannot find employment are getting jobs as sleuths, going around the countryside to make sure that private enterprise does not cheat on the Australian Postal Commission by using the New Zealand service. 
I cannot let the Australian Telecommunications Commission off either. The cost of telephone calls has risen from 6c to 9c. I think,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  in the time of your Government, in a mere 3 years, the cost of private telephone calls has risen from 4.5c to 9c. 
It is a pretty sorry record for any government in 3 years. I know you will agree with me,  Mr Deputy Chairman. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Keith Johnson)-  Order! I have been very tolerant with the honourable member for Gippsland who in my view has come very close to insulting the Chair. I am not in a position to enter into debate with the honourable member and I would be pleased if he would treat the Chair in an impartial manner. 
-Sir, that is exactly what I am doing. I am recognising the integrity of your position and, indeed, the integrity of you as a person privately: I know you will agree with me as does the Minister that it is a shocking record for any government to have. In 3 years postage stamps have risen in price from 7c to 18c and telephone calls have risen from 4.5c to 9c. 
An unequalled record in the world. They are the highest postal rates in the world. Of course the Minister has a right to be proud of it. The 3 things that the Government has a right to be proud of are the high rate of unemployment, the high rate of postage stamps and the high rate of inflation. But of course the Government's real failure arises from the fact that we specifically amended the Act when it was in the Senate so that if the Government was concerned about the inflationary effect which high increased postal and telecommunication charges would have, by subvention, it could lower the charges. Instead of allowing the postage rate to go to 18c, by subvention, the Government could have lowered the charges. It deliberately did not do so. It deliberately allowed the postal rate to go to 18c. In all its Budget thoughts, it deliberately allowed the cost of telephone calls to go to 9c. The Government had no thought for the poor people they are supposed to represent, who might use these services. It gave no thought to the plight of the pensioners and other people who want to post a letter- who want to write to mother or to grandmother. 
The Government is quite insensitive to the real problems of the people of Australia. It has demonstrated this. There is no clearer demonstration of the stupidity and the failure of a government than we are seeing now. The fact is that we have now created 2 giant monopolies but no competition is allowed. A person cannot even carry a bag of somebody else's mail from Melbourne to Sydney and distribute it because if he does, he will be fined. This practice is outside the Act. So there is no real test of the efficiency of either of these organisations. They may have within their own system some organisation and methods management scheme where they have a look at themselves in the mirror and say: 'Yes, we are very bright and we are very efficient'. They might have that scheme but they have not to face the cold hard real world of competition. So the people of Australia are never going to know whether their postal services are efficient or otherwise or whether or not their telecommunications systems are as efficient as they ought to be because there' is no competition. I know that the Minister, being a socialist, would not like any free enterprise to be involved in this operation. But let me just remind him that even General M'otors-Holden's Pty Ltd, that great American multi-national that the Minister and his Government dislike so much, has to suffer the competition of the Ford Motor Company of Australia Ltd and others. I think the cold winds of competition might do the Australian Postal Commission and the Australian Telecommunications Commission some good. 
I see at page 4 of the Chairman's statement regarding the new postal charges that on a turn over of about $500m the Commission anticipates a profit of $300,000. With an inflation rate running at 17 per cent or 22 per cent what will the postal charge be next year? It has gone from 10c to 1 8c this year. What will it be with a 1 7 per cent inflation rate next year? I forecast that if this Government is allowed to stay in office a stamp will cost 24c next year. There is no way of avoiding it, unless the Postal Commission is not telling us the truth in the first instance. It may have a great deal of fat which it has not told us about. If the Postal Commission is being truthful stamps will cost 24c next year. This is a serious matter and something about which the people of Australia ought to be concerned. 
I am also concerned that in their bid to make savings both the Telecommunications Commission and the Postal Commission will go as they usually do and raid the countryside and cut down services to people in remote areas. It is far too easy to say that those services are too expensive and that they will be cut without recognising that people require them. If ever one section of the community needs services it is those people living way out in isolated areas in the country. I remind the  Chairman  of the Postal Commission of his own words. He said: 
I hope people will remember that our primary objective is the provision of a better service to the community. 
He goes on asking for co-operation and everything else. He will get co-operation all right, but I warn the  Chairman  of the Postal Commission and the  Chairman  of the Telecommunications Commission that in the months ahead the Opposition will be watching very closely the activities of those Commissions. If they do not function as they ought to function, if they do not provide the services they ought to provide, if they do not look like being efficient and if their services are too dear we will review the whole situation. 
-At the request of the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Sinclair)  who has been pushed out of this place - 
-The purpose of this Bill, as the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  has already pointed out, is to establish an Australian Maritime College and to provide the machinery for the planning and development of such a college. Let me say at the outset that the Opposition Parties agree in every regard with the setting up of a nautical academy. I have, for a long time, been an advocate of the need for improved training of the men who are charged with the operation of ships. It seems foolish in any sense to insist on high standards of construction and equipment without similar requirements for the men who are charged with the operation of the ships. 
Currently all the licensing of ships' officers is done by the Federal Department of Transport, and the present training schools in Sydney and Melbourne train people for the passing of examinations set by the officers of this Department. Two years ago the Department of Transport proposed a newer structure for the training of masters and mates, the philosophy and content of which were good. It is only proper that from time to time we should look at the syllabus and make recommendations as to its relevance, and we will find as technology improves that some things become more relevant to training; some need to be excised. 
With respect, it would not be unfair to suggest that some of the current training is repetitive, redundant and wasteful. The Summers Report has already outlined how this problem may be overcome. I can only repeat that we do need a college. We do need redrafting of the syllabus for the training of ships' officers and we will get that. In saying this, it is pertinent to remember that ships' bridges, these days, contain much sophisticated electronic equipment. Yet marine training techniques seem to differ widely from aviation techniques, or even those involved in learning to drive a car safely and successfully. The best place surely for a watch keeper to be taught his job is on the bridge, yet there are no training vessels available for such a purpose. Most of the present teaching is done in the classroom, and then as cadets on ships. But most ships' officers, conscientious as they are, do not have enough time for this increasingly complex job and, even if they do, they are not teachers. For example, under conditions of reduced visibility, there is no room for error with blind pilotage. Practical and theoretical instruction in the use of radar needs to be done gradually and effectively. A nautical academy is urgently needed to fit this and many other needs. As well, the shipping industry is faced with increased competition in recruitment. It is important, as I have often said as Minister, that nautical training courses need to be more broadly based and, at an education level, appropriate to the abilities of the present entrants. So that not only training, in the sense of fitting the man for the job is involved in this particular philosophy but also the education in the sense of fitting the man for life is of paramount importance. 
It was my pleasure in December 1972 to open a symposium on  Training for Work at Sea  which highlighted the renewed concern with the question of marine training. Pre-sea cadet courses and mid-apprenticeship release courses had been implemented at Sydney Technical College in 1965. The syllabuses for these courses were based largely on the content of the foreign-going second mate 's certificate. The working document Training for Work at Sea, circulated by the Department of then Shipping and Transport, contained the following foreword: 
The purpose of the training for employment at sea is to ensure that ships are operated efficiently as well as safely. In Australia, as m many other countries, such training has lagged behind the technological developments in ship operation. Where a low level of achievement is combined with lack of incentive, the most effective use cannot be made of the equipment and facilities provided on modern ships. 
The compelling call of the sea finds ready response in many young people, but often parents tend to counter the urge. Historically, few other trades or professions have been  so thoroughly denigrated in story and hymn. Few have warranted special missions devoted to their uplift. Nevertheless, as a class, seafarers are as worthy and reputable as people in any other calling. 
It is evident however, that a special effort must be made to attract to the industry, recruits with higher than minimal educational standard. Career prospects in an industry which carries real status should result in keener participation on the whole operation, lifting not only general standard of performance, but also the outlook and attitude to the industry. 
So great are the problems of getting the right people to make a career of the sea that a complete break with the past may be the only effective way of improving the situation. 
The paper goes on to point out that, in the field of general and technical education, training available for seafarers is less than that available in major maritime countries and that no courses are available for extra-master mariner. And this leaves the deck officer's requirement for tertiary qualifications still uncatered for. The paper goes on to describe present training schemes as fragmented, obsolete and too unsophisticated for today's complex shipping industry. The old demarcation between deck and engine-room skills is no longer appropriate and must be replaced by a new concept of developing an integrated team. As well, the training system needs to be flexible to cope with a wide variety of ships of varying ages and degrees of sophistication. There is, as I have said, little quarrel with these aims. Before it is possible to raise the level of duty requirements for all personnel on ships it is necessary to train them to the necessary degree of competence. As a result there is a great need for a common training centre with essential facilities. 
One can but agree with the Minister in speaking of the college, when he says that: 
It will be a new and unique institution in the education system of this country, and there are many details of its functions and governance which will call for careful planning. 
In fact, emphatic concurrence with point 7 of his second reading speech amplifies the importance and urgency of such a training school. However, this being said, I must also admit to a few points of concern about one aspect of the Bill. Clause 7(1) (a) outlines the functions of the Interim Council in particular empowering it to make recommendations to the Minister with respect to matters relating to the establishment of the College. Of course, the most important question in this regard is the site of such a college. We are all aware of the origins of the naming of the site as Launceston. One can only hope the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  will long remember the lessons he should have learnt from his abortive attempts to win the Bass by-election. 
Absolutely. In fact, it was agreed to by the Parties on this side of the House long before the Prime Minister offered it. But the Prime Minister is only trying to match us. He did not match us very well because Kevin Newman, the honourable member for Bass, sits in this House on our side while the Government's candidate is still down in Tasmania. However, it is worth pointing out that, prior to this by-election, the Department of Transport had commissioned a committee of experts to check sites for such a college and to make recommendations on suitability or unsuitability of such sites. 
However, the Prime Minister's grand and unsuccessful entry into the by-election preempted all this. As well, in keeping with the profligate nature of this Government, he went on to mention the mere sum of $22m for this purpose. These 2 points need careful consideration to give maximum impetus to such an important project. Certainly, the point of my exercise now is not to make out a case for denying this much needed infusion of moneys into Launceston. On the contrary, the Government could well give every consideration to expanding a college of advanced education in the disciplines of agriculture, mining, metallurgy and geology. Accident statistics are going up as a percentage of world tonnage and we must take every step to lessen the chances of what is known in marine terminology as 'acts of God'. Accidents will happen and, rather than cast about for those to blame, it is more useful to follow the practice followed by the aviation industry, and ascertain the cause of the accident and try to avoid its recurrence. But another further consideration must surely be the educational facilities available at the site. Nautical education today calls upon a very diverse background of knowledge. Advanced education in Launceston has only recently been changed from a teacher-training college and the wide spectrum of practical knowledge called for in nautical training is not available. The watch keeping officer of the next decade will be in a somewhat similar position to an airline pilot. He will be in charge of an instrument panel containing navigation, communication, weather, engine and collision avoidance readouts. The required teaching skills are available only at large centres and at the moment in only Sydney and Melbourne. These will need to be available in Launceston. Furthermore, there is the problem of obtaining staff. There is only a limited number of staff qualified in this field and nearly all of them are presently situated in the school in Sydney and Melbourne. They will need to be encouraged to transfer or train extra staff for the jobs at 
Launceston. Their present positions, with or without the new college, do not appear to be in jeopardy. Most certificates of competency are now issued in Sydney. Students will have to be positively encouraged to go to Launceston because a course of studies still exists in other States. 
One of the prime reasons for changing the present training structure is to bring it within the mainstream of general education and to make available to the master mariner an academic award which is recognised by the community. It is generally recognised that seafaring is not always a lifetime career and a ship's officer should be able, at some subsequent time, to provide an employer with recognisable documentary evidence of his academic ability. This suggests a choice of several academic awards including the certificate and associate diploma granted by technical colleges, the diploma granted by colleges of advanced education and the degree granted by universities. 
However we look at it, there are a number of people in the profession who aspire to executive positions of technical management in the shipping industry, in government departments dealing with shipping, and in the teaching side of shipping. These people need the depth of training provided at a university, and at present courses are not provided for them. Equally, one must assert that the master of a small coaster is not likely to need a university degree. It is as unwise to over-train as it is to under-train. In other words a spectrum of academic levels should be available, each suited to the particular task, and this in turn calls for an educational complex providing a wide range of courses. 
It should be pointed out that a complex already exists at the Sydney Technical College and the New South Wales Institute of Technology. Peripheral subjects can be studied within the relative schools at both these institutions. The relationship of these bodies with the proposed college needs to be worked out. Furthermore, the support industries such as shipbuilding and repair, together with the wide variety of ships which use a major port, all need to be available to provide a practical environment for educational observation. What is needed then is a centre which would provide all the necessary student accommodation, staff quarters and sports areas. The point I wish to make is that whatever is the final product it must be viable, realistic and cost-effective. It must be such that it will make a long term and effective contribution to the betterment of the industry. Such a project must be practical rather than political.  (Quorum formed) 
I appreciate the fact that my colleague has drawn attention to the state of the House. I myself thought that my speech was worthy of a much bigger audience. A few people on the other side of the chamber could learn something if they had the decency to stay in the House. I can only repeat what I have said many times before, that the establishment of a nautical academy is essential to the continuing progress of the shipping industry. I am sure that the city of Launceston will take this institute to its heart and recognise the importance that it will have in the future of the maritime industries in Australia. 
-The Opposition supports the provisions in this Bill to amend the Navigation Act 1912-1973. 1 will deal briefly with each of the areas covered by this Bill and then consider some general matters in relation to the Australian shipping scene. The proposed amendments to the Navigation Act 1912-1973 will extend the provisions of the principal Act to such matters as crewing and provisions relating to conditions of service and safety on off-shore vessels engaged in activities such as oil exploration and production. Thus oil drilling rigs, oil production platforms, construction vessels and barges, seismic survey vessels and all other types of mobile structures will be brought within the ambit of the Navigation Act. 
Although the Opposition supports the principle that the provisions of the Navigation Act should apply to such off-shore industry vessels, especially as we are advised that the most prospective areas for further discovery of oil and gas in Australia lie off-shore, I think the House should be aware that the policies being pursued by certain trade unions are creating chaos in sections of the off-shore industry. I refer in particular to the demands that were made by the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union in respect of the workers employed in the construction of the Bass Strait oil installations. We have seen reports in recent weeks of welders being paid more than $30,000 a year and of the unions waging strike action against contractors on trumped up excuses which have had no relevance to wage justice or the legitimate working conditions and requirements of the men engaged in this work. 
The men have gone back to work today after accepting an offer of wage indexation on top of their previously negotiated award. Weeks of time at great cost have been lost to the nation for no purpose. The men made it clear from the start that they wanted to work and it is a pity that the union leaders did not take more notice of their rank and file. The vote was about ninety-five against going on strike and six in favour and yet the men. were forced out by the hotheads. It would be a help if the Government could use its newly acquired powers over vessels engaged in off-shore industry to curb these flagrant abuses which the left wing unions are making in this industry. If the activities of the militant unions continue future oil supplies from Bass Strait will be threatened and the vital energy needs of this country will be placed at risk. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  stated that the definitions of off-shore industry vessels contained in this Bill are the same as those contained in the Seas and Submerged Lands Act 1973. The Minister then stated that the provisions in this Bill relating to the off-shore industry are thus placed on the same constitutional basis as the Seas and Submerged Lands Act. As all honourable members are aware, the Seas and Submerged Lands Act 1973 adopted the Geneva Conventions on the Law of the Sea which were drawn up in 1 95 8. These comprise a Convention on the Territorial Sea and the Contiguous Zone and a Convention on the Continental Shelf. The Convention on the Continental Shelf contains provisions relating to off-shore industry vessels. Article 5(1) states: 
The exploration of the continental shelf and the exploitation of its natural resources must not result in any unjustifiable interference with navigation . . . nor result in any interference with fundamental oceanographic or other scientific research carried out. 
Article 5(11) states: 
The Coastal State is entitled to construct and maintain or operate on the continental shelf installations and other devices necessary for its exploration and the exploitation of its natural resources. 
By the Seas and Submerged Lands Act 1 973, the Commonwealth also took the further step of declaring that sovereignty in these  off-shore areas lay with the Commonwealth.- There appears no doubt that if the High Court declares the Act to be a valid Act the Commonwealth will have sovereignty over these off-shore waters. Sovereignty will mean that there should be a clear power to control shipping and navigation in these navigable waters. 
I know that previously there has been a gap in the constitutional power relating to authority; in these off-shore waters. Marine courts of inquiry have highlighted them. The Royal Commission on the Constitution in 1928 recommended constitutional changes in this area and there was a full exposition of the difficulties in this area by the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources. The amendments have merit but it is surprising that the Government has anticipated the decision of the Court. If the sovereignty as claimed is not granted by the High Court there will be added problems. However, for the Government to anticipate the result of that decision is improper and I must say is typical of the Government's conduct in relation to its whole role with the High Court. 
This Bill also contains provisions which amend Part II of the Navigation Act 1912-73 in so far as it is inconsistent with the provisions contained in the Merchant Shipping Act 1970 passed by the United Kingdom Parliament. Formerly the United Kingdom Merchant Shipping Act was identical in the respect of crewing matters for visiting British ships with the provisions contained in Part II of the Australian Navigation Act 1912-73. Since the changes to the British Law have been made it would create difficulties if the Australian law was to apply to visiting British ships. 
The definition of a visiting British ship contained in clause 4 of the Bill makes provision for regulations which stipulate which ships are not visiting British ships. The aim of the definition is to distinguish between vessels which call at an Australian port in the course of a voyage and vessels which are registered in London but whose main work is in Australian trades. However, the definition does not cover certain classes of vessels, such as vessels under charter parties for a period of 12 months or 2 years. There is a considerable volume of Australian bulk exports at present being carried in British registered vessels under continuous voyage or time charters for a period which may range from 12 months up to 2 years. 
The question that must be asked is: Does the Minister propose to publish regulations which will cover all such vessels? I consider it important that this issue be clarified so that Australian charterers may know whether British or Australian law applies to the vessel under charter to them. 
One of the major provisions contained in this Bill relates to the reporting of the movement of ships around the Australian coast. The need for such a system was demonstrated by the loss of the  Blythe Star  in 1973. Since that time a ship reporting service has been operating on a voluntary basis. This Bill will add a new division to Part 4 of the Navigation Act incorporating the ship movement reporting scheme. The Opposition acknowledges the Work by the Government in this area and the interest with which the Minister has pursued this matter. 
This legislation is the first of its kind and the Government has circulated information regarding the ship reporting scheme to the Intergovernmental Maritime Consultative Organisation. While the Opposition commends the Government for its diligence in this matter, it must be pointed out that the basis of any international ship movement reporting scheme is a world-wide system of navigational aids. Such a system was proposed in the late 1960s by the United States and, I remind the House, is known as the Omega navigational system. At present, stations have been constructed in North Dakota, Hawaii and Norway. In order to cover the surface of the globe, 8 stations need to be constructed, and Australia has been recommended as the location for a station in this area of the world. 
For nearly 216 years the Government has blocked the construction of an Omega navigational station in Australia. The agreements covering existing stations demonstrate clearly that the Omega system can in no way be regarded as a United States secret weapons installation, although the left wing of the Labor Party might believe it to be so. Under agreements with Japan, France and Liberia, the United States provides only the transmitter, the atomic clock and the control electronics which assure signal uniformity. The host countries construct, control, operate and own the stations on their soil. 
An international Omega policy board is to be established with representatives from the 7 countries which will operate the stations, and the United States Coast Guard will serve as systems manager. As I said, under the influence of the socialist left wing of the Labor Party, the Government has ignored the true nature of the Omega system and allowed a campaign of fear and uncertainty as regards the use of the stations to be waged. I would like to know from the Minister when he is replying what he is doing about the Omega stations. As I understand it the last thing in the internecine warfare in the Labor Party in respect of this matter was that by some mischance or other some compromise position was reached. But as far as the nation at large knows Omega is still in the pigeon-hole. It was poked there by the Minister to be left there for the term of its natural life. 
For the Minister to claim that he has introduced legislation for ship reporting which is the first of its kind in the world, is a joke when one looks at the record of his Party and the Government in blocking the construction of a navigational aid station in Australia which comprises an essential link in a world-wide system of navigational reporting stations. This is just another example of the ignorance and incompetence of this Government in matters connected with Australia's maritime industry. 
This Bill contains provision which will amend Part 8 of the Navigation Act. This part deals with the limitation of ship owner's liability in respect of loss of life or personal injury to any person on board a ship or loss of or damage to any property on board a ship. Importantly, it also deals with limitation of liability relating to injury or loss to persons or property whether on land or water arising from the act of any person on board a ship for which the owner is liable. The Bill will raise the low limits on ship owner's liability which are contained in the British Merchant Shipping Act 1894 and which still apply in Australia. 
The 1957 Convention on the Limitation of the Liability of Owners of Sea-Going Ships attempted to raise and widen the limits of ship owner's hability. The owner of a British vessel was excluded from liability for loss or damage which occurred without actual fault or privity on his part, if goods are damaged by fire or theft while on board the ship. Similarly, as regards loss of life or personal injury, the liability of an owner of a British ship may be limited where the loss or injury is caused by any person being carried on the vessel. The 1957 convention extended the limitation of liability to the master and crew of a vessel. 
The Minister in the second reading speech criticised the previous Government for not ratifying this Convention. However the Minister should know that many of the vital provisions of the Convention have been excluded by many countries which have signed the Convention. This is specially so in the case of the major maritime nations. Furthermore, a significant proportion of the world's shipping is registered in countries which do not adhere to this Convention. The upshot of the watering-down of the Convention by the absence of many of the maritime powers is that its value as an international legal regime has been significantly diminished. 
For this Government to now adhere to the Convention and adopt the various provisions which increase the liability to be borne by Australian ship owners, while overseas ship owners bear a lesser liability is indicative of the Government's desire to strut across the international stage and appear as the great defender of international laws. But the fact is that other countries which play a much larger role in maritime affairs than ourselves have chosen not to adhere to the Convention in its entirety. It is surely not in the interests of Australian snippers to be burdened with the full provisions of the Convention while the large proportion of the world's shipowners are not. It only adds another cost to the already considerable number of extra costs which Aus.tralian shipowners are forced to bear. 
This Government has enunciated a policy of 40 per cent of Australian goods being carried in Australian vessels. However, measures such as this only hinder and frustrate the achievement of such a policy. In accepting the Convention, the Government has imposed a further burden on Australian shipowners. This is the exclusion of clause 1 (c) of Article 1 of the Convention which limits the liability of shipowners for damage to public property such as wharves and harbour installations. The practical effect of this is that shipowners in Australia will have to pay massive amounts in liability insurance to cover these increased risks. This will lead to significantly higher sea transport costs within Australia. No doubt the inspiration for this action came about as a result of the Hobart Bridge disaster. However, what shipowner could afford to bear the burden of liability insurance against such accidents? These are risks which should be borne by the Government. Indeed, why should shipowners have to pay for a wrongly constructed bridge which, at a time of accident, collapses so easily involving great expense? The cost of the Hobart Bridge episode would break most shipping companies, even some of the major ones, particularly because of the way in which costs are running up as a result of inflation in this country. 
The public bears the ultimate cost in any case whether it be through higher transport costs or through taxation. But whereas the latter comprises the cost of the risk only the former contains the additional element of the profit which insurance underwriters gain from bearing the risk. It is clear therefore when one considers some of the implications of Australian adherence to the Convention on limitation of shipowner's liability, that the Government has rushed into this without giving due thought to all the issues involved. Finally the Bill contains amendments which upgrade the training and qualifications of ships' officers. These steps are necessary as a result of the Government's decision to establish an Australian Maritime College. 
I stated earlier that I would use this debate as an opportunity to make some general comments on the larger question of Australian shipping policy, arid to indicate some of the thinking of the Opposition in this matter. I believe that all parties in the Parliament recognise the desirability of encouraging an Australian mercantile marine. However, the implementation of such a policy is fraught with difficulties, some of them insurmountable. As a member of the National Country Party, I am particularly conscious of the cost to Australian producers and consumers of our reliance on overseas shipping. For over a century, Australia's primary producers have lost a significant proportion of their return by not shipping their goods to the markets of the world. Because of our dependence on foreign shippers, we have had to meet an annual freight bill which currently exceeds $ 1,000m. Shipping represents the largest single item in the invisible transactions which form an essential part of our foreign trade. With the advent of the vast mineral developments, Australian interests have lost even more by not shipping their product. Even where the expenses involved in shipping are not a cost to the Australian producer, the loss of the opportunity to make a profit on the transport of our goods to overseas markets is a loss to the income of the producer and a loss to the nation's total income. The alternative is to try to build up an Australian fleet. 
However, this is no simple matter. One of the main obstacles to bringing about a significant Australian shipping industry is the attitude of the maritime unions in Australia. The wage levels, crewing requirements and living conditions which have been imposed on Australian shipowners make it quite uneconomic for Australian vessels to compete against vessels flying foreign flags, especially those registered in flag of convenience countries. I believe that, by their exorbitant and sometimes outlandish demands, the Australian maritime unions have made it impossible for this country to develop a large and strong shipping industry. However, I also believe that, while the maritime unions are the direct cause of this situation, there are larger considerations which lie behind their actions. It seems that basically we are not a maritime nation. There does not exist in Australia the incentive for men to go to sea to earn their living. As long as Australian seamen form a minority group and can succeed in exerting pressure on shipowners to increase wages and improve conditions, because they know that there is no one else who will man the ships, we will never have a worthwhile shipping industry in this country. 
It is difficult to say what steps ought to be taken to remedy this situation. The establishment of an Australian Maritime College is to be welcomed as a step towards encouraging the development of a spirit of professionalism amongst maritime employees in Australia. I think that, if we face a situation where the number of people engaged in the maritime industry in Australia has declined to such an extent that the whole idea of Australian-owned and Australian-operated and Australian-crewed ships is simply not possible, perhaps we ought to consider the possibility of using labour from other countries to help man our vessels. The Opposition considers that another reason for general lack of interest on the part of Australians in investing in ships is the confused state in which we find our laws relating to shipping. The reports of the commission of inquiry into the maritime industry on this subject will be awaited with interest. 
One of the reasons for the unfortunate legal state of affairs in which the Australian shipper finds himself is lack of clear-cut Constitutional division of power as regards shipping. The States possess power over shipping within their own coastline, while the Commonwealth has power over interstate and overseas shipping. Furthermore the State powers over shipping and navigation are the powers which the British Parliament possessed in 1901. Subsequent developments do not apply to State laws. In order to encourage a viable shipping industry in Australia, there must be some unification of the shipping and navigation legislation which applies to ships operating on the Australian coast. This can only be achieved by co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States and not by confrontation. Another requirement is that the whole basis of the legislation regulating our national shipping industry, the Navigation Act 1912-1973 requires rethinking. 
The Navigation Act was enacted at the height of Britain's mercantile power. The Australian Act, although based in many respects on the British Merchant Shipping Act 1894 did not discourage or make incursions into the powers of the British Shipping Acts. Australia will develop its own shipping industry only if we have legislation which gives much more encouragement and protection to Australian vessels. Many of the provisions of the Navigation Act 1912-1973 require rethinking. That work commenced in about 1970 or 1971 when  Mr Tom  Williams, then of the Department of Shipping and Transport, commenced full time on the task. He has been joined now by probably one of the most able people in the Public Service of Australia,  Mr Mai  Summers, in the re-write of that Act. 
The changes which have occurred in world shipping since the British Merchant Shipping Act 1894 have been far-reaching. The emergence of national flags and national encouragement of shipping has completely altered the assumptions on which the Navigation Act was based. I hope that  Mr Summers  will investigate some of these questions and make recommendations as to how we can draw up a better legislative basis for the encouragement of an Australian shipping industry.  Sir, the  Opposition supports the Bill. 
-This Bill was introduced first on 9 April this year and was debated in this place on 2 1 April. I would like to recall to the minds of honourable members the circumstances of that debate. Honourable members will recall the very disgraceful situation arrived at purely as a result of the actions of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  who, after allowing only 3 speakers from the Opposition to debate what was at that stage a most horrendous Bill, proceeded to gag the debate and allowed 30 minutes for the Committee stage of the debate. I make that point,  Mr Chairman,  to illustrate how important the Senate is in this Parliament. This is a typical example of the value of a House of Review. We could not get a better example of the value of a House of Review than what has happened with this Inter-State Commission Bill, because the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  admitted in his statement just now that 1 7 amendments were agreed to. I tried to move those amendments in this House but the debate was gagged by the Leader of the House. 
On 2 1 April he declared that the Bill was an urgent Bill. He said that it had to be rushed through to get this Inter-State Commission into action. Now, on 22 October,' months later, we finally see the reappearance of this Bill which was described by the Leader of the House on 2 1 April as an urgent Bill and which was guillotined through by the Government in this place. In his usual dictatorial fascist-like fashion he tried to get his own way. If it had not been for the power of the Senate, the House of Review, we would not be in this position today. We now have a reasonable Bill that the people of Australia can see and understand, not the horrendous grab for power contained in the original Bill. We now can proceed with a reasonable Bill. I would like to remind the Committee of what was intended by this Bill in the first place. What this Bill proposed in the first place was to make a grab not only for interstate transport matters but also by a very clever skilful piece of legislation for areas of trade and commerce. The Commission could have controlled the whole of trade and commerce from its very source right through the whole of its activity. Not only that but the InterState Commission would have had powers beyond the control of this Parliament. It would have had powers that exceeded the powers of any other body set up by this Parliament. Legislation to set up a supranatural body was introduced into this Parliament. 
This Bill was declared to be an urgent Bill and was gagged in usual fashion by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  It was gagged in the typical fashion that we saw the matter of public importance gagged a while ago. Open debate is being gagged by this Government all the time. So I make the point again about the importance of the Senate. One cannot underestimate the importance of the Senate as a House of review where fortunately the Government has not the numbers and as a result we can get reasonable legislation. 
This is about the sixth piece of legislation that the Minister for Transport has brought into this House that I have had to amend in this fashion to get reasonable legislation. I feel sorry for the Minister. Perhaps he has been badly advised; I am not sure what it is. I do not really like to think that this is the result of the Minister's own failings although I am fast coming to the conclusion that it might be because he gets caught in this position time and time again in respect of important pieces of legislation. The Minister proved in the second reading debate on this legislation that he did not understand what was involved. Therefore I am at a bit of a loss to understand the Minister's position. But, in the many months following the introduction of this legislation he has done some homework. He has started to realise the value of my contribution and the amendments that I have attempted to make to the Bill. 
But I have to say again that the Leader of the House is the guilty one. He is culpable. All of these months of delay would have been overcome if it had not been for his actions. On one occasion I heard the Minister for Transport harangue the nation outside this place for the delay over this Bill. He said that the Bill was held up in the Senate. What the Senate did in its masterly fashion was to put my amendments into practice. These amendments have now been accepted by the Government. What a shamefaced Minister it must be sitting at the table. I cannot get over it. I am really astounded at the haranguing that took place between the introduction of this Bill and the stage we have now reached. 
The activities of the Commission are now confined. The Commission will now operate rather more on the basis of the Industries Assistance Commission. It is now an advisory body. It will not have the power to go out and hold an investigation and then to come back and lay down an order as to what will be done and control the States, private enterprise and the whole nation. We have taken that frightening power away. All that the Commission may do now is, on reference from the Minister, go out, hold an investigation and advise the Minister what might be done. It is then up to the legislative authority of this Parliament to put something into action if the Minister so desires. The Minister will not be able to hide behind some great supranatural body outside the Parliament which is not answerable to the Parliament. Members of the Labor Party ought to be grateful to me for having taken the sting out of this monster- a monster they would not have been able to control. 
I would now like to refer to the situation in Tasmania. There is nothing in the amendments that I have moved to this Bill that stops this body- assuming that the proper appointments are made, and I shall come to that in a momentholding investigations into the problems of Tasmania. All I can say about that, of course, is that having appointed  Mr Justice  Nimmo to hold - 
The Minister is right. I have mistaken him for someone else. He is not a Judge.  Mr Nimmo  has not reported to the Parliament. I have a sneaking suspicion that he has not done so because the Government does not want the report. I have a sneaking suspicion that the Government is not prepared to face up to what is in the report. It is not prepared to face up to the cost that is contained in the report. I think it is a tragedy, a shame and a dereliction of duty to Tasmania that  Mr Nimmo  's report has not been tabled in this Parliament and acted upon. Are we to get the same sort of delays now that we have an Interstate Commission? Are matters to be bunged off to this body? Are we never to get any result? 
-Well, it is the Government's fault that this Bill was delayed. It is absolutely the Government's fault. It is nobody else's fault but the Government's. If it had not been for the fact that the Leader of the House gagged debate on the Bill when it was first introduced I would have had a proper opportunity to explain the amendments that have now been accepted. We could have reached agreement on this Bill on 2 1 April. But instead members of the Government have been carrying on like a bunch of dictatorspetty dictators at that- trying to steamroll their stuff through this Parliament. The nation has lost because of that This is a perfect illustration, as I have pointed out, of the need for a Senate. 
I now wish to refer to the appointments that are to be made to the Inter-State Commission. I would hope that the Ministe might extend to me, as the shadow Minister for Transport, the courtesy of discussing who might be appointed on this Commission, not that I expect to influence him, but simply out of courtesy. It is the sort of courtesy I might extend to him if the position is reversed. The appointments to the Commission are of vital importance. The Commission can investigate such matters as the transport problems of Western Australia, the transport problems to Darwin and the need for different modes of transport in different areas. The Commission can play an important part in assisting to gather information. For example, I have never been sure whether the State railways commissioners are charging a proper freight rate or a more than competitive freight rate than they ought to be charging with the result that Associated Steamships Pty Ltd is being forced out of business in Western Australia. The Minister has never been able to tell us whether the freight rates are correct. 
But as soon as ASP goes out of business I know what will happen to rail freights. They will go only one way, and that is up. The railways will then have a monopoly on the trade. 
The Minister for Transport controls the central part of the railways system. It cannot work without the co-operation of the Australian National Railways. The Minister does not even know his own business. That is why I think he ought to talk me to about appointments. 
I think the appointments are very important. I accept that there ought to be someone of repute from the transport field involved in this. I hope that the Minister will look for someone of repute and not just one of his trade union mates whom he is so fond of putting on these commissions. I hope that he will look for someone with knowledge, integrity and high repute who is known in the transport field. I think that such a man would be able to put some real life into this industry. I am pleased to see that the Inter-State Commission legislation has now come back into this Parliament after being delayed months by the Government's own stupidity. The Bill is now in an acceptable and workable form. 

 -Mr Speaker, I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent a resolution by this House that in the future the confidentiality of the Budget should be strictly enforced and that no details of it should be conveyed to any person who does not have a duty to preserve secrecy. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Gippsland be not further heard. 
I must lodge a protest at the continued gagging of this House by the Leader of the House. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Did the McKinsey Report recommend that all programming for ABC radio should be under one Assistant General Manager and all ABC television programming under another Assistant General Manager. 
Is the General Manager maintaining direct responsibility for all news programs. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
What was the cost of the McKinsey Report into the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Have the recommendations been accepted. 
3 ) Which recommendations have been implemented. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Australian Broadcasting Commission issued new policy directives to its News Division. 
If not, is the News Division operating under any policy guidelines. 
Has the Australian Broadcasting Commission issued new policy directives to its Public Affairs Division. 
If not, is the Public Affairs Division operating under any policy guidelines. 
The curfew is an historic one. It has been in operation since the late 1950s or the early 1960s. It is not intended that the conditions of the curfew as laid down will be changed at all. 
-The honourable member for the Northern Territory raises a matter which is of very deep concern to residents of the Territory. As he will know, I was in the Northern Territory last week and had discussions with a number of groups about this very matter. I am very conscious indeed of the disturbance that the washing out of the railway system has caused to the carriage of goods to Alice Springs and further north. I am very sympathetic to the problems it has created. I have been looking at finding alternative methods to get freight to the Northern Territory at a cheap rate. Nothing has come forward that will satisfy the honourable member for the Northern Territory or me at this point. We are exploring to see whether it is possible to use road transport at a more equitable rate and in a more equitable fashion. If anything does develop I shall keep the honourable member informed. 
I first became aware of the Australian National Railways' intention to close the line when I was a caretaker Minister in the first Fraser Government. Apparently it was a proposal that either had been put to the previous Minister for Transport or was ready to be put to the previous Minister for Transport. I have not seen the private papers of the former Minister for Transport to know what opinion he adopted about the matter. So far as I am concerned, officials of the Australian National Railways have not come to me at this point to tell me anything about the closure of the line. When they do, I will have a discussion with them. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on the working and administration of the Department of Transport for the year 1974-75 including those matters on which I am required to report pursuant to section 29 of the Air Navigation Act 1 920- 1 974. 
The honourable member for Mallee may have seen in the newspapers the other day the Prime Minister's statement confirming that we will be proceeding with the building of a navigational Omega station. The siting of the station has not yet been decided. I know the honourable member is keen to see it at the site known as Boon in Victoria. Certainly this was one of the favoured sites in the 1970-1972 period, but I understand that there have been technical changes to the requirements and I am not sure whether that site is now favoured. No decision will be taken on the site until the Government has given its clear approval for construction of the base to proceed. I will keep the honourable gentleman informed about the site. 
The honourable member for Lilley and the honourable member for Griffith have been taking a very keen interest in the future of the Brisbane airport. During the course of the election campaign they were very active in sending me telegrams seeking my agreement to a proposed course of action in respect of its development. Needless to say the people of Griffith and Lilley recognised the value of those endeavours and strongly voted both honourable members back into the Parliament. There have been proposals since about 1970 to upgrade the Brisbane airport. It was the subject of a study by the Commonwealth and the State. A report was made to us, I think before we temporarily lost office in 1972. Since that time the Bureau of Transport Economics, at the instance of my predecessor,  Mr Jones,  has made a study of the proposal. It is about to report to me, I understand, with a cost benefit analysis of the proposal in 1 972 and other options which may be exercised. 
I am unable to give the honourable member for Lilley an assurance that I will be able to fund the upgrading of the airport by 1 982. I am not sure what our financial position will be. I will have to confer with the Treasurer. I can give the honourable member one assurance, and that is that I am totally satisfied that if Brisbane is lucky enough to hold and is deserving of the Commonwealth Games there is no way in the world that the facilities at the Brisbane airport will hinder Brisbane obtaining the Games. I am sure there will be facilities which will permit a great number of incoming aircraft to land without any embarrassment to the passengers who will be cleared quickly to enable them to enjoy themselves at the Games. That is about all I can say to the honourable member at this time. 
I confess that I have not seen the report to which the honourable member referred. I am unaware of any proposal by the Australian National Railways Commission in respect of the upgrading of that line or deferment of the program of expenditure. I will make inquiries into the matter and let the honourable member have the information as soon as it comes to hand. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is primarily designed to amend the Air Navigation (Charges) Act 1952-1974 so as to increase the rates of charges by 15 per cent with effect from 1 December 1975. The increase is applied by the insertion of the new table in clause 4 of the Bill. The costs of operating and maintaining the airports and airway facilities provided by the Commonwealth Government are expected to total at least $195m in 1975-76, this being an increase of 1  Vh  per cent or about $20m on the 1974-75 figure. The comparable revenues received from the users of these facilities at present rates are expected to rise from around $95m in 1974-75 to less than $108m in the current year, so that the increase in costs continues to outstrip the gain in revenues. 
The 15 per cent increase in charges is estimated to bring in additional revenue of just under $4m in 1975-76. Together with the small growth in revenue arising from higher traffic, this will raise the rate of recovery of the costs of the air transport infrastructure from 54 per cent in 1974-75 to around 57 per cent this year. In other words, the users of air transport facilities will continue to be subsidised to the extent of more than 40 per cent of the annual costs of these facilities. 
The Government is aware that the air transport industry, like all other industries in Australia, is faced with additional costs for wages and materials, and it would normally be reluctant to impose additional governmental charges in these circumstances. However, the Government must look at the matter from all sides, and clearly it is inappropriate for the public purse to be required to meet all of the increases in the costs which are being incurred by the Department of Transport in operating and maintaining its airports and airway facilities. Air navigation charges comprise only about 3 per cent of the total operating costs of commercial aircraft, and 1 5 per cent increase in these charges therefore means that the rise in aircraft operating costs is less than !6 per cent. In the light of these facts, therefore, the proposed increase in air navigation charges cannot be regarded as excessive or unjustified. 
It will be recalled that the previous Government had proposed increased in air navigation charges ranging up to 300 per cent. Under the previous Government's Budget proposals the aviation industry would have had to find another $25m and under this proposal it has to find about $3. 9m. The Government has been concerned to encourage general aviation in particular and not to price it out of the air. Over the past 3 years because of the previous Administration's approach to cost recovery, combined with inflation, general aviation ran into serious financial difficulties. This proposal can be seen as a measure of our determination to encourage that important sector of aviation. 
Maybe, therefore, the only disagreement that the Opposition will find with the present Bill is that the increase is not enough. However, the Government intends to examine carefully the whole question of cost recovery in respect of the air transport facilities, and it would be premature to introduce any greater increase in charges before this examination is undertaken. The other provisions in the Bill are of a minor nature, mainly concerned with the deletion of provisions covering flights to and from Papua New Guinea. The air navigation charges payable in respect of flights to that country are now determined in accordance with the provisions applicable to other international flights. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
The honourable member has asked a number of questions. Any proposals by the New South Wales Government to alter its urban public transport program will, of course, get sympathetic consideration by my Department and by myself as Minister. I have not seen the report referred to by the honourable member but I have seen earlier Press reports speculating on proposals by the New South Wales Department of Transport relating to urban public transport. All I can say to assist the honourable member is that I will give sympathy to any suggestion that comes from New South Wales in terms of the present program being worked out by New South Wales and the Commonwealth. Insofar as extra financial assistance is concerned, I have to say that any such proposal would need to await the Federal Budget, and it is not looking very prosperous at that. 
I missed that part of the honourable member's question. I am sorry. 
For the information of honourable members I present the  Report on Roads in Australia 1975  and I ask for leave to make a short statement on that report. 
The scrutiny that takes place in respect of passengers to Australia usually takes place at an outgoing port. If 2 gentlemen arrived at Sydney Airport carrying automatic pistols and a large amount of money, presumably they got through the outgoing port without undergoing the normal scrutiny- that is, if they were carrying a normal passport. If by chance they were carrying a diplomatic passport it may well be that they were not required to face the scrutiny encountered by the ordinary passenger. In such a case they would be able, I suppose, to wear the sidearms in the usual fashion and to board the plane flashing their diplomatic passports and carrying a large amount of money in a bag. So far as their arrival at this end of the trip is concerned, those persons carrying diplomatic passports are extended the normal courtesies; that is, they are sometimes not subjected to a rigorous scrutiny as might an ordinary passenger. Therefore I suppose if these so called gentlemen of whom the honourable member speaks- I do not know to whom he is referring- were carrying diplomatic passports it may well be that the normal scrutinies which apply to normal passport carriers were not extended, and again therefore they would get through our normal stringent Customs procedures. 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong will know that, following the publication of the draft environmental impact study by British Airways, submissions were invited to be lodged with my colleague the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. The closing date for submissions was 6 February. My colleague informs me that he is making a judgment on those submissions and a decision will be made by the Government on whether a public inquiry is therefore required. The matters brought forward by the honourable member, of course, will be considered in that judgment. 
I share the honourable gentleman's concern over the increased costs being forced on the residents of the Northern Territory because of the washout of the railways system. Certainly I will confer with my colleague the Minister for Defence to ascertain whether it is at all possible to allow transports to use the route the honourable member suggests. I will also confer with the Minister for Transport in South Australia to ascertain whether the loads can be increased for transports travelling on the road through South Australia to the Northern Territory. I will let the honourable member know what comes out of my consultations. 
Pursuant to paragraph 11 of the Third Schedule of the Airlines Agreements Act 1952-1973 I present the annual financial report relating to the operation of air services by Ansett Transport Industries for the year ended 28 June 1975. 
Pursuant to section 40 (3) of the Australian National Airlines Act 1945-1975 I present the annual report of Trans-Australia Airlines for the year ended 30 June 1975, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled  Port Pirie: Economic Evaluation of Harbour Improvements.  Due to the limited number available reference copies of this report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
I am very pleased to hear of the potential of the trade that the honourable member mentioned. The use of a Boeing 707 in such a trade would be a commercial decision. I am sure that Qantas would be interested in anything that would be attractive to the fleet. I will raise the question with Qantas to see whether there is some potential in its entering a market of this nature. Consideration would need to be given to whether the economics of air freights are better that the economics of sea freight. I know there are prospects at the moment of setting up a regular trade between that part of the world and Australia by a shipping company. These matters will be taken into account, I have no doubt, by Qantas when it considers the question. 
I am concerned to hear that there was a prospect of damage to the instruments of the Sydney String Orchestra. My understanding is that normally arrangements are made for somebody from the orchestra or body concerned to be able to help unload the instruments on the sort of occasion the honourable member described. I am unable to tell the honourable member why the same arrangement was not made on this occasion. I understand that the orchestra for some reason or other flew with Thai Airways instead of Qantas. I do not know whether any parochialism was shown in respect of that but I shall investigate the matter and give the honourable member a report at a later date. 
-The House will know that in both the Prime Minister's policy speech and in the Governor-General's Address mention was made of the Government's intention to introduce a freight equalisation scheme for industries in Tasmania. The honourable member will be pleased to know, or he may well know already, that officers of my Department have been to Tasmania on a couple of occasions to have discussions with the Chamber of Manufactures, the Chamber of Commerce and a variety of industry groups. As a result of those visits legislation is being prepared to go to the Government for consideration. I am hopeful that consideration will be able to be given to this matter within the next couple of weeks. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I have explained to the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  that for a short period I have to leave the House on official business at 4 o'clock. I mean no reflection on the honourable member who is about to speak and I thank him for understanding the situation. I will be back as soon as possible and will answer the points raised in my absence. 
in reply- I again apologise to those honourable members who had to speak during my absence from the chamber. I will, of course, be studying  Hansard  to find any points that have been made by those particular speakers in the debate. If I miss any points during the course of this summing up I shall reply to them in due course. 
The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  has made a very special plea- it is a rightful plea, I have no doubt about that- for the general aviation and rural air services which service the areas about which he is concerned. I would point out that the very purpose of the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill is to try to keep those people provided with air services. The point has been well made by speakers on this side of the House that the previous Goverment had a cost recovery program rate which was far in excess of that which we propose, being a maximum of 15 per cent as against up to 300 per cent proposed by the previous Labor Government. In a year when quite obviously our budgeting circumstances are very tight, that demonstrates again to the people of Australia how keen we are to see transport systems that can operate effectively around Australia, because we will not be collecting the $20-odd million from the cost recovery program- I think the figure could have been $25m - proposed by the previous Administration. 
Insofar as general aviation is concerned, I ought to record in  Hansard  the level of recovery rate as it now exists in the different sectors of airline operations. Under this Bill international airlines will be paying about 95 per cent of total cost recovery; trunk route airlines about 76 per centthat is Ansett Airlines of Australia and TransAustralia Airlines; the rural airlines, which means East- West Airlines Ltd and the like, 22 per cent; and general aviation, 18 per cent. Of course, one of the problems of the whole system of general aviation is that, being the animal that it is, it is unable to pay its fair share, as one might put it, of the total cost recovery program. We have kept the figure at about 18 per cent because at this point in time that seems to be the only level that it can meet. But we are keen to see general aviation expand and grow, and that is one of the main purposes behind the Bill before the House. 
It ought to be recognised that general aviation faces not only increases in costs in air navigation charges- that is not the major cost of its whole operations- but also increases in fuel costs, pilots' wages and in wages generally caused by the inflationary circumstances flowing out of the careless approach to the economy of the previous Administration. As we tackle the economy and get the inflationary problems under control, I hope that there will be a reflection of that in some growth in the various sectors of aviation. The honourable member for Maranoa can be assured that I am fully cognisant of the points he makes. I shall look at the points in detail and perhaps come back to him. 
The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  in leading in the debate for the Opposition made one or two political points which I shall ignore. I shall come to a point which perhaps could be thought to be of substance. He asked me to express my attitude to regional services. He was careful in his choice of words. He said that some words had been attributed to me and he was seeking clarification of them. I read the report to which no doubt he was referring. The point that I was making is that if by chance our international carrier, Qantas Airways Limited, wants to withdraw from a service, I have got to give consideration to what might occur in that event and how that service might be handled. That is the way in which I approach the general question. There is no challenge to Qantas being our flag carrier, our international carrier. I make that point quite clear. I do not say any more than that about it; there is no need to say any more. I do not think there is anything else that the honourable member raised that I need answer at this point. If he has any doubts about it I shall look at the matter later. 
The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  raised the question of repressive treatment of general aviation. Again I would have thought that this Bill is an instance of our sincerity in trying to overcome what might have been seen to be repressive treatment of general aviation. I think the honourable member was referring not only to the cost recovery program but also to some attitudes that might be taken within the department in relation to general aviation. I have had conversations with representatives of what is now known as the combined general aviation organisations and, indeed, with individual operators and different people in the general aviation field who have come to see me separately, and I have not had conveyed to me the feeling that they are being, shall I say, picked on by the department. If the honourable member has any examples of that occurring I would like him to talk to me privately afterwards so that he might convey them to me, because that has not been the impression conveyed to me in all the conversations I have had. Certainly concern has been expressed about the abolition of the Department of Civil Aviation. I have expressed views about that on previous occasions. We are faced with the facts of life; the Department of Civil Aviation has been abolished. 
-There are those who hold the view of the honourable member for Newcastle and those who do not. I am not going to embroider the question any further, except to say that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has been quite strong in his determination to cut back on Public Service growth and the development of the Public Service. Therefore the proliferation of departments obviously would lead to increased costs and it is not a question to consider at all at this time. 
It is quite extraordinary how the honourable member for Newcastle, with his shadow here- I am not too sure who is the leader of the band out of these two; I think this fellow at the table is the minor drummer boy and Charlie is still beating the  Dig  drum up at the back. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! I would remind the Minister that both honourable members to whom he has referred are entitled to be referred to by their proper designations, namely, the honourable member for Shortland and the honourable member for Newcastle. 
-I accept that entirely,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I apologise to both honourable members. They took it in good part; they are both grinning. But I think the honourable member for Newcastle is still beating the big drum and the honourable member for Shortland is very much the minor drummer boy sitting down here at the table. As long as he listens to his predecessor he might learn something. I do not intend to say any more on the matter of air transport groups, other than that I have issued a statement pointing out that air transport groups have been re-organised in such a way as to give anybody in the air transport industry, whether from Ansett, TAA, Qantas or general aviation, or anybody at all, complete access to the people he wants to see. Only one question been raised with me as to the satisfaction of this problem. 
I will come to that in due course if the honourable member is patient. I have to deal with some questions raised by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  who takes a particularly keen interest in the problems of Tasmania and air transport to Tasmania. He made the valid point that not even Gough can walk on water. Therefore even he has to fly or go by ship when he goes to Tasmania. The first question the honourable member raised is the question of both Ansett and TAA planes landing at Launceston and then going on to Hobart. He raised that question as to why on alternate days one of them cannot fly over directly to Hobart. It is a valid question. I might say that this 2-airline policy has bugged every Minister responsible for civil aviation who has handled this question ever since I was elected to Parliament in 1961. It was a very old story even then. As the honourable member has raised the question I shall certainly have a look at it and see whether it is possible to get the airlines to agree to some change in the positioning of their aircraft to suit the needs of the people of Hobart. The honourable member also raised the question of the payment of air navigation charges by Air Tasmania and sought from me an assurance that if Air Tasmania wishes it will be able to pay the charges on a quarterly basis or on some basis of terms. I think I have a letter from Air Tasmania on this very question. It is being referred to the Department of Transport to see whether the company's wishes in this regard can be met. Certainly if they can be met I shall be only too happy to agree to it. I am hopeful, along with the honourable member for Denison, that Air Tasmania in the ensuing period might see itself out of trouble and go onto greater things. 
The honourable member for Denison also asked me whether I would have a look at the basis of the system of air navigation charges. I have again invited the combined general aviation organisations to make a submission to me in respect of the whole question of the cost recovery program and air navigation charges. Similarly, I have invited Ansett, TAA and Qantas as the big operators in the field likewise to have a look at the cost recovery program and to make submissions to me about it. This is in line with the policy we laid down prior to the election when I gave the commitment publicly that we would have a look at the total recovery program to see whether it was based fairly and properly. This will be done. I shall expect that any general aviation organisation or operator who has views about this question will let me have those views. If the honourable member for Denison knows of people with some views about this matter I hope he will urge them to let me hear from them. 
I did not hear the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  speak, but, as I understand it, in speaking to the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill he stated the charges relating to a number of international airports. For example, he cited the charges for a Boeing 747 landing in Australia as being $3,348 and the charge at San Francisco as being $219. They are certainly graphic figures when presented in that way. But unfortunately whilst Australia still has the highest charges in the world according to the table available, the honourable member did not cite the complete charges payable by a 747 when it lands at San Francisco. The total charges, based on a whole variety of different sorts of charges in San Francisco come to $1,139, which is - 
I am only too happy to incorporate the table. In fact I think it was incorporated in  Hansard  in the last year's debate. I am not sure that the charges are still the same. I am pointing out that the honourable member for Eden-Monaro said that the charge in San Francisco was $219. In fact the charge, with all things in, for a 747 in San Francisco is $ 1 , 1 39. 
-Australian dollars. 
Yes, it can be incorporated as far as I am concerned. 

<graphic href="098131197603025_32_2.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. As I understand it, in my absence from the House during the debate the honourable member for Newcastle raised the question of the Government's policy. I think he was trying to say that we were doing a bit of a cheat in respect of this Bill. Let me put his mind at rest. We were not doing a cheat at all. I understand that he quoted some documents out of his head and stated that we had said that we would freeze the whole program until an examination had been made. I think if the honourable member looks at the policy document he will see that we said we would defer the previous administration's program until further studies had been made. I gave instances of what those studies would be. We have in fact proceeded. We have deferred all the great expense involved in an increase of up to 300 per cent to which I referred earlier and as proposed by the honourable member for Newcastle. We have proceeded to implement increases involving up to 15 per cent which had already been budgeted for in the airlines' annual budget programs. They had already taken into account an expected increase of 15 per cent in the setting of their rates for the year 1975-76. So all we did was to proceed along the very normal basis as provided under the Airlines Agreement. It is not fair of the honourable member for Newcastle to say that we cheated on the policy. We in fact followed closely the proposals we had made during the course of the election campaign. I think I have dealt with all the points raised by the various honourable members in the debate. I repeat that if I have missed some points because of my absence from the House - 
My apologies. How could I forget it? Of course the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  and the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  are very concerned about the redevelopment of the Brisbane Airport. During the course of their time in this Parliament they have been assiduous in following through their commitment to the local people to see a change in the present line of the runway at Brisbane to a new line as proposed by a previous Minister for Civil Aviation in about 1970, 1971 or 1972. The honourable member for Griffith has made his position quite clear, that he expects the Government to go back to that position and to honour a commitment that was given at that time. I have to say to the honourable member that whilst I admire him for his assiduousness I am in no position to give him an undertaking today, this very day. 
Or tomorrow, or indeed in this Budget year having regard to the full financial implications of what he proposes. I am in no position to give him what he wants or to reassure him on this point. All I can say is that he will have adequate time when proposals of this nature come forward to make further representations to me and to strengthen his position with me if we get to a point of redevelopment. I have to say that in the light of the economic circumstances in which this Government is placed because of the stupidity of the previous Government in its whole handling of the economy I am unable to be as free as I would like with the honourable member and to give him what he would like in this regard. I repeat that I shall look at the other points raised by honourable members and answer them separately. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the first 4 questions is yes, so far as I am aware the information given to the House by the honourable member is correct. In answer to the fifth question in respect of the survey done by the Department of Transport as to the stability of the soil around the graving dock, a report has been received that this will involve much greater expenditure patterns than was first known. In respect of this whole program I should inform the honourable member that the Government, as he may know, is reviewing the program along with a lot of others and a policy decision in respect of it will be announced in due course. 
-I am able to confirm that a TAA captain suffered a bout of illness during the course of a flight. But having said that, let me assure the House immediately that this in no way endangered either the flight crew or the passengers on board that plane as there is, of course, on these large aircraft a second flight crew member who has the full capacity and capability of bringing the aircraft in safely. Insofar as the second part of the question is concerned, the honourable member ought also to know that all pilots undergo a rigorous medical examination every 6 months and the medical checks are on a level equivalent to or indeed better than any international standards. The point I am making is that whilst these events occur very infrequently, the whole system is such that it has a built-in safety mechanism to ensure that they can occur only infrequently and that there is absolutely no danger at all to the flying public. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of Qantas Airways Ltd for the year ended 31 March 1975, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Figures for the year 1975 are not yet available. I undertake to make them available at the earliest possible opportunity. United States military aircraft used Cocos Island on the following occasions. 
1971:78 1972: 89 1973: 80 1974: 62. 
Because of rights afforded to civil aircraft under the terms of the Chicago Convention it is not possible to be precisely accurate about the number of United States civil registered aircraft using Cocos Island. However, the number is extremely small- in the order of 5 to 6 aircraft for the entire period. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
1 ) My Department, together with the Statutory Authorities concerned, ANL and ANR, are studying the total transport requirements of the Northern Territory. In association with this study the Australian National Railways Commission is examining the means to ensure the most efficient, reliable and economic land transport services possible are maintained to Darwin and other northern areas. 
In making its recommendations on these services the interests of the North Australia Railway employees will be given every consideration by Australian National Railways. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
It is due to the lack of a radio navigation facility suitable for the prescription of an instrument descent procedure. 
Such a procedure was considered but was rejected on the grounds that it did not meet the applicable standards. 
The Archerfield/Redland Bay procedure does not set a precedent in respect of Toowoomba. In the Archerfield/Redland Bay case the aircraft is still flying toward a radio aid (Archerfield NDB) on final approach. No such final approach aid exists at Toowoomba and in the absence of such aid the combination of navigation tolerances and terrain in the vicinity of the airport makes a procedure based on Oakey unacceptable for regular public transport operations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The release of the committee's report when complete is a matter for joint decision with the South Australian Government. It is anticipated that the report will be released this year but this may not be possible before the Budget period of sittings. 
-At the Premiers Conference the Premiers were informed that the Federal Government would make available $64m for road needs and that of this amount Victoria's share would be $ 13.4m. There was to be a matching provision from the Victorian Government of $ 16.7m. The Federal Government requested that all the States make as much of this money as possible available to local government authorities because of the paucity of funds reaching local government authorities due to the stupidity of the previous Government and the way in which it treated local government authorities. An agreement was reached between the Victorian Minister for Transport and me as to the distribution of those funds, and the great bulk of those funds will go to local government authorities. I am unable to comment on the distribution of those funds shire by shire. I have had no information at this point from the Victorian Minister but I will try to ascertain the position. I have heard of different amounts being granted to a variety of shires and I understand that the honourable member's concern is that there appears to be a lack of grants to one area in the north of Victoria. I will try to ascertain from the Victorian Minister what share of the funds will be made available to shires in that area. I am sure that he recognises, as I do, that it is important that the outlying shires in Victoria get their fair share. 
As I understand it, a regulation was drafted last year by the Department, which at that time was under the administration of the previous Government, to control hang gliding insofar as public safety was concerned rather than the intrepid efforts of hang gliders themselves. That is as far as I propose to take it. I would treat hang gliding like hanging-five on a surfboard, water skiing, skin diving, mountain climbing or any other sport one likes to name. The day that Parliament has to regulate to stop the enthusiasm of young men trying something out I think will be the sorriest day for this nation. I do not propose to do anything about it. 
For the information of honourable members I present 2 reports prepared by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled  Mainline Upgrading: Evaluation of a Range of Options for the Melbourne-Sydney kail Link  and  Mainline Upgrading: Evaluation of a Range of Options for the Melbourne-Serviceton Rail Link.  Due to the limited number of these reports available, reference copies have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
I move: 
That a Standing Committee be appointed to inquire into and report on: 
the main causes of the present high level of the road toll in Australia; 
the most effective means of achieving greater road safety in Australia; 
the particular aspects of the problem to which those concerned with road safety could most advantageously direct their efforts, and 
the economic cost to the community of road accidents in Australia in terms of- 
material damage; 
loss of man hours and earning capacity, and 
cost of treatment of accident victims. 
That the committee recognise the responsibility of the States in these matters and seek their co-operation in all relevant aspects. 
That the committee consist of eight members, five to be nominated by the Prime Minister and three to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  Speaker. 
That the members of the committee hold office as a committee until the House of Representatives expires by dissolution or effluxion of time. 
That the committee elect as Chairman of the committee one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister. 
That the committee elect a  Deputy Chairman  who shall perform the duties of the  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee and at any time when the  Chairman  and  Deputy Chairman  are not present at a meeting of the committee the members present shall elect another member to perform the duties of the  Chairman  at that meeting. 
That the committee have power to appoint committees consisting of three or more of its members, and to appoint the  Chairman  of each sub-committee who shall have a casting vote only, and refer to any such sub-committee any matter which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That a majority of the members of a sub-committee constitute a quorum of that sub-committee. 
That members of the committee who are not members of a sub-committee may take part in the public proceedings of that sub-committee but shall not vote or move any motion or constitute a quorum. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
12) That the committee have power to move from place to place and to sit during any recess. 
That any sub-committee have power to move from place to place, adjourn from time to time and to sit during any recess, sittings or adjournment. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
That the committee be provided with necessary staff, facilities and resources. 
1 6 ) That the committee in selecting particular matters for investigation take account of the investigations of other Parliamentary committees and avoid duplication. 
1 7 ) That the committee have leave to report from time to time and that any members of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to consider and make use of the evidence and records of the Standing Committee on Road Safety appointed during the Twenty-eighth and Twenty-ninth Parliaments. 
1 9 ) That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
Honourable members will recall that we have for some years now had a committee of this House set up to consider and report on road safety matters. The Select Committee on Road Safety was established by the House on 27 April 1 972 on my motion. The Select Committee was reconstituted on 12 April 1973 and 12 March 1974 while a Standing Committee on Road Safety was established on 18 July 1974. The establishment and work of this Committee has received the support of honourable members from both sides of the House. The terms of reference which I propose are, as far as the scope of the work of the Committee is concerned, identical with the earlier terms of reference. There are a number of detailed changes in the machinery provisions included in the terms of reference but these are designed to fit in with a standard approach which we are adopting with regard to all such standing committees. 
A review of the activities of the Committees on Road safety since their appointment shows the importance of involving representatives of the Commonwealth Parliament directly in what is undoubtedly a national problem. The existence of the Committee has provided both a forum for the presentation of information relevant to the road accident problem and an independent line of inquiry into all its aspects. Honourable members will be aware that the Committees have produced two reports. The first, in 1973,  Road Safety, a National Authority, The Constitutional Position, Statistical Needs,  highlighted the national nature of many aspects of road safety. It recommended the creation of a national authority on road safety and standards as a statutory authority. As part of its drive to achieve savings in administrative costs the Government decided to reverse the previous Government's decision to establish a Road Safety and Standards Authority as a separate entity. 
However, this does not in any way indicate a lessening of our commitment to road safety. I should make it quite clear to honourable members that the establishment of the Authority was only in its very early stages when our decision was taken. Virtually the whole of the staff of the Authority was made up of officers formerly with the Department of Transport and still in fact located in the Department's Melbourne office. These officers will simply be returned to the departmental strength. I must also stress that the budgetary savings which we will achieve this financial year do not mean that we have cut back on efforts to improve road safety. Certainly we are not outlaying funds during this financial year on facilities originally proposed to be established for the Authority at Albury-Wodonga. This is simply because we are re-examining how best to provide the required facilities. 
The second Committee report in 1974 dealt with  Roads and their Environment.  During the life of the last Parliament the Committee had been engaged in an active investigation of the vehicle factor in road safety but had not reported on this matter. 
Over the past 5 years we have seen a remarkable downturn in deaths and injuries amongst vehicle occupants. In 1974 13 per cent fewer drivers and passengers were killed than in 1970; this of course has resulted in large measure from the compulsory use of seat belts following the example set late in 1970 by the Victorian State Government. In each of the years since then the number of persons killed has been less than during that record year. Nevertheless, the annual toll of deaths exceeds 3500, with another 90 000 persons being injured. 
The Government fully recognises the gravity of this situation despite improvements which have been made in recent years through changes to vehicle design and the road environment. As a nation we cannot afford to let up in our efforts to contain this major social problem. My Government's policy in this area is clear and has been stated on a number of occasions. I would in conclusion mention three vital areas. First, there will be continued support for research. My department is currently sponsoring more than thirty projects being conducted by universities and other research organisations. We intend to seek greater publicity for results of research so as to increase community awareness of factors contributing to road accidents and preventive measures which should be taken. 
Secondly, we will support work for road safety through the Australian Transport Advisory 
Council and its associated committees. Through this we will continue to confer with the States with a view to improving vehicle safety standards and strengthening the vehicle certification systems, promulgating a uniform system of traffic rules and regulations throughout Australia and encouraging better driver standards. 
Finally, and again in co-operation with the States, we will be engaged in a progressive road improvement program. The road improvement program is recognised by all in the road safety field as being as much an essential factor in road safety improvement as are improvements in vehicle safety and design and in driver training and behaviour. It is important that the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia should be directly involved in the consideration of issues affecting the safety of our road system. I commend to honourable members the proposal to reestablish the Standing Committee on Road Safety. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The details of the aircraft purchased from the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation by the major Australian airlines in the last 20 years are as follows: 
In the past 5 years since the introduction of seat belt legislation throughout Australia there has been a reduction of about 13 per cent in road deaths. Most students of this question attribute that reduction to the introduction of seat belt legislation. So it has been one of the most progressive steps in car safety in any country. It is one in which the Victorian Government can take some pride because it was the first government to introduce such legislation. I cannot answer the particular question raised by the honourable member. I do not know the answer. I will find out. 
I am aware that the Leader of the Opposition raises a serious matter when he talks about the increasing freight rates and the difficulties they cause for exporters and consumers alike. I am also aware that in the past 3 years the policies of the Labor Government were policies that engendered greater difficulty for those sections of the community concerned than at any time in Australia's history. If it had not been for the stupidity of the Leader of the Opposition and the team behind him when they were Ministers - 
Yes, I can give the Leader of the Opposition an answer to the question. What I have proposed to do- it is being done at the moment- is to formalise the meeting of Commissioners of Railways so that they as a body can make the necessary freight adjustments that they see fit between one rail system and another, between one State and another and between one set of people and another. One of the great problems that the Leader of the Opposition and the previous Administration could not solve was this very problem. I know the Leader of the Opposition believes the Inter-State Commission will solve all these problems. Time will tell. We will wait and see about that. At the moment I am formalising the meeting between Commissioners of 
Railways, who have the proper commercial responsibilities for their own undertakings, so that they can look at these very questions and come up with sensible answers. 
I am aware of the problems of flooding in the area around the Brisbane Airport as described by the honourable member. He raises a somewhat interesting proposition. I assume that he holds the view that the removal of the gravel would not only mitigate flooding but also provide material necessary for the construction or reconstruction of the Brisbane aerodrome. The Queensland authorities have stopped any further removal of the gravel for their own reasons which have not been explained to me. Therefore the matter would need to be explored with those authorities. I would need to talk to my colleague, the Minister for Construction, about the suitability of the gravel for use in the development of the aerodrome because he is responsible for that area. I shall see that he makes investigations to ascertain whether the gravel can be used in such a fashion. 
My colleague the Minister for Administrative Services has received the Nimmo Committee's report, which will be tabled in the Senate and in this House tomorrow. When that report is tabled I think the honourable member will see that the findings are so important that the Government must give very serious consideration to them. Because of the consideration that will be given to the report I expect there will be some delay in the introduction of the freight equalisation scheme as proposed by members of the Liberal and National Country Parties prior to the election. Having said that, I am hopeful that the delay will not be an undue one. 
The Government is concerned about maintaining services to isolated communities. As an instance of our concern the House will recall that the present Government rejected the increase- in the case of general aviation of up to 300 per cent- in air navigation charges that was proposed by the previous Government. We introduced a Bill to increase air navigation charges only by the percentage specified in the 2- airline policy agreement, namely, 15 per cent. 
This will be of major assistance to the air charterers in the remote areas. The previous Administration set out a policy of reducing the subsidies over a period and of course the air charterers have felt the effects of that. They have also felt the effects of the downturn in the economy in these rural areas. Again, a lot of that is the responsibility of the previous Administration because of its poor handling of both the economy and its trade policies. We are endeavouring to straighten out the matters in the economy itself and to overcome the trade difficulties to get the rural industries back on their feet. Of course this will be of major significance to air charter operations. Insofar as the subsidy itself is concerned, in the tight economic climate in which we find ourselves I am not able to confirm any assistance from that source but I am hopeful that the other actions we are taking in the economy will lift the operations of services like Bush Pilots Airways Ltd which I know are of great concern to the honourable member. 
In recent years a number of proposals have been put forward to replace the State-raised interstate transport charges. One of the proposals is the tax mentioned by the honourable member. There is nothing before this Government in relation to that matter, other than the recommendation by the Bureau of Roads which has suggested that this matter be studied. We will look responsibly at the suggestion made by the Bureau of Roads, and when looking at it I will have in mind the serious implications raised by the honourable member in his question. 

 'BLUE HILLS' 

Let me make it quite clear that there will be no change to the level of the program. The program is being delayed because the New South Wales Government had sought to reallocate some of the funds for a variety of other projects within that program. There will be no further undue delay other than the time it takes for that matter to be cleared up with the New South Wales Government. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Commission of Inquiry into Transport to and from Tasmania. I seek leave to make a statement in connection with that report. 
A copy of the full report will be placed in the Parliamentary Library for study by honourable senators and honourable members. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
The Nimmo Commission was established by the previous Government on its election to office, following its extravagant promises prior to 1972 to solve the Tasmanian transport problems. The previous Government looked to the Nimmo Commission as a means of finding the answers. During its 3-year life, while awaiting the Nimmo report, it increased freight rates by some 65 per cent, which did not help its cause in Tasmania. The Nimmo Commission's report contains some 300 pages. It is quite complex. I was fascinated by the immediate response from the Tasmanian Government and many people in Tasmania- comments that it ought to be shelved or thrown into the waste paper basket and remarks of that nature. I have not studied the 300 pages of the report in detail but I have looked at the findings and the Government is considering them. We announced a policy of freight equalisation during the course of the election campaign. I will be taking to the Government as soon as practicable a submission on that issue. The other recommendations of the Nimmo Commission are being put to study in order to see what can be made of them. In the meantime, the undertaking which I gave to the Minister for Repatriation about freight rates stands. There will be no change in freight rates until the freight equalisation proposals which I have and which the Government has announced as policy are considered by the Government and proper decisions are taken. 
I have in my hand the report of the  West-Australian  of 30 March. It describes some very unusual circumstances that occurred at the airport yesterday. It appears that a man entered the airport to pick up a parcel and was mobbed by some picketers. According to this report, he had his arm twisted and was generally knocked about. He went to a telephone to call the police and the telephone was ripped from the wall, according to this report. The manager of Trans-Australia Airlines called the Commonwealth Police who were on duty somewhere outside to intervene and the man was saved further embarrassment. The honourable gentleman raises the question of what can be done about this. I have had no report from the Department of Transport on the matter. I shall seek a report about it. I should think there must be normal recourse to law in a case of assault of this kind. I shall keep the honourable member informed. 
-I table the document. It is a newspaper report which the honourable member can read in the Library. 
I have in my hand a copy of a Press report that appeared in a Brisbane weekend paper. The headline reads: 'Government shelves new Brisbane Airport'. The article goes on: 
The Federal Government has shelved indefinitely plans to build a new Brisbane Airport. It seems unlikely that any steps to redevelop the airport will be taken before the 1977 Budget, and possibly before the early 1 980s. 
The article goes on to say that I find myself in a contrary position to that which I adopted in this House when I answered a question from the honourable member for Lilley, I think, a couple of weeks ago. Regrettably this article has a fair bit of poetic licence about it. It is what one might describe in Press terms as being a 'beaten up article'. The fact is that nothing is changed from what I said to the honourable member for Lilley. I am in no position to say what financial assistance will be given or what capital works program will be authorised for the Brisbane airport in terms of the forthcoming 1976-77 Budget. I think I explained to the honourable member for Lilley that there are tremendous economic restraints on all aspects of government because of the stupidityand I think when I used that word before it was considered to be unparliamentary,  Mr Speaker-  of the actions of the previous Government. 
Let me assure the honourable member and the House that there is no way known by which I am going to put the air travelling public at risk. Let me also assure the honourable member and the House that any steps that are taken under the cost recovery program and any economic drive that I have to undertake will in no way put at risk the air travelling public. I will look at the specific complaint that the honourable member has brought forward and check its accuracy and any effect it may have. 

The matters raised by the Leader of the Opposition have been under review. I am unable to make any further comment at this time. 

On 3 1 March the honourable member for Shortland asked me a question concerning deferment of the regular distribution of airworthiness directives by the Department of Transport. He asked for my assurance that the Government's control of expenditure would not be permitted to cause a reduction in the high standard of aircraft operation in Australia. 
Airworthiness directives are a means by which appropriate aircraft owners, operators and maintenance organisations are notified of required specific modifications or inspections to correct a defect or establish that an unairworthy condition does not exist in a type of aircraft, a type of engine or an item of aircraft equipment. Airworthiness directives are issued in 2 categories. The first category are those which have immediate safety impact and call for corrective action. They are initially issued by the fastest available means- telephone, telegram or even by handand are subsequently confirmed in writing. The second category of directive covers those of less urgency and for which corrective action generally can be accommodated within normal maintenance programs. These directives are issued in the form of monthly consolidated lists. 
It is correct that a temporary shortage of funds caused the Department of Transport to delay release of the March consolidated list of directives, that is, the list of less urgent directives. The funds are now available and the directives are being printed. There was no loss of safety in the meantime as the Department re-assessed each of the directives to see whether, in the circumstances, any of them should be upgraded to immediately notifiable directives. In fact, none of the directives was of such urgency as to warrant upgrading. 
I repeat the assurance which I have already given that no measure under the Government's cost recovery program or economy drive will be permitted to put at risk those people who travel by air. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The project was approved under the Urban Public Transport Agreement at a total estimated cost of $3.42m. Under the provisions of that Agreement the Commonwealth commitment is two-thirds of the cost or $2. 28m. 
(a) and (b) The project was approved for commencement in financial year 1974-75 and completion was planned for 1976-77. 
East Timor: Arms from Australia (Question No. 216) 
-In 1973 a committee of Commonwealth and State officials was set up to investigate the airport requirements of Perth. Some time in 1974 or 1975, I think it was, the State officials on that Committee asked the joint committee whether it would investigate the Kalgoorlie airport requirements. This study has been going on in the last few months and I expect soon to receive a report in respect of Kalgoorlie 's domestic airport requirements, as distinct from any international prospect that might be in hand. Regarding the international aspect of the question, Kalgoorlie is being considered as an alternative for Perth in case of Perth airport being fogged out on some occasion or being closed because of some other difficulty of that nature. But it is not being considered as a site for a second international airport. I think I should make the distinction in case I raise the honourable member's hopes too high. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled  Brisbane Airport: Economic Evaluation of Alternative Development Strategies.  Due to the limited number available, a small number of distribution copies are available on request from the Bills and Papers Office. In addition, a number of reference copies have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
The purpose of tabling the report of the Bureau of Transport Economics was to engender public debate. I did not expect such a spirited debate so soon. The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  made one point that I think deserves an answer for the record. He said that no previous public works of the size envisaged in the reconstruction of the Brisbane airport had been subjected to an analysis by the Bureau of Transport Economics. That is so. Before 1970 we never had a Bureau of Transport Economics to study works of this nature. Whatever one might say about the BTE, the fact is- this is where I find myself in agreement for once with my predecessor, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)-  that the BTE has been accepted very widely by all the State governments and their many public works authorities as being a very responsible body in the field of economic analysis. I confine my remarks to economic analysis. At this stage I shall not be drawn into the question of compassion for people living in residential areas around airports. I shall come back to that point later. This is the first major development project at an airport since the establishment of the BTE. 
The honourable member for Newcastle delved into the realm of speculation. For him to assume that Tullamarine is not worthy of the investment made in it is to assume more than he knows. As I have said, the BTE was not in existence when the Tullamarine airport was built. It is not correct to assume that the Tullamarine airport is not worthy of every cent that was invested in it. If before the wild flights of inflation took hold of this country under the previous Administration the honourable member for Newcastle, as Minister, had made sure there were further public works programs at the Brisbane airport as proposed by a report which was brought down in 1972 and which he had in his hands, the Brisbane airport problem could well have been dealt with, settled and finally laid at rest. If he had gone ahead with the implementation of the 1972 report instead of listening to  Dr Coombs,  who brought down a lot of rubbish and helped throw the Labor Government out, not only would there have been a new airport in Brisbane but the honourable member for Newcastle might have found himself still Minister for Transport today. That would have been a sad thing. He delved into the realm of speculation far too much when he said Tullamarine was not worth the money invested in it. 
The honourable member also made the wild claim that the Government when in office previously had done nothing about the Brisbane airport. I have just referred to the fact that in 1 972 a report was presented on the redevelopment of the airport and that his Government shelved the report and did nothing about it. We went as far as to get a report together in respect of the Brisbane airport, so it is unfair and untrue to say that we did nothing about it. The honourable member went so far into the field of fantasy as to claim that this form of investigation is something new; that the ALP invented it when it was in government. This is really a flight of fantasy. As Minister for Transport, I tabled BTE reports in 1972, long before the honourable member for Newcastle becomes a Minister of the Crown himself. I would like the record to be put straight. 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  displayed his usual fervour and great interest in this matter concerning Brisbane. I compliment him because he represents the views of the people who live in his electorate and he represents them very well. I have to say to him and to the honourable member for Lilley that as a Government, when decisions are taken in respect of the redevelopment of the Brisbane airport, we will of course take into account the very impassioned way in which they pleaded the cause of the people who live in the area. We are a government of compassion and we will have great regard for the representations that they nave made. We will of course take into account the comfort of the people residing in the area. 
I am unable to give any assurances on when the redevelopment might take place, as distinct from what form the redevelopment might take. It is a matter for budget discussion. I have said this previously: Everybody in this House knows that because of the policies followed by our predecessors by which they spent all the money in the exchequer, and nearly led the country into bankruptcy, I am not able to give the sort of glib promises that I would like on redevelopment at the Brisbane Airport. When the appropriate economic time has arrived I will take into account the heavy representations made by the honourable member for Lilley and the honourable member for Griffith. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I think the kindest thing that can be said about  Mr Wran's  election policy promises on transport is that they are a fiddle, and, what is worse, they are a fiddle that involves Commonwealth money.  Mr Wran  proposes to abandon, in particular, the Manly- Warringah eastern distributor and the north-western freeway proposal. The New South Wales Government has deferred development of these freeways following the Urban Transport Advisory Committee report, but  Mr Wran  proposes to abandon them and sell the land that has been acquired for the construction of these freeways. What  Mr Wran  does not seem to know is that over the past two or three years the acquisitions were funded under the Roads Grants Act with Commonwealth moneys. If any money is to be gained by the sale of land along these proposed freeway routes the Commonwealth would expect that money to be either returned to the Commonwealth or reallocated under the Roads Grants Act. It would not be possible, under an Act of this Parliament, to have it applied to a cut in transport fares. I think in truth that  Mr Wran  has proved himself to be a reckless amateur in Commonwealth-State relations and he knows very little about them. 
-Firstly, I thank those honourable members who have contributed to the debate. Some interesting and rather varied speeches have been made by honourable members on both sides of the House. Perhaps I ought to deal with the remarks of the last  speaker,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren),  before referring to some of the other points that were raised. He made a rather curious speech in which he seemed to get his facts mixed somewhat. He stated as a positive fact that local government debt had increased by 2000 per cent over a number of years. I do not argue with that claim. He then talked about what a great thing the Labor Government had done by introducing the Grants Commission and giving local government $57m in the first year and $75m, I think, in the second year. What he did not tell us was that in the roads grants program the Labor Government took more money away from the local government area than the total amount of money it gave under the Grants Commission program. It was a confidence trick. The Labor Government came out with this brand new program of money for local government under the Grants Commission on the one hand and took more money out of the local government area from the roads grants program. One example of that is Victoria. In the last year of the program- 1972- during which I was Minister for Transport the local governments in Victoria got $ 16. lm. Three years later, under the Labor Government, that dropped to $4.7m. That was indicative of the approach taken by the Labor Government: Give on the one hand and take more away on the other. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid, like the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  when he spoke earlier, spent a lot of time explaining why the Labor Party lost the last election. I could not quite make out, sir, what that had to do with the Bill, but as you were kind enough to let them mention it you might let me have something to say about it. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  They both talked about the 'coup' of 11 November. What do they call the result of 13 December if they talk about the 'coup' on 11 
November? The whole of the Labor Party is besotted with trouble over the result on 13 December. Honourable members opposite still do not understand why it was that the people of Australia in such large numbers turned them out. They are now a broken Party sitting opposite me here and are quite leaderless. They have a man besotted with this problem of a coup. They do not realise that the very core of this Bill is one of the reasons that the people turned against them on 13 December. The cold facts are that the people of Australia were sick of the centralised bureaucratic control instituted by my friend and colleague, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  as he did in all of his approaches to all his legislation that came into this Parliament in the 3-year period. That was indicative of the whole of the Labor Party's approach. Until honourable members opposite get it out of their system the people of Australia will never put them back in office again. The fact is that the people of Australia do not want this centralised bureaucratic control. I cannot understand why the Labor Party did not pick up the message from the many local government bodies or at Commonwealth-State ministerial meetings where State Ministers made the situation quite plain. 
I was somewhat amused to hear the honourable member for Newcastle complaining about the lack of co-operation of State Ministers and the Australian Transport Advisory Council. It was not a case of lack of co-operation. The fact is, of course, that when the honourable member for Newcastle was Minister for Transport, he went to meetings and just dictated terms and conditions. He said: 'Well, that is what you are going to do and that is all about it'. We have just heard the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition telling us what he did about freeways and how he stopped all the freeway growth. He had no consultation with the States and none at all with local government. They had no right to give an opinion on the matter. All these so-called engineers he talked about lacked all the expertise in the world; all the skills lay in Canberra. They lay with the honourable member for Newcastle and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. They had all the skills and all the knowledge. That is the fundamental reason that the people of Australia threw the Labor Party out. The members of the Labor Party could not get into their thick skulls that there are other wisdoms besides wisdoms in Canberra. That finishes my remarks on the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. The rest of his speech was an ideological speech talking about the crumbling capitalist society, so I think the less said about that the better. Again on 13 December the people of Australia demonstrated that they are sick of the socialist, centralist system and that they would rather have the socalled decadent capitalist society by a mile. That is why there is a majority of fifty-five on this side of the House. Is that the right number? 
-The numbers are 91 to 36. Let me turn to the Leader of the Opposition. Both he and the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  who led in this debate, seemed very concerned that out of this $64m I pulled some magician's trick so that $20m will not be paid until after 1 July. They both tried to make something of it. I am glad that the honourable member for Newcastle knows enough about the Bill to realise that that was the wrong course to follow. If the honourable member for Shortland and the Leader of the Opposition had done any homework at all they would have seen that there is a carry-over every year in this program. Last year, under the administration of the honourable member for Newcastle, the carry-over was $10m. It varies from year to year. If honourable members read the minutes from the Premiers Conference they will see that there was no complaint at all from the Premier of South Australia about the approach that was taken, and he is a Labor Premier. There was no complaint at all from the Premier of Tasmania, and he is a Labor Premier. It is a figment to try to show that I have pulled some magician's trick. The fact is that this Bill provides $64m for the State, and that $64m will be paid. 
I thank the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Aldred),  the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  and the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  for their contributions. They made very constructive and useful contributions to the debate and demonstrated a much greater knowledge and perception of what this BUI is about than, I have to say, anybody from the Opposition did. The honourable member for Mitchell in particular picked on the core of the problem, that we are decentralising control from Canberra and allowing the local government authorities to be the judges of expenditure programs where works are to be carried out in their areas, and allowing the State governments to make judgments on programs where work is properly to be carried out in their areas. That is what government ought to be about. If we are to survive as a federalist system we have to give proper responsibilities to each area of government. I do not think that the honourable member for Newcastle, the honourable member for Shortland or either of the other Labor speakers have yet grasped that point. Until they do, as I said before, there is no way in the world that the people of Australia will accept them as an alternative government. 
The Leader of the Opposition complained bitterly because the schedules show a difference of $4m in the New South Wales expenditure program for the Hume Highway under the Nixon BUI, as he described it, as against the Jones Bill. The Leader of the Opposition really ought to talk to the Premier of New South Wales or the State Minister for Transport in New South Wales. It was the State Minister for Transport who recommended this transfer of resources. He said to me that he did so because in the program of expenditure it is much more necessary to spend this money on the changed formula. The same thing happened in the other States. I accepted their argument because I am prepared to cooperate with the States and recognise that they are the constructing authorities. They know where the short-fall is much better than I do here in Canberra, and so I accepted their argument. Quite curiously, the honourable member for Newcastle said that all this BUI does is legalise what I was doing illegally or words to that effect. He said that these sorts of changes were going on anyway. In other words he was saying that transfers of funds were taking place illegally. I have not checked the accuracy of that statement but I am prepared to accept the honourable member's word for it. But then he goes on to complain about the shifts in the schedules. He cannot have it both ways. He cannot complain and then agree to allowing it being done illegally 
The Leader of the Opposition, when complaining about the transfer of the $4m from the national highways program in New South Wales, talked about how this would seriously affect the national highways program. That is nonsense. It will not seriously affect the national highways program at all. Let us get this in proper perspective. Under the total national highways program that State gets between 25 per cent and 30 per cent of the total road moneys for 16 300 kilometres of road. Honourable members should compare this with the 416 000 kilometres of other roads in Australia. Let us get it in perspective: Twenty-five per cent of the funds are provided for 16 000 kilometres of roads as against the rest of the funds which are allocated for 416 000 kilometres. 
The national highways program is advancing very well. I am as conscious as anybody else of the need that the Leader of the Opposition talked about to update the Hume Highway. But I will not stand over State Ministers who are in charge of the construction of the highways and other roads in their States. I am not going to stand over them and tell them their business when they are able to make judgments from a point much closer to the people than I am here in Canberra. The previous Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle, declared the national highways system and funds will be allocated to it. I have permitted a transfer of funds from one section to another, but it is still within the ambit of the Commonwealth Minister to make sure that the total road funding for the national highway program is kept at a high level and in order to meet emergencies I will be prepared to co-operate at any time with the State Ministers to make sure that proper consideration is given to their needs. 
The honourable member for Shortland raised a point about quotas. He made the great point that $20m will not be available, he says, until next year. I have explained this matter. 
-Well, the honourable member asked the question. 
I am not sure what the honourable member said. 
I am not sure what the honourable member said. Perhaps the honourable member will tell us again in the Committee stages of this debate. But I want to assure him about the quota system. If he had looked at the Act he would have seen that the States do not have to match their quota system until the end of the 3-year period. In addition, the $58.4m required under the quota system to be raised by the State does not have to be provided in an expenditure program in this financial year. If the honourable member had looked at the Act he would have seen this. The States do have to match the quota funds but they do not have to do so immediately. This was made quite clear at the Premiers Conference. 
I want to make one other point. At the Australian Transport Advisory Committee meeting in Melbourne a few weeks ago this Bill, and the schedules attached to it, were greeted unanimously by the State Ministers as a major step forward. They spoke in glowing terms about the co-operation they were receiving from the Commonwealth Minister, following the speech I delivered to them on that occasion, as against the troubles they had had at previous ATAC meetings. I look forward to a long association with State Ministers knowing that there will be a much more co-operative approach rather than the dictatorial approach taken by my predecessor. I thank honourable members who contributed to the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I should like to answer a couple of questions. There was talk about postponing the Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting on 21 April. The Minister for Transport in New South Wales sent telegrams to all State Ministers and to me, as the Federal Minister, suggesting that the meeting be postponed because he took the view, quite properly in my opinion, that it would be improper for him as a State Minister going into an election within a week to be at an ATAC meeting at which responsible decisions affecting his State had to be taken. He took the proper view, in my opinion. He sent telegrams to all State Ministers suggesting that the meeting be postponed. I concurred in that view. I could see that it could be an embarrassment for him to take decisions when he may not be Minister for Transport a week later. So we accepted that view, quite genuinely. The difficulty was that the Minister for Transport in South Australia promptly sent a telegram saying that the ATAC meeting could be held in South Australia, New South Wales could go hang and it need not bother to attend as far as he was concerned. 
No, he has not changed a bit. There was a general talk between Ministers. We decided that issues of fundamental importance to the State would be raised and that the State Minister need not attend and deliberate on matters which might embarrass a new Minister. I am quite satisfied that the team led by the Premier,  Sir Eric  Willis, will win quite handsomely at the State election. I do not believe that  Mr Bruxner  who is the State Minister for Transport need be embarrassed for one moment. He is a proper gentleman and he expressed that point of view. That is why there was some talk of cancelling the meeting for 2 1 April. There was also talk of cancelling the meeting of Ministers responsible for ports and marine for the same reason. After all, unlike Ministers of the Labor Government which was in office for 3 years, Ministers of this Government do take a proper view of these things. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  ought to recognise that. I was delighted to hear him say that there is a need for coordination and co-operation. That is a brand new approach by the Labor Party Opposition. If we had had a bit more of that over the past 3 years by the then Minister for Transport at 
ATAC meetings the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  might still be sitting on this side of the chamber. 
I warn the people of Australia that the colour of the animal has not changed. The honourable member for Shortland is realising something which the honourable member for Newcastle did not realise in 3 years and that is that what he has to do is to pretend that all is sweetness and light in co-operating with his State colleagues. He then might find himself as Minister for Transport some day. But I think one has to do more than that to demonstrate to the people of Australia that one is prepared to co-operate with the States and with local government. One cannot dictate to the States as did the Minister for Transport in the Labor Government. The honourable member knows that full well. He lost the co-operation of even the Labor Party State Ministers. I have heard some comments about ATAC meetings which went on over the 3 years which would make one 's hair curl. 
No, not mine, I do not have enough to curl and not the honourable member for Melbourne either. But the hair of the honourable member for Shortland would curl at the stories of the dictatorial attitudes taken by the Commonwealth and by the Minister. This Bill has been so well received at the ATAC meeting because I am seen as a Minister who is prepared to co-operate. That is the difference between the Liberal and National Country Parties in Government and the Labor Party in Government. I do not think anything more need to be said. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Original question resolved in the affirmative. Bill agreed to. 

 Mr CHARLES JONES (Newcastle) -I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Does  the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Joint Transport Studies Interdepartmental Committee has not been re-established by the Government, nor has any similar committee been created. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am not aware of the proportion of non-smokers in the community, and I am unable to confirm this to be the same as for the air travelling public. The allocation of seats for smoking/non-smoking in aircraft has been on the basis of monitoring of passenger preferences by the airlines and the 30 per cent allocation has been determined on this basis. 
) Apart from periodic adjustments as a result of regular monitoring of airline passenger preferences, there are no specific moves within the industry to increase the proportion of seats allocated to non-smokers. However, I am in favour of ensuring a maximum provision of seats to non-smokers. 
In the case of the Australian National Railways and the Australian National Line passenger transport is predominantly in cabins and the problem of smoking does not arise, except in the public areas. Smoking is not permitted in the dining rooms or cafeterias but is allowable in the lounges. Smoking is also permitted in the communal sleeping lounges of the ANL passenger ships but as far as is known no complaints have been made officially about this arrangement. 
In other forms of public transport, the initiative rests primarily with the State Ministers for Transport but the subject has been raised at a recent meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council and has been referred to officials for advice. 
Arrangements are being made for consultation with the Minister for Health on this matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) $ 1 3 1 ,000 per kilometre based on January 1 976 prices. 
Australian National Railways Commission is responsible for construction of the line. Funds appropriated for the project for 1975-76 are $13,000,000. 
The answers to the first 2 parts of the question are yes and yes. I will have to check the accuracy of the specific sites mentioned by the honourable member. I will have to supply the honourable member with information as to the site east of Glenfield and Ingleburn. The situation, as everybody in this House knows, is that the air traffic problems of Sydney have been mounting almost month by month. No solution to the problem has been found. I have been in consultation with the State Government on the matter. If events this week prove to be satisfactory, no doubt those consultations will continue in the usual satisfactory way. I cannot be sure that the alternative Government of New South Wales will consult, as has been the practice of the present Willis Government. That question is hypothetical and there may not need to be any more thought about it. Needless to say, consideration is being given to what we need to do in Sydney. I hope to be in a position to take a paper to the Government after the consultation or studies with the State Government are concluded in the few months ahead. 
I have to confess to some surprise at the support for the question. I take it from the tenor of the honourable member's question that like me he is a non-smoker. I take it also that, like me, he has on occasions boarded an aeroplane and sought a non-smoking seat only to be placed near, as I have often been, one of the famous cigar smokers of the Parliament or worse still one of the famous pipe smokers of the Parliament. This matter was first raised by a question on notice I think by the honourable member for Murray. As a result of his question I wrote to the airlines and asked them for information as to the basis upon which they had made a judgment on the number of seats that were marked 'non-smoking'. That was some weeks ago. I do not think I have had a reply from either of the domestic airlines on the subject. The honourable member takes the matter one stage further by asking whether I will ban smoking on aircraft. It may not be known in the Parliament,  Sir, but  I am a great defender of civil rights. As a great defender of civil rights I therefore must have regard for the feelings of my fellow man or fellow person, or whatever the appropriate expression may be. Therefore I do not at this stage- and I repeat 'at this stage'- propose to ban smoking on aircraft. I will however- this is really letting myself in for something- be prepared to take representations on the subject. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Australian National Railways Act 1975, 1 present the annual report on the operations of Commonwealth Railways for the year ended 30 June 1975 together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General relating to those statements. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads on a north-south highway connecting Darwin to Melbourne via Mount Isa and Broken Hill. Due to the limited number available, reference copies of this report have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Library. 
For the information of honourable members I present Part A of a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled 'Consumer Preferences in Urban Buses and Bus Services'. Due to the limited number available, reference copies of this report have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Library together with copies of Parts B and C of this report which contain supporting technical data. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill comes within the administrative responsibility of my colleague, the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  However, because the BUI complements the Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Bill 1976 which I have just introduced the Minister for Social Security has asked me to present this Bill to the House. This Bill amends the title of the principal Act from the Air Accidents (Australian Government Liability) Act to the Air Accidents (Commonwealth Government Liability) Act. This is consistent with the general policy of the Government as announced earlier this year. The Bill further pro.vides that the maximum amount of the Commonwealth's liability in respect of death or injury resulting from air accidents be increased from $30,000 to $45,000. 1 commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( H Yes, selected commuter operators ( as distinct from airline operators) were given financial assistance. (2)(a)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are 2 applications for air charter flights from Western Australia to Bali. I have sent a request to the Department of Transport to give me a report on these applications. The matter is not as simple as one would at first assume because it involves, of necessity, government agreement between Indonesia and Australia on any changes in air flights affecting both those countries. This matter has been put to study. I hope to be in a position to say something about it within the next few weeks. I appreciate that the people who live in the Pilbara region would find it attractive to have a direct service from their area to Bali. I agree with the honourable member's suggestion that the level of fare would be lower for those people. But I have to say that in terms of the total level of fare required for, say eastern holiday makers who might want to travel to the west and then go to Bali by the proposed charter flights, the fares would be no cheaper than the rates on present routes already serviced by Qantas. 
-This matter first came to the attention of the House when the honourable member for Hunter asked a question about it the other day. I have deliberately refrained from confirming prospective sites for a new aerodrome in the Sydney area- if one is felt to be needed. The reason I have done that is that I thought I had spelt it out quite clearly in the House and I certainly did so on television and radio and in Press comment afterwards. I said specifically that until the new government is confirmed in New South Wales I do not feel I am in any position to take the matter further. There has been no discussion at a ministerial level on this matter. I am waiting for the confirmation of the new government. The matter of the Sydney airport will then be taken up again. There is no conflict between the position as stated by  Sir Eric  Willis and the position I have been stating quite firmly in the last few days. 
As for misleading the House, the honourable member for Shortland ought to take a lesson from his Leader as to what misleading the House is all about. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is quite straight forward. As we have already announced, the Government has decided to reverse the previous Government's decision to establish a Road Safety and Standards Authority as a separate entity. This Bill will give effect to that decision by repealing the original Act. Honourable members will recall that there were a number of comments on this decision during the recent debate on the reappointment of the Standing Committee on Road Safety. I would like to repeat the assurances which I gave to the House on that occasion. This move to have the functions and activities of the Authority carried out by the Department of Transport does not in any way signify a lessening of our commitment to road safety. The decision has been taken as part of the Government's drive to achieve savings in administrative costs. Honourable members will no doubt recall that at the same time as the decision with regard to the Road Safety Authority was announced, similar moves were also announced in relation to a number of other authorities and commissions of inquiry. Overall, we intend to achieve substantial savings and increased efficiency from these moves. Reincorporation of the Authority into the Department will save substantial amounts. It will also allow administrative savings within the Department. We simply cannot pass up such opportunities if we are to achieve our aim of reducing the Budget deficit and clearing up the very difficult economic circumstances bequeathed to us by our predecessors. 
Despite the fears expressed by the Opposition, this decision does not mean that we will be saving expenditure at the cost of our road safety activities. All we are doing is avoiding unnecessary duplication. I would also remind the House that the establishment of the Authority was only in its very early stages when our decision was taken. The functions of the Authority were carried out by staff virtually all of whom were transferred from the Department. In fact those officers are still located in the Department's Melbourne office. They will simply be returned to the departmental strength by normal administrative process under the Public Service Act. The efficient use of staff is, of course, the key to the whole situation and the rationale for the decision. We intend to maintain the staff involved as a complete unit within the Department of Transport. We can retain all the advantages claimed for the separate organisations. At the same time we do not incur unnecessary costs which would have to be at the expense of the actual work on road safety. As I have already mentioned, action is in hand to transfer the staff of the Authority back to the Department at the earliest possible date and I am extremely anxious to maintain the morale and team spirit which exists within that group when it is returned as part of the organisational structure of the Department. 
I would also like to stress that the budgetary savings I referred to do not mean that we have given up the intention of providing the road safety facilities originally proposed to be established for the Authority at Albury-Wodonga. Of course, we will not be outlaying funds during this financial year on these facilities. This is simply because we are re-examining the possible scheduling of these works to see how best we can provide the required facilities bearing in mind that it is essential for us to make the maximum use of those facilities which are already in existence. The final point I wish to make is to repeat the undertakings I gave to the House when moving for the reappointment of the Standing Committee on Road Safety. These were to continue our support for research, to continue our work through the Australian Transport Advisory Council and its advisory committees and to continue our program for progressive improvements to our roads and highways. 
I now put a brief outline of the Bill. As already indicated, the existing legislation- that is, the Road Safety and Standards Authority Act 1975- is to be repealed. This is provided for in clause 3. Clauses 5 and 7 to 10 set out the necessary consequential administrative provisions involving return of funds and transfer of obligations to the Commonwealth. The funds will be available to the Department of Transport for discharging liabilities incurred by the Authority making payments under any contracts etc. entered into by the Authority and meeting the costs and expenses that would have been incurred by the Authority in the performance of its functions. Clause 6 meets the technical requirement arising from the Officers Rights Declaration Act with regard to the Authority  Chairman,  who is an officer of the Commonwealth Public Service. The clause deems the  Chairman  to have resigned on the last day of the Authority's existence thus safeguarding his rights as a public servant. The remaining clauses provide for citation, definitions and so on and provide for the Bill to come into operation on the date it receives royal assent. Finally, clause 1 1 places upon me the obligation to report to the Parliament on the operations and finances of the Authority. The financial report will, of course, be subject to the usual certification by the AuditorGeneral. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move:  That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is primarily designed to amend the Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Act 1959-1973 so as to increase the limit of liability of airline and charter operators in respect of the death or inj ury of passengers carried on domestic air services. The Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Act gives the force of law in Australia to the Warsaw Convention, made in 1929, and the Hague Protocol to that Convention, made in 1955. These international agreements are the primary means of regulation of the right to recover damages arising from travel on international nights. Part IV of the Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Act applies similar conditions to airline and charter operators in domestic services, and it is in this regard that the Government proposes the amendments incorporated in this BUI. 
The basic Warsaw principle, as applied to Australian domestic operations under Part IV of the Act, is that a carrier is liable for assessed damages sustained by reason of the death or personal injury of a passenger resulting from an aircraft accident. The legislation makes the carrier liable for damages without the need for the injured party to prove negligence on the part of the carrier, but the damages payable may be adjusted if it is proved that the passenger caused or contributed to the damages. The Act limits the liability of the carrier in respect of each passenger to $30,000. This limit was fixed in 1970, the previous limit having been $ 1 5,000. 
Subsequent to the Warsaw convention and the Hague Protocol, under an arrangement initiated by the United States Government and the International Air Transport Association and known as the Montreal Agreement, a large majority of international airlines, including Qantas Airways Ltd, now accepted higher liability limits for each passenger carried on an international night starting, ending or stopping at a point in the United States. Qantas in fact now accepts the higher liability limit of approximately $45,000 for all its international flights. The British Government has directed all British operators to apply world wide a new limit of liability of approximately $45,000. Other European governments are contemplating similar action, each in respect of its national airlines. Therefore to ensure that passengers carried on domestic services in Australia receive the same cover as those on international flights, and having regard to a level of compensation in real terms, I consider it would be appropriate to increase the liability limit of domestic air carriers from the present level of $30,000 to $45,000. 
The maximum amount of compensation specified by the Act, as well as by the international agreements, is not an automatic entitlement. An injured passenger, or the dependants of the deceased passenger, claiming compensation from an airline whose aircraft is involved in an accident, must prove that damage has been suffered by reason of the accident, and the amount of damages is assessed in accordance with the ordinary principles of law. When the assessed damages are less than the maximum amount mentioned in the Act, they are recoverable in full. Otherwise, the carrier's liability is limited to that amount. I should add that these arrangements and Limits refer only to the liability of the air carrier to the passenger or his dependant. Naturally they do not preclude a passenger from insuring his life or person quite independently for any amount he chooses. The airlines and the representative organisation of the charter operators accept that it is appropriate to increase the limit of liability as now proposed, and they are prepared to pay the modest increase in insurance costs involved. 
As will be seen from a perusal of Part IV of the Act, for constitutional reasons its provisions are not applicable to intrastate services, except in the case of those operated by Trans-Australia Airlines. However, with the exception of Western Australia, the States' legislations are amended correspondingly with Part IV of the Commonwealth Act as it is amended from time to time. The Premier of Western Australia has been invited by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to take complementary legislative action in regard to increasing the limit of liability. The Civil Aviation (Carriers' Liability) Act is a significant legislative measure in the functioning of the air transport industry in Australia. It is based on principles recognised throughout the world. The proposal now submitted for consideration by the Parliament is designed to up-date the Act by increasing the limit of liability to $45,000, thereby fixing a more appropriate level of compensation having regard to current international arrangements and current money value. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The sums paid by the Department of Transport to each airline in the last 2 financial years are: 
Wine on VIP Aircraft  (Question No. 425) 
Last week or the week before last when this matter first arose, because of the statements made by the Leader of the Opposition I did call for the files from the Department. I can tell the honourable member and the House that I have been through at least 2 series of files. I understand that there are a couple more files of a purely technical nature relating directly to the Caravelles, the Viscounts and the Electras that have nothing to do in any sense with the allegations. 
The matter goes back to 16 August 1957 when Ansett Airways Pty Ltd sought permits to import 3 Electra aircraft. Ansett Transport Industries Ltd took over Australian National Airways Pty Ltd on 3 October 1957. Perhaps at this point I should explain to the House that in order to make it easy I have made some notes that are a brief summary of events that occurred. I might add in passing that it is a summary of events that the Leader of the Opposition when Prime Minister could just as easily have made by calling for the same files. 
The request made by Ansett Transport Industries Ltd was later amended to 4 aircraft by letter dated 7 October 1957. Ansett Transport Industries Ltd confirmed the request for 4 Electras on 4 November 1957. The then Director-General of Civil Aviation recommended on 26 November 1957 to the then Minister, the late  Senator Sir Shane  Paltridge, that the import permits be issued. This recommendation was approved but advice was not passed to ATI because the 1957 airlines agreement was under debate in Parliament. This agreement was approved on 12 December 1957. At that time Qantas Airways Ltd had an option on 6 Electras. Tasman Empire Airways had 3 positions held for early 1960 but did not have a formal option. Trans-Australia Airlines had no order for Electras but had advice from Lockheed that it could have two for delivery in July and August 1959. On 3 December 1957 TAA applied for permission to import 2 
Caravelles. On 26 March 1958 the Cabinet approved the purchase of Electras by Qantas, but Ansett-ANA and TAA were to be advised that the purchase of Electras and Caravelles respectively could not be approved because the marginal economic conditions of the airline industry could be thrown into a state of serious imbalance by such purchases. Both airlines were to be advised further that as pure jet operations were likely to add substantially to national air transportation costs and to the need for accelerated airport development Cabinet should not be expected to approve the introduction of this type of aircraft into domestic service for some years to come. I should point out- this bears very much on the question raised by the honourable member and some honourable members will knowthat the Caravelle was a pure jet and the Electra was a prop jet requiring different requirements in facilities at airports and the like. 
Approval was given at that time for the import of four 800 series Viscounts to Ansett-ANA. Both airlines were to be advised that Cabinet would give favourable consideration to any reasonable request for the purchase of additional 800 series Viscounts. These decisions were as recommended by the Department and put to Cabinet by  Senator Paltridge.  I have to say that on reading the files at that point, it is quite clear that  Senator Paltridge  was opposed to the purchase of the Caravelles because of the advice he had received from the Department that they were unsuitable on the long stretch to Western Australia. He was vigorously opposed to the Electras because it was in prospect that if Ansett were to be granted the Electras at that point Ansett would have an advantage in selling seats over TAA which would have had the Viscounts only and which had not taken up an option or sought to take up an option to purchase Electras.  Mr R.  M. Ansett, as he was then, sought to have the Government decision changed to permit his company to import Electras. Again the files make it clear that  Sir Reginald  Ansett, as he is now, was very keen to gain that very advantage I spoke about by the purchase of Electras. He thought it would put Ansett-ANA up to a capacity equal to or better than TAA. 
So we come then to the critical period. A series of conferences followed, including one between the Ministers for Civil Aviation of Australia and New Zealand and one between the Prime Minister and the Chairmen of Ansett and TAA. At a conference held in Canberra on 9 May 1958 between representatives of the airlines and the Government the Government's policy to avoid a competitive equipment race for a multiplicity of jet types was explained to the domestic airlines. It is quite clear that the representatives of the airlines agreed then to purchase the Electras. The position as I have explained it is supported by the public statement of  Sir Reginald  Ansett of, I think, last week. 
The then Minister for Civil Aviation announced on 22 May 1958 the Government's decision, after reviewing all the factors affecting the various applications by major airlines for licences to import new aircraft, to approve the purchase of the following Lockheed Electra turbo-prop airliners: Qantas was to get four; Ansett-ANA two and TAA two. It was further announced that it had been agreed that Tasman Empire Airways Limited should re-equip with 3 Electras. I am totally satisfied that there is nothing in the files that in any way impugns the reputation of  Senator Sir Shane  Paltridge. Indeed, quite the contrary, on reading the files it is quite clear that  Senator Paltridge  followed very closely, right through, the advice given to him by his Department. As I said, it is a bit hard to understand why the Leader of the Opposition should embark upon an exercise of this nature when in fact he was Prime Minister and had 3 years either to hold a public inquiry, if he had such doubts as he expressed the week before last, or to call for the files. 
It is no good the Leader of the Opposition hiding behind the Church Committee or any other committee. He had a duty to investigate during his period as Prime Minister the allegations he has raised in the last weeks. If he had information in his little heart over the period of years when he was Prime Minister and he did nothing about it he reflects upon his own credibility and does nothing more nor less than that. The Leader of the Opposition could have had an investigation into this matter at any time. He could have set it up with his own terms of reference and done anything about it he liked. He chose not to do so. In fact he chose the contrary, to wait until he was back in Opposition, when he was no doubt looking for some way of covering up some other matter, and then to embark upon one of the worst mud-slinging exercises this Parliament has ever known. It is certainly the worst since I have been a member of this Parliament and I have seen one or two experts at the business of mud-slinging. He was prepared to attack the integrity of a man who cannot answer for himself. He was prepared to impugn that man's integrity and honesty and to cause worry to his family. This is what the 
Leader of the Opposition did. In my view he has failed in his duty as a member of this Parliament. He ought to put up the information that he claims that he has- I do not believe for one moment he has it- or have the decency to apologise. The last thing I want to say,  Mr Speaker,  is that whilst the Leader of the Opposition is taking his 6 weeks' jaunt overseas, as I read in the newspapers he is about to take, he might at least have the decency when he is out of the country to reflect on the situation that affects the Paltridge family and to send them a cable apologising for the whole of his actions. 
As the honourable member should know, this matter is presently being investigated by a section of the Department. When the report comes to hand I will give a considered reply to the honourable member's question. 
The honourable member for Braddon and other Tasmanian members have really been beating a path through my doorway on this matter. I appreciate their interest and concern. Following receipt of the Nimmo Committee report the Government felt it necessary that that report be put to study before we made a statement on the freight equalisation scheme. We would then be in a position to say something about the Nimmo Committee report. That work is almost completed, and I expect to be in a position to make a statement in respect of the freight equalisation scheme before the Parliament rises. 
-I did not hear the first part of the question? 
I am not aware that the  Australian Trader  is to be withdrawn. At the moment the Australian National Line is giving consideration to all of its problems on the coastal trade. The honourable member and the House will know that the most expensive part of the operations of the Australian National Line is the coastal trade. This is a heavy cost part of its operations which the Line is reviewing. It will be making a report to me when that review has been completed. 
I take it from the interest shown by the honourable member that his electorate is also somewhat concerned in this matter. The simple fact about the railway line referred to by the honourable member is that it is progressing. Needless to say, though, we are concerned about the high cost involved in the re-development of the line and I have asked an independent committee to look at it from that aspect. If it advises me that the cost is too great I will be taking up the matter with the South Australian Minister. That is not outside the Agreement. The only other comment I would make is that in all of its dealings with the South Australian Government the previous Labor Government simply sold out and abrogated its responsibilities. The Agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the South Australian Government, which was signed by the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  and the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  makes it impossible for the Australian National Railways to take any decision which the South Australian Minister cannot veto, and if agreement cannot be reached between the 2 parties the matter has to go to an arbitrator. Has any honourable member ever heard of a business selling out and then letting the seller control the business? It is the most stupid deal ever undertaken by a federal government in the history of Federation. 
A preliminary meeting of Commissioners of Railways was held prior to the last meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council. My understanding is that certain discussions took place at that point. No further formalisation has occurred since that time. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled  Provision of General Cargo Facilities at the Port of Darwin.  Due to the limited number available, reference copies of the report have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Library. 
I can only imagine that for once the Leader of the Opposition has read a speech of mine, one that I made in Sydney last Monday. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Work is proceeding. Earthworks are now beyond the 120 km mark from Tarcoola and track has been laid and ballasted for 40 km. ANR advise estimated target date for completion December 1980. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) Program submitted by S.A. Minister of Transport in 1975 provided for completion in 6 years from January 1975. S.A. were slow to start work on project. Railway expected to take at least 5 years from now to complete. 
Now expected it will be at least 3 years before SG trains can operate to Adelaide. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Government representatives on State bodies concerned with forward planning of policies relating to urban transport are: 

 Mr C. W. Freeland, First Assistant Secretary, Land Transport Policy Division, Department of Transport, on, 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No detailed study has been undertaken on this matter by the Department or ANL. ANL gave some consideration to the project expressing interest in principle, but claimed the Line's shipping activities are not sufficiently developed to enter the trade. ANL has had no experience in the Australia to Persian Gulf trade, does not have a suitable ship available for transporting livestock and any ship conversion costs would be high. 
The following table provides details of shipping companies currently engaged in carrying live sheep to the Persian Gulf. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The administration of the Northern Territory Acceptance Act 1910-1973 is the responsibility of the Minister for the Northern Territory. The question, furthermore, seeks an opinion on a question of law which properly should be answered by the Attorney-General. The Honourable Member may wish to redirect his question. 
I suspect that the question arises from a row that seems to be brewing in South Australia at the moment about the alleged dismissal of some 260 men from the South Australian Railways. The Minister for Transport in South Australia has been sending me telegrams and telexes and writing me letters about this question. I am really at a loss to understand why he is doing so because the  Chairman  of the State Transport Authority, who reports to the State Minister for Transport, is also a commissioner of the Australian National Railways Commission. As  Chairman  of the State Transport Authority he was present at all the meetings- the minutes record this- when decisions were taken that the number of men employed by the South Australian Railways ought to be reduced not by sacking but by attrition; that is, it was decided that as people left, their positions ought not be refilled. The State Transport Authority  Chairman  would know of that decision and I would have thought he would convey it to the Minister for Transport in South Australia. So in fact there has been no decision to sack 260 men in South Australia. 
I think this whole question highlights again the difficulty I have as Minister for Transport in looking after the South Australian Railways under the agreement signed by the Leader of the Opposition when he was Prime Minister, and the Premier of South Australia. Normal management decisions cannot be taken by the proper authority without being oversighted by the South Australian Minister. I am a bit like the fellow who bought a house and was told by the previous owner that he could not use the bathroom. That is just about the situation we are in at the moment over the South Australian railways agreement. Normal management  decisions  cannot be taken without the agreement of the South Australian Minister. I have to confess that I do not know whether the Leader of the Opposition was caught early in the morning after a late night when he signed the agreement or what. 
-He really did sell the Commonwealth short on this occasion. The honourable gentleman says: 'Go to arbitration '. I suppose he means that every time we have a bit of a row we can go to the divorce court and see what the judge has to say. I really am at a loss to understand how the Leader of the Opposition could have sold the Commonwealth so short. He has claimed that State governments are redundant and ought to be dissolved. When he had the opportunity to make a nice clean deal and take over the South Australian railways in a nice clean fashion what did he do? He left the South Australian Government involved so that every future Commonwealth Minister for Transport has to kowtow to the South Australian Minister to get some ordinary management decision taken. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have been advised that Australian National Railways are closely monitoring the situation regarding South Lake Eyre. 
After the 1974 floods about 1 km of railway line was raised by one metre on a 10 m wide levee bank protected by a stone wall. Provision exists for the raising of the track by another metre should the situation warrant it. 
and (4) Through freight services on the Central Australia Railway resumed on 3 April but are subject to severe speed and load restrictions and are running to extended timetables. The question of freight assistance to consumers and livestock consignors in the Territory is one that comes under the portfolio of the Minister of the Northern Territory and has previously been referred to him. 
I am hopeful that the resumption of services on the CAR will now alleviate many of the problems cattle breeders in the Territory have recently faced. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( U I am aware of the Queensland Government's Plan to develop a new port at Fisherman's Island. There have been no consultations with the State Government regarding the expediting of the project. 
It is essentially a State initiative and as such, the project timing and completion dates are entirely the prerogative of the Queensland Government. 
Commonwealth involvement has so far been limited to considering whether certain access roads to the new port should be declared as export roads. 
In deciding whether to make a port call or centralise cargoes, shipowners have regard to several factors, including savings on voyage time and costs of centralising cargoes. As approximately 85 per cent of liner cargo in the Asian trades has an origin or destination in Australian ports other than Brisbane, the cost of movement of these cargoes to and from Brisbane would have to be weighed against the savings in ship time and additional port charges. 
Australian Agricultural Attache in Japan (Question No. 476) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Very high frequency communications with Adelaide suffer only the limitation, common to all VHF installations, that there must be a 'line of sight' situation between transmitter and receiver. This means that VHF communication with Adelaide is not practicable below an altitude of approximately S000 feet in the Port Lincoln area. The Department of Transport does provide, however,.an alternative high frequency communication service with Adelaide and supporting stations in the HF network. The performance of this latter service, in common with all HF services, is subject to propagation variations arising from the ionosphere over which there can be no control. The service is generally satisfactory subject to requiring appropriate operating skills and concentration. 
The Department has approved the principle of the establishment of a VHF repeater in the Port Lincoln area. Negotiations are proceeding to establish the location of the repeater and other aspects of its design. Such a repeater will greatly improve the quality of communications at lower altitudes in the port Lincoln area. 
It is probable that the VHF repeater will be commissioned during the 1977-78 financial year. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Bureau of Roads in its 'Report on Roads in Australia 1 975 ' has recommended that the Government pursue a program of upgrading National Highways, where warranted, to the proposed National Highway standards by 1985-86. 
No decisions have been taken on the Bureau's Report which makes firm recommendations on road grants to the States through to 1979-80 and an indicative level for 1980-81. The actual attainment of the Bureau's recommended goal does not of course depend entirely on the decisions ultimately taken in regard to the Bureau's 197S report but also on subsequent decisions on grants for National Highways to apply for the period 1980-81-1985-86. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Details of expenditure and completion dates for these three projects are provided in the following table: 
New Hospitals in New South Wales  (Question No. 418) 
I am at a loss to understand why  Senator Devitt  should venture to make such irresponsible statements. The facts are that this question was last looked at by my predecessor last year. I thought at that time that my predecessor had made it plain that in his view the 3 airports along the northern coast of Tasmania were a vital part of the Tasmanian economic system. I thought he said at the time that he had no intention of changing that situation. In respect of the speculation raised by  Senator Devitt,  let me make it quite plain that the cuts effected in the socalled mini-Budget in no way affect the operations of those airports. The honourable member for Braddon can reassure his people that the future of the airports is not affected by the cuts in the Department of Transport's budget. Discussions have taken place and are continuing with the local government authorities to see whether the airports can be transferred under the local ownership scheme. That in no way cuts across what I have said. 
As I explained to the honourable member when he last asked the question, this is a much more complex matter than one would assume because certain international obligations have to be followed. There have to be discussions with the Indonesian Government and with Garuda Indonesian Airways which has an arrangement with Qantas Airways Ltd. Therefore I am unable to facilitate a fast answer for him. Procedures of governments, as he will well know, are sometimes slow. He is not the only interested person although he is the only honourable member who has asked a question about it. I have had a number of representations from outside this place seeking answers to this question. I am doing my absolute best within the confines of my capacity to get an answer to the question. 
In fairness to the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, I think that I, as Minister responsible for the decision ultimately to allow Concorde to come to Australia, should answer the question asked by the honourable member for Maribyrnong. My decision to grant Concorde permission to fly into Australia was taken after we had received a letter from the British High Commission. If it is of interest to the Parliament, I will read the letter. It states: 
Dear Minister, 
The Department of the Environment - 
That is the British Departmenthave  asked that the proponents now proceed with the preparation of the final Environmental Impact Statement. Having studied the submissions received as a result of the procedure for public comments, we do not anticipate that any other than minor editorial changes to the EIS are required, and that subject to these editorial changes, the Draft - 
That is the one that has been tabled already-  will become the final EIS. 
Our intention is to prepare an addendum to the EIS which will be our reply to the comments received as a result of the public circulation of the draft EIS earlier this year. 
Yours sincerely, 
In the light of that information it seemed pointless for me to postpone a decision any longer. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Commonwealth Treasury has made the following advances to New South Wales to 30 April 1976- 
East Hills-Glenfield railway $20,000. 
b) Granville-Penrith railway $ 1 , 0 1 3,333. 
As the honourable member is aware the New South Wales Urban Transport Advisory Committee in its report of February 1976 recommended that work be deferred on major rail construction projects, including the East HillsGlenfield railway and the quadruplication of the GranvillePenrith railway. The present New South Wales Government has not yet advised me of its attitude on this report. Consequently I am unable to advise of the estimated date of completion of these projects. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The ANTAS Consortium has made an offer to purchase a subsidiary of Qantas. Airways Ltd, Qantair Ltd which is inactive and has never traded; international charter flights being operated as required by Qantas Airways Limited. 
The terms of the offer are not specific. They simply offer to purchase all or part of the shares in Qantair Ltd. 
The Government is considering the request and the company will be given a decision shortly. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Air Accidents (Commonwealth Government Liability) Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Neither the Minister nor the Department has made any recommendations on this matter to the Bland Committee. 
-The first point to make is that it is not necessary for the Government when it takes advice from lawyers, whether they are from the Attorney-General's Department or from outside, to advise either the business authorities of the Government or any State government as to its action. The second point is that I must reply to the assumption in the honourable member's question by the use of the word 'welsh'. Having in mind the doubt about the Medibank agreements, the Government is properly seeking to know that status of current agreements between it and the States. In the light of the previous Government's carelessness in these matters I would have thought that the honourable member would welcome such a checking process. Thirdly, I am not in a position to advise the honourable member of the fee that  Mr Aickin,  Q.C. will be paid. The matter was looked after by the Attorney-General himself and, if he feels like it, he can advise the honourable member after question time. I think that answers all the points raised by the honourable member. 
At the outset let me say that I am rather surprised at the complaint lodged by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  1 am sure that if he looked at the matter slightly more closely than he has done at this point he would find that we are not in breach of the Act at all. In my view we have been very careful right through the whole of the problem of Concorde visits to Australia to follow impeccably the way in which the Act sets out our responsibilities. I will come to the details of his complaint shortly. I have been approached literally dozens of times by the Press since 13 December, when I became Minister for Transport up till the last couple of weeks, about my attitude to Concorde and the problems that the environmentalists saw in it. 
Right through the piece I have maintained a silence about my own attitude to Concorde flights to Australia. I have said all the time that the position had to be watched carefully. I took the view that environmentalists were making submissions, that a decision had to be made as to whether or not there was to be a public inquiry and until that point was reached I was unable to comment. 
Let us look at the history of the matter. First of all, as the honourable member for Reid said, the British Government, the British Aircraft Corporation and British Airways produced a draft environmental impact statement on Concorde operations in Australia dated December 1975. In point of fact it was I as Minister who made this statement available to the public and invited submissions on it. This was done completely in accordance with the Act. Some 50 submissions came in. I have read every one of them. I would just say as an aside that although I am not qualified to make a technical judgment on the submissions it came through to me clearly that the information provided in the submissions did not make a case for the banning of Concorde. This view was supported eventually by my colleague, the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  and former Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. The Minister wrote a letter to me in which in part he said: 
I am writing to confirm the agreement we have reached today following our consultation in accordance with the Administrative Procedures of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act- 
This is the Act that the honourable member for Reid says was not followed-  on the necessity or otherwise of holding a public environmental enquiry on the operation of the Concorde aircraft into Australia, in particular to Tullamarine Airport. 
The former Acting Minister went on: 
I agree that the key environmental problem for Australia, insofar as it can be determined at this time, is the noise impacts in the vicinity of Tullamarine and upon occasion at any alternate airport to which the aircraft might be diverted. 
I will not read the whole letter but I will make it available to the House. 
I seek leave to incorporate the letter in  Hansard. 
I have referred the honourable member's question to TAA and have obtained the following reply which I believe to be quite self explanatory. Ansett Airlines has also been consulted on the matter and has expressed no disagreement with the terms of TAA 's reply: 
1 ) From regular surveys we have determined that smoking preferences can be categorised as: 1 / 3 of passengers require non-smoking seats 1 /3 specifically request smoking seats 1/3 express no preference 
The number of seats reserved for non-smoking passengers varies between 27 per cent and 33 per cent of aircraft capacity, depending upon the particular seating arrangements. In all marginal situations we decide in favour of the nonsmoking preference and in some first class configuration 50 per cent of the seats are classified non-smoking. 
Passenger comments received at TAA are very carefully scrutinised, particularly in the context of non-smoking preferences and over recent months there has been no indication that criticism of our current seat zoning has increased or that preferences have changed. We are in the course of setting up to undertake yet a further survey to assess any change in preferences and, if any significant change has in fact occurred, adjustments will be made to our non-smoking zones. 
The non-smoking seats in first class compartments are on the left hand side so that the first class smoking passenger enjoys no preference by way of position in the aircraft. The economy zone in the larger Boeing commences at row 16. This is the most forward economy row when the cabin is configured for maximum first class seating. In the smaller Boeing, and in the DC9, the most forward rows with maximum first class are 15 and 13 respectively, but the non-smoking zones have been established in the smaller jets to commence at 16 so that in the main, seat numbering of non-smoking zones is identical in each of the three jet types. 
We saw this approach as being in the overall best interests of non-smokers, as non-smoking accommodation could be virtually guaranteed when transhipping to another aircraft type, or on the occasion of a late substitution of type. This is a vital consideration having regard to the full interchangeability of jet aircraft which is an important element of our fleet structures. 
The alternative of placing the economy non-smoking zone at the most forward feasible row in the smaller jets would lead to difficult seat allocation problems and possible schedule disruptions in preserving non-smoking seat assignments on the occasion of aircraft substitutions and in transhipping operations. 
The airline's policy of identifying seats which are restricted to non-smoking is felt to be more positive than identifying the smoking areas as such. To display 'smoking' signs could be regarded as an encouragement to smokers. We have a total ban on the smoking of pipes and cigars. 
The incident on 21st April referred to is being investigated but at the time of writing we have not been able to interview the operating cabin crew. Operating procedures require cabin crew to take steps to ensure non-smoking restrictions are observed and failure of the crew to take appropriate measures in this instance is a matter which will be acted upon at the earliest possible moment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) An offer has been made to the Minister for Transport by the Antas Consortium for the purchase of all or part of the snares in Qantair Ltd, a subsidiary of Qantas Airways Ltd. 
The Minister for Transport has received the following requests from  Sir Reginald  Ansett, Managing Director, Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, relating to re-allocation of services on routes presently operated by Qantas: 
that Brisbane-Port Moresby and Cairns-Port Moresby, be allocated to Ansett and TAA on an equal basis in lieu of Qantas; 
that the domestic service between Sydney-Norfolk Island, to be transferred from Qantas to a domestic airline; 
that progressively other existing regional services, as well as new services, should be offered to Ansett and /or TAA, again on an equal basis, provided the equipment necessary for the long haul domestic routes (such as Sydney-Perth) is more suitable than the Qantas equipment. Routes mentioned by  Sir Reginald  as suitable for consideration with a view to possible re-allocation include those from Australia to Auckland, Christchurch, Wellington, Fiji, Bali and Norfolk Island. 
(a) Action is being taken in respect to responses to the offer by ANTAS and the requests by  Sir Reginald  Ansett. 
In respect of the Sydney-Norfolk Island service, from which Qantas Airways Limited has sought to withdraw, the views of domestic airlines have been sought and consideration is being given to the future operation of air services on the route. 
Qantas, its subsidiaries and the air routes it operates are not, subject to 3 ( b) above, on offer to interested parties. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. On 17 March, 1976, the previous maximum charge of $3.00 per day was eliminated and the fee is now based on a continuous rate of 20 cents per hour. The reasons for this action were- 
To discourage long term parking thereby postponing the need to build further car parks. The present car park has a capacity of 2100 vehicles and frequently over 7000 vehicles per day pass through the exits. Studies have shown that 75 per cent of the demand is for periods up to four hours. Therefore cars left for long periods effectively reduce the vehicle turnover of the area. 
To increase revenue. If drivers wish to leave their vehicles for the extended periods then it is necessary that the charge should reflect this. 
The demand for car parking at Melbourne Airport is extremely heavy. Peak transit through the exit gates has exceeded 7000 vehicles per day on many occasions and has risen to over 8000 at times. During the period April 1974 to March 1975 some 1.38m cars passed through the car park. This figure increased to 1.43m cars for the same period in 1975-76. With a capacity of 2 100 vehicle spaces this means that each space was used 1.8 times per day. With a demand of up to even 5000 vehicles per day we need to achieve a turnover of at least 2.5 usages per day to satisfy this demand without the provision of further expensive areas. 
I will arrange for financial accounts for the car park to be available to the honourable member shortly. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) My attention has not been drawn to this statement and I do not propose to investigate this matter any further. I would have thought that the honourable member for Werriwa had already incurred sufficient political damage to himself and his reputation by his recent references to this subject, and yet he seems intent on his own ruin by reviving this distasteful matter. Perhaps the honourable member for Werriwa could occupy himself more usefully in attempting to establish his own credibility rather than seeking to discredit a man who has no opportunity of reply. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There is no legislative requirement for the completed Environmental Impact Statement to be tabled in Parliament. However, if the honourable member wishes, I shall be happy to make a copy available to him. 

 Mr Punch did not request me to have the report held. ANL arranged distribution of copies of the final EIS early in April to those who had made comments on the draft EIS, except in the case of two Municipal Councils. The Councils had been overlooked in the distribution process but their copies were despatched later in the month. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At the present time ANR operates a co-ordinated rail/road service to Darwin with a road contractor providing the road link between Alice Springs and Larrimah. There is provision in the contract to extend the road link to Darwin. This through service provides effective competition to other road operators. 
As a light aside may I say how delighted I am that the Leader of the Opposition is at last taking some interest in Tasmania's problems. This is a question that has been vigorously represented to me by five able members on this side of the House- I might say, in truth, on a continuing basis. 
-They are: The honourable member for Denison, the honourable member for Franklin, the honourable member for Wilmot, the honourable member for Braddon and the Minister for Repatriation, the honourable member for Bass. 
-If anybody did not hear me,  Sir, I  shall repeat the names if necessary. I can say with truth and honesty that these honourable members have been into my office and into the Prime Minister's office- and I hope into the Treasurer's office- on a continuing basis wanting answers to the question of freight equalisation and about the Nimmo Commission. I did say that I would make a statement in the House on these matters before the Parliament rose for the winter recess, and I would have done so were the House to continue to sit next week. But all of a sudden everybody went very quiet in the Parliament and I find that this sessional period will end on Friday night. So it will be a matter for the Minister for Repatriation and the honourable members concerned and myself to decide how and when the appropriate announcement will be made. Having said all that, to come to the question of the Leader of the Opposition, I am able to say to him that the matter is before the Government. It will be considered, I think next week, and I shall be able to inform him publicly as to the result after that. 
I am not sure what effect the decision taken by the New South Wales Government to postpone development at Botany Bay will have. I have not been told how long the proposed study will take, but certainly if it does take any time it will have a very serious effect on the operations of shipping companies in and out of Sydney Harbour. I think honourable members will be aware of the difficulties associated with environmental problems that the Australian National Line has run into with trucks carrying goods to and from Mort 's Dock. 
Until the Premier of New South Wales makes the position clear we have put somewhat of a freeze on the expenditure of Commonwealth funds because we are not sure whether that expenditure is to continue. This comes to the nub of the honourable member's question relating to particular funds that were supplied in respect of export roads in the Botany Bay area. The honourable member for Macarthur, along with one or two other members of the House, has been to see me on a number of occasions about the difficulties the roads in the Port Kembla area are having in carrying loads of coal from collieries. I am able to inform the honourable member that I have today approved an expenditure program- he will know the roads better than I do- in respect of that portion of main road 177 between its intersection with main road 610 and Bulli Pass, and trunk road 95 between its intersection with main road 610 and Mount Ousley road. These are significant export road grants for that area. I know that this expenditure will do a lot of relieve the congestion on the roads about which the honourable member has been concerned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. This situation has only recently been brought to my Department's notice and is being investigated. Commonwealth vehicles are excepted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details of the cash savings in the Department Budget for 1975-76 are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Known aircraft utilising the private airstrip at Coonawarra were: 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads entitled 'National Highway Linking Sydney and Brisbane (Newcastle Area)'. Due to the limited number of copies available, reference copies of this report have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) $3.07m 
$2.72m 
$ 1.27m 
$0.14m 
Estimated dates of completion as supplied by the Victorian Railways Board 
September 1976 
June 1977 
July 1976 
Not expected to be completed before the end of 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows- 
The preparation of a reply to the honourable member's question requires a great deal of research into Departmental records and investigation of progress on expenditure programs. My Department's administrative resources are already taxed to the limit and it does not have the capacity to undertake such a major task. I cannot justifiably divert the attentions of these staff away from existing workloads nor redeploy staff from other essential areas to extract and collate the detailed information sought by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Bureau of Transport Economics was asked to evaluate proposals to develop Townsville Airport to international standard. 
I am informed that the Bureau's Report should be available in about two month 's time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Records held by the Department of Transport show that aircraft Beech 200 VH-SGT registered to Secretary, Premier's Department, Queensland Government, arrived at Canberra Airport at 7 p.m. on Saturday, 8 May 1 976 and departed from Canberra Airport at 6.08 a.m. on Sunday, 9 May 1976. 
The names of passengers carried were not shown on the flight plan, only the name of the pilot in command, Captain B. Young. 
DC 9 Aircraft Engines (Question No. 705) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. On 4 February 1974, Ansett Airlines applied for an extension of the time allowed between overhaul of DC9 aircraft engines (Pratt and Whitney JT8D) from the existing 12 000 cycles to 15 000 cycles. There was no proposal to change the compulsory removal time at 7 200 cycles where in the engine is returned to the workshop for inspection, rectification and subjected to test cell calibration. The definition of an engine cycle is engine start up before a flight until engine shut down at the completion of that flight. In the case of the DC9 operations the average duration of a cycle is approximately 1 flying hour. 
The Government approved the application made by Ansett Airlines and a programme was introduced to escalate the engine to 15 000 cycles and is contingent upon a Departmental airworthiness inspection of two engines, one from a Boeing 727 aircraft and the other from a Douglas DC9 aircraft at the 15 000 cycle period, before final confirmation is given. 
DC9 Aircraft Engines (Question No. 706) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In respect to Ansett Airlines DC9 aircraft Pratt and Whitney JT8D engines, the Department has approved an overhaul period of 12 000 cycles with qualified extension to 15 000 cycles. 
When DC9 aircraft were first introduced into service with Ansett Airlines an overhaul period of 4000 hours was observed. 
There is a specified limit. 
DC9 Aircraft Engines (Question No. 707) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The simple answer to the question is 296 cycles, however the engine had completed 16 825 cycles since new and 4 741 cycles since overhaul. 
17 March 1976. 
Yes. A second stage compressor blade failed due to fatigue cracks in the blade retention lugs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australian National Railways will do all possible to find alternative employment for employees displaced from the NAR either in the Territory or on other parts of the ANR system. 
and (3) The condition of the Stuart Highway between Larrimah and Darwin is the responsibility of the Minister for the Northern Territory. However, I understand that the main problem with the highway is at Newcastle Creek, south of 
Larrimah. Between Larrimah and Darwin occasional interruptions do occur but for only short periods and the railway is also subject to similar breaks. Action is being taken to upgrade the highway. 
Smoking on Aircraft (Question No. 766) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The domestic airlines are currently investigating the matter and are considering the provision of an additional row of seats in the economy section for non-smokers. As far as the first class area is concerned, I understand there are consistent complaints from smokers that there is insufficient provision for them. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to question No. 58 was lodged with the House of Representatives Table Office on 4 June 1 976. 
Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries (Question No. 710) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The answer to question No. 682 was lodged with the House of Representatives Tabic Office on 4 June 1 976. 
The answer to question No. 407 was lodged with the House of Representatives Table Office on 2 June 1976. You may expect an answer to question No. 424 shortly. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
*( I ) Diagram I shows the flight paths most commonly used by airline aircraft at present, within a distance of about 8 km from the airport. Some additional paths, used comparatively infrequently, which are taken by some arriving domestic airline and light general aviation aircraft, are excluded in the interests of clarity. Arrows shown whether the path is used for arrival, departure or both. The use of individual flight paths varies with aircraft type, place of origin or destination, and time of day. 
2 ) Studies are continuing on what might be done to maintain an adequate air transport capacity at Sydney. No decision will be taken on whether to build a parallel runway, on what length it would be if built, or on the utilisation or closure of the east-west runway in such a circumstance, until all aspects have been reviewed. It is difficult, therefore, to provide a specific answer to this part of the honourable member's question. 'However, in an endeavour to be helpful Diagram 2 is provided. Based on current thinking it shows the flight paths which are likely to be adopted if an equal-length parallel runway were to be constructed, and if the east-west runway were to be removed or limited in use. In this type of airport layout, one runway would probably be used for departures, and the other for arrivals, operating in the same direction of traffic flow. The main direction of traffic flow would be as shown but there would be some traffic flow in the alternative south to north direction when a northerly wind component of -sufficient strength forced a change. For clarity this limited south to north flow is not shown. It would not be practicable for flights to depart over and arrive over Botany Bay at the same time, except during very lightly-trafficked night hours. 
If a shorter runway were to be constructed parallel to the present north-south runway, the longer runway would need to be used by some departing aircraft, and some variations in flight paths depicted could result. If the east-west runway were to be retained, its use would probably be restricted to those aircraft unable to use the north-south runways in periods of high crosswind: flight paths for the east-west runway would probably be as for the present layout. 
Copies of the diagrams referred to in this answer may be obtained from the House of Representatives. Table Office. Room L 1 1 0. Parliament House, Canberra. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Four bulk carriers are being constructed overseas for the Australian National Line. The first, 'Australian Pioneer' which was built by Gotaverken AB of Sweden and is 120 000 tonnes deadweight, was delivered on 12 August 1976. Construction of the remaining three is proceeding slightly behind original schedules. The latest forecast delivery dates are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. The import of additional freighter aircraft into Australia would aggravate the problems of excess capacity within the industry. Other aircraft are available within Australia and, I understand, IPEC is negotiating with the owners of those aircraft. 
) Yes. The IPEC claims would, of course, be disputed by other operators. I expect that  Mr Nimmo  would have reviewed his recommendations if it were demonstrated that a more efficient and cheaper air freight service were available. No doubt the extent of the review would have depended upon the extent of the efficiency and the cheaper rates. I note from the Nimmo report that IPEC did not participate in its public hearing or make a submission. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
1 have not heard of any persons being inconvienced on that day. If the  Hon.  Member has such information I would be pleased to receive the details from him. 
and (4) The pattern of services during the sitting of Parliament caters for the demands of the majority of travellers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For the financial year 1974-75 Qantas showed an operating profit, after realised gains and taxation, of $534,000. In addition, there was an extraordinary item arising from the sale of aircraft and other costs of $5,826,000 after tax. 
Qantas' outstanding loans as at 31 March 1976 totalled $ 173.41m. 
The interest rates currently prevailing on such outstanding loans range from 5.25 per cent to 11.5 per cent as listed below: 
In accordance with Acts of Parliament loans amounting to $ 158.23m outstanding at 31 March 1976 were borrowed by the Australian Government and were made available to Qantas for purchase of aircraft. Loans amounting to $15. 18m also outstanding at 31 March 1976 were borrowed directly by Qantas at commercial rates of interest. 
The loans of $158.23m initially by the Australian Government on behalf of Qantas came from the following broad sources: 
I have to confirm that there is a shortage of refrigerated cargo space for the carriage of meat to Japan. The estimate given by the Australian Meat Board some days ago was that there was a shortage of about 4000 tonnes. I am happy to inform the House that about 1000 tonnes of that has been picked up by a nonconference line. Other tonnage has been picked up as well. The shortage is estimated to be about 1300 tonnes for carcass mutton and about 500 tonnes for carton meats. The reason for the shortage, of course, has been the continued industrial disputes that have taken place, affecting the waterfront and the loading of ships. 
It is interesting to note that since 1 May there have been 83 days lost in Melbourne, 1 1 days lost in Brisbane and 30 days lost in Sydney, due to industrial disputes. What the trade union leaders who lead these strikes do not seem to understand is that they are threatening the jobs of many of their fellow workers throughout the community. It really is a disgrace that so many stoppages have occurred and have affected the carriage of meat at a time when the meat industry is going through a difficult period. 
Our failure to be able to fulfil contracts for such an important market as Japan- it prejudices our total opportunities to maintain a stable market in that country- is beyond words as far as I am concerned. I could use words outside this House to express my feelings but,  Mr Speaker,  you would not appreciate it if I tried to use those words in this House to describe the current situation. For the information of honourable membersI think it is important- I should like to include in  Hansard,  if I may, a list of the series of strikes that have taken place in the various ports which have affected the loading of meat. I seek leave to incorporate that list in  Hansard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the following answer, 'Staff Recruiting' has been taken to indicate appointment to the Service. 
1 ) Department- Thirty, current salary rate $302,500 per annum. 
Australian Shipping Commission- Three, current salary rate $58,500 per annum. 
Australian National Railways Commission- No staff employed full time on recruitment. These activities are carried out when required, by twelve officers. Current equivalent salary rate $ 15,000 per annum. 
Commonwealth Bureau of Roads- No staff employed full time on recruitment. These activities are carried out when required by three officers. Current equivalent salary rate $5,000 per annum. 
Qantas- Five staff are engaged 60 per cent on recruitment. Current equivalent salary rate $3 1 ,000 per annum. 
Australian National Airlines Commission- No staff employed full time on recruitment. Total time spent in these activities amounts to approximately two full-time positions with current equivalent salary rate of $22,000 per annum. 
Private employment agencies are not used by my Department or the Australian National Airlines Commission, and only on rare occasions by other Statutory Bodies under my portfolio. Such occasions would concern appointments to management level and temporary staff to cover leave, and abnormal work loads. 
Department-Nil. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Staff on the former Commonwealth Railways section of Australian National Railways have been reduced in numbers from 4208 to 4056 since staff ceilings were introduced. 
While ceilings were not set by the Government for the South Australian or Tasmanian sections of Australian National Railways, the Commission directed that these system endeavour to reach target ceilings imposed by the Commission by 30 June 1976 of 8000 and 2000 respectively. On 1 May 1976, staff levels had reached 8240 in South Australia and 1 990 in Tasmania. 
Detailed information is not available for the South Australian and Tasmanian systems which are at present administered by the State authorities on behalf of Australian National Railways and the following detailed information relates to the former Commonwealth Railways system. 
Reductions in respect of (a) salaried and (b) wages staff for each Branch of the former Commonwealth Railways system are as follows: 
The number of employees in line maintenance gangs has been reduced from 562 to 513 since staff ceilings were introduced. 
The first consideration is to ensure safe operation of trains and maintenance gangs will be maintained at a level to ensure this is done. ANR has resumed recruiting of staff to essential positions. 
When the honourable member talked about the Canberra Airport, I first of all thought he was referring to the runways and the facilities for aeroplanes using the airport. So let me dispose of that thought first. The runways and ancillary facilities meet any possible standard desired by civil aviation in this country. They are of the highest standard. But now I turn to the point that obviously the honourable member was making and that is the condition of the buildings. It may well be that the buildings are not as one would desire them, but I remind the House that when I first became a member of this Parliament the building that we had at the airport was what one might describe as an outhouse at the back of a large shed. The present Canberra airport terminal building is a modern facility by comparison. Let me assure the honourable member that I am in no position financially to reconstruct the terminal building at the Canberra Airport. I know that it is stretched to its full capacity on Monday nights and Tuesday mornings when members are arriving, and on Friday mornings when they are departing, but I have to say to the honourable member that for most of the time the facility is adequate. If the honourable member holds a strong view about this he might plead with the Treasurer because the Treasurer is sick of my pleadings on a number of other matters. I have to say also in defence of the air terminal that neither of the airlines has come to me complaining about that facility. 
-The Budget provides for $ 1 3.5m to go to rural local roads in New South Wales under the Roads Grants Act. In addition to that, of course, out of the $35.5m extra moneys made available by the Government for road expenditure, an extra $ 11.3m is to go to New South Wales. The extraordinary thing about the New South Wales situation in total is that the New South Wales Government claims that under its own legislation it is unable to provide money for rural local roads; that its Act prevents it from doing so. 
It has always been there, says Charlie Jones. He wakes up. Where has he been? My predecessor did nothing - 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise financial assistance to New South Wales towards the cost of constructing weirs and associated works on the Namoi River near Wee Waa in the north of the State. Assistance for this project will be by way of a non-repayable grant of up to $2m of which Sim will be payable in 1976-77. The Commonwelth initially offered financial assistance of $2m to the State in 1972, but legislation had not been introduced before the change of Government. The Labor Government confirmed the offer in 1974 on condition that the State conducted a study of the impact of agricultural chemicals associated with irrigated agriculture, mainly cotton, in the Namoi Valley. However, there were lengthly delays in reaching a final agreement. The Bill now before the House relates to the decision of this Government to confirm the offer. 
The works to which Commonwealth assistance will apply are listed in the Schedule to the Bill. Briefly they consist of: the construction of 3 weirs on the Namoi River downstream of Keepit Dam: Mollee Weir, 13 kilometres by road below Narrabri with a storage capacity of 3660 megalitres, Gunidgera Weir, 6 kilometres upstream of Wee Waa with a capacity of 1 170 megalitres, and Weeta Weir, 16 kilometres downstream of Wee Waa with a capacity of 280 megalitres; and a stream regulator below Gunidgera Weir, auxiliary embankments and associated works. 
Work on the project is well advanced with Mollee and Gunidgera weirs already complete, except for some minor electrical and mechanical modifications and repairs to associated levees. Construction of Weeta Weir is expected to commence in February 1977 and all work is scheduled for completion by September 1977. The estimated final cost of the works is some $5.4m. The State has undertaken to carry out an environmental study into the impact of agricultural chemicals used in irrigated agriculture, mainly cotton, in the Namoi Valley. This study has now been commenced, and the Commonwealth is being consulted on its overall scope. In accordance with the requirements of the legislation, the study program will be subject to the approval of the Mininster for National Resources  (Mr Anthony). 
The weirs will reduce losses of water by reregulating releases from Keepit Dam and, as an additional benefit, reduce pumping costs of irrigators by the creation of pumping pools. It is expected that the weirs will provide an assured supply of 19 000 megalitres of water annually, sufficient for an irrigated area of the order of 2500 hectares. It is likely that this area will be sown to cotton, coarse grains or oilseeds. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
Any doubts or confusion that may have arisen about the transfer of the railways came about because the Government sought to test the legal validity of the agreements, and quite rightly so when one looks at how the previous Prime Minister was taken to the cleaners by the South Australian Premier on the South Australian Agreement. I have let the House know a number of times my unhappiness about the way the Leader of the Opposition, when Prime Minister, dealt with the agreements. I will not go over that ground again. Suffice to say that we have had a check made of the agreements. On 11 August I put out a statement confirming that unfortunately the agreements are valid. 
One other thing which is of interest has occurred. I was concerned that the South Australian Agreement gives the South Australian Minister for Railways power of veto after the transfer, when the Commonwealth gets control, of any action that the Commonwealth Minister might take. If the 2 Ministers cannot agree the matter is subject to arbitration. However, I am pleased to note that the Premier of South Australia has denied that there is any clause which gives the South Australian Minister power of veto. I welcome that statement. If we get into difficulties over arrangements in future it may well be that he will be happy for us to amend the Agreement if it seems necessary, seeing he has uttered those very important words. The Agreement is proceeding, as I said in my statement on 1 1 August, and the employees about whom the honourable member for Braddon is concerned can be reassured that just as soon as the Tasmanian Minister, the South Australian Minister and I can get around a table and settle one or two outstanding issues the transfer will be completed. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report prepared by the Department of Transport entitled 'The Transport (Planning and Research) Act 1974: report of progress to 31 December 1975'. Due to the limited numbers available, reference copies of this report have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Library. The report was produced at the request of State authorities, and provides an example of the co-operation between State and Commonwealth which is being achieved under the Act. 
-The reason for the delay in the reports on these matters coming to the Government is that we had some difficulty in securing the valuable services of the people we wanted to appoint to the committees of inquiry. I hope that I shall be in a position to announce the membership of those committees within a few days. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  commenced this debate by saying that not one honourable member on the Government side supported his matter of public importance- the deliberate destruction of the Australian shipbuilding industry. Let me remind the honourable member that the only reason nobody on the Government side stood to support his matter of public importance was that the policy being followed in the shipbuilding industry today is the policy that was set down by the Labor Government. It is the policy that the honourable member himself voted for in 1973 or whenever it was raised in the Caucus room. It sits strangely on the honourable member to berate the Government now over what has happened in the shipbuilding industry when in 3 years the Labor Government did nothing to assist the industry. It established an interdepartmental committee, but promptly pigeonholed its report. The honourable member does not even ring true on the issue. 
The people of Australia understand quite clearly what has happened to the shipbuilding industry. On 18 December 1973 the Labor Government decided to adopt a policy of a 45 per cent subsidy for the shipbuilding industry, to be reduced to 25 per cent by 1980. At this time it is a 35 per cent subsidy. As far as I know, it is still the highest subsidy paid to a shipbuilding industry anywhere in the world. An important part of that policy of the Australian Labor Party was a provision that if Australian shipowners were unable to buy ships in Australia at a price less, after subsidy was taken off, than the overseas price, they could purchase their ships overseas. I will prove that that was a deliberate act by the Labor Government to dismember the shipbuilding industry. The result of the Labor Government's policy was that, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide pointed out, 3 shipyards closed. In 1973 it was Adelaide Ship Construction; in 1974 it was Walkers Ltd; and in 1975 it was Evans Deakin &amp; Co. Pty Ltd. These all closed during the time of the Labor Government. The Labor Government did nothing about it. 
It placed orders for 6 ships overseas. Four were for large bulk ore carriers which it was said were too big for Australian yards. If such large ships were considered necessary for economic reasons, why was the purchase not delayed for a few months, and why was assistance not given to the shipbuilding industry so that it could make its yards big enough to handle these jobs? The Opposition's argument does not stand up. Orders for the other 2 ships could have been rightly placed with Australian yards, but they were not. Even the  Rah  was brought into Australia to help the Tasmanians in their coastal trade. The Tasmanian Minister for Transport claims that the previous Federal Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles 
Jones), gave him the right to keep that ship on the coast without an Australian replacement. That is his public claim. In defence of the honourable member for Newcastle, there is nothing on the record that proves that; but the Tasmanian Minister has made his claim and the honourable member for Newcastle has not denied it publicly. 
The real test of what the Labor Government did for the shipbuilding industry is to examine what occurred during its 3 years in office. Despite all the blustering of the honourable member for Port Adelaide, the historical fact remains that the Government of which he was a supporter set a course for the shipbuilding industry that has brought about today's position, when shipowners can buy their ships more cheaply overseas because of the high cost of Australian yards, even after the subsidy is taken into account. 
We have extended the Australian Labor Party's policy of a 35 per cent subsidy on ships, and at the same time we have asked the Industries Assistance Commission to bring in an updated report so that we can see whether circumstances have changed and whether there ought to be any change to that situation. We have also asked the IAC to tell us the effect on local communities. Does anybody in this chamber really believe that the Government ought to change that policy direction without a reference to the IAC; that we ought to extend the subsidy further than 35 per cent when 35 per cent now represents $13,000 per man in the industry? As the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  once said, it would be cheaper to get them to build sandhills on the beach for about half that amount of $ 1 3,000. 
It is economic nonsense to talk as the honourable member for Port Adelaide has talked. Industrial trouble has been at the very core of the problems in the shipbuilding industry. I note that  Mr Halfpenny  has been making statements such as those which the honourable member for Port Adelaide has made. He said: 
Let us show that trade union action can keep the dockyards open. 
The Halfpennys and the Carmichaels of this world have led Australian industry into the situation in which it is now. The Halfpennys and the Carmichaels have caused higher and higher wage demands; they have supported demarcation disputes; they have supported strikes in the shipbuilding industry day in day out, week in week out and year in year out. They have done nothing about it. It is because of the Halfpennys, the Carmichaels and the Hawkes of this world that the shipbuilding industry is in the sorry state it is in today. What the Halfpennys and the Carmichaels are doing is exploiting the worker, not for any gain for the worker but just so that they can destroy the very job that worker has today. What the Halfpennys and the Carmichaels are doing is abusing the privileges of the democratic system so that they can destroy that system. That is what the Halfpennys and the Carmichaels are about. If Halfpenny and Carmichael were in Russia and tried to pull a strike they would be sent to Siberia. There are no strikes in Russia; strikes are not allowed. But they come here and foment strike after strike, wrecking the jobs of decent, honest Australian citizens in the shipyards of our nation. The shipbuilding industry is a classic case of the trade unions' capacity to destroy their own industry. 
When the honourable member for Port Adelaide raises a matter of public importance of this nature in the House he ought to point it more directly at members of his Party and members of the trade union organisations that he claims to know so well. It is fair to say that the rank and file trade unionists at the State Dockyard are aware that the activities of their union leaders have brought about this situation. The other night I watched a current affairs program on which I took part myself, by accident. Every  speaker  from the State Dockyard made the same point, that they thought the trade union leaders had led them into this trouble. It is a point accepted by them. It is a point accepted also by the Premier of New South Wales who admits that the dockyards have a shocking industrial record. It is a point accepted by my predecessor, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  whose speeches in  Hansard  and those made outside this House are studded with complaints about the industrial difficulties of the shipbuilding industry. I will read a few of them because the honourable member for Port Adelaide seems to be unaware of what a responsible Minister in the Labor Government had to say on this matter. On 3 April 1973 the honourable member for Newcastle said: 
We are all concerned with the unnecessary stoppages in the shipbuilding industry. If the unions want the industry they have got to be pan of it and stop these unnecessary stoppages. 
It took the honourable member only 4 months in government to find that out. On 24 August he said: 
Government can only do so much to provide this country with a viable shipbuilding industry. 
On 14 December he said that in a case where the Australian price tendered was higher than the overseas price, even with the maximum Government subsidy of 45 per cent, he would not support any argument that the ship must be built in Australia. 
-The honourable member for Newcastle. He went on again on 4 February 1974 and said: 
In the absence of real import competition, the industry has not had the necessary structure to follow the lead of overseas producers in seeking to improve efficiency through rationalisation and more specialised production. 
It is clear from that statement that the Labor Government was seeking to import ships from overseas. On 15 May he said: 
The industrial record of the Australian shipbuilding industry left much to be desired. 
On 3 October he said: 
There might not be any shipbuilding unions if past and present industrial disputes continued . . . Larrikinism by the unions had alienated some Labor MPs who had in the past supported Government assistance for the industry. They said if this is the way unions are going to go on what is the use of us putting in 20-odd million dollars in subsidies to maintain the industry. 
The honourable member for Newcastle. On 12 September 1974 he said: 
The Australian Government's policy made it clear that if overseas ship prices were less on a cash basis than subsidised Australian prices, he would have to consider an owner's application to import the ship involved. 
At the same time he said: 
No government could be expected to support an industry with a subsidy of 45 per cent which was equivalent to tariff protection of 82 per cent. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide ought to take another look at the matter he has raised in the Parliament. He has raised it only because he has been stirred to bring it on by the complaints of the Labor Premiers. This is the second week of the parliamentary sitting. This is not new news. It is now the Wednesday before the 24-hour strike takes place. They want to make an appeal and they have raised a matter of this nature to prove their so-called real interest in the shipbuilding industry. On 1 September 1975 the honourable member for Newcastle said: 
A decision had to be taken as to which came first- shipping or shipbuilding? A decision in favour of shipbuilding would have have seriously jeopardised a successful and viable shipping operation. 
Cop that! That statement came from a responsible Minister in the Labor Government. They are the words of a former Labor Minister, not the words of anybody on this side of the chamber. The Opposition is attacking us for what has occurred when the whole of the policy responsibility rests with the Labor Government. 
Finally, on 8 November 1975 the honourable member for Newcastle, when he was Minister, said: 
We must recognise that ANL operates in a very competitive climate overseas. It must be able to secure vessels at competitive prices and in time to meet its trade commitments. If this is not assured the Line's successful operations are prejudiced. 
The former Minister was right. He was right to warn the unions that they were destroying the industry, because that is what they are doing. He was right about the Australian ship owners and their need to be competitive. The Australian National Line wants four 15 000 deadweight ton bulk carriers. The Australian price is $20m each before subsidy and with escalation clauses. The Japanese price is $9. 5m. A 55 per cent subsidy is required. It would cost the Australian taxpayer more in subsidy to buy the ship than the price to build d the ship in Japan. As I said before, the subsidy is equal to $13,000 per man. It has reached unrealistic levels. 
You are not even speaking on this matter. That is how much interest you have in the subject. The tariff equivalent is 122 per cent. Having regard to the fact that some things come in tariff-free, the real tariff equivalent is up to 300 per cent. That is what we are dealing with. The same problem occurs with the 4000-ton cement carrier. The lowest Australian price is $ 10.7m with escalation clauses. The Japanese price is $5.4m which is a fixed price. Again a 50 per cent subsidy would be required. When he was Minister, the honourable member for Newcastle did one or two very good things to try to overcome this problem, despite the difficulties he had from his Party. He formed the Australian Shipbuilding Industry Study Mission and sent it overseas. It was made up of unionists and employers. This is what they reported: 
Productivity in Australian yards does not compare favourably with overseas shipyards . . . Overseas shipyards have a productivity rate three to four times that of Australian shipyards in the medium to large range of vessels. 
Professor Fink said something similar. The fact is that an Australian worker can produce 9 tons of finished steel a year and a Japanese worker produces 30 tons of finished steel a year. When they go on strike in Japan in a national wage case they wear black armbands, and the productivity for a day is more than a normal day's work. That is their form of strike in Japan. Compare that with the situation in Australia. 
I want to turn quickly to what the Premier of South Australia said. This relates to what the honourable member for Port Adelaide had to say. They both claim that overseas governments are doing more for their shipbuilding yards than is the Australian Government for our shipbuilding yards. That is not true. The honourable member for Port Adelaide has not really studied the situation. The $500m which he says Japan puts into the shipbuilding industry is used for loans to shipowners and for the construction of new yards. There are no direct subsidies to shipbuilding in Japan; nor are there in Sweden, Korea, or West Germany. The United States of America provides a subsidy of 35 per cent, which is the same as that provided in Australia. Indirect assistance is given but it does not come up to the level of support given to the Australian industry. There can be an Australian shipbuilding industry. Some 19 ships are still required on the coast. It is now a matter of the shipbuilding yards getting their houses in order, to be competitive and to do the job. Only in that way will they succeed. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
-The House will know that a claim has been made by air traffic controllers for a 75 per cent wage increase, consequent upon a High Court decision that they say increases thenresponsibilities. 
A 75 per cent increase has been sought. If granted it would put them on a par with pilots. They make the claim that their responsibilities are now equivalent to those of pilots. Yesterday and today I have said that it is a bit hard to compare the 2 responsibilities when one recognises that the job of an air traffic controller is to maintain the separation of aircraft at takeoff, landing and in the air whereas a pilot actually has to get an aeroplane up into the air safely, fly it in all sorts of weather and land it safely. I do not really think that it is fair to say the responsibilities are equal. Nevertheless, it may well be that the air traffic controllers deserve a pay increase. It is not for me to make the judgment. There are proper arbitral procedures that can be taken to have that judgment made. 
I have been urging the air traffic controllers to go back to a normal work situation. I have noticed that I have company- some would describe it as good company- in that regard because I understand that  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, has followed my course of action and urged them to go back to normal work and to allow the proper arbitral procedures to take place. A meeting is presently taking place in Sydney. Hopefully that situation will eventuate. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled  The 2CM Freight Wagon Bogie- An Appraisal. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) $ 149,000 per kilometre based on July 1 976 prices. 
$51,900,000 was appropriated in 1975-76 for Capital Works and Services' expenditure under the Australian National Railways Act. This included provision for the Tarcoola to Alice Springs Railway Project. 
$13,275,000 
I was interested to note that the honourable member claims that the national highways program was within the total policy province of the previous Government. The former Minister for Transport might be able to remind the honourable member that a study instituted by me as Minister for Transport led to the national highways program. So for once there is a bipartisan approach. I was one of the first to be pleased when the Labor Government picked up that program and instituted it. It showed that the former Minister had some sense, for once. I am delighted that the sealing program has reached the border. I have sent my regrets to the responsible State Minister that I am unable to attend the opening. If the honourable member attends he might convey my apology in person. It is a very significant step that we have reached this stage with the sealing program and I look forward to the day when the total program is completed. As to the last part of the honourable member's question, I will get the information and pass it on to him. 
I have not seen the reports referred to by the honourable member.  Sir John  Egerton of course is a director of Qantas and one would assume that he knows what he is talking about. Nevertheless, I am a bit puzzled by the statement because my understanding is that Qantas in fact has only one kitchen overseas, which is at Fiji, and in that kitchen it uses only Australian beef. At the other international airports overseas Qantas has contracts with the airlines in those countries which do the providoring for Qantas. Qantas therefore has no control over the supplies obtained to satisfy those contracts. 
As a reciprocal arrangement Qantas does the providoring in Australia for the international airlines that operate services to and from this country and therefore Australian beef is supplied to international aircraft as they leave Australia. But having said all that I would be disturbed if the allegation that has been made is factual. I shall make inquiries to see, first, whether  Sir John  Egerton made the statement, and, secondly, whether it is true. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is to amend the Air Navigation (Charges) Act which imposes charges on aircraft for the use of aerodromes, airway facilities, meteorological, and search and rescue services, which are provided, operated and maintained by the Commonwealth. The main purpose of the Bill is to increase the rates of charges by 15 per cent 'across the board* with effect from 1 December 1976. This increase, which will apply to all operators, both domestic and international, will ensure that the current level of cost recovery of services provided by the Government to the air transport industry is maintained and progressively improved. 
In the year 1975-76, the cost of providing air transport facilities exceeded the revenue received from the users of those facilities by over $70m, with a cost recovery level of only 60 per cent. The Government has been concerned at the level of costs involved in providing facilities and services but is seeking to keep any increases in charges within economically acceptable levels. The increase of 15 per cent provided for in the Bill is expected to increase revenue by about $4m in 1 976-77 or S8m in a full year. 
The Bill also provides for the introduction of a revised scale of charges for scheduled international nights arriving in, or departing from, Australia. The Government is concerned to see these charges proportioned more directly to the services provided by the Commonwealth. The change will adopt a charging principle endorsed by the International Civil Aviation Organisation in that the costs incurred by the Commonwealth in the provision and maintenance of airway facilities, as distinct from airport facilities, will be recovered in proportion to the distance flown. 
I want to make it clear that the revised scale, in itself, is not designed to increase total revenue from international flights. The scale sets a lower charge for shorter flights in Australia's area of responsibility, while longer flights will attract a higher charge than under the current arrangements. The impact upon each international airline will therefore depend on its mix of flights to Australia. For instance, those airlines which predominantly fly across the Australian continent with flights from Melbourne and Sydney direct to South-East Asia and Europe, will be required to pay higher charges than those which operate predominantly from the Australian eastern seaboard to destinations across the Tasman and the Pacific. The proposed adjustments to the scale will have the effect of placing the charges for international air services on a more equitable basis. 
I must point out that before setting the revised scale of charges, discussions were held between the International Air Transport AssociationLATA and my Department. On 5 August I was pleased to be able to discuss the matter with a visiting LATA group of some 1 1 representatives, together with a representative of the non-IATA airlines serving Australia. At the meeting, I indicated that if IATA could itself propose an alternative scheme to the one put forward in this Bill and if all the airlines concerned were in agreement I would put their proposition to the Government. I have recently received advice that the international airlines are unable to reach agreement on an alternative charging scheme and, under these circumstances, the Government is implementing the scale of charges originally proposed. 
Honourable members will be aware, of course, that the air navigation charges scheme is kept under constant review. If it is found that there is a need for further modification to the proposed scale of charges for international flights, or in respect of any other provision of the Act, appropriate amendments will be introduced by the Government at the appropriate time. The Bill also contains several procedural amendments which are designed to update and facilitate the administration of the air navigation charges scheme. These include a provision for an interest charge of 10 per cent per annum on overdue accounts which is designed to encourage the prompt payment of charges by those aircraft owners who are slow in meeting their financial commitments. The interest charge will be imposed only when the payment becomes 45 days overdue. 
The Bill changes the existing provisions relating to departmental adjustments of charges in cases where a change in the ownership of an aircraft occurs. It will now be left to the seller and the purchaser of an aircraft to arrange an adjustment between themselves for any prepaid charges. This is similar to the procedures adopted by State governments in levying motor vehicle registration fees. These and other more minor amendments contained in the Bill will lead to a reduction of the administrative workload within my Department and will contribute to a more equitable and efficient operation of the charging system. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to appropriate $20m to meet cost increases on projects approved under the terms of the joint Commonwealth-States urban public transport agreement. Under this Agreement, acceptable cost increases can occur either through variations to an approved project which are agreed to by both myself and a State Minister or through increases in the cost of labour and materials. With regard to the latter, the States have been given an assurance that the Commonwealth would meet its share of cost increases that could not have been reasonably foreseen at the time initial estimates were prepared and submitted to the Commonwealth. 
The amount to be appropriated is the estimate required to meet, in part, cost increases which have arisen from the inception of the program in 1973-74 up to 30 June 1976. This year's Budget allocation from existing appropriations is $44.6m for the continuation of approved projects and, together with the provision under this Bill, raises the total Commonwealth funds available for urban public transport to $64.6m in 1976-77. This represents a 90 per cent increase over the $33.8m advanced to the States in 1 975-76. 
Those of the Opposition who claim the Commonwealth has withdrawn from urban improvement programs need to get their facts straight; They should be applauding the level of assistance we are providing. It is an increase of over 50 per cent on what they were prepared to provide last year. It is obviously necessary to remind honourable gentlemen opposite of the origins of the urban public transport improvement program. The former Prime Minister has often claimed it is his initiative; but for the record I make it quite clear that the initiative was in fact taken by me in 1 97 1 . 
At the July 1971 meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council, my State colleagues and I agreed that the Bureau of Transport Economics should urgently prepare a report on the needs for a capital investment program in urban public transport. The BTE report clearly demonstrated that there were many vitally needed improvements to our public transport systems which should be undertaken. That report was presented to the July 1972 meeting of ATAC, and the then Prime Minister, my colleague the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon)  became the first federal Leader to give a firm commitment that the Commonwealth would assist in improving urban public transport. 
Having set the record straight as to who initiated investment in public transport, I want briefly to review the achievements of the previous Labor Administration. At my first meeting with State Transport Ministers in February of this year, I was inundated with requests to simplify the administration of the urban public transport agreement. I was also asked to ease the centralist authoritarian control which had been exercised by the former Government. Although the .States were charged with the task of implementing approved projects, there was the spectre of the former Minister continuously checking on their performance in the way of a headmaster. I have indicated quite clearly to my State colleagues that this is not the way in which a Liberal-National Country Party Government operates. We recognise that in this field it is the States who have special knowledge and a high degree of competence and accordingly agree that they should have responsibility in such matters. We do acknowledge, of course, that there are areas where the Commonwealth is able to contribute to the States' benefit. The emphasis of our relations with the States is one of co-operative federalism, not a centralist dictatorship. 
This program has suffered, as so many of the former Government's programs have suffered, through the indecent haste with which it was foisted upon the States. Indeed, the first Budget allocations for the program were made even before the agreement had been negotiated with the States. It is just one example of the Opposition's naive approach that money is the sole solution to all problems; an attitude that led between 1973 and 1976 to unprecedented levels of government spending with limited returns and, ultimately, to the massive defeat of the Labor Government. It is no wonder that the Labor Government presided over some of the highest levels of inflation in the nation 's history. 
What proved to be a complex program to the States, due to its inflexible administrative requirements, was further complicated by the former Government's policy that finance for rolling stock acquisition should be limited to a year by year basis. Such an approach is, of course, totally impractical. It is not feasible to place orders, accept delivery and pay for rolling stock within a 12-month period. But this is what the former Government required. It placed the States in an untenable position. The States were naturally reluctant to place orders in anticipation of Commonwealth financial assistance and hence the whole program was disrupted. This disruption also spread to rolling stock manufacturers. They were understandably cautious about investing in plant and equipment in order to increase production for what was only a 12-month order without any assurance that there would be continuity of further orders. They saw themselves as pawns at the whim of a centralist Labor Government. 
As I have indicated, all these shortcomings in the program stem from the former Government's attempts to change the world in 12 months, and to enforce its own socialist ideology upon the States. Upon assuming the portfolio of Minister for Transport, I immediately advised my State colleagues on the Australian Transport Advisory Council that I would be prepared to examine ways of greatly improving the administrative arrangements introduced by my predecessor. At the same time I made it quite clear that I had responsibilities to the Parliament for Commonwealth funds disbursed under this program. I offered also to consider any proposals the States wished to put forward for the revision of program priorities within the constraints of the existing financial allocations. The States have all indicated they will take up my offer to re-order the program allocations. As I will indicate later, in almost all cases the States have sought to cancel projects concerned with the expansion of their urban transport systems and to concentrate available resources on upgrading the existing network. The States' greatest priority has been to divert funds to rolling stock acquisition. In all cases I have been prepared to accept the States priorities rather than follow those which had been dogmatically imposed by the previous Government. For the information of honourable members, I have prepared a table that provides details of the program revisions I have so far approved. I seek leave to have the document incorporated in  Hansard. 
I have seen a report in which a State member of Parliament made the claim that the extra $7. 5m which is to be paid to Victoria for road funds this year is a myth. I am at a bit of a loss to understand how he came to that conclusion. When I approved the program for Victoria, I put out a Press statement pointing out that the $ 17.2m that was to be made available for rural local road programs in Victoria would be made up of $4.7m of Commonwealth money  and the balance of $ 12.5m would be made up from State funds. I then pointed out that a further allocation of $7.5m would be made available to Victoria. I said at the time, and I have said it several times since, that the Federal Government, having looked at the figures and the allocations for the various road categories had concluded, and rightly so, that the level of funding to local government had been seriously depleted over previous years under the Act brought down by the Labor Government. I asked therefore that the $7.5m be allocated to rural local roads in the main and urban local roads if the State felt there was some justification for it. 
The sum of $ 1 7.2m has been made available. The program has been approved. I have written to the State Transport Minister asking him for a program for the extra $7.5m. So in total, if all the money goes to local councils outside the metropolitan area they will receive $24. 7m. I do not know how on earth anybody can describe that sum of $7.5m as a myth. I think that State members of Parliament who make these sorts of statements need to go back to their Minister and get their facts straight. Since taking over the Transport portfolio I have deliberately tried to withdraw from intruding into the detailed administration of State programs. We have in fact tidied up the Act in this Parliament to stop unnecessary intrusion. It disturbs and dismays me to have these sorts of misleading statements made to local government councils. The fact will emerge that local government councils will end up with a substantially better deal than they could have dreamed possible under the Act as it presently stands. 
-The suggestion in the last part of the question is incorrect. Insofar as the first part of the question is concerned, the  Australian Pioneer  is due off the Australian coast on about 2 1 or 22 September. I am quite sure that she will enter the trade in the normal way. 
If the honourable member can contain his impatience just a little longer, I will be in a position to announce the names of the members of the committee of inquiry. 
-Yes, but unfortunately the fellow I approached fell ill and I had to find somebody else. It was not because the task was thought to be too big for him either. The committee is to report to me within 2 months. I propose to make an announcement as soon as I can after that. 
I have to confirm that the loss to the Australian National Line because of the hold-up of the  Australian Trader  is running into about half a million dollars. I also must confirm that of course the Australian National Line will have to take this loss into account when it is setting its freight rates in the months ahead. The strike has been quite futile and pointless, as rightly pointed out by the honourable member for Wilmot. I do not want to be provocative about it. It is to be hoped that the negotiations that have been taking place in the last couple of days will bring this senseless, stupid and futile strike to a conclusion. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Australian Shippers Council for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
-Mr Hinze, the Queensland Minister, is what I would describe as a dear fellow. I am very fond of him, but I sometimes think that his mouth is as big as his body. I did see the Press report. In fact I have it with me by chance. I was surprised to see that he is blaming the Commonwealth because he has not been able to proceed with the construction of the Gateway Bridge. I notice that he has not put up to me or, indeed, to the previous Government a firm proposal for the use of Commonwealth funds on the construction of the Gateway Bridge.  Mr Hinze  knows as well as I do that a State has to recommend to the Federal Government where Commonwealth funds ought to be spent and that it is normally the tradition and practice to accept the recommendations of a State. I think that  Mr Hinze  must be playing a bit of local politics, to take up the point that the honourable member has made. It is not the first time that he has played a bit of local politics, either. He does seem to have the facility to blame the Federal Government when he cannot find funds to undertake some of the grandiose schemes that he wants to undertake. My understanding is that even his own Department is a bit doubtful about the viability of this project. Therefore I think that there is much more politics than engineering in the whole of  Mr Hinze  's approach. 
He is a colleague of mine and a very dear friend and he will remain so. But I must advise him that if he is very serious about this Gateway Bridge project he ought to follow the normal practice of* putting it in the program that comes to me so that it can be included in the works program for Queensland. 
As the House would know, there is an agreement between the Australian Government and Papua New Guinea Government about the shareholding of Air Niugini. At the moment Papua New Guinea has 60 per cent of the shares, Ansett has 16 per cent, TAA has 12 per cent and Qantas has 12 per cent. The situation is that the Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea has written to the Prime Minister of Australia saying that the Papua New Guinea Government wants to take up the option that is in the agreement between the 2 governments for it to purchase the shares held presently by TAA and by Qantas. So far as the Australian Government is concerned, this matter is under consideration. I point out that there could be implications for both the 2-airline policy and for Qantas as Australia's international carrier. I must also point out that Papua New Guinea is an independent nation and the agreement provides for the takeover. I therefore have to weigh that factor as well. In due course the Papua New Guinea Government will be informed of the attitude of the Australian Government. 
-To the second last part of the honourable member's question, the answer is no. To the first part of the question the answer is yes. In respect of the other part of the question, the decision was taken by the Government as part of Budget policy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, Commonwealth assistance for a study entitled Impact Statement F19 was approved under the Transport (Planning and Research) Act 1974 during 1975-76. The maximum Commonwealth contribution is $66,667. 
No, I am certainly not in a position to say this. 
and (4) The State Government has the responsibility for the design and conduct of the detailed study and the Commonwealth is not in a position to say to what extent other freeway development or the views of local people are being taken into account. 
First-class Air Travel (Question No.  866) 
The answer to the honourable members 's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3). I understand that the report referred to is presently being printed by the Australian Government Publishing Service. I anticipate receiving the report shortly and will then consider the question of tabling. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) As yet details of the scope and levels of assistance for southbound cargoes from the mainland to Tasmania have not been fully developed. I will be making an announcement as soon as the details of the scheme have been finalised. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The information sought is not available within the Department of Transport. It would most likely be available in due course from the port authorities concerned in Tasmania. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments paid under the Tasmanian Freight Equalisation Scheme for the period July 1 976 are set out below. 
The honourable member for Shortland lacks one thing - 
The simple fact is that funds are made available for urban transport programs in New South Wales, along with other States. In this particular case, the New South Wales Minister has a responsibility to put to me those projects for which he would like funds placed. In respect of the specific items raised by the honourable member, I have to say to him that the New South Wales Minister for Transport,  Mr Cox,  to my knowledge has never placed these items before me as projects to be undertaken in New South Wales. If  Mr Cox  is complaining because these projects are not being developed, it is simply because he obviously does not rate them high enough in his own priorities. It is quite within his capacity to reassess the priorities that have been laid down and to seek a reallocation of the funds. If  Mr Cox  wants these projects to proceed, all he has to do is to write to me and say that they are now in his list of priorities. 
I do not think that there is any need for the motion to suspend Standing Orders to be carried. Indeed, I am quite amazed at the method adopted by the Opposition in trying to move for the suspension of Standing Orders at this time. The reason the Government does not believe there to be a need to suspend Standing Orders- we have made this quite plain and the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  referred to this when he made his remarks- is because the Industries Assistance Commission report has come to the Government. We have done the proper thing and tabled that report instantly so that it can be made available not only to the Parliament but also to everybody outside the Parliament. I have said publicly, and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has confirmed it, that we are awaiting proposals from the Australian Council of Trade Unions before the Government takes any further decision on the issue. So we are a long way from facing the necessity to suspend the parliamentary business to discuss a matter in relation to which there is yet further information to come to the Government for consideration. We are some weeks away from a decision on the matter. The IAC has confirmed a situation that was adopted by the previous Government, namely, that a 35 per cent subsidy be paid in relation to shipbuilding in Australia and that there be no extra subsidy paid. That previous decision was accepted by the Labor Government and therefore is no more than Labor policy. But the Opposition now seeks to move for the suspension of Standing Orders to debate a question when all the information is not yet to hand. I think that this move is more political than anything else at this point in time. It seems to me also that the Opposition is doing its best to try to shift its stance on the matter from where it has been for the last 3 years in order to gain some cheap political advantage. I think that a decision to suspend the Standing Orders ought to be seen against that background more than anything else. 
I recognise that the findings of the IAC are of great consequence. I have been at pains to say so both inside and outside the Parliament. The media recognise that a great flow-on could emerge from the IAC report if it is adopted, but we are not at the point of making a decision on the adoption of the report, for the reasons I have stated. Therefore, it would seem to me to be unnecessary to suspend Standing Orders for the purposes outlined. I know that the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  who represents Whyalla and the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  would be naturally concerned about the IAC report. But the fact remains- I repeat- that the IAC in this report has only confirmed what it stated in its earlier report to the Parliament and to the Government of the day. I repeat also that the Government of the day- that is, the present Opposition for which the honourable member for Port Adelaide now sees himself as a spokesman- accepted the IAC report. 
Yes, it was the Labor Government. It seems to me that this proposal now to suspend our Standing Orders is slightly political rather than designed to help those engaged in the industry. The Government recognises that great social consequences are involved in the acceptance of the IAC report. We have said so publicly. We have sought to set up a working committee with the Government of New South Wales and the Government of South Australia. Before the IAC report was presented, we sought to set up a working party of Commonwealth and State officials to deal with the substance of the IAC report when it came to hand. I confess some amazement that the Premier of New South Wales has been reluctant to join in with the working party committee. One would have thought that he would have joined in with some speed and resolution. 

 - Mr Speaker, I will come back to where I started. For all the reasons I have put, I submit that there is absolutely no need and no purpose served for the Parliament to suspend Standing Orders today to discuss this matter. I suspect very much the motive of the Opposition for moving the motion at this time. 
-(Gippsland- Minister for Transport)- For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled: ' Towns ville airport: economic evaluation of proposed international facilities'. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of Qantas Airways Limited for the year ended 31 June 1976. 
During the course of discussions with the Prime Minister of Bahrain yesterday he indicated an interest in the operations of the roll on-roll off ships that operate on the Australian coast and also internationally. He pointed out to me the difficulties that Bahrain has in providing shipping facilities for conventional ships or the liner trade. He went on to say that the difficulty extended not only to Bahrain but to a number of other Gulf countries. During the course of the discussion it emerged that he was interested in more than the ro-ro ships; he was interested in providing a shipping service to Bahrain and into the Gulf countries to try to take up some of the prospective trade that could develop between the Gulf countries and Australia. I agreed with him to join with New Zealand in looking at a feasibility study to see whether a shipping service could be started in that area. I think it is a development that ought to be welcomed. There have long been difficulties in servicing the trade between the Gulf countries and Australia. During the visit of the Prime Minister of Bahrain to New Zealand in the next couple of days, he will be putting this matter to the New Zealand Government. Hopefully, something will come out of that. 
Yes, the Department has received allegations of breaches under the Air Navigation Regulations and the reports have been referred to the industry committee for study. One allegation is of a breach by Pakistan International Airlines in regard to fare conditions on the Australian-Europe routes- a matter which also involves a travel agency called the Golemif agency. That matter is currently being investigated by the Commonwealth Police. The second allegation involves Thai International Airways and the Australian Union of Students, and the normal preliminary departmental inquiry has been directed to Thai Airways International, from whom information is expected shortly. The inquiries are at a very early stage and the alleged breaches will be investigated thoroughly. I will be in a better position to give further information to the honourable member when the results of the inquiries come to hand. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The Gotaverken gift to the launching lady was a brooch. The Blohm and Voss gift to the launching lady was a bracelet 
The gifts are presently in the Prime Minister's Department for valuation. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question of the Australian National Line being permitted to engage in the Queensland intra-State general cargo trade was discussed with  Mr Hooper,  the Queensland Minister for Transport, on 9 July. As matters now stand the concurrence of the Queensland Government would be necessary to enable the Line to carry cargo between Queensland ports. 

 Mr Hooper and I agreed that there was a need for an exchange of information in relation to sea and rail aspects of the matter prior to a further meeting being arranged. This exchange is currently being undertaken by officers of our respective Departments. 
I am hopeful that a satisfactory agreement on this matter can be reached in the near future. 
-The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The inquiry into the Tarcoola to Alice Springs railway project is being conducted by officers of the Australian National Railways and my Department to examine the construction standards and costs. 
The report is being prepared to advise the Government of possible areas of saving. The Government has made it clear that the line will be constructed and construction is continuing during the review. The honourable member will recall that the Treasurer announced the budget would provide $36. lm towards the financing of ANR's Capital Program including provision to continue construction of the Tarcoola to Alice Springs Railway. Under these circumstances I do not think it will be necessary to table the report. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The review committee to inquire into the Adelaide to Crystal Brook Railway line has not yet been established. I hope to be able to advise the South Australian Minister for Transport of the composition of the Committee and terms of reference shortly. The Committee will have full discussions with the South Australian Railway authorities. 
The report is being prepared to advise the Government of the options that are available concerning the project. The decision taken by the Government will be announced together with any necessary facts and I do not believe it will be necessary to table the report. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Australian groups who are journeying overseas with assistance from the Australian Government are not required to travel by Qantas but are strongly encouraged to do so. 
-I am able to confirm that the Victorian Government has accepted the Federal Government's request that the $7.5m be made available for local government councils in country areas. Of the $7.5m, $6m will go to local roads and $1.5m to rural arterial roads. The House will know that a previous program was approved by myself as Minister and it totalled $ 17.2m. Now, $23.2m will be available for local government roads with an extra $1.5m for rural arterial roads. 
The Prime Minister interjects and says: 'Hear, hear'. The House will know of his particular interest in this matter. I am waiting for confirmation from the Victorian Minister as to the allocations to the various councils. I shall notify honourable members when that comes to hand. As far as the other States are concerned, the only State which is now outstanding in terms of final agreement is New South Wales. I make it clear that I have been able to make satisfactory arrangements with the other States. New South Wales is in a different category because, as a government, it makes no provision for local government authorities. I have therefore asked the New South Wales Minister to have another look at the figures to see whether he cannot make $llm- I think that is the amount- available to local government councils. I am still awaiting that response. 
I am unaware of any of the allegations made by the honourable member. I would have thought that on this occasion a Dorothy Dix question might have been in order in respect of a matter so serious as he alleges. I will look at the information contained in the honourable member's question and give him a considered reply. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics for total aircraft movements into and out of Kingsford-Smith Airport in each of the years 1 970- 1 975 and 1 January 1 976 to 3 1 August 1 976 are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There is no record in the Department of Transport of Air America having performed any commercial nonscheduled flights to Australia during the period 1960 to 1972. 
If the airline had carried out any non-commercial nonscheduled flights between 1960 and 1972, details would not now be available since the records of such flights which are kept by the Department of Transport, the air traffic control strips are destroyed after three months and detailed financial records, i.e. the receipts for Air Navigation Charges, are discarded after two years. 
Accordingly I regret I am unable to supply the precise information the honourable member has requested. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Convention on the International Recognition of Rights in Aircraft opened for signature at Geneva on 1 9 June 1 948. 
-The Australian Federation of Air Pilots had a claim before  Mr Justice  Coldham, sitting as the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal, several months ago. That claim was rejected. The claim was then referred to the Anomalies Committee which referred it further to the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Full Bench likewise rejected the claim. Since that time  Mr Justice  Coldham has called a compulsory conference. After discussions with the representatives of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots, he described the pilots' claim as mischievous, illegitimate and a monstrous exercise in industrial power. He advised the Federation to lift the bans that it had imposed on Alice Springs in order to preserve the pilots' image. 
I agree entirely with what  Mr Justice  Coldham has said. The fact is that Connair Pty Ltd has been operating in the Northern Territory for some 40 years providing a service not only in the Territory but up into the area represented by the honourable member for Leichhardt and in the northern part of Western Australia. This strike is destroying Connair. That might come as a shock to the Parliament. When I tell the Parliament that Captain Smithwell, in a conversation with me on Sunday, said that the Federation would prefer to see Connair go to the wall rather than give in on this it will understand the sense of dismay I have in dealing with this whole matter. 
The difficulty is that the matter has been decided by the Full Bench. It is the final umpire. If the Federation is not prepared to accept that decision, it ought to work up another case entirely and put it through the proper conciliation and arbitration system. That is what the system is for and it ought to be used. The Federation should not be allowed to destroy an enterprise like Connair that has been in existence for such a long time. Apparently it was stated by the Federation yesterday or today that it intends to extend the ban to Darwin as from midnight tomorrow night and back into Alice Springs again on Friday. If this does not work, I am told, the Federation will call a national strike of all air pilots next week. I understand that those were the words used. I hope that the rest of the airline pilots in Australia will see what the Federation is doing to the image of pilots throughout Australia and will not agree to the proposal to proceed with a national strike. As to the effects that this ban is having on Queensland, the Northern Territory and Western Australia, I inform the House that a great number of charter operators have taken the opportunity to move in where Connair has been forced to pull out. As I understand it, they are providing some reasonable services at this point of time. The House can be assured that the Government is determined that Darwin, which I should have thought had suffered enough with cyclone Tracy, will not now be put in a position of being bereft of air services. The same applies to the rest of the Northern Territory. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Those Intergovernmental Maritime Consultative Organisation conventions to which Australia is not yet a Contracting State are: 
a ) Conventions in force internationally 
Convention on Facilitation of International Maritime Traffic, 1965 
International Convention Relating to Intervention on the High Seas in Cases of Oil Pollution Casualties, 1969 
International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969 
Special Trade Passenger Ships Agreement, 1 97 1 
Convention Relating to Civil Liability in the Field of Maritime Carriage of Nuclear Material, 1971 
Conventions not yet in force internationally 
International Convention on Tonnage Measurement on Ships, 1969 
International Convention on the Establishment of an International Fund for Compensation for Oil Pollution Damage, 1971 
Convention on the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea, 1972 
International Convention for Safe Containers, 1 972 
International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1 973 
International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974 
Athens Convention Relating to the Carriage of Passengers and Their Luggage by Sea, 1974 
A detailed statement of the position so far as all IMCO and other maritime conventions, protocols and amendments to conventions is contained in an appendix to Australian Transport, the report I present to Parliament annually on the working and administration of the Department of Transport. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The estimates contained on page 165 of Budget Paper No. 4 were related to forecast average employment for the financial year 1976-77. As such they were based on average staffing levels and took into account the average number of staff for the previous financial year and past wastage rates. 
The estimates therefore do not relate to positions but relate to average staff numbers. The variation shown between the average staff employed in the executive of the Department for 1975-76 and the estimated staff for 1976-77 arose from several staff movements which occurred among the 26 executive positions during 1975-76. These movements resulted in a net average employment over the twelve months of 25 against an establishment of 26. Currently all these positions are filled. 
It is estimated that the average staffing level of 26 will be achieved in 1976-77. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The estimates contained on page 165 of Budget Paper No. 4 were related to forecast average employment for the financial year 1976-77. As such they were based on average staffing levels and took into account the average number of staff for the previous financial year and past wastage rates. 
The estimates therefore do not relate to positions but relate to average staff numbers. 
In respect of the Management Services Division, Bureau of Transport Economics, Civil Aviation Operations Division and Finance and Commercial Division, the statistics showed reductions estimated in the average staff to be employed throughout 1976-77. The estimates have been made taking into account the likely effects of non-replacement of wastage in respect of staff engaged on non-essential tasks. In order to ensure that only essential positions are restaffed throughout 1976-77 each position is being carefully reviewed prior to any decision being taken on filling the vacancy. By means of this review process it is intended that staff numbers will be controlled to the levels required. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) and (2) The estimates contained on page 165 of Budget Paper No. 4 were related to forecast average employment for the financial year 1 976-77. As such they were based on average staffing levels and took into account the average number of staff for the previous financial year and past wastage rates. 
The estimates therefore do not relate to positions but relate to average staff numbers. 
In respect of the Management Services Division, Bureau of Transport Economics, Civil Aviation Operations Division and Finance and Commercial Division, the statistics showed reductions estimated in the average staff to be employed throughout 1976-77. The estimates have been made taking into account the likely effects of non-replacement of wastage in respect of staff engaged on non-essential tasks. In order to ensure that only essential positions are restaffed throughout 1976-77 each position is being carefully reviewed prior to any decision being taken on filling the vacancy. By means of this review process it is intended that staff numbers will be controlled to the levels required. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The estimates contained on page 165 of Budget Paper No. 4 were related to forecast average employment for the financial year 1976-77. As such they were based on average staffing levels and took into account the average number of staff for the previous financial year and past wastage rates. 
The estimates therefore do not relate to positions but relate to average staff numbers. 
In respect of the Management Services Division, Bureau of Transport Economics, Civil Aviation Operations Divisions and Finance and Commercial Division, the statistics showed reductions estimated in the average staff to be employed throughout 1976-77. The estimates have been made taking into account the likely effects of non-replacement of wastage in respect of staff engaged on non-essential tasks. In order to ensure that only essential positions are restaffed throughout 1976-77 each position is being carefully reviewed prior to any decision being taken on filling the vacancy. By means of this review process it is intended that staff numbers will be controlled to the level required. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The estimates contained on page 165 of Budget Paper No. 4 were related to forecast average employment for the financial year 1976-77. As such they were based on average staffing levels and took into account the average number of staff for the previous financial year and past wastage rates. 
The estimates therefore do not relate to positions but relate to average staff numbers. 
In respect of the Management Services Division, Bureau of Transport Economics, Civil Aviation Operations Division and Finance and Commercial Division, the statistics showed reductions estimated in the average staff to be employed throughout 1976-77. The estimates have been made taking into account the likely effects of non-replacement of wastage in respect of staff engaged on non-essential tasks. In order to ensure that only essential positions are restaffed throughout 1976-77 each position is being carefully reviewed prior to any decision being taken on filling the vacancy. By means of this review process it is intended that staff numbers will be controlled to the level required. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3) The estimates contained on page 165 of Budget Paper No. 4 were related to forecast average employment for the financial year 1976-77. As such they were based on average staffing levels and took into account the average number of staff for the previous financial year and past wastage rates. 
The estimates therefore do not relate to positions but relate to average staff numbers. 
In respect of the Marine Operations Division an increase of 34 in average employment was estimated. Some 24 of the 34 were forecast to meet additional staffing commitments brought about by upgraded relief requirements for departmental staff employed on coastal navigation aid vessels. The remaining average staff employment figure of 10 was estimated based on the need to increase staff in priority areas such as Marine Standards and Coastal Services. 
Some of the additional staff are expected to be recruited to fill existing vacant positions while others will be required to staff new positions which have not as yet been identified. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) The estimates contained on page 165 of Budget Paper No. 4 were related to forecast average employment for the financial year 1976-77. Therefore the estimates were made in relation to forecast average staffing levels and were not directly related to positions. 
In respect of the Policy and Planning Division an increase of 67 in the average staffing level was estimated. Some 46 of the 67 was forecast to accommodate the transfer of staff from the Road Safety and Standards Authority to the Department of Transport. This transfer has now taken place and these staff are now held against the Department's staff ceiling. 
Additional increases in staff to be employed under this Division are expected as a result of the further development of the Strategic Planning and Resources Allocation activity within the Department. In this regard, the Public Service Board has recently agreed to the following15 positions being allocated to undertake these functions: 
-The Australian Coastal Shipping Agreement did conclude on 30 September. It is not my intention to renew it at the present time. Instead, what I have done is to circulate the various shipping companies, the stevedoring companies and interested parties about what future arrangements might be made on the coast. During the course of the period of the agreement there have been a great number of changes on the coast. For example, there are very few shipowners today by comparison with the great number years ago. In respect of the last part of the honourable member's question I should point out that the purpose of the agreement was to limit the growth and capacity of ANL rather than to give it any special place. All of this will be taken into account when I receive responses from the various interested parties. 
The Government will take into consideration the various information that has come before it when it considers this question in the next few weeks. Of course, we have to take into account the Industries Assistance Commission report and the Australian Council of Trade Union's submission that came in yesterday. I might say in passing that I thought the ACTU submission was pretty much a lightweight submission. I was very disappointed with it. There were about 80 or 90 pages to it. It does not do justice to the amount of publicity it received before it was put into the hands of Ministers. I will not go into any further detail about the ACTU submission. 
There is absolutely no need for me to table it. It has been broadcast over every television and radio program in Australia throughout the last few days. The fact is that the Liberal and National Country Parties have a commitment to shipbuilding in this country. Because of the difficulties of the Newcastle State Dockyard and the Whyalla facilities, which are the 2 shipyards under scrutiny at the moment, whatever their fate after the Government's consideration, that does not preclude there being a shipbuilding industry in this country. The House knows well that there is one shipbuilder, Carrington Slipways Pty Ltd, out of Newcastle, that has been sucessfully operating without much government assistance over a great number of years. It has been demonstrating to other shipbuilders in the country just how to go about the job and to do it successfully. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The figures quoted by my predecessor in March 1962 included also the costs of aircraft spares and ground equipment whereas the figures supplied by me in answer to your question on 17 March 1976 did not include these costs. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a report by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads entitled: 'Standards for Construction and Maintenance of National Highways'. 
-The answer to the member's questions is: 
Since payments commenced in 1966-67, a total of $139,681.86 has been paid by Australian National Railways to employees suffering loss of hearing as a result of their employment with the Railways. 
During that period, the cost of supplying hearing aids to those employees where such aids were considered necessary was $1,1 17.32. 
Immigration from Lebanon (Question No. 1115) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes; but I understand that on its first 6 completed northbound sailings, FESCO has carried less than150 tonnes of frozen beef in total from Townsville to Japan. 
(a) Yes; FESCO's freight rate for frozen beef is approximately15 per cent below the current liner shipping Conference scheduled rate. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
) The report was tabled on 23 September 1 976. 
750 copies. 
Housing for Holland Family in Dublin (Question No. 1197) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of accidents involving general aviation aircraft in Australia in each of the last five years is 
A number of honourable members have taken part in the debate tonight. Some contributions have been quite excellent, thoughtful and constructive. Others have been less excellent and quite destructive. I think that the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  who is the shadow Minister for Transport, needs to watch his position on the front bench of the Opposition because the performance he put up tonight certainly must call into question his capacity to handle the task. While the Opposition has able back benchers such as the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  and the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  who was at least constructive and thoughtful in his approach, quite clearly the honourable member for Shortland will need to improve his performance as shadow Minister for Transport if he is to retain the support of those who sit behind him. The back bench of the Opposition also includes the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  who as an ex-Minister for Transport knows a little about transport. It must be very hard for the honourable member to suffer the blunderings and mistakes of the front bench of the Opposition. 
Having said that, and not wanting to be political, let me comment on the contributions that were made. The honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom),  who was the second  speaker  in the debate, made a very thoughtful contribution. I am pleased that he has recognised the strength of the freight equalisation scheme and the importance it has been to Tasmania. It is quite extraordinary to think- and the honourable member for Braddon carefully pointed this outthat the present Opposition when in government made promises to help Tasmania in respect of its freight problems but in fact failed to produce the goods. It took a change of government to bring about a real tackling of the problems that Tasmania faces. I have taken on board the questions that the honourable member raised about the King Island air subsidy and other matters that were raised by the Nimmo Commission. As the honourable member pointed out, these matters are under study and announcements will be made at the appropriate time. 
The honourable member referred to the Wynyard and Devonport airports. He pointed out the importance to Tasmania and to northern Tasmania in particular, of these 2 airports. He made a plea that the airports not be taken in under the local ownership plan. Of course, no decision has been taken on this, but I ought to point out that the primary purpose of the local ownership plan is to try to make better use of resources. Let me explain it this way: If a person employed at an airport does not have full time work, he can sometimes be better employed if he is employed by the local authority and used also on other functions. A number of jobs to be done at an airport might be cleaned up in two or three weeks and the person employed for this purpose might be idle for another two or three weeks. The purpose of the local government ownership plan is to make better use of resources. Of course, the local government authorities are not left without funds for either capital works in this case or for maintenance. The Commonwealth provides a dollar for dollar subsidy for the works that the authorities undertake. I think that honourable members have been told before that we are now investigating those aerodromes that are outside the local government plan to see what ought to be done about them and whether there are special circumstances in relation to those aerodromes that are not yet members of the local government plan. So we will also hear more about that at a later date. 
The honourable member for Shortland referred to Connair Pty Ltd. It is quite clear that he does not know the first thing about the subject. It is quite clear also that he has been relying on leaks, or 'discussions' I suppose might be a better expression- half baked discussions- that he has had with a member of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots whom everyone in this House would know about, particularly his political leanings. The honourable member has not done very well. I think he ought to go back, get on the telephone and try to get himself better informed. In the first instance the honourable member does not understand the basis of the subsidy that has been paid for Connair. He has asked me for an explanation. He could go to the previous Minister and get a quite responsible explanation just on the facts of the agreement in respect of Connair. He could go to the Parliamentary Library and read the history books. It is quite simple. For example, he does not know why an extra $50,000 was paid to the end of 30 September 1975 which is the end of Connair 's financial year. He was questioning the payment as though this Government has given it some handout. That is how ill-informed the honourable member is. 
-You ought to go to Charlie, ask him and get a few facts so as he gets to understand the principles behind the agreement in respect of the subsidy. He does not understand why an extra $100,000 subsidy was paid to 30 September 1976. Again he could at least have gone to Charlie and asked him. Charlie might tell him. 
He ought to go to the honourable member for Newcastle and ask him and get a few facts. The history of these matters is so old that it is a terrible thing when I have to come into this place as Minister and educate the shadow Minister on these basic facts. But I do not propose to do so. Let the honourable member for Shortland go to the honourable member for Newcastle or to the Library and do his own research work. 
The honourable member for Shortland puts ridiculous questions to me. He spent half of his time complaining bitterly about some Press release. I tried to explain to him across the table that there had been a genuine mistake made in the typing of the release. Extraordinarily enough the typing error was not picked up even by Captain Smithwell who was the  President  of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots and who approved the Press release. I did not issue the Press release until it had been approved by the Federation. A word in the release was typed incorrectly and the honourable member for Shortland spent half of his speech complaining about that mistake. The only newspaper that did not print the correction was the  Australian Financial Review,  and I am not surprised at that. I know that there are a lot of disappointed people behind the honourable member for Shortland. I was watching their faces when the honourable member spoke as shadow Minister. I know that a number of people thought they could do a lot better on the front bench on that issue than the honourable member for Shortland. 
The honourable member also raised the question of airworthiness and made the very brave statement that most air accidents are caused by engine failures and the like, as though he had found a new truism that had not existed before. He went on to point out in a somewhat unsubtle way that it was his belief that the engine failures were due to a lack of airworthiness. I have tried to point out to him before that I do not want to dignify those sorts of stupid remarks by answering them. The fact is that there have been no cases of aeroplanes going into the air which are not airworthy. They go through the fundamental and proper procedures to obtain their airworthiness certificates. All general aviationTransAustralia Airlines, Ansett and other airlines throughout Australia- go through the proper procedures. I do not think that the honourable member for Shortland does civil aviation any service at all by making wild allegations that are not factual, and I would suggest to him that he should do a little bit more homework on that subject as well.  Mr Chairman,  I have been asked if I would be seated at this point to allow the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  to make some comments. I will continue my remarks after the honourable member for Grey has finished. 
I will take up immediately the question raised by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  which I think is a very serious one. Of course, he is quite right in what he said. The Australian Federation of Air Pilots without doubt is using the pilots of Connair Pty Ltd not to increase the pay rates in the simple way that the pilots think but for the Federation's own malevolent ends. There is no doubt about this. This emerged quite clearly from the discussions that have been held over a period. I am totally satisfied that the Federation, from its approach to the question when it has held discussions with the pilots in the Northern Territory and from conversations I have had with pilots, has no ends in view other than to use the Connair pilots as whipping boys when it takes on the major airlines later this year. 
I take up the point raised by the honourable member for the Northern Territory: It will be a tragedy if the pilots of the Northern Territory fall for this trick and do not realise what they are doing. They are jeopardising their jobs and jeopardising transport throughout the Northern Territory. I hope that the pilots in the Northern Territory will tumble to the fact that they are being used in such a malevolent fashion, will go back to work and will apply through the proper arbitration channels for a pay increase in the normal fashion. I am in great sympathy with the member for the Northern Territory on that point. I might have more to say about that again after I have heard officially from the Australian Federation of Air Pilots as to how conversations went today. Captain Smithwell was to fly to Alice Springs today to take up the question with the pilots of the Northern Territory. Let us wait to see what his official reply is on the matter. 
The honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  earlier in the debate made a very thoughtful contribution. He has recognised quite clearly the problems that face the State governments and the Federal Government in finding satisfactory means of providing public transport in the cities. As he pointed out, most people working in the cities today work across the fixed main Une traffic. They no longer work down the main line traffic. In other words, the fixed rail traffic- either trams or trains- does not suit the majority of commuters in Adelaide and in other cities. The honourable member has been very astute in pointing out the problem that exists in Adelaide and I thank him for his contribution. 
The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  raised the question of the Transport Accident Investigation Bureau being an independent body. This matter has had some coverage over a number of years.  His  complaint is that he thinks Caesar is looking at Caesar. Let me say that in my time as Minister, and I think in the honourable member's time as Minister, I am not aware of any challenge to the integrity of those who have been investigating any accident, nor am I aware of any blemish being laid at the door of those who have been investigating any accidents. I do not think we ought to start with the presumption that there has been any challenge to integrity. I notice that the honourable member for Newcastle agrees with that. 
The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  has noted the increase in urban public transport finances, particularly in New South Wales. I was pleased to hear that on tonight's news broadcast the Minister for Transport in New South Wales was able to announce a new program for the purchase of buses, rolling stock, passenger train carriages and engines. I did not hear the Minister for Transport in New South Wales pay any compliment to the Commonwealth for the increased funds made available to make that program possible. But I suppose that is politics. It is sad, but true. The fact is, as the honourable member for Mitchell rightly pointed out, that the program in New South Wales comes about largely because of the generosity of this Federal Government. 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  has taken me to task because I will not make funds available for the declaration of export roads in Wollongong. I ought to point out to him that at the moment the initiative for this does not lie at my door. I have written to the Minister for Transport in New South Wales notifying him that I am prepared to declare certain roads as export roads if he so wishes. He has not responded to that invitation. I can only assume that he does not want to have these roads declared export roads. I shall have to wait to find out. 
The honourable member has also raised the question of why we do not make available funds from the export levy on coal. That levy was raised by the Labor Government during the past 2 or 3 years for road construction in the Wollongong area. I think the honourable member said that something like $30m worth of coal goes out of the port there and that some of the levy that is raised on that coal ought to be put into roads. The honourable member of course was a Minister in a government that introduced that particular levy. He was a Minister in a government that did not bother to do what he is now proposing. That proposal sounds passing strange coming from his lips. As usual, the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  made a very sensible contribution. The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  has taken me to task again because of the slowness with which I am announcing the appointment of a committee on the Adelaide to Crystal Brook railway. I apologise to him once again and again I ask him to be patient with me. 
I have some difficulty in regard to this matter. I am really trying to overcome the problem. If the honourable member waits patiently a little longer I will be able to inform him of the personnel on the committee. He will be very pleased with it, I am sure. But as to the allegation that the Government is not proceeding with the standardisation, that of course is not correct. It is proposed that there will be a standard gauge rail from Crystal Brook to Adelaide. It is simply a matter of whether the standards proposed at the moment are too high or not too high. It has been suggested by some of those who are expert in railway matters that the standards proposed and the standards being used are too high and that savings of some millions of dollars could be made if the standardisation were carried out in another way. I am not going to make a judgment on that. I have asked a certain person to chair a committee and to tell me whether or not that is true. In the meantime, money has been made available for contracts that have been let so that the work can proceed. 
The honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  raised the thorny old question of the takeover of the South Australian railways. He knows that I have said many times that I am not pleased with the takeover. I think the previous Minister for Transport was done in the eye very badly by his Prime Minister on the deal. The Commonwealth fared very badly in that deal. But of course honourable members opposite had not been used to dealing with matters of this nature either before they came into to Parliament or when they were in Government, so I suppose we ought to expect them to handle the matters like amateurs. With regard to the arrangements, the honourable member for Grey will be pleased to know that I am meeting the South Austraiian Minister for Transport, I think on Thursday of this week, to see whether we cannot resolve the matter. A meeting time has been fixed and I hope we will be able to resolve the outstanding matter. I thank those honourable members who have been able to make a contribution to the debate. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Education 
Proposed expenditure, $380,005,000. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report prepared by a steering committee comprising membership from the Commonwealth Department of Transport, the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads and the South Australian Highways Department entitled:  National Highway Linking Adelaide and DarwinPort Augusta to the Northern Territory Border. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Up until 1959 there was a relationship between the collection of fuel tax and the amount of road grants provided to the States. Since then successive Commonwealth Governments have taken the view that fuel taxes are a general revenue tax which are paid to consolidated revenue and the amount of road grants paid to the States is determined on the basis of road needs, the relative priorities between those needs and other needs and the economic circumstances prevailing at the time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the Roads Grants Act State Governments are responsible for the preparation of programs of road projects for which they seek Commonwealth financial assistance. 
During the three years 1 974-75 to 1 976-77 covered by the Roads Grants Act the Queensland Government has not included any project to augment the existing Hornibrook Viaduct in the programs submitted for Commonwealth financial  assistance. 
However, I am given to understand that the Queensland Government now intends to build a second bridge across Hays Inlet linking Brisbane and Redcliffe entirely from State funds. 
Road Construction from the Fuel Tax Revenue (Question No. 1170) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I am unable at this stage to indicate when details of the scheme will be completed and announced. The matter is being progressed in my Department as quickly as possible and I will make an appropriate announcement at the earliest possible time. 
Yes. 
RAAF Vehicle Allowance Claims  (Question No. 1200) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have not received the recommendations of the committee established to review the construction standards and costs of the Tarcoola to Alice Springs Railway. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
No. 
3 ) The line is being maintained to allow safe operation. 
No. 
I do not propose to join in the partisan argument about the quality of apples. But I will join in the argument about the freight equalisation scheme. The freight equalisation scheme was introduced so that growers of apples, growers of other produce and manufacturers of goods in Tasmania would not be disadvantaged by the extra freight charges they incur. The freight equalisation scheme, as the term implies, means that freights ought to be equal. In other words, it was not designed so that there would be an advantage one way or the other. The basis upon which the freight rates for apples were determined by  Mr Justice  Nimmo was that apples would be carried in refrigerated containers. Tasmanian apple growers, being fairly shrewd people, soon learnt that they could send their apples as dry cargo at a cheaper actual rate and still claim the full subsidy rate. I suppose that it is a normal commercial operation. I do not blame them for it. As I have said, the freight equalisation scheme was not designed to give Tasmanian apple growers an advantage. Therefore, I have to review the rates so that a proper subsidy rate is set for the dry cargo rate as distinct from the refrigerated container rate. This means that apple growers are able to send their apples either way at an equalised freight rate and not with any disadvantage or advantage. 
Following meetings between the Australian Federation of Air Pilots and  Mr Connellan,  the general manager of Connair, with me on Monday, the Federation's  President  Captain Smithwell, agreed to go to Alice Springs and to put certain propositions before the pilots of Connair in respect of this matter. Regrettably, as I understand it, Captain Smithwell has not yet undertaken the trip. I understand further that there have been only one or two casual conversations, not by Captain Smithwell himself, but apparently by the industrial officer of the Federation with one or two pilots throughout the Territory. My understanding is that the pilots in the Territory are of the view that Connair should be able to crank up again with a status quo prevailing, that is, on the normal salary range- and with another application to go before  Mr Justice  Coldham on a different ground- with no retrenchments being made by Connair in the process. 
As  Mr Connellan  pointed out to the Federation the cost of the strike to Connair will be in the region of $160,000. That figure is calculated as of Monday. Obviously more cost will be involved as each day goes by. Connair does not believe that it will be able to start up again in exactly the same form. It may have to go through some restructuring because of the absolute cost involved in the strike itself. At the same time an interdepartmental committee is looking at the air demands in the Territory for services. The committee is to report back to us some time after Christmas. It would be improper of me as Minister to refuse Connair the right to set about restructuring its airline to meet what it believes to be the needs and to demonstrate to the IDC that it is capable of carrying on into the future. 
The House will know that the Federal Government already has lifted the subsidy set by the previous Federal Government from $300,000 to $550,000 to keep Connair in the air until the IDC reports. It would be impossible for the Government to subsidise the strike to the extra tune of $160,000. At this point it is very much a commercial matter for Connair to decide whether it will start up again. I can say nothing about that that will assist the situation. It is a matter for commercial decision by Connair if the pilots do go back to work. I am quite sure that the federation has not placed the facts clearly and properly before the pilots in the Northern Territory as it promised me it would do. I am disappointed that Captain Smithwell has not undertaken his visit to Alice Springs. I wish he would do so, as he said he would in his conversation with me on Monday. It looks very much at the moment as though Connair will not fly again. Therefore other arrangements will need to be made throughout the Territory. I have received calls from several missions and stations expressing concern at the lack of services. I have taken up with the department what alternatives ought to be undertaken in the Territory to provide air services should Connair not be able to recommence operations. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The primary purpose of my visit to Europe in June centred upon attending the 43rd Session of the Council of Ministers of the European Conference of Ministers of Transport (ECMT) and the naming of the 'Australian Pioneer' by my wife at Gothenburg in Sweden on 2 1 June. 
The visit also allowed me the opportunity to have fruitful discussions on a number of other important transport matters in Yugoslavia, Britain and Russia. In Belgrade, I had discussions on aviation issues; in London I had wide ranging discussions on current British Transport policies and matters of common interest including the Concorde and High Speed Train project; while in Moscow and Leningrad, I discussed shipping, urban transport and bilateral air transport matters. 
The party of people who accompanied me comprised my wife and my private secretary,  Ms Thea  Cawthorne(salary $12,505). In addition,  Mr W.  P. Crone, Counsellor (Transport) Australian High Commission London (Salary $ 1 9,787 ),  Mr M.  Ryan, Assistant Secretary (Salary $23,246) from my Department and  Mr G.  Hall, Minister of the Australian Delegation to the OECD (Salary $23,246) attended the ECMT meeting in Toulouse.  Mr Ryan  and  Mr Crone  also accompanied me in my discussions in London. 
3 ) The places visited are as follows: 
Belgrade (Yugoslavia), Toulouse (France), Gothenburg (Sweden), London (United Kingdom), Leningrad and Moscow (Russia). 
I had official consultations with the following people in the following cities: 
At the commencement of the 1974-77 program $24m was made available for the beef roads program. As I understand it, at that time consultation between the Queensland authorities and the then Department of Northern Development decided which roads would be included in that program. I understand the honourable member's concern in this matter because it appears that certain sections of roads in the Gulf Country were included in previous programs and then, all of a sudden, excluded from the 1974-77 program, leading to the situation which he has described. The reason given for the exclusion of the roads in the Gulf Country was that the Queensland authorities and the Department of Northern Development apparently decided that resources could be better spent in the brigalow country. For that reason a program was designed for beef road construction in the brigalow country to the cost of the program described by the honourable member. There will be no reconsideration of this matter until the end of this 3-year program. I assure the honourable member that every consideration will be given to his request in a future program. 
The investigation is not complete. When it is completed the Government will have a look at the recommendation made and announce any policy decision on it. 
It seems my lot to be drawn into political fights of one nature or another. I said the other day that I did not want to be partisan in this matter of the apples from Calare in New South Wales as against the apples from the Franklin area in Tasmania. It seems to me that the only way to resolve this issue is for the honourable member for Calare and the honourable member for Franklin to emulate the action some years ago of the former member for Mallee. There was some discussion at the time as to the quality of the grapes from Mildura. As the proof of the pudding is in the eating, the then honourable member for Mallee made provision for sultanas and raisins to be placed regularly on the parliamentary dining tables, and they have been there ever since. That statement seems to be causing some amusement in the House. Winton Turnbull, if you are listening, I do apologise. I am not for one moment suggesting they are the same lot. I suggest to the honourable member for Calare and the honourable member for Franklin that rather than having me, as one member of this House, act as judge on this matter they should invoke the opinion of all other honour- - able members. I suggest that they emulate the ex-member for Mallee and let us have an apple a day, not to keep the doctor away but so that we can make a proper judgment on this issue. We will exclude the honourable members for Calare and Franklin from having to eat their own produce, so we want 124 apples a day for over a week from each electorate. The Parliament can then decide the issue once and for all. 
As to the second part of the honourable member's question, the matter of the freight disparity has been clarified. Tasmanians will be obtaining a subsidy at one level for those apples sent in refrigerated containers and at a distinct and different level for those apples which are sent in dry containers. In relation to the third part of the question, I should mention that I have been badgered by the honourable member for Denison as well, as to when the south bound freight equalisation scheme will be introduced. I am hopeful that within two or three weeks I will be able to make an announcement on it. 
If my memory serves me correctly, such a proposition was put forward by the previous Willis Government. I understand that when  Mr Cox  came to power as Minister for Transport he sought to have the various projects that were under way reconsidered and that he in fact put up several other propositions which finally excluded the electrification of this railway line. It is therefore not on the list of approved projects to draw Commonwealth funds. State Ministers find it very easy to avoid accepting their own responsibilities by blaming the Federal Government in relation to these matters. Many powerful speeches are made around Australia by State Ministers in which they say that if only the Commonwealth would agree to such and such a proposition they would be able to do certain things. The fact of the matter is that the funds provided under the urban public transport scheme and the roads grants legislation are known years in advance. The State governments are able to plan their programs and submit them for approval. They do not have any difficulty with me in getting approval for matters. So programs are selected according to the priorities set down by the State Ministers. It is really humbug on the part of the State Ministers to continue to pass the buck in this way. They should accept their own share of the responsibilities. 
There is no direct Commonwealth assistance that can offset the freight increase imposed by the New South Wales Government, I am well aware of the policy introduced by that Government in respect of the reduction of fares on the urban public transport system in Sydney. I do not know whether that decision is going to work or not but hopefully some gains will come out of it. My understanding is that according to early indications the policy has not attracted too many more people back to public transport. As for the Commonwealth Government's attitude towards railway systems generally, we have a policy of assisting State governments with their public transport systems, both in country areas and in city areas. I would be very willing to accept a proposition of any sort from  Mr Cox,  the New South Wales Minister for Transport, in an endeavour to help. 
Let me state the terms of the matter of public importance which has been brought before this Parliament by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  They are: 
The failure of the Government to commit itself to the retention of an Australian Shipbuilding Industry. 
We have been very specific in our dealing with this problem to make sure that proper consultation has been held with all the people affected. This matter of public importance cuts across the program and procedures that have been laid down between the Premier of New South Wales, the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, the Premier of South Australia, and the Government. We have said from the start of this issue that we would await reports and submissions from those 2 Premiers and from the  President  of the ACTU following the publication of the Industries Assistance Commission report. This proposal wants us to pre-empt that situation and not even to await or give consideration to those submissions. It wants us to announce some decision. Well that is not the way proper government works. I suggest to the honourable member for Port Adelaide that had the previous Government in its 3 years of office taken more account of submissions of the nature we are expecting, it might still have been in government today. 
Let me turn now to look at the crocodile tears of the honourable members for Port Adelaide. Crocodile tears they were. I am disappointed that he should come into this Parliament right at this particular time when there are demonstrators outside trying to put weight on the Government in relation to this matter. The people who are waiting outside ought to know that this Government has made no change to the shipbuilding policy. The policy that is presently being followed is the policy laid down by the previous Government. The fact is- and the men ought to know this- that the policy decisions, as distinct from other problems within the industry, which caused the collapse of the shipbuilding industry in Australia were policy decisions made by the Labor Government. Nobody else is at fault in this regard. The men outside ought to be told that under the policy laid down by the Labor Government, 3 shipyards have closed already. That was not a policy introduced by the Liberal-Country Party Government: That was a policy introduced by the Labor Government. 
-They closed during the Labor Government's regime. The Labor Government lifted not one finger to help them. The Labor Government lifted not one finger to introduce any assistance to the shipbuilding industry on the lines that the honourable member for Port Adelaide now espouses as being given overseas. The Labor Government did quite the reverse. 
Let me repeat the history of this situation because I think it is important that the Parliament know about it. In December 1973 the Labor Government introduced a policy to phase down progressively subsidies on ships so that eventually the subsidy level would be only 25 per cent. That was not a decision taken by this Government, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide would like to portray. That was a policy decision taken by the Labor Government. But more importantly- I ask the people who are standing outside to note this- it was the Labor Government that introduced a policy whereby owners could import a vessel permanently if the Australian subsidised price exceeded the overseas price. These are Labor Party initiatives simply and solely. They were taken by nobody else. It is sheer humbug for the honourable member for Port Adelaide to come into this House and try to make political capital out of a very difficult situation. That, in truth, is all he is trying to do. 
There is another matter I must lay at rest. The honourable member cited a great bagful of forms of assistance that are granted to shipyards overseas, but he avoided, or did not explain exactly, what that bagful means. In point of fact. no country overseas is presently giving more assistance to shipbuilding than the Australian Government- even under the policy I am talking about, which was Labor policy. No country is giving more than 35 per cent direct subsidy. When it comes to shipbuilding, that is the policy that counts. It is the net cost to the shipowner that counts. The honourable member may talk about all the loans that are made available to shipowners to try to attract them to the shipyards, but it is the net cost of that ship to the shipowner that counts. No country is giving subsidies at a level greater than that given in the Australian yards. 
So there will be no misunderstanding on this matter, let me repeat what I have said outside this House on a number of occasions: Japan does not give direct subsidies to shipbuilding but Australia is giving a 35 per cent subsidy. Certainly Japan gives assistance to shipowners by way of loans to try to attract them to the yards, but that does not reduce the net cost of the ship. Sweden gives no direct subsidies for the ship. Australia gives a 35 per cent subsidy. The United States of America does give a 35 per cent subsidy but it is the only country in the whole of the shipbuilding world which gives a subsidy that is comparable with the Australian subsidy. In Korea there is no direct assistance to shipbuilding. In West Germany there is no direct financial assistance. The honourable member is misleading the people he claims to represent when he tells them that assistance of that order is given, particularly as it is not true. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide claims that we are wrecking the shipbuilding industry. I have pointed out already that the policy we are following is not our policy; it is a continuation of the policy espoused by the Labor Government. That alone ought to be enough for the dock workers to realise the hypocrisy of the honourable member for Port Adelaide in espousing this sort of cause. Rather than reduce the subsidy further from 35 per cent to 25 per cent as was proposed by Labor, we referred the matter back to the Industries Assistance Commission. We had discussions with the Premier of New South Wales. The honourable member for Port Adelaide claims that this proposal that there be no strikes, no demarcation disputes, no go-slows and no increase in wages was a policy cooked up by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Transport- that being me- in a car on the way to the airport. The honourable member has been misinformed. The fact is that it was Premier Wran who said in a conference with the Prime Minister and myself that he would back himself in to go to Newcastle and secure those very provisions. He said so before he left the office of the Prime Minister. All the Prime Minister and I discussed in the car on the way to the airport was whether or not we ought to accept that offer. We accepted it and I rang Premier Wran and confirmed that we were prepared to accept it. The disappointing thing is that the men at the yards would not accept those propositions. They rejected Premier Wran's proposals out of hand, although Wran said that he would back himself in. 
Let us compare the attitude of the men in the yard with that of the apple growers in Tasmania, or the dairy farmers of Australia, or the beef growers who are going without and are managing to struggle on their farms with a much smaller income than the men at the dockyards. They are prepared to continue on a much lower level of earnings than that received by the men at the dockyard to try to hold their farms. The men at the dockyard apparently have publicly declared that they are not prepared to back themselves in for a dollar. They are not prepared to accept a no strike situation. They are not prepared to go without an increase in wages in order to save their own industry, although they are being satisfactorily paid at the moment. Either they are not prepared to do that, or they are being stood over by the Halfpennys, the Carmichaels and the Mick Youngs of this world and are not being allowed to do it. 
It is a complete tragedy to think that the honourable member for Port Adelaide would use this opportunity in the national Parliament to be so politically motivated and to mislead the dockyard workers of the world. We have been positive in this matter. We have given Premier Wran the opportunity to talk to the dockyard workers. He was rejected. Premier Wran is building a dock in Japan, of all things. I read a report in the  Canberra Times  yesterday which indicated that when the dockyard workers who are presently in front of Parliament House were approached about this question of the dock being built in Japan they said: 'Oh, it would take too long to build it in Newcastle. Therefore, we do not think it ought to be built there '. That is how they have rationalised this matter for themselves. But the fact is that Premier Wran is not prepared to back his own dockyard. He owns it; it is a State dockyard, and he is the Premier of New South Wales. He is not prepared to have the floating dock built by his own men in his own yard. It is sheer and absolute humbug. That is the cold fact. 
Premier Wran expects me, as the Minister in charge of the Australian National Line, to place orders to build 2 ships in Newcastle, but he is not prepared to place an order to have a floating dock built there. It demonstrates again the lack of sincerity by members of the Labor Party- the spokesmen for the workers- in the whole issue. They are supposed to represent the workers, but this is the sort of attitude that they adopt. Here we have a policy of the Federal Labor Party that has wrecked the shipping industry. Then we have the Labor Premier in New South Wales who is not prepared to get a floating dock built in his own State dockyard in order to keep men at work. We set up working parties between the Commonwealth and the State to investigate and to report upon the effects of the IAC report on Newcastle and Whyalla. Those reports are not yet to hand. We have also asked the ACTU to put in a submission. It did so. I described the submission as a lightweight, and quite properly so. If the honourable member for Port Adelaide has read the submission he will agree with me. 
It has been given publicity on every television and radio station in Australia. It was given a great deal of publicity before publication. There are no secrets about what is in it. I will not say any more about it than that. 
The honourable member should ring the  President  of the ALP and get himself a copy. The Premier of New South Wales has made a submission. The Premier of South Australia has made a submission. There is more weight in the submission of the Premier for South Australia than in the submissions of the Premier of New South Wales and the  President  of the ACTU put together. That is the cold fact. As I have said- I repeat it again in this place- the Government will consider all these reports together. It will not take one at a time. It will weigh the question and the strength of all the submissions against the background of the IAC report. Let us face it: The IAC report is a damning report on the industry. Without question, if the IAC report is accepted it will mean the end of big shipbuilding in Australia. When I talk about big shipbuilding, I am not referring to CarringtonS. The level of subsidy required to build a big ship at the State dockyard or at Whyalla is $13,000 per ship per man employed. To build the small ships at Carringtons it is $1,800 per ship per man employed. Those figures show the marked difference between the efficiency of Carringtons and the efficiency of the State dockyard and Whyalla. Further, if there is concern about efficiency in the dockyard, why is- it that the State governments of New South Wales, Liberal and Labor alike, have not concerned themselves with that matter? Labor was in power in New South Wales for 20 years. It did nothing about improving the efficiency of or updating the yard. Therefore, it is a hopeless proposition that the honourable member for Port Adelaide brings before the House. 
I will conclude on one point. The Government has been more than sympathetic in this matter. It extended the 35 per cent subsidy until the IAC report reached it. It has given the ACTU and the Premiers of New South Wales and South Australia an opportunity to make a submission on the IAC report. It has set up joint working committees to ascertain the effect of the IAC report on Whyalla and Newcastle. The Government will take a decision on this matter when the results of all these considerations are to hand. It will not take a decision because of the pressure tactics and the political motivations in this House of the honourable member for Port Adelaide and the Opposition. 
For the information of honourable members I present the record of the eighteenth meeting of the Australian Water Resources Council held in Perth on 27 September 1976. 
Both the matters mentioned in the question were discussed. The matter of Fesco was discussed in the context that the shipping line proposed to run an independent service through to Nahodka. using the Trans-Siberian railway for the carriage of freight at a rate 15 per cent or 30 per cent less than that charged by the other Russian shipping company, the Baltic shipping company, which is a member of the European Conference and is using the normal route via South Africa. The discussions I had with  Mr Guzhenko  revolved around the point that there was some concern in the Western shipping world that the Russians should allow one shipping line, which is a member of the Conference, to operate at one set freight rate and another shipping line to run at a different freight rate independently. I will not enlarge on the conclusions we reached on that matter. That was the subject of the' discussions. 
Discussions were held with  Mr Bugayev  on the question of Aeroflot coming to Australia. I pointed out to him that the approach taken by the Australian Government was that there had to be a fair amount of end-to-end generation of traffic. In other words, there has to be an interest in the number of Russian tourists coming to Australia as well as in Australian tourists going to Russia, apart from the picking up of fourth and fifth freedom traffic along the route. Therefore, I did not think it was in the best interests of either airline at this time for us to agree that landing rights ought to be extended. But I would be prepared to agree that top officials of Qantas Airways Ltd should go to Moscow and have discussions with Aeroflot about the prospects for future extensions of the services. In fact this has now happened. 
The Siberian railway services came into the discussions in respect of the operations of Fesco and the freight rates charged on the total route from Moscow to Leningrad and to Nahodka were disclosed to me as well as the freight rates south. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the River Murray Working Party report to the Steering Committee of Commonwealth and State Ministers, dated October 1975. I seek leave to make a statement on that matter. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is designed to amend the Airports (Surface Traffic) Act 1960 to overcome a number of problems being encountered in administering that Act. The Act provides for the control of surface vehicular traffic and the charging of parking fees for parking vehicles at airports owned and operated by the Commonwealth. The Act has not been amended in any material respect since it was passed in 1960. Practical experience in the operation of the Act since that time has disclosed some problems and deficiencies which can be remedied only by the amendments proposed in this Bill. Several proposed amendments are purely to clarify or improve the existing wording of various sections of the Act in order to achieve its purposes. In some instances, the introduction of modern car parking control equipment such as ticket spitting machines' at the entrances to car parks, where the parking fee is payable on leaving, has produced situations which were not envisaged when the Act was originally drafted. 
Several other proposed amendments relate to the monetary value of the fines and penalties specified in the Act. The Bill proposes to increase these amounts to compensate for the effects of inflation since they were set in 1960. For example, the maximum general penalty for illegal parking, damaging signs or notices is increased from $40 to $100. This will restore the deterrent value of the fines and penalties which is necessary for efficient airport traffic control. 
A new matter provided for by the Bill is the disposal of derelict motor vehicles left on airports. This has become a problem at some places. The Act in its present form does not provide any machinery whereby these vehicles may be disposed or. 
The Bill inserts provisions conferring on the Secretary to the Department of Transport powers similar to those conferred on local municipalities under State laws. He may give notice requiring payment of parking fees owing and for the vehicle to be removed. This notice may be served personally, by registered letter or by means of a newspaper advertisement. If the notice is not complied with the vehicle may be sold by public tender. The proceeds go to consolidated revenue. Any excess of the sale price over the costs of disposal can be claimed by the owner. If no tender is received for a vehicle it may be disposed of in any appropriate manner. 
The provisions as to operation of the owneronus system have been revised to simplify the procedures and to apply to cases when the owner of the vehicle is a corporation and not a private individual. New provisions are made to enable undefended prosecutions for parking offences to be dealt with without the necessity for departmental traffic officers to attend a court to give evidence. This provision is also modelled on State legislation. Where at the hearing the defendant pleads guilty or does not appear a certificate may be given as to any matters relating to the offence. This certificate is evidence of the matters stated in it, by virtue of existing provisions in the Act. This amendment will produce significant cost savings in salaries paid to traffic officers. 
The amendments to the Act proposed in this Bill are expected to improve the Department's general administration in enforcing the Act, thereby resulting in greater efficiency of airport traffic control, some increase in Commonwealth Revenue and various administrative cost savings. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Advisory Committee on Vehicle Performance is aware of the recommendation and has it under consideration. 
Co-ordination of Safety Authorities (Question No. 1234) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) See reply to question 1078.  (Hansard,  19 October 1976, page 2004). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1)  Mr K.  Kershaw, Engineer (Class 4), Commonwealth Department of Transport and  Mr S.  Hicks, Principal Investigations Officer. The present salary ranges for these positions are, Engineer (Class 4), $ 18,254 to $19,385, and Principal Investigations Officer, $16,580 to $ 17,2 17. 
and (3 ) The committee is preparing a report to advise the Government on the options available to it concerning the Tasmanian railway system. The decisions to be taken by the Government as a result of the inquiry will be announced together with any necessary facts. I do not believe it will be necessary to table the report. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that no financial concessions or allowances are made available by the United Kingdom Government to Australian owners of ships registered in the United Kingdom and Hong Kong. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design is aware of the recommendation and has it under consideration. 
Safety in Vehicle Design (Question No. 1231) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answer to 1230. 
-It has been my wish to allow hang gliding to remain in the same sport category as scuba diving and things of that nature. Unfortunately, because of the number of hang glider accidents and the fact that recently taxpayers' money was involved in assisting a hang glider who got into difficulties, I have been forced to reconsider the position. The hang gliders' association has drawn up some voluntary regulations. Those regulations apply to those people who are members of the association, but of course the regulations do not have regulatory force to those who are not members of the association. I propose, therefore, to discuss with my State colleagues what ought to be done about this matter. 
-The honourable member for Shortland ought to talk to his colleague the honourable member for Newcastle and learn some of the facts of life. The fact is that following the declaration of the national highways programs, which came out of the report instituted by a previous Liberal-Country Party Government in 1972 and picked up again by the Whitlam Government in 1 973, a number of national highways were declared around Australia by the former Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  I have to say that he shows a greater degree of knowledge in the area of transport than the present incumbent of the shadow transport portfolio on the front bench. As a result of the national highways being declared and as the State Ministers for transport have .agreed that due recognition ought to be given by the setting up of signs along the national highways to indicate that these are in fact national highways funded completely and totally by the Federal Parliament, I thought it appropriate on their behalf to issue an invitation to the Prime Minister to take part in the first ceremony. It will be a very modest ceremony done at very little cost. 
The honourable member for Denison and other honourable members from Tasmania will be pleased to know that the administrative details governing this very complex matter have been sorted out and that I am to hold discussions shortly with my colleague the Treasurer about the aspects of payment under the southbound freight equalisation scheme. When those discussions are concluded it is proposed that my departmental officers travel to Tasmania and enter into discussions with as many businessmen and people in Tasmania as may be interested in the scheme on the methods proposed to be used under the southbound freight equalisation scheme. The cost of southbound freight differs markedly from the cost of northbound freight for a variety of reasons. I am well aware that the honourable member for Denison and other honourable members from Tasmania have been hotly pursuing me on this matter. I have been trying as much as I can to expedite it. 
For the information of honourable members I present the four final reports of the Commission of Inquiry into the Maritime Industry entitled  Report on Australian Maritime Legislation, Report on International Maritime Conventions, Report on Maritime Standards and Controls,  and  Report on the Future of the Australian Maritime Industry. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Statistics relating to the numbers of passengers travelling from all Australian international airports to overseas destinations are not yet available for the year to June 1976. In addition, statistics maintained by the Department of Transport do not differentiate between Australian residents and others. 
However, statistics available from the Australian Bureau of Statistics for the year to December 1975 indicate that a total of 1 007 304 Australian residents departed by air to overseas destinations. The Australian Bureau of Statistics figures include revenue and non-revenue passengers on both scheduled and non-scheduled services, whereas the Department of Transport figures include revenue passengers on scheduled services only. 
Department of Transport statistics for the year to December 1975 indicate that Qantas carried a total of 551214 revenue passengers on scheduled services from Australia, or about 43.5 per cent of the total number of revenue passengers ( 1 267 398) who, according to Department of Transport statistics, left Australia on scheduled services during that year. 
Department of Transport statistics show that the total number of revenue passengers uplifted in Brisbane and disembarked in London on scheduled services was 12 784 in the year ended December 1975, and 12 904 in the year ended June 1976. 
(a and b) 
For the year ended December 1975 Department of Transport statistics indicate that Qantas carried 5577 and 
British Airways 7207 revenue passengers uplifted in Brisbane and disembarked in London on scheduled services, and for the year ended June 1976, Qantas carried 5052 and British Airways 7852 such passengers. 
and (6) Qantas is giving consideration to the introduction of direct Boeing 747 services between all Australian cities, including Brisbane, and London or other points in Europe on services operated via Asia. As this forward policy necessitates detailed assessments of many alternative operating plans, which have to have a regard to optimum fleet utilisation in addition to market sizes, no firm commencement date or specific routings for Boeing 747 services from Brisbane have yet been decided. 
Sporting equipment and clothes (Question No.  1069) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and ( 3 ) My Department itself is not conducting studies into the effects of traffic noise upon the community. Studies into traffic noise are being funded under the Transport ( Planning and Research) Act 1 974, which is administered by my Department. In addition, the Australian Road Research Board, of which the Secretary of my Department is a Director, is sponsoring investigations. The Department, of course, has access to these and other reports or investigations into traffic noise. 
At present new motor vehicles must comply with Australian Design Rule No. 28- Motor Vehicle Noise. An upgraded design rule Australian Design Rule No. 28A, which requires significantly reduced noise levels, was endorsed by Ministers at the February 1976 meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council. This Rule will apply to all passenger cars and derivatives and multi-purpose passenger cars manufactured on and after 1 January 1980 and to other motor vehicles, except specially constructed vehicles, manufactured on and after 1 July 1979. Work is progressing on a separate upgraded Design Rule for motorcycles. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A Bureau of Road Safety as recommended by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety has not been established. However, with the incorporation of the functions of the Road Safety and Standards Authority into the Department of Transport I undertook to retain those functions as a complete unit within the Department. A reorganisation of road safety activities in the Department is currently under review and I shall announce the new arrangements in the near future. 
The co-ordination of the functions of the Advisory Committee on Vehicle Performance and the Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design is achieved through the Australian Transport Advisory Council (ATAC) which endorses the Australian Design Rules for Motor Vehicle Safety and Draft Regulations Defining Vehicle Construction, Equipment and Performance Standards for Road Vehicles formulated by the two committees. 
This co-ordination is facilitated by the Department of Transport through its role in chairing these committees and the provision of technical and secretariat services. Officers from this secretariat also participate in the work of committees of the SAA dealing with vehicle standards so that its activities are taken into account. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A Bureau of Road Safety as recommended by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety has not been established. However, with the incorporation of the functions of the Road Safety and Standards Authority into the Department of Transport I undertook to retain those functions as a complete unit within the Department. A reorganisation of road safety activities in the Department is currently under review and I shall announce the new arrangements in the near future. 
The Australian Motor Vehicle Certification Board established by ATAC is responsible for the certification of compliance with Design Rules. Conditions governing the approval to affix a Compliance Plate include that the company shall permit the Board or its agent to have reasonable access to its plant for inspection of manufacture, assembly and test, and for examination of records including those relating to quality control. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design ( ACSVD ) is aware of the recommendation, and has the matter under consideration. Any Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design recommendation on the subject will be placed before the Australian Transport Advisory Council for endorsement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A Bureau of Road Safety as recommended by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety has not been established. However, with the incorporation of the functions of the Road Safety and Standards Authority into the Department of Transport I undertook to retain those functions as a complete unit within the Department A reorganisation of road safety activities in the Department is currently under review and I shall announce the new arrangements in the near future. 
However, in this re-organisation I do not propose to change existing institutional arrangements established by the States and Commonwealth under ATAC in relation to development of Design Rules. One of the aims of the reorganisation review will be to strengthen the support provided for the formulation of standards under these arrangements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The ANR will examine the economics of establishing a temporary road/rail transfer facility at a suitable location on the Tarcoola to Alice Springs line prior to completion of the line. 
In the event that such a facility is established, services on the existing Marree to Alice Springs narrow gauge line would be terminated. Suitable arrangements would then be made regarding the employees concerned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information has been obtained from the shipping companies serving Tasmania namely the Australian Snipping Commission, Tasmanian Transport Commission, W. M. Holyman and Sons Pty Ltd and the Union Steamship Company of New Zealand Ltd. 
Schedules have been prepared for each route served by these companies showing the changes in freight rates for the dates requested and the percentage change. 
The information that the honourable member requested has been collated and is too lengthy to be published in  Hansard.  Copies of the information sought are available at the Table Office of the House of Representatives. 
Election of Officers in Employee Organisations (Question No. 867) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I would expect that the committee will give me its report in December 1976. 
The terms of reference of the committee are as follows: 
To inquire into and report to the Minister for Transport upon the business activities and form of management of Qantas Airways Limited, The Australian National Airlines Commission, The Australian National Shipping Commission and The Australian Shipping Commission, and in particular- 
Whether the present manner in which those instrumentalities are organised to conduct their business activities is conducive to the attainment of their statutory or corporate objectives. 
Whether the financial and other arrangements under which the instrumentalities operate are conducive to the efficient conduct of their business and whether such arrangements confer advantages or disadvantages on the instrumentalities which are not noramlly available to the private business undertakings. and to make suggestions regarding any changes desirable in respect of these matters: and, without restricting the scope of the inquiry, to give particular attention to the following matters: 
The structure of the governing bodies and the conditions, other than remuneration, applicable to the members thereof: 
The manner in which the governing bodies discharge their functions: 
The relations between the instrumentalities and the Treasury, the Public Service Board and the Department of Transport: 
The scope of the operations of the instrumentalities: 
Such other specific issues as referred by the Minister for Transport 
Committee on Care of the Aged and the Infirm (Question No. 1189) 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Snowy Mountains Council for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
Pursuant to section 21 of the River Murray Waters Act 1915 1 present the report of the River Murray Commission for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
I will look at the question in detail and give the honourable member a considered reply. 
-I did see Press reports to the effect that Qantas Airways Ltd and British Airways were under investigation by the British Airlines Representatives Board. My information is that Qantas has been cleared of any charges in this respect. I understand further that some agents whom Qantas has been using have been guilty of some malpractice and that the British Airlines Representatives Board is dealing summarily with them. In relation to the other part of the honourable member's question, Qantas is not engaging in any malpractice in fare cutting in Australia. Qantas, along with other airlines, had been involved in some malpractice in other countries where the practice of cutting fares had been very common. As I have said before in this House, many nations are now taking extreme steps to clean up the malpractice of air fare cutting. These have been fairly successful not only in Australia but also in the United States of America and other countries. There is no doubt that the sooner we get back to a stable situation in this regard the better. 
The keen interest of the honourable member for Macarthur in seeing the road problems of his area solved is well known in the House. I was delighted to be able to assist him the other day by the announcement of the grant for an export road for the carriage of coal. Taking the hypothetical situation, certainly if the Minister for Transport in New South Wales were to put to me a request for transfer of funds from one section of the Roads Grants Act to another section of that Act or from one Act to another Act I would be only too happy to comply with that request in order to meet the requirements of the New South Wales Government. We have specifically amended the Act so that such transfers can take place. Let me assure the honourable member for Macarthur that if he can make successful representations to the Minister for Transport in New South Wales to have further funds spent in his region, I will be only too happy to assist him. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise nonrepayable grants to the States over the 3-year period 1976-77 to 1978-79 for the assessment of the quantity and quality of their surface and underground water resources. Commonwealth involvement with the States in water resources assessment goes back to 1964. Following a recommendation by the Australian Water Resources Council, the States, with financial support from the Commonwealth, embarked on an accelerated program to establish a comprehensive network of stream gauging stations and to substantially improve knowledge of underground water resources. As well as implementing programs in its own Territories, the Commonwealth has assisted the States by making available grants of $2.8m, $4.Sm, $8.2m and $15.9m over successive 3-year periods- a total of $3 1 .4m over 12 years. The Bureau of Meteorology has also contributed significantly to the progress of the assessment program over this period with a concurrent expansion of its network of meteorological stations. In 1974, the program was expanded to include assessment of the quality of surface and underground water. 
The success of the Commonwealth support for these activities is reflected in expenditure by the States at levels in excess of those required to attract the maximum Commonwealth grant. Under the impetus of the program, the number of stream gauging stations has increased from some 1450 in 1964 to about 2750 in 1975, while the area over which surface water resources are now measured has increased by some 40 per cent during this period. Similarly, the area over which an evaluation of underground water resources can now be made from available data has increased by approximately one-third over the same period. Nevertheless, there remain areas of the continent in respect of which our knowledge of water resources is inadequate, either where data is insufficient, or where the available records are of too short a duration to allow reliable assessments to be made. Data concerning the quality of our water resources is also very limited, and increasing emphasis will be given to this aspect during the coming triennium. 
The Commonwealth now proposes to make available a total of $6.658m by way of nonrepayable grants to the States to assist in achieving the proposed programs for 1976-77. This will enable Commonwealth assistance to be maintained in real terms at the level of assistance provided in 1975-76. The Commonwealth has also undertaken to support the program for 1977-78 and 1978-79 at levels to be determined before the commencement of each of these years. 
I turn now to the Bill itself, the provisions of which are broadly similar to the 1973-74 legislation and with appropriate provisions for continuing assistance to the States in 1977-78 and 1 978-79. Provision for grants in respect of expenditure by the States on approved programs is made in sections 5 and 6. In respect of each State, Commonwealth grants for both surface and underground water assessment will be determined by the excess of expenditure over and above base amounts specified in the schedule to the Bill until total expenditure is double the base amount. Further expenditure will be funded on a dollar for dollar basis until the maximum grant as specified in the schedule is payable. The maximum grant to each State for 1977-78 and 1978-79 will be determined on an annual basis. In aggregate, Commonwealth assistance for 1976-77 has been allocated between the States in accordance with an agreement reached at the eighteenth meeting of the Australian Water Resources Council. 
The Bill also contains a number of machinery provisions which are generally similar to those of the previous Acts relating to this program. These include provision in section 4 for Ministerial approval of annual programs of assessment, and section 9 provides for the submission of annual reports by the States on the progress of the program. 
Australia has experienced severe and, in places, record droughts and floods during the past decade. Members with a close interest in Australia's water resources will be acutely aware of the variability of our rainfall and stream flows, the dangers of over-utilising our underground water storages and problems of water quality in years of low surface and underground water supplies. The assessment program for which Commonwealth funds are to be made available for a further 3 years will provide vital information on the availability and quality of surface and underground water across the whole range of climatic conditions experienced in Australia from year to year. This information is indispensable if the planning, development and management of our valuable water resources for domestic, industrial and rural purposes are to proceed on a sound and scientific basis. 
I have pleasure in commending the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
Some months ago representatives of the mining industry came to see the Minister for National Resources to tell him of the difficulties they had in securing approval for the export of their minerals. On investigation he found that there is indeed a great deal of bureaucratic delay and interference and that in fact our predecessors had made the rnining industry seek approval through a whole procedure of paper work, for every shipload of minerals leaving the country under each contract. It was certainly time consuming and costly to the mining industry. On further investigation, the Minister decided that it was unnecessary. He believed that if a government was prepared to give a contract for the export of a certain quantity of minerals, it was logical enough to assume that the mining industry could export those minerals without requiring each shipload to be given separate approval. He has therefore changed the system. The mining industry will be pleased to know that the previous bureaucratic interference will cease, and that in future it can expect to receive approval for a long run of mineral shipments under each contract. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to seek authority for the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to guarantee, on behalf of the Commonwealth, loans raised by Qantas Airways Ltd to finance the purchase of 3 Boeing 747 series aircraft. It is proposed that Qantas will negotiate the loans in its own name with the backing of a Government guarantee. The negotiations will be subject to consultations with the Treasurer on the borrowing arrangements. The airline will also be required to satisfy the Treasurer that adequate and proper security is given to the Commonwealth over the 3 aircraft. The proposed Government guarantee will be limited to an amount of US$1 17m, or its equivalent, which represents 80 per cent of the total cost of the 3 aircraft and associated equipment. 
As honourable members would be aware Qantas is progressively replacing its smaller Boeing 707s with the larger and more economical Boeing 747 series aircraft. The aircraft financed under this Bill will comprise the thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth Boeing 747s to be operated by the Airline. Qantas also wishes to take advantage of the favourable terms of purchase offered by the aircraft manufacturer at this time. It has been estimated that the terms of purchase currently available to Qantas would result in a saving for each aircraft of US$7.8m if delivered in 1977 rather than in 1978. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to seek authority for the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to guarantee, on behalf of the Commonwealth, loans raised by Ansett Transport Industries to finance the purchase of its seventh Boeing 727-200 series aircraft. This follows the enactment of earlier legislation under which the Australian National Airlines Commission was given access to overseas borrowed funds to acquire its seventh Boeing 727-200 aircraft. 
Honourable members will recall that it has been Government policy for many years to extend assistance of this nature to the 2 major domestic airlines with a view to enabling them to obtain the funds required to purchase new aircraft and related spares and equipment. In this instance, the proposed Government guarantee will be limited to an amount of US$8m, or its equivalent, which represents 80 per cent of the total cost of the aircraft and associated equipment. The guarantee will be subject to appropriate security arrangements approved by the Treasurer. The proposal will not involve the Commonwealth in any expenditure; it will merely create a contingent liability for the Government to the extent of the outstanding balance of the loan. 
Honourable members will note that the guarantee is designed to cover also loan money acquired by the issue of notes and securities. This is to allow the airline maximum flexibility in completing its financing arrangements to ensure that the required funds can be obtained on the best possible terms. The aircraft presently under consideration is planned for delivery in December 1976. The Boeing 727-200 series aircraft has now been in operation for a number of years and it has proved to be eminently suitable for Australian conditions. In comparison to the earlier 727-100 model, it is noticeably quieter, provides greater passenger capacity and is less demanding on energy resources. Although the domestic airlines have experienced some setbacks in recent months- setbacks, I would point out, that were largely caused by industrial disputespresent indications are that they have turned the corner and can look forward to at least a moderate traffic growth in the immediate future. 
I am sure that honourable members will agree with me that the Australian airlines have made a very significant contribution to the development and welfare of this country, with an air safety record equal to the world's best. They deserve our full support in their endeavours to maintain the first class service which they make available to the Australian travelling public. The assistance provided in this Bill is one area where that support is essential. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I am well aware of the honourable member's interest in the subject of getting access to Bali for the residents of his electorate and I would like to assist him with it if I could. I should point out that in looking at the applications for charter licences we had to obtain permission from the Indonesian Government to set up a service. The Indonesian Government would permit such a service if certain reciprocal rights were granted to it in relation to Australia. I regret to say that these reciprocal rights involve much more than just a simple service from Bali to the honourable member's electorate. Therefore I have had to reject the charter proposition at this point in time. Discussions about that may well continue. In the meantime, as the honourable member has pointed out, Qantas has announced that it will provide a service from Perth to Bali. 
The honourable member is now putting to me the proposition that perhaps Qantas could drop in at Learmonth or Port Hedland. I should point out to the House that neither the Port Hedland airstrip nor the Learmonth airstrip is satisfactory for the purpose of taking a Boeing 707 aircraft. They are absolutely not satisfactory. Whilst they might have met some past requirements of the Royal Australian Air Force or others they cannot carry a Boeing 707. Similarly, the normal facilities required for international landings are not available. They would have to be put in at quite considerable cost. The honourable member is shaking his head. After question time I will find out what he is on about. That is the information that has been given to me at this time. I will continue to press the honourable member's case with Qantas to see whether I can get a satisfactory resolution of it. 
During the course of a response to the honourable member for Kalgoorlie, when explaining the shortcomings of Port Hedland and Learmonth, I unfortunately bracketed Learmonth with Port Hedland in describing them both as having pavement shortcomings. Of course Learmonth has a perfect pavement as many members of the House will know. The shortcomings of Learmonth are confined to the in-flight facilities which makes it all the more easy, of course, to come to a final decision. 
I am not sure whether confirmation has come in officially from the New South Wales Government that it has accepted my request that the $ 11.3m go to rural arterial roads and to rural local roads. But my information is that it is prepared to accept that request. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have asked my colleague the Minister for Administrative Services to look into this recommendation. So far as State Governments are concerned, a copy of the Standing Committee's report has been made available to each member of the Australian Transport Advisory Council. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Determination of the merits of periodic motor vehicle inspection as a road accident countermeasure has proven to be extremely difficult. Evidence from research which has been reviewed by my Department and other authorities is inconclusive. Moreover, the nature of the relationship between specific vehicle defects and accident occurrence still needs to be objectively established. 
It is essential that the resources which are applied to road safety are directed to areas of maximum effectiveness. In order to obtain more information on this issue my department is supporting a major research project in Adelaide, one of whose objectives is to determine the relationships between vehicle defects and accidents. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council has directed that progress towards uniformity in road traffic accident data collections be reviewed. As part of this review the Advisory Committee on Road User Performance and Traffic Codes currently has under consideration proposals to provide data which would be of direct value in assessing the contribution of various vehicle design features to injury production. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department is aware of the potential problem presented by moisture contamination of  Drake  fluids. The feasibility of increasing public awareness of the problem is being examined. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design is aware of the recommendation and has it under consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answer to 1268. 
The honourable member for Newcastle obviously has not caught up with the change in administrative arrangements. The National Materials Handling Bureau now comes under the auspices and control of my new colleague, the Minister for Productivity and I will allow him to answer for that organisation. As far as Qantas is concerned,  Sir Jack  Egerton was appointed by the Labor Government. I thought that that was a very proper appointment at the time and I said so. He was reappointed by me, as Minister for Transport, for a new 5-year term, and he will remain on the Qantas board for that time. I think he would represent the trade union movement much better that a lot of the loud mouthed spokesmen in this House and outside it. Therefore I have no intention whatsoever of doing anything about that appointment or any other trade union appointment to the Qantas board. Consideration is being given to appointments to the Australian Airlines Commission. They will be announced at the appropriate time. I think that my colleague the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations has shown great leadership in this question of managementemployee relationship- something which the previous Labor Government might have taken more seriously. 
-The honourable member for St George invited me to visit his electorate some weeks ago and I accepted the invitation. I was very impressed with the way in which the honourable member handled matters concerning his electorate. He has been most vigorous in placing before me the transport problems of St George and I congratulate him for it. It is fair to say that the Kyeemagh-Chullora road, which the honourable member mentioned, was presented to the Federal Government by the previous Willis State Government as a No. 1 priority road for development to solve the transport problems of the whole of the area. Regrettably, when the new State Labor Government came to power it took that priority away and did not in fact place any emphasis on other roads in the area for quick development. The result is, therefore, that Commonwealth funds are not going into the area as perhaps they should and could. I assure the honourable member that should the New South Wales Government put that road back in its list of priorities funds will be made available. There are still $6m in funds available for export roads in New South Wales. I hope that the New South Wales Government will see the force of the representations being made by the honourable member for St George and include the road concerned in its list of priorities. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the National Roads Act and the Roads Grants Act by providing an additional $35. 8m Commonwealth financial assistance to the States for road works in 1976-77. The proposed increase in funds represents a rise of approximately 9 per cent over and above the level of funds already provided under these 2 Acts for this year. The Bill also provides for a concomitant increase in quotas for State expenditure from State resources on roads. 
Honourable members will recall that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  in his statement to the House on 20 May outlining the various budgetary measures being taken to control government expenditure and reduce inflation, announced the decision to appropriate an additional $35.8m for road works. The National Roads and Roads Grants Acts will now provide for a total allocation in 1976-77 to the States of $433.5m after allowing for the additional funds contained in this Bill. The 1974 National Roads and Roads Grants Acts, introduced by the previous Government, provided a level of funds which was $225m below that recommended by the Bureau of Roads in its 1973 report. As a result provision for certain road categories such as urban arterials, rural arterials and rural local roads on which local government is very dependent for its road needs was reduced during the 3-year period of the Legislation. 
Since coming to office the Government has been particularly conscious of the fact that local government in many instances has suffered badly in competing for road funds against State government programs. We have therefore endeavoured to ensure that the needs of local government in particular are looked after. This point was emphasised by the Commonwealth at the February Premiers Conference. In advising the States of the proposed additional funds and seeking their views on the proposed allocation to categories I have pointed to the decline in funds available to local government and stressed the urgent road requirements in rural areas. 
As honourable members will be aware the 1974 Road Grants Act contained for the first time assistance for urban local roads. During the period of the Act allocations for these roads were increased to the benefit of urban local authorities. This was in marked contrast with rural local authorities. Following consultations with the States the proposed allocations set out in the Bill were adopted. These allocations go a considerable way towards improving the difficulties which rural local government and the rural road system were facing. This has been achieved without any disruption of the overall State road programs. 
As I have indicated it will be necessary for the States also to increase their own expenditure on road works by about 9 per cent in order to qualify for the additional Commonwealth assistance. 
As you will appreciate both the Commonwealth and State governments, together with local government, have joint responsibilities to finance the road program and it is only appropriate that the States increase their level of effort as well. 
The Bill is divided into 3 parts. Part I sets out the usual preliminary information. Part II- clauses 3 to 6- relates to the National Roads Act. Part III- Clauses 7 to 12-relates to the Roads Grants Act. The total increase in funds for each State is as follows: 
New South Wales-$ 1 1 . 3m 
Victoria- $7.5m 
Queensland- $7.5m 
South Australia-$3.2m 
Western Australia- $4.6m 
Tasmania- $ 1.7m. 
The allocations to the different road categories in each State are set out in the detailed schedules included in the Bill. The relevant clauses for the detailed category allocations are clause 6 for National Roads and clause 12 for the Roads Grants Act. The Bill provides for the additional amounts set out in the schedules to be added to the existing 1976-77 appropriations. I would remind honourable members that the allocations to categories were made only after consultations with the States. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Draft Regulations Defining Vehicle Construction, Equipment and Performance Standards for Road Vehicles are formulated by the Advisory Committee on Vehicle Performance of the Australian Transport Advisory Council (ATAC). The Draft Regulations upon endorsement by ATAC become recommended model requirements for States and Territories. As a Commonwealth Minister on ATAC I shall continue to press for the adoption of these measures on a uniform basis. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Requirements for labelling of retreaded tyres and speed limitations for their use on passenger cars are being investigated by the Advisory Committee on Vehicle Performance. 
See answer to (1). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answer to question 1268  (Hansard,  11 November 1976, p. 2669). 
I have seen such criticism. I must point out to the House that the disparity in the number of airlines travelling into Melbourne visavis Sydney is not because of some failure on the part of myself, as Minister for Transport, or the Federal Government. It is because for some unaccountable reason Melbourne lacks the attractions of Sydney. I do not hold with that view. Nevertheless it has been put to me most strongly by international charter operators that Sydney is a much more attractive city to visit than Melbourne. In fact, I have received a request to permit 10 international Boeing 707s to come into Australia between now and Christmas. The operators have asked to be permitted to come to Sydney. I demanded of them the reasons why they could not go to Melbourne and they threatened to cancel their visits. I do not know the bohemian life of Sydney as well as does my colleague and friend the honourable member for Cook; so I cannot give the reasons why they prefer Sydney to Melbourne, but the cold fact is that they do. 
Having said that, I should point out to the Premier that he has been slightly misinformed about the performance of Qantas Airways Ltd in respect of its Melbourne operations. There are now 27 Qantas flights a week to and from Melbourne and there will be 3 more Qantas flights in the new year. To come to the specific point of the honourable member's question, there are some 1 1 other international operators coming into and going out of Melbourne at the moment and two more will be coming into and going out of Melbourne either before Christmas or just after it. 
The Premier was wrong on four other specific points in respect of a number of airlines. Firstly, he said that Qantas was not going to Athens or Rome or that it had only just commenced such services. It has been doing that since 1974. He should know that I have given approval for Olympic Airways to fly out of Melbourne and it will be commencing that service before Christmas. Another example is that Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd has had rights to fly into Melbourne since 1963 and has never taken up its option. I would not know what that says for Melbourne life. Jat- Jugoslav Airlines has had rights to fly into Melbourne and has never taken up its option. Japan Air Lines, which the Premier also mentioned specifically, has never sought to go to Melbourne. I think the campaign that Councillor Ron Walker, Mayor of Melbourne, embarked upon to make Melbourne a much more attractive city, was a very good idea. That may be the only way we can get more flights out of Sydney and into Melbourne. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The River Murray Working Party was established in March 1973 as a Working Party of senior officers of the Commonwealth, New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia Governments, not as a Working Party of the River Murray Commission. The Working Party's Report was tabled in the Federal Parliament on 21 October 1976 and is now available as a public document A limited number of copies are available for purchase from the Australian Government Publishing Service. 
Yes; however, the Commonwealth Government has sought to honour an agreement reached by the Working Party's Steering Committee of Federal/State Ministers to table the Report concurrently in each of the four Parliaments after each Government had been given the opportunity to consider the Report in detail and formally express its attitude to the Working Party's recommendations. The report was tabled as soon as all three States had made known their views to the Commonwealth. 
The Commonwealth Government will take action together with the three State Governments to implement the recommendations of the report which have immediate application to the operations of the River Murray Commission. An interim arrangement has been agreed to which will enable the Commission to operate as soon as practicable in accordance with these recommendations pending finalisation by the four Governments of all legislative procedures. With regard to recommendations in the report which have longerterm implications, the Commonwealth will ensure that they are fully considered by the Commission and, subsequently, by all four Governments. 
It is expected that work will now commence within the framework of the River Murray Commission on prerequisite action to updating and consolidating the River Murray Waters Agreement and its supporting legislation to include the necessary amendments. At this stage, I cannot forecast with any degree of certainty as to when amending legislation will be introduced into this Parliament. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
By agreement between the Commonwealth and the States the Australian Motor Vehicle Certification Board has the responsibility of establishing the compliance of new vehicles with the Australian Design Rules. The evidence of compliance which manufacturers are required to submit include the results of tests conducted in either approved laboratories or laboratories which would satisfy the requirements for approval. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Sydney and Brisbane International Airports have curfews on aircraft arrival and departure times. 
The curfew at these airports is 1 1 p.m. to 6 a.m. daily. 
Curfew limitations are not placed on international airlines using Perth Airport. 
At the present time, there are about 34 scheduled international aircraft movements per week at Perth Airport between the hours of 1 1 p.m. and 6 a.m. Imposition of a curfew on international movements would probably increase journey times between Europe /Africa and the Eastern States of Australia. Significant rescheduling of flight times could be expected resulting in a significant economic penalty on the airlines and a probable reduction in the number of international services through Perth. 
Curfew limitations do not apply to intra-Australian airlines serving Perth Airport, as such limitations would impose a severe economic penalty on the airlines or a reduced service to the travelling public. There are currently about 31 scheduled domestic services every week at Perth Airport between the hours of 1 1 p.m. and 6 a.m. 
The alternative to departing at midnight is to reduce aircraft utilisation, thereby leading to increased air fares. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)Yes 
In July the Secretary of the Department of Transport, on my instructions, approached some 70 shipping companies, stevedoring companies and interested parties, seeking views on arrangements relating to the Australian Coastal Shipping Agreement 1936. Those approached included all operating parties to that Agreement, and others known to the Department to be engaged at present in coastal shipping and stevedoring. 
3 ) The terms of reference of the Committee would permit it to look at the question of whether the Australian National Line should undertake stevedoring operations. 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
This Bill complements the Civil Aviation (Carriers ' Liability) Amendment Bill 1 976. It amends the title of the principal Act from the Air Accidents (Australian Government Liability) Act to the Air Accidents (Commonwealth Government Liability) Act. This is consistent with the general policy of the Government as announced earlier this year. The Bill further provides that the maximum amount of the Commonwealth liability in respect of death or injury resulting from air accidents be increased from $30,000 to $45,000. I commend the Bill to the Committee. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is similar to the Navigation Bill 1975, which lapsed with the termination of the 29th Parliament. Because of the Government's recognition of the rights of the States, however, legislation regarding off-shore industry vessels and collision regulations has been excluded from this Bill. All honourable members would agree that the States have a substantial interest in both offshore industry vessels and collision regulations. It was the Government's view that in accordance with our policy the States should be able to discuss their interests with the Commonwealth before any legislation was introduced. I have therefore given the States this opportunity principally through the forum of the Marine and Ports Council of Australia. 
This Bill contains sets of amendments for several specific purposes as well as a number of miscellaneous amendments. Because of the complexity of the subject matter of the Bill, explanatory notes on the clauses are being circulated for the information of honourable members. The Bill contains several important amendments which I want to outline briefly to the House. The first such group of amendments concerns the limitation of shipowners' liability. Clause 34 of the Bill gives effect to the International Convention relating to the Limitation of the Liability of Owners of Sea-going Ships, 1957. This Convention came into force internationally in 1968, but the relevant law in Australia still consists of the Merchant Shipping Acts of 1 894 and 1 900 of the United Kingdom. One of the main practical effects of this group of amendments is to increase the amounts to which a shipowner will be able to limit his liability, unless he is held to be actually at fault himself, in respect of claims arising out of the specified occurrences to which the Convention applies. The existing very low limits of about $20 per ton for personal claims and $11 per ton for property claims provided for in the Merchant Shipping Acts are to be increased to the equivalent of the Convention limits- about $ 1 89 and $61 per ton respectively. Even these limits are quite low and the Government is participating in work being done in IMCO- the Intergovernmental Maritime Consultative Organizationto increase these limits and generally update the Convention. 
In giving effect to this Convention Australia, like a number of the European shipping countries, will at the request of the Austraiian States exercise the option provided for in the Protocol of Signature to exclude the application of subparagraph (c) of paragraph (1) of Article 1 of the Convention. This means that shipowners will not be able to limit their liability m respect of damage to harbour works, or for wreck removal. At the same time as Australia gives effect to this Convention, it will absolve shipowners from liability in respect of certain property claims set out in the new section 338 of the Navigation Act. New section 59a, however, will prevent shipowners from limiting their liability for claims by crew members serving under Commonwealth articles of agreement. This was sought by the unions, and is also a practice followed by many maritime nations. 
Another main group of amendments relates to visiting British ships . Part II of the Act deals with crewing matters, and until recently was in line with similar provisions in the United Kingdom Merchant Shipping Act, with both laws applying to a visiting British ship whilst in Australia. The United Kingdom Merchant Shipping Act has recently been very substantially changed and it would create administrative problems for the master and crew of a ship and the staffs of mercantile marine offices, who administer the relevant provisions of the Navigation Act, if those provisions were to continue to apply to such ships. The Bill makes the necessary adjustments in this regard. These are explained in the notes on clause 5 that have been circulated. 
An important feature of the Bill, because of its positive contribution to safety of life and property at sea, is the legal effect given to the ship movement reporting scheme that was introduced following the loss of the  Blythe Star.  This scheme has been operating on a voluntary basis for some time. The scheme ensures that positive action is taken to search for a ship in the Australian search and rescue area if more than 24 hours have elapsed since the ship last indicated that all was well. It will also, in the event of a ship being in distress, enable the Marine Operations Centre of the Department of Transport to know immediately what ships are in the area and which of these would be best suited to assist in the emergency. In addition to improved safety, the system brings about significant economies in the use of search and rescue resources by providing a datum on which to concentrate a search in the event of a ship becoming overdue. It appears that no such legislation exists anywhere else in the world. Australia is therefore leading the world in this important development. Information about the system has been circulated to members of IMCO, where it has aroused considerable interest. In addition, Australia has proposed to IMCO that a uniform ship movement reporting system should be an integral part of any internationally-agreed search and rescue plan. Details of how the scheme works in practice are given in the explanatory notes on clause 23. 
The other subject involving a group of amendments is that of historic shipwrecks. An Historic Shipwrecks Bill for the protection of shipwrecks of historic significance in the Australian territorial sea was introduced in the Senate by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  on 20 October 1976. that Bill will empower the Minister for Administrative Services to declare particular shipwrecks and related relics of historic significance to be 'historic shipwrecks', thus bringing them under the protective provisions of the legislation. This necessitates related amendments to Part VII of the Navigation Act dealing with wrecks and salvage. The Historic Shipwrecks Bill requires the finder to give notice of his discovery and does not prohibit salvage operations until the wreck is declared historic, at which stage strict controls come into effect. The finder may acquire salvage rights under the Navigation Act, the United Kingdom Merchant Shipping Acts, or at common law before the wreck is declared historic. Clause 26 of the Navigation Amendment Bill therefore provides that various provisions of the Navigation Act that deal with wreck and salvage matters do not apply to a wreck from the time that it is declared historic and while it remains so declared. 
As salvage rights or liabilities under the Navigation Act acquired before a wreck is declared historic are to be preserved, clause 26 also makes express provision for this purpose. It will be open to a person whose proprietary rights are affected by the operation of the Historic Shipwrecks Act to claim under the compensation provisions of that Act. Clause 29 ensures that, for reasons of safety of life and navigation, the provisions of the Navigation Act giving the Minister powers regarding removal will still apply to any wreck, whether declared historic or not. The Minister is not to exercise any of those powers unless it is necessary to do so for purposes of safety or environmental emergency. Another clause ensures his powers to deal with oil pollution threats arising from damaged ships continue unrestricted. 
The remaining amendments can best be classified as 'miscellaneous'. Some of them are of a purely drafting or machinery nature and are set out principally in Schedule 5. Others, which are of more importance, are explained in some detail in the notes that have been circulated. One important amendment extends the references in the Act to the owner of a ship to include a reference to the operator, except in a few special circumstances. This is to ensure that where a duty or liability is imposed by the Act on the owner in cases where the owner is only remotely concerned with the operations of the ship- for example, if he has executed a bare-boat charterresponsibility for ensuring that that duty or liability is discharged is imposed on the person who is directly concerned with the relevant operations, as well as on the owner. Conversely, a benefit conferred on the owner will also, in appropriate cases, be available to the operator. 
Another amendment is to empower the Minister to make orders in relation to detailed technical requirements to be applied under the Act, so that such requirements can be quickly implemented, or varied without delay, in the light of ship casualties, equipment failure investigations, or technical developments. The Bill also includes a number of provisions relating to the engagement and discharge of seamen and certain of the conditions of their employment, mainly to cater for modern developments in the industry. Apart from prescribing penalties at appropriate levels for newly-created offences, the opportunity has been taken, where sections are otherwise amended, to update some maximum monetary penalties for existing offences against provisions of the Act and regulations and to increase some general penalties. Other penalties will need to be brought into line later. 
I might point out that this Bill does not purport to effect a general revision of the Navigation Act. This will be a matter for consideration in the light of the report of the Commission of Inquiry into the Maritime Industry. As I indicated at the beginning of this speech, the Bill now before honourable members is very much in line with the Navigation Bill 1975 except that it omits 2 important aspects- aspects, however, which I think are rightly omitted until such time as I have reached agreement with my State counterparts on how we should cover these matters legislatively. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
-in reply-I thank the honourable members who have taken part in the debate today. After hearing the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  speak I am reminded of how easy life must be m Opposition. He has moved an amendment which states: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not opposing the second reading of the Bill the House is of the opinion that the Bill fails to provide adequate financial assistance to the States for cost escalation in the current year '. 
That is an extraordinary amendment. Let us have a look at the history of this legislation. The Act was brought into this House by the Australian Labor Party Government and it provided for a 3-year program. I shall cite some figures on urban arterial roads. The Bureau of Roads recommended that $460m be made available. The Labor Government gave $355m. In relation to rural arterial roads, the Bureau of Roads recommended $257m but the Labor Government gave $105m. On rural local roads, the Bureau of Roads recommended $200m and the Labor Government gave $156m. I think that puts in proper perspective the sincerity of this amendment and just how much the Opposition means when it moves amendments of this nature. When the Labor Party was in government it simply failed to do what honourable members get up and talk about today. Another point of interest which ought to be made is that only one member of the Labor Party spoke on this roads Bill which again demonstrates the Labor Party's real lack of interest in roads matters. I think that that explains the paucity of the Opposition's interest when it can provide only one speaker. 
I come to some detail. Today I attended a meeting of some 200 local government councillors. It was an interesting meeting. I wish the shadow Minister for Transport, as he is portrayed, could have been there to listen to some of the comments. I shall cite some figures which affect his own State and which were introduced by the Labor Government. In 1974-75 the Bureau of Roads recommended that $2 1.3m be made available for rural arterial roads. The Labor Government made available not $2 1.3m but $ 1 1 .2m. In 1 975-76 the Bureau of Roads recommended $26.4m and the Labor Government gave $9.7m. In 1976-77 the Bureau of Roads recommended $29.2m and the Labor Government gave $8. 8m. Is it any wonder that I had to attend a meeting of 200 local government councillors today and explain to them why it was that they were unable properly to finance their roads? We add to this situation the fact that in New South Wales the State Labor Government does not give one cent to local roads. We can see from this the poor position in which the local government authorities find themselves in New South Wales. That brings me to another point. The honourable member for Shortland accused me of using coercive federalism. 
-I did not admit that at all. What I said was that I had been successful with the State Ministers. Let me come to that story. All States but Victoria and New South Wales agreed with the proposals we put to them in relation to this legislation. The Victorian Government had been saying for a long time that there were not enough funds for local councils in rural areas. State members of Parliament were going around the countryside blaming the Commonwealth for that fact. When we announced that we were giving an extra $35.8m for roads, of which $7.5m was for Victoria, I said that the $7.5m would be in addition to the roads funds and the roads programs already announced in Victoria. But apparently it was in the minds of those who run the roads authority in Victoria to swallow the $7.5m by extracting $7.5m of State funds and leaving the total figure the same. But I was not prepared to accept that. If that is called coercive federalism, then I am guilty of coercion in that way because the Victorian Government had been saying that there were not enough funds in total terms available for local rural roads. I wanted to see that the $7.5m was in addition to that amount. The Victorian Government saw reason after some difficulty; nevertheless, it saw reason. That is my explanation of the Victorian situation. 
Let me come to the New South Wales position. The New South Wales Government does not give one cent to local government authorities for local roads. The Government has legislation which prevents it from doing that.  Mr Cox,  the New South Wales Minister for Transport and Minister for Highways, has written to me saying that he will not change the legislation to allow New South Wales to give money to local governments for local roads as they ought to be able to do that out of their own pockets. In  Mr Cox's  proposals to me he wanted 30 per cent of those funds for urban arterial roads. I find that in Sydney he is busy selling off land which was previously acquired for urban arterial roads to finance his subsidy of the rail transport fares. That is what he says he is doing with the money. 
On the one hand he is selling off land which was acquired for urban arterial freeways and on the other hand he is asking me to make more funds available for urban arterial freeways. The man is totally illogical. There is no sense to him. 
-That is right. It was Commonwealth funds in the first place. So I say to  Mr Cox  that this does not seem to me to be fair. It seems to me that as the previous Government reduced the level of funds to rural arterial roads and rural local roads and as the Commonwealth Government is seen to be totally responsible for funding local government authorities, the extra $ 11.3m ought to go to local government authorities. That seems to me to be a normal, rational proposition. 
-The trouble with the honourable member for Shortland is that he is a conspiracy man. Everything he sees is a conspiracy. He suggests that the Government is hiding information or it is not doing that; that it is appointing secret committees. I know the honourable member comes out of the Newcastle area where conspiracies are the order of the day. But he happens to be in the national Parliament. If he cannot grow physically, it is time that he grew in stature, at least a little, so that he can leave the conspiracy bit behind.  Mr Cox,  the Minister for Transport, has not yet responded to my last request. I say now to  Mr Cox  that the $ 1 1 .3m will not be paid to New South Wales until I know what is to happen to it. This Parliament has a right to know what is happening to the funds.  Mr Cox  has not yet responded and we will wait until he does respond. 
The honourable member for Shortland raised one other matter, that is, the amalgamation of the Bureau of Transport Economics and the Bureau of Roads. I am able to inform the House that yesterday the Government agreed to the proposition that those bodies be amalgamated, and I have here a Press statement which I can read to the House if necessary. A lot of emotion has been engendered about this proposed amalgamation by some vested interests who do not wish the amalgamation to take place, without proper care and thought being given to what they were doing. The fact is that the amalgamation will lead to a better body, much more able to judge the whole of the transport scene in Australia and at the same time still provide for the national Parliament and for those who were interested reports on roads needs which they have provided in the past. Nothing will be lost by the 2 bodies being amalgamated. Indeed, a lot will be gained because members of the Bureau of Roads will be able to expose their thinking to other members of the new amalgamated organisation and hopefully they will come to even better judgments than they have in the past, I say quite frankly that I look forward to working with the new amalgamated body. I am sure it will give better service to local government authorities throughout Australia in respect of roads and in respect of the many other areas on which governments have been assisted over the past few years. 
The honourable member for Shortland, in his conspiracy fashion, put out a Press statement on 14 November. He called for an Australia-wide study to be undertaken into the transport industry. Obviously he has not been doing his homework properly, and he ought to confer with the honourable member who was retired from the House this morning for some reason or another. 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
This Bill was passed by the House on 2 June 1976 to take effect from 1 July 1976 but honourable members will recall that the Senate rose before considering it. The Bill increases the level of liability for death of, or personal injury to, passengers carried on domestic air services from the present amount of $30,000 to $45,000. The amendment now proposed is to provide for the increased limit to take effect from the date of Royal Assent of the legislation. I believe honourable members will agree that it is desirable for the Bill to have a forward effective date. The majority of general aviation operators did not take out extra insurance cover from 1 July 1976 because the amending legislation had not passed through both Houses. 
If the retrospective date of effect were retained there could be serious consequences for aircraft operators whose activities fall within the scope of the legislation. In the event of an accident occurring since 1 July 1976 many aircraft operators would be without the protection of the additional insurance cover and personally liable for excess compensation over $30,000 up to the new limit of $45,000. Any aircraft operator therefore unfortunate enough to face a claim under the legislation during its retrospective period could incur crippling and unfair expenses. I understand that insurance companies will not provide back coverage to 1 July 1976 if the commencement date is made effective retrospectively. Under a contract of insurance, insurance companies are under no obligation to accept back premiums for higher coverage. Insurance companies require prior notice of the date of effect of increased statutory liability and adequate time to arrange additional cover. The proposed amendment to the Bill by providing for a forward effective date will enable aircraft operators a reasonable time to make the necessary adjustments to their insurance arrangements. I commend the amendments to the Bill. 
in reply- In case somebody misunderstands what the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  is talking about- I would not be surprised if that were the case- I ought to explain to the Committee that what has happened has not happened because of the arrogance on the part of the Government. But we were concerned to have the amendments passed tonight and not earlier than tonight because there has been an outstanding matter that occurred after 2 June. We have been able to resolve that matter satisfactorily. Ex gratia payments will be made to the people involved in a certain accident. I do not want to say any more than that. However, I would like the Committee to know that nobody has been disadvantaged by the delay of the passage of this Bill from 2 June as a result of those ex gratia payments. It was essential that we fix a date for the House to pass the amendments. I am pleased to say that there seems to be no trouble with the Opposition in the Senate. The amendments have been carried through that place. I look forward to their being passed in this place. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Petroleum Search Subsidy Act 1959, 1 present a statement on the operation of that Act during the year ended 30 June 1 976. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At this stage I am not in a position to give a commitment in the terms sought. However, I shall raise the matter with my colleague the Minister for Social Security who has been having consultations with the States on a possible National Compensation Program. 
Minister for National Resources: Visit to the United Kingdom (Question No. 1317) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Bureau of Transport Economics' report referred to was published in October 1975 and was the result of a study arranged by the Minister for Transport in the previous Government. The statement at page 59 is a comment expressed by the writers of that report. 
As the report was submitted in October 1975 during the period in office of the Labor Government, I am unable to comment. 
No. 
Figures for Registered Unemployed from September 1975  (Question No. 1185) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am not aware of any specific request. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
To be determined. 
To be determined. 

 The Complete Book of A ustralian Birds (Question No. 1440) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) During the 1975-76 financial year Connair received a retrospective payment of $50,000 in respect of its 1974-75 financial year. The total amount paid to Connair in the 1975-76 financial year, excluding the above amount, was $558,333. 
(a), (b) and (c) The retrospective payment of $50,000 in respect of the 1974-75 financial year was approved by the Government and paid in April 1976. There has been no retrospective increase to the payment made in the 1975-76 financial year. 
In the Budget papers there is an estimated total of $700,000 for all subsidised operators including Connair. The total figure was compiled during the financial processes of framing the Budget. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, in the sense that the existing loan was reconstituted to its original figure. 
(a) $308,584.12 was the difference vide ( 1 ) above 
to provide interim financial assistance to the company to continue to operate its air services 
the rate of interest on the principal was set at 10.5 per cent, payable monthly with principal repayable in full on 30 September 1980. 
Connair: Inquiry into Operation and Finances (Question No. 1424) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No, but the frequent subsidy investigations carried out by the Department in all cases where subsidy is paid will continue to be made and referred to the Minister for Transport. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There have been no complaints submitted by pilots employed, or formerly employed, by South Australian and 
Territorial Air Services, but a complaint has recently been received from the Australian Federation of Air Pilots. 
The complaint does relate to the exceeding of flight time and duty time limitations, but no specific reports had been submitted to the Department prior to the receipt of the letter from the Federation. 
3 ) A full-scale investigation in respect of the complaints is currently in progress. 
Air Services in Northern Territory (Question No. 1427) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (5) TAA's commercial arrangements of this nature are properly a matter for TAA to decide upon, but my Department is concerned at potential hazards to passengers and aircraft resulting from increasing congestion on the aircraft apron adjoining TAA's passenger terminal at Sydney. The Department therefore supports the transfer of light aircraft operations to accommodation which is available elsewhere on the airport. 
Information from the various shipping companies in respect of freight rates has not yet come to my table. When information is available I will provide it to the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics for aircraft movements by aircraft type for Brisbane Airport during each of the years 1974-75 and 1975- 76 are as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) on 30.6.76-70 
-I am able to confirm that the Government has taken a decision and has advised  Mr Tyler  of Broken Hill South that it is desirous of supporting his company in getting the Duchess rock phosphate into the Australian phosphate system. The Duchess rock phosphate find is of enormous magnitude and of great importance to Australia, having regard to the decline of reserves of phosphate in other parts of the world. I have informed  Mr Tyler  by letter that the Government supports the introduction of as much as 250 000 tonnes of Duchess rock phosphate into the system this year and 500 000 tonnes next year. It is quite apparent and would be apparent to the honourable member for Moore that the larger the quantity of phosphate that can be placed in use, the lower will be the costs that ensue. As to the final terms and negotiations that the Broken Hill South Company nas entered into with the Christmas Island Phosphate Commission, I am unable to comment on that matter other than to say that negotiations are ensuing at the moment. It is the Australian Government's wish that the final price to the Australian farmer be maintained at as low a rate as possible. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) and (2) As announced to the Parliament by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development on 10 November, the Government has reviewed in detail the findings and recommendations of the final report of the Fraser Island Environmental Inquiry and has decided that the export of minerals extracted from Fraser Island, other than from below high water mark on the beach south of Indian Head, should be phased out and export should not be permitted for minerals mined after 3 1 December 1 976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Atomic Energy Commission has one research scientist attached to the Stanford Research Institute in the United States of America undertaking research into applications of radioisotopes. No other Australian scientist is being sponsored by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission for training in the U.S.A. 
No. 
International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights  (Question No. 1311) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There are currently five off-shore petroleum exploration permits granted under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967 which lie, in part, closer to the coast of Timor than the coast of Australia. Pan of one of these permits (NT/P8) lies marginally northward of the straight line described by the honourable member. Four of the permits were granted under the Commonwealth 
Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act and the other was granted jointly under the Commonwealth Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act and Western Australian Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act The permit numbers, the registered permit holders and the dates of renewal of each permit are shown below. Each permit was granted for an initial six-year term in 1969 and all have been renewed for five years. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of passengers who travelled on the Sydney to Tokyo Qantas flights on the following days were: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Qantas is not concerned about the performance of the Pratt and Whitney engines fitted to its Boeing 747 aircraft from the safety point of view but it has some concern in terms of operating costs. 
No. 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Priority has been accorded the recommendations of the Royal Commission of Inquiry into Transport to and from Tasmania directly relating to the transport assistance schemes. Consideration is currently being given to the most appropriate method of undertaking the various investigations suggested by  Mr Nimmo  into passenger and freight services between Westernport and Tasmania. ANL will not necessarily be required to carry out all or part of this study. 
A time frame for the study has not been determined. Following full implementation of the transport assistance scheme priority will be given to analysis of the Westernport proposal. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There was no fixed overhaul period planned. The initial maintenance program of the Qantas Boeing 747 and its engines followed closely the program approved by the Federal Aviation Administration of the U.S.A under the Maintenance Review Board system. This program included the regular internal inspection of the engine by horoscope, the retirement of critical engine parts at fixed life limits, the disassembly inspection of engine modules on a sampling basis and condition monitoring of all components. 
No, the same system still exists but some retirement lives of critical engine parts have been extended by fitting modified parts. 
The average flying time per heat cycle for Qantas Boeing 747 engines in 197S was 3.6 hours. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Statistics for passengers both inward an outward for each ofthe years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76 are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) and (2) The report on the study was presented to the Joint Commonwealth/State Steering Committee at its meeting of 3 August 1976. The Committee then passed on the report to the respective Governments. Consequently the report is now available for use and a copy has been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
-I cannot recall giving a specific undertaking to members of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association in relation to this matter. I do recall giving an undertaking to the staff of the Bureau of Roads that any submission they made to me would be taken into careful consideration. Indeed, that was what ensued. The staff of the Bureau of Roads made a submission to me on this matter. The propositions which it pu' forward to me were considered and taken into account in the amalgamation. I can give the honourable member and the staff of the Bureau of Roads an assurance that the position of members of the staff is protected. I can give the country at large an assurance, as I have done on a number of occasions, that the functions and operations which were performed by the Bureau of Roads will continue. The Bureau of Roads has been the source of a great deal of important advice to a number of governments over a number of years. That advice will still continue to be sought. There is no need, in my view, for any cause for alarm by the staff of the Bureau of Roads in this matter. Having read all the advice which has come to me about the proposed amalgamation, I am quite convinced that the new merged or amalgamated body will be a much better advising body to the Government and to those people to whom it is giving advice than occurred previously. 
-The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: were circulated: 
Yes: However, the amounts quoted for costs of Lockheed Electra aircraft purchased by TAA and tendered by me on 17 March, require adjustment and should read as follows: 
24 June 1959-SA2. 178m. 
19 July 1959-$Al. 185m 
19 August 1 960-$A2.289m. 
The discrepancies arose because the original information tendered by the airline was believed to be in U.S. dollars, which is normal for monetary quotes relating to aircraft purchases. However, the airline on rechecking the previous information tendered, and in compiling a detailed list of costs involved, now informs me that the amounts quoted were in Australian dollars not U.S. dollars and no conversion in monetary terms should apply. 
The estimated project cost for each aircraft for spare engines and propellors was $A3S4,4S9, initial spares $A387,658 and ground equipment $A142,26S. So as the honourable member will be clear on the total cost of the Electra aircraft to TAA, I outline the estimated project cost setting out all costs associated with the purchase of one Electra aircraft. 
The answer to the honourable member's queston is as follows: 
The Southbound Tasmanian Freight Equalisation Scheme will apply to producers' goods and materials. Accordingly, apples shipped from the Mainland and used as a raw material input to Tasmania industry could be eligible for subsidy. 
Southbound subsidy rates have not yet been determined. However, the principle adopted in determining Northbound subsidy rates will be followed. Northbound rates are based on the assessed difference in levels of transport charges, for door-to-door movements between Tasmania and the Mainland, and the comparable movement of similar goods on the Mainland. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) The following publications have resulted from the Bureau of Transport Economics activities as listed in the 1 974-75 Department of Transport Annual Report 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have seen a report of an interview with Colonel Kadhafi, the Libyan Head of State, appearing in the magazine  Newsweek of  20 September 1976, in which Colonel Kadhafi is reported to have said that Libya is the only country in the world that applies Islamic law against terrorism. 
As I have been unable to relate Islamic law to terrorism I am unable to give an opinion on Colonel Kadhafi 's reported comment. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Qantas have supplied the following uplift/discharge traffic statistics for the Hong Kong/Brisbane route (and total on board on arrival at Brisbane): 
I am aware of the matters raised by the honourable member in respect of the air crash. One of the benefits of the air safety branch investigation has been that these very points have been brought out. However, I am not in a position at the moment to inform the House whether a full public inquiry will be held, as asked for by the honourable member. The matter is under consideration and I will let the honourable member know shortly. 
I understand that negotiations are going on at the moment between coal exporters and the Japanese importers of coal. I understand further that there is a proposal to move away from the traditional marketing method in respect of sales of coal. The suggestion is for a 3-year contract. This is, of course, a matter for commercial negotiation between exporters and the importers of coal in Japan. The Government is concerned that should there be a departure from the present annual arrangement the coal exporters will make sure of proper cost escalation clauses in sales contracts so that should market forces change, as is expected by some because of the prospect of increases in steel demand, and coal become a more valuable product before the 3-year term is up they will be in a position to take some advantage of the situation, he Government will be monitoring very closely the matter raised by the honourable member. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the Expert Group on Road Safety also stated in its report of October 1975, insurance offices collect much useful statistical information and there is increasing willingness on the part of insurance companies to make data available for road safety research. 
My Department is aware of deficiencies in present road safety statistics and will continue to consider the contribution which can be made by insurance companies. 
However, the Insurance Commission has no authority under its Act to require insurers to supply these data and such a request would sot be connected with the administration of the Act. In light of this no approach has been made to the Treasurer for the Commission to obtain road safety data. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Statistics of total revenue passenger movements at Sydney Airport are as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
13 405. 
6509. 
(a) 3260, (b) 3249. 
(a) 1 10, (b) 2490, (c) 28 1, (d) 379. 
(a) 1385, (b) 405, (c) 438, (d) 1021. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The following table shows the various aircraft operated by Australian airlines by type in each of the years 1970 to 1976. The fleet strengths are those existing at 30 June of each year. 
-I must confess at the outset that I am somewhat amazed to learn that the two airlines agreement has become an issue in the Tasmanian election and that it has been made an issue on the initiative of the Tasmanian Premier. In the almost 12 months that I have been Minister for Transport I am not aware that I have received even one communication from the Premier of Tasmania expressing any concern whatsoever with the two airlines agreement or any aspect of it. I will double check after question time to see whether or not he has written any letter, perhaps to the Prime Minister or to myself, but I am almost sure that he has not. I view with very serious concern the fact that in the dying hours of the election campaign, he now wants to make the two airlines agreement an issue, concurrent with the story that money is being made available to the Australian Labor Party in Tasmania to fight the campaign and also apparently to assist a fight against the two airlines agreement at some time after the election. 
I will be concerned to know what  Mr Neilson  's views are about the two airlines agreement. I will be concerned to learn what mainland company is supporting  Mr Neilson  in this campaign with a view to challenging the two airlines agreement. I will be concerned to learn the real implications of  Mr Neilson  accepting such money if such money has been available to him. I repeat that as far as I am aware there has been absolutely no communication from  Mr Neilson  on this matter in the past 12 months. I am staggered that  Mr Neilson  should fall for the 3-card trick in accepting funds from a mainlander who may well want to challenge the two airlines agreement. The fact is that the two airlines agreement has provided a very stable service to Tasmania over the years. Very few of the complaints I get about airlines into Tasmania rest on the two airlines agreement itself. 
For the information of honourable members I present the accident investigation report of the Department of Transport Air Safety Investigation Branch relating to the incident near Cairns Airport, Queensland, on 23 October 1975 involving a Hawker Siddeley Heron aircraft registered VH-CLS. Due to the limited number available reference copies of this report have been placed in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Library. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. In the past representations have been made to me from time to time by various members of the public suggesting prices for goods and services in some instances are high. The operating costs of the businesses, however are also high, particularly labour. Concession prices are not permitted to exceed those applied in similar premises in the City of Melbourne. 
(a) Melbourne Airport public car park total costs in 1975-76 were $500,684. 
Income from the public car parking at Melbourne Airport amounted to $1,355,703 in 1975-76. 
(a) Operators of businesses on airports are selected following invitation of public tenders. A tender is accepted following consideration of offer, financial standing, experience and general acceptability to conduct the business in question. 
This depends on the type of facility, the length of the lease and the capital involvement. Long term concessions are generally reviewed triennially. 
The leases or trading authorities contain provisions that the businesses must be conducted to the satisfaction of the Secretary. There is also a required relationship to city prices but this is difficult to control because of the variety of city establishments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Projects which were assisted under the  Transport (Planning and Research) Act  1974 and were completed prior to 3 1 December 1 973 are included in the Report of progress on projects under the Act which I tabled in the Parliament on 24 August 1976. A report of progress on projects to 30 June 1976 is currently in preparation and will indicate projects completed to that date. This should be available early in 1977. 
Reports on completed projects are being progressively received and their existence is publicised in the Report of Progress mentioned above. Publication of reports by the Commonwealth is not intended and release to other than Commonwealth Authorities is at the discretion of the State agency as indicated in the progress reports. 
The approved project allocation for each project is given in the Report of Progress. Commonwealth assistance on each project is two-thirds of the actual cost to the limit of the approved allocation with the State meeting the balance. 
Proceedings to Protect the Environment: Legal Aid (Question No. 1526) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australian National Railways have advised that at a meeting of the Commissioners of the Railways of Australia it was agreed to rationalise the East/West passenger services in order to reduce the very high costs applicable to these services. Daily passenger services will continue to operate between Port Pirie and Perth. These will comprise four single consist 'Indian Pacific' and three single consist 'TransAustralian' services per week. In previous years some passenger services have operated at comparatively low occupancy rates resulting in poor staff usage. The proposed rationalisation of services made possible by decreased passenger demand will affect only on-train staff, that is, dining and sleeping car crews stationed at Port Pirie. The effect on these employees will be that overtime will be reduced, and in some cases will disappear. No employees will be retrenched. 
Captain Cook's Landing Place at Kurnell  (Question No. 1533) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (3) The provision of rail passenger services from Canberra is the responsibility of the Public Transport Commission of New South Wales. The possibility of improving these services has been considered by a sub-committee of the Railway Group of the Australian Transport Advisory Council. I understand a report has been prepared which is currently being considered by the New South Wales Minister for Transport and Highways. 
No. 
The future of the Australian Urban Passenger Train project is at present under consideration by the Government. However, the AUPT is being considered only for urban use and is not intended for use on country rail services. 
The Commonwealth has acquired the Tasmanian and non-metropolitan South Australian Railways with effect from 1 July 1975. The present Government has not been approached by other States with a view of acquisition of their country railway operations by the Commonwealth. 
Yes. However, passengers may travel on the 'Spirit of Progress' at the normal Canberra to Melbourne fare plus sleeping berth charge if applicable. 
The Australian National Railways Commission is currently introducing ' Bankcard '. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The visit to New Zealand was to attend a meeting of the South Pacific Regional Shipping Council and separately to have discussions on Fiji/Australia civil aviation arrangements with  Mr E.  Beddoes, Fijian Minister for Communications. 

 Mrs P. J. Nixon 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Qantas Boeing 747 aircraft have suffered 47 engine failures since their purchase up to the end of June 1976. The criterion for assessment as an engine failure is one also used overseas and is an in-flight shut-down which on subsequent investigation was considered to be attributable to the failure or damage of a component part of the basic engine. 
The dates of those failures, the total engine hours and the attributable cause in each case are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (5) The Prime Minister's election promise was implemented by the payment to the receiver of Public Moneys of $150 for the Blohm and Voss gift, and $1,230 for the Gotaverken gift. 
In the hands of the recipients. 
No. 
Public Servants on Prime Minister's Overseas Visits  (Question No. 1510) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) To date all steel bridge spans requited for the Tarcoola to Alice Springs Railway have been manufactured in the ANR workshops at Port Augusta. 
No decision has yet been made on whether all steel bridge spans required for the project will be manufactured at Port Augusta. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. Although the estimate item to which he refers relates not to any one Division of my Department but to all staff engaged on civil aviation operations. 
and (3) The definition of essentiality of tasks or positions is dependent on a number of variable factors, the most important being assessment of relative priorities prevailing at the time of any specific decision. 
Certain operational functions of the Department must remain fully staffed at all times. Conversely some administrative support tasks and lower-priority research or developmental projects can sometimes be deferred or abandoned without short term disruption to important functions. 
The test of essentiality applied to determine the need for re-staffing of any vacantposition is largely a judgment by senior officers of my Department, taking into account the comparative merits of other existing vacancies and the current status of the Departmental staff level against the approved staff ceiling. Generally, decisions on re-staffing of vacancies are based on assessment of the likely consequences should the position remain vacant. 
Report on Law and Poverty in Australia (Question No. 1397) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An answer was provided to the honourable member on 6 December 1976. 
For the information of honourable members I present the record of the 19th meeting of the Australian Water Resources Council held in Perth on 27 September 1976. 
Pursuant to section 40 of the Australian National Airlines Act 1945, 1 present the annual report of the Australian National Airlines Commission for the year ended 30 June 1 976. 
It so happens that I have the information the honourable member is seeking. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Royalties are a matter for the individual State Governments, the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. I refer you to the appropriate State and Territory Acts, Ordinances, and Regulations from which the information below has been extracted. The units quoted in this answer are as specified in the States Acts and Territory Ordinances. With regard to petroleum (oil and gas), royalty is paid as a percentage of the wellhead value of a unit of production, i.e. barrel, cubic foot, or cubic metre. 
1 ) ( a) The Commonwealth imposes royalties on minerals produced only in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, and on petroleum produced from offshore title areas. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: . 
I invite the honourable member's attention to the answer I gave to Question No. 1232. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 3 ) See answer to question No. 1 706. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (3 ) See answer to question No. 1706. 
Australian National Railways: MacNeill Report (Question No.  1708) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) , (5) and (6) It would not be appropriate for me to provide information concerning matters which are, or may be, the subject of legal proceedings. In regard to the current legal proceedings in the United States of America, I refer the honourable Member to the facts set out in the recitals of the Orders made by the Attorney-General on 29 November 1976 under the Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Act 1976 (Australian Government Gazette No. S2 14 dated 29 November 1976). 
The Uranium Institute was set up in June 1 975 by sixteen of the world's leading uranium producers. The headquarters of the Uranium Institute are in London, United Kingdom, where it is incorporated as a limited company. The Articles of Association of the Uranium Institute were revised in January 1976 to admit consumers of uranium as members. 
The Memorandum of Association of the Uranium Institute states that its objects are: 
to promote the development of the use of uranium for peaceful purposes, in order to assist in safeguarding the future availability of world energy supplies. 
to conduct research and to do investigations concerning the world's requirements of uranium, the world's uranium resources and the productive capacity of uranium producers. 
to provide a forum for the exchange of information concerning the use of uranium for peaceful purposes, the world's requirements and resources of uranium, the productive capacity of uranium producers and all matters connected therewith. 
to consult, for the purposes of its research or investigations, with Governments and with other agencies, organisations and entities. 
In addition, the Memorandum has always included the following statement: 
The activities of the Institute shall not be such as will result in any agreement, understanding, combination or any other form of concerted action to limit production, fix prices, provide, receive or supply information regarding contracts, or interfere with commercial transactions, suppress competition or in any other manner restrain trade or commerce or to monopolise or attempt to monopolise trade or commerce. ' 
The Australian companies which are currently members of Uranium Institute are Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Limited, Noranda Australia Limited, Pancontinental Mining Limited, Peko- Wallsend Limited and Western Mining Corporation Limited. 
I am not aware of any Australian mining companies being members of any international uranium producers' associations. However, I am aware that some are members of the Australian Uranium Producers' Forum, the stated objectives of which are: 
To act as a co-ordinating body for the Australian uranium industry as a whole in discussions with, or representations to, various Australian Government Departments or Authorities concerned with the industry; 
To co-ordinate the participation of member companies in any international organisations or forums for promoting the use of uranium for peaceful purposes; 
Generally, to promote the development of a viable Australian uranium mining industry including research into uranium production, supply/demand and other statistical data on a world basis. 
The companies which are members of the Forum are Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Limited Noranda Australia Limited, Pancontinental Mining Limited, Peko- Wallsend Limited, Queensland Mines Limited, and Western Mining Corporation Limited. 
No marketing arrangements exist for the sale of Austraiian uranium overseas, other than arrangements being put in hand for the export of uranium in respect of contracts the main terms of which were approved prior to December 1972. Apart from the measures announced on 1 1 November 1976 by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, the Government's attitude is that policy decisions in relation to the further development of the Australian uranium industry will have to await the outcome of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry. 
Working Womens Centre in Melbourne  (Question No. 1394) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth regards the question of sovereignty over Australia's offshore areas as having been determined by the High Court in the Seas and Submerged Lands Act case. In taking this position the Government has had regard to the advice it has received from its Law Officers. 
There is no Commonwealth proposal to pass sovereignty over offshore submerged lands to the States. 
I am not aware of any suggestions or representations to the Government by companies or individuals in regard to Commonwealth control over offshore submerged lands. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has received no representations for legislation to validate uranium price fixing agreements. However, it did receive representations from the Australian Uranium Producers' Forum and Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd for action to prevent the obtaining of evidence for the purpose of certain legal proceedings in the United States of America based on the anti-trust laws of that country. In the light of those representations the Government introduced the Foreign Proceedings (Prohibition of Certain Evidence) Bill 1976, which was assented to on 19 November 1976. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Snowy Mountains Authority purchased a replacement aircraft with the endorsement of the Snowy Mountains Council. 
It is a Britten-Norman Islander twin-engined aircraft with STOL performance with the registration number VH-ISI. 
Hawker De Havilland Australia Pty Ltd. Purchase price: $115,000. 
The aircraft has been in continual service since purchased. 
The total maintenance cost since date of purchase to 3 1 October (latest official figure ) is $ 1 ,2 1 0. 
The next overhaul service is a 100 hourly service due on 20 December 1 976 the estimated cost of which is $600. 
Russian Military Bases in Mozambique  (Question No. 1769) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
TAA operates in a commercially competitive environment and it would be improper for me to answer questions relating to passengers travelling on particular TAA flights and who paid for the journey. However, the answer to question No. 1428 may be relevant. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Preparation of an accurate answer to the honourable member's question requires detailed extraction and reconciliation of a large quantity of data. 
It has not been possible to provide an answer prior to the Parliamentary adjournment. The information sought will be conveyed in writing to the honourable member as soon as possible. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Preparation of an accurate answer to the honourable member's question requires detailed extraction and reconciliation of a large quantity of data. 
It has not been possible to provide an answer prior to the Parliamentary adjournment. The information sought will be conveyed in writing to the honourable member as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The TAA catering department, Sydney, receive on average 95 half-pint containers of cream daily. These 95 containers are both for catering uses and cooking purposes. 
On an average TAA, Sydney, have 40 flight departures daily and two half-pint cream containers are loaded on each aircraft. The remaining fifteen half-pints of cream are used for cooking purposes, RAAF flight requirements and international aircraft requirements. 
When stowed on the aircraft the cream is not under refrigeration. Such a product not stowed under refrigeration for any length of time can constitute a health risk. The cream containers are non-resealable, any such containers can very easily cause spillage during take-off and seep through to any other parts of the aircraft causing damage. For these reasons cream is replenished at each port of call. 
No, No, wastage has not been higher. 
3 ) No, purchasing is in accordance with requirements. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, the Queensland Government sought financial assistance towards the acquisition of buses by the Brisbane City Council under the urban public transport scheme. 
The Federal Government has approved financial assistance amounting to $1,277,165 towards the acquisition of 30 buses. 
1 understand that the Brisbane City Council has placed an order for 98 bus chassis with Volvo Australia 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Attorney-General's Department advised that the final results of the accounting action taken by the Depanment of Transport are legally justifiable. 
Not applicable. 
Trans-Australia Airlines and Qantas: MacNeill Report (Question No.  1706) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) and (b) The Committee's recommendations are contained in a report given to me by the Committee on Thursday last, 2 December. I am at present examining the report. It deals in pan with matters of commercial significance and it would not be appropriate to make the report public 
3 ) See answer to section ( 1 ) above. 
Australian Shipping Commission: MacNeill Report (Question No.  1707) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and ( 2 ) See answer to part  (  7  )  of Question No. 1 70 1 . 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2 ) See answer to part (7) of Question No. 1 70 1 . 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No, because I do not consider it appropriate. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The Victorian State Rivers and Water Supply Commission has prepared a report on the proposal. Its report is now the subject of an inquiry by the Victorian Parliamentary Public Works Committee. 
There is no firm date for the conclusion of the investigations by the Victorian Parliamentary Public Works Committee. The Commonwealth does not intend conducting its own investigations into this matter, as it is one which falls entirely within the responsibility of the State, and it is likely that the report will be referred to a committee of the River Murray Commission for its assessment of the implications of the proposed drainage scheme for River Murray water quality. This committee will be established shortly in accordance with the recommendations of the River Murray Working Party. 
ASIO Surveillance (Question No.  1666) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For the names of the major mining companies with export contracts I would refer the honourable member to the  Australian Mining Industry  quarterly and annual reviews published for the Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology and Geophysics, by the Australian Government Publishing Service. 
It would not be appropriate for me to attempt to provide information of this kind on individual companies. Even if I were to do so, I could use only published information as it would not be appropriate to release information that might have been provided to the Government  on a  confidential basis. Information on some companies is published in the Investment Service of the Sydney Stock Exchange. If the honourable member wishes to seek information additional to that available from public sources, he may care to seek it from the head office of the companies concerned. 
Details of the contracts submitted to the Department of National Resources are, for obvious reasons, treated as confidential. 
and (5) Such estimates cannot be provided without breaching the confidentiality of contracts. 
This is a matter between the parties concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Information held by the Commonwealth on such matters is obtained primarily from public sources and is therefore not necessarily comprehensive or up to date. 
The information held indicates that Timor Oil Limited, a company registered in N.S.W., held a petroleum concession in East Timor during this period. The Government is not aware of the current status of this concession. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2 ) Details of Commonwealth payments and currently approved liabilities for Queensland under the Urban Public Transport Program are listed in the table below. 
The Commonwealth is liable to meet its share of properly assessed cost increases on approved projects. To date the following approvals have been given: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (3) The Queensland Government did not seek my permission to re-allocate funds approved under the Urban Public Transport Program during 1976. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Queensland Minister for Transport sought Commonwealth funds for purchase of 75 buses in his letter of 8 June 1976. 
On 9 June I wrote to the Queensland Minister for Transport, advising that additional funds for new projects would not be appropriated for the 1976-77 financial year; and that I was prepared to approve a re-ordering of priorities on a similar basis to that applying to the revision of programs in 1975-76 financial year. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) Ansett Airlines has for several years been operating livestock charter flights between Australia and New Zealand using its Electra aircraft in a sub-charter arrangement with Qantas. In April 1976 Ansett Airlines requested, for commercial reasons, approval to operate up to ten livestock charter flights annually on the Tasman in its own right. This request was approved in October 1976 subject to the agreement of the New Zealand authorities. I understand this agreement has not yet been obtained. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The terms of reference of the Aviation Industry Review Committee were: 
Investigate and make recommendations to the Minister for Transport on the economic, environmental and safety regulation of air transport, and the provision and operation of air transport facilities and services. 
In particular, the committee should consider the following aspects and should consult, as appropriate, with all relevant sectors of the industry. 
Cost Recovery 
The composition and the allocation to users of the costs and revenues attributable to the operation and maintenance of the air transport infrastructure paying due regard to the specialist advice available from the Bureau of Transport Economics as to the approach which is adopted elsewhere in the transport industry. 
Capital Works 
The steps which might be taken to minimise future expenditure having regard to the needs of the various sectors of the industry and the necessity to maintain or, where necessary, improve the facilities available to and required by the industry to meet the demands of the community. This review might also include the identification of possible areas of over investment in capital works in the past or the holding of assets for future use which are not immediately required. To examine and make comment upon forward plans and projects. 
Administrative and Operational Costs 
The steps which might be taken consistent with the preservation of proper safety standards and the requirements of the Public Service Act to minimise the day to day running costs of those sections of the Department which are responsible for the regulation of the industry and for the provision, maintenance and operation of airports and airways facilities. This review would include the identification of initiatives which might also be taken by the industry to reduce the level of services which the Department has to provide. Particular regard should also be paid to the role of the Department's Central Office and its regional organisation. 
Revenue Measures 
To identify possible changes in the way in which revenue is 'raised from the various sectors of the industry with a view to maximising such revenue in a manner compatible with the ability of each sector of the industry to pay its allocated costs. 
The Committee comprised the  Chairman  of Qantas, Ansett, TAA, East-West Airlines, and the Combined General Aviation Organisations. 
The Department of Transport and the aviation industry. 
No. 
5 ) No, but I expect it to do so shortly 
Yes, two reports 
The Committee has made a number of recommendations and these are being carefully examined. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Progress reports on projects assisted under the  Transport (Planning and Research) Act  1974 are compiled in a summary form and published each year by the Commonwealth. The final reports on individual projects which are furnished on their completion by the States in accordance with the requirements of the Act, are not published by the Commonwealth. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Prime Minister, on 26 November 1976, announced the measures being taken to introduce the Southbound Freight Equalisation Scheme early in 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
, (3) and (4) The Treasurer and I have reached agreement on the steps necessary to implement the Southbound Scheme. An announcement was made by the Prime Minister on this matter on 26 November. In addition a document entitled 'Registration Procedures for Southbound Movements of Materials and Equipment' has subsequently been given wide distribution throughout Tasmania. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
It is not considered necessary at this stage that departmental officers need visit Tasmania for detailed discussions with interested persons prior to introduction of the southbound freight equalisation scheme. It was originally intended that the purpose of the discussion would be to assist the Department of Transport in determining the commodities which would be eligible. However as indicated by the Prime Minister in announcing details of the scheme at Georgetown on 26 November, it is now considered more equitable that firms in the manufacturing and mining industries provide details of commodities imported from the Mainland for use in production. Copies of the explanatory documents for registration have been mailed to all recipients of subsidy under the Northbound Scheme. In addition advertisements have been placed in the Tasmanian press advising other interested parties where the documents may be obtained. Officers of my Department are available to discuss particular companies ' problems as necessary. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (3) The provisions of the  States Grants (Beef Cattle Roads) Act  1 968 ceased to apply on 30 June 1 974 in respect of Western Australia and South Australia. Because, however, of the floods in Queensland in early 1974 the Act was amended to extend the time in respect of that State to 3 1 December 1974 to permit the completion of projects approved before 1 July 1974. There are, therefore, no roads currently being funded under the  Slates Grams (Beef Cattle Roads) Act  1968. 
The cost of maintenance of beef roads constructed under the  States Grants (Beef Cattle Roads) Act  is entirely a State responsibility and I cannot therefore furnish any information regarding those costs. 
North-west Coast: Navigational Installations (Question No. 1766) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Pelsan Island Light suffered minor damage twice, attributed to sea eagles. 
A foreign ship collided with Port Hedland C2 Buoy causing minor damage. 
Vandals twice caused minor damage to the Browse Island radio beacon installation. 
Repair costs have not been assessed in the region, but the total is expected to less than $ 1 , 000. 
There are no cases of damage directly attributable to Indonesian Fishermen. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
8 hour embargo. 
Need for further variation has been considered and rejected. The pre 1973 requirements for 12 hours abstinence applied only to airline operations. There is no evidence of any significant drinking problem in respect of airline operations and no evidence that a 12 hour rule is any more effective as a deterrent in respect of the very rare cases of abuse. Conversely the 12 hour rule was an undue restriction on the vast majority of airline pilots who are sensible and moderate in their drinking habits. Similar principles apply in respect of general aviation operations except that, as already indicated, the application of the 8 hour rule to general aviation is a new provision in lieu of no previous specific time limit. There is no new evidence justifying further review at this time. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, I declined. 
Yes, (a)  Mr L.  C. Jacobe, First Assistant Secretary, Coastal Services ($28,326).  Mr H.  B. O 'Keeffe, Senior Assistant Secretary, Planning, Research and Development ($26,042),  Mr W.  G. Willoughby, Senior Assistant Secretary, Works and Services ($26,042),  Mr M.  C. Card, Engineer Class 3 ($17,798). The purpose of their attendance was to inform the public of technical aspects of the Omega Navigation System, (b) Melbourne, by aircraft, (c) Department of Transport, Aero Commander 608E, (d) $84.50, (e) (i) 1540 hours, 3 December 1976; (ii) 0110 hours, 4 December 1976. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As the 'Perth City Railway Feasibility Study' was commissioned by the Western Australian Government it would not be appropriate for me to table it in the Commonwealth Parliament. However a copy has been made available to the Parliamentary Library for the information of honourable members and senators. 
Report on Urban Route Transport Operations  (Question No.  1808) 
-The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
The report on private bus and ferry operations in Australia was considered at the August meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council. 
A copy of the report was made available to the Parliamentary Library in July 1976 for the information of honourable members and senators. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The report on the study has been presented to both the New South Wales Government and the Commonwealth Government and a copy has been made available to the Parliamentary Library for the information of honourable members and senators. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Bureau of Transport Economics is carrying out an assessment of the economics of standardisation of bus design and rationalisation of procurement procedures. 
It is intended that the results of the study be presented at the mid-year meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council, which is currently planned for July 1977. 
I am unable to forecast if this BTE study will lead to a formal report, or when such a report would be published. I am, however, of the opinion that the results of BTE studies should be given as wide a circulation as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I reaffirm my answer to the: honourable member's Question No. 1209 that no survey of the existing Marree to Alice Springs railway line has been conducted since November 1975 nor is expected to be conducted in the near future. 
and (3)I presume the honourable member is referring to that part of the article in the  Adelaide Advertiser  of the 2 1 October which mentions a reported statement by  Mr Smith  that 'a survey was being undertaken on the Central Australian Railways system'. 
As I have already indicated there have been no recent surveys carried out on the existing narrow gauge Central Australia Railway but surveys have been made for the new standard gauge line currently being constructed between Tarcoola and Alice Springs. In particular, the Australian National Railways Commission as well as myself, are concerned at the possibility that, prior to completing the new line, severe flooding in the Lake Eyre Basin might disrupt services on the existing line for an indefinite period. For this reason the Australian National Railways have looked at the possibility of establishing a road/rail transfer facility at places where the new line crosses or comes close to the Stuart Highway. 
The development of such contingency planning seems to me to be in the best interest of the Territory. If preliminary examination shows that such a temporary facility might be feasible, then a thorough study will be undertaken to examine in detail the social and economic issues involved and of course the views of the Northern Territory people will be sought. However no changes will be made to existing arrangements without my authorisation and I will need to be completely satisfied that any proposed arrangements will adequately cater for the needs of the areas serviced. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Departmental expenditure is recorded under functional headings as set out in the Appropriation Acts and these are readily available. Dissection of expenditure by State, Territory or Electorate is difficult and a great deal of effort is required to extract meaningful figures. In view of the heavy workload in the Finance area in connection with Forward Estimates I cannot afford to divert the resources necessary to provide an accurate answer at this time. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Strategic Planning and Resource Allocation Division forms part of the policy and planning area of the De- partment of Transport. Other Divisions in this area include and, Sea and Air Transport Policy Divisions, an International Policy Division and a  Major Projects  Division. 
The functions of the Strategic Planning and Resource Allocation Division range from the co-ordination of policy and planning advice on matters affecting a number of modes or the total transport portfolio to the development of medium and longer-term transport budgets and programs. Advice to the Minister and to the Secretary on reports and proposals on individual modes or functional aspects is provided by the Division responsible for the specific area concerned. The Strategic Planning and Resource Allocation Division is involved where the reports or proposals have also significant implications for other modes of transport or for overall resource allocation. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I stated when announcing the amalgamation of the Bureau of Transport Economics with the Bureau of Roads that its functions would include the collection, analysis and presentation of factual information and assessments which would assist in the orderly development of a balanced transport system in Australia. It is the Government's intention that the results of the Bureau's work will be made widely available as has been the case for reports prepared by the CBR and BTE to date. 
The considerable professional autonomy provided to the Director allows the Government to receive completely independent and unbiased advice based on the technical skills and professional integrity of the officers concerned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
When announcing the formation of the New Bureau of Transport Economics I stated that the functions of the new body would include the functions of the two existing organisations which involve the collection, analysis and presentation of factual information and assessments that would assist in the orderly development of a balanced transport system in Australia. I further stated that the Government's intention was that the results of the Bureau's works would be made widely available as was the case for reports prepared by BTE and CBR and that the professional autonomy provided would allow the Government to continue to receive completely independent and unbiased advice based on the technical skills and professional integrity of the officers concerned. In the preparation of its advice it is anticipated that the Bureau will seek information from appropriate organisations or persons when necessary. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) The $50,000 subsidy for the financial year 1974-75 was approved and paid in April 1976. The subsidy of $83,333 in respect of 1975-76 was approved and paid in June 1976. 
The statement in the Department's Explanatory Notes presented to the Senate Estimates Committee was misleading and any inconvenience is sincerely regretted. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) My Department maintains extensive statistical data on domestic passenger traffic and, of course, monitors variations in airline performance very closely. From time to time special studies are undertaken but no surveys particularly directed towards marketing considerations have been conducted for the Department since 1 973. These studies have indicated that, in addition to the underlying factors of population growth and the general level of economic activity, trends in air traffic volumes are closely related to personal disposable income and passenger fare variations. The studies also indicate that holiday traffic is more responsive to these latter factors than business traffic. 
Detailed statistics on traffic trends are compiled in the ordinary course of work in the Department but are not generally published. However, there is discussion of trends in domestic aviation from time to time in various documents such as my Department's Annual Report, and in public forums such as the 1975 Transport Outlook Conference where domestic air traffic growth was discussed in the overall context of non-urban passenger travel. The Papers and Proceedings for this Conference have recently been issued. In addition, the Bureau of Transport Economics is to conduct a National Travel Survey which will embrace air travel developments and the results of this study will be published in the course. I have also arranged for  Mr Morris  to receive copies of the Domestic Air Transport Statistical Bulletin which contains basic traffic data for each of the various operators and their services and which provides a broad statistical analysis of traffic variations. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The reports from the Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design are considered at meetings of the Australian Transport Advisory Council held around February and July each year. The  Chairman  of ACSVD has been asked to report to the July 1977 meeting of ATAC on pertinent recommendations contained in the Report from the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety- Passenger Motor Vehicle Safety. 
2 ) The responsibility for the issue of an Australian Design Rule rests with ATAC and it would be premature at this stage to assume that Australian Design Rules will be proposed or approved in relation to these matters. 
Ban on Unapproved Child Restraints (Question No. 1866) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Details of the location and estimated cost of completed projects are not available. The Roads Grants Act does not require a State to provide a completion report for each project which has been approved as being eligible for assistance from Commonwealth grants. The Act provides only for a form of financial reporting to confirm that Commonwealth grams were expended on approved projects. 
Because of their bulk, I have arranged for details of projects on Rural Arterial roads, which I nave approved as being eligible for assistance from Commonwealth grants under the Act for 1976-77, to be forwarded direct to  Mr Morris  'office. 
Information concerning the estimated dates of completion of projects is not supplied by a State when it submits programs for approval. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Details of the location and estimated cost of completed projects are not available. The Roads Grants Act does not require a State to provide a completion report for each project which has been approved as being eligible for assistance from Commonwealth grants. The Act provides only for a form of financial reporting to confirm that Commonwealth grants were expended on approved projects. 
Because of their bulk, I have arranged for details of projects on Urban Arterial roads, which I nave approved as being eligible for assistance from Commonwealth grants under the Act for 1976-77 to be forwarded direct to  Mr Morris  'office. 
Information concerning the estimated dates of completion of projects is not supplied by a State when it submits programs for approval. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
It is considered preferable to seek the co-operation of insurers for work on specific projects, rather than seek statutory returns. Information sought can thus be designed for the particular study in mind. The honourable member will recall that insurance companies advised the Standing Committee that they were willing to help in this way. 
Pursuant to paragraph 11 of the Third Schedule of the Airlines Agreements Act 1952, 1 present the annual financial report relating to the operation of air services by Ansett Transport Industries for the year ended 26 June 1976. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Details of the location and estimated cost of completed projects are not available. The Roads Grants Act does not require a State to provide a completion report for each project which has been approved as being eligible for assistance from Commonwealth grants. The Act provides only for a form of financial reporting to confirm that Commonwealth grants were expended on approved projects. In the case of Urban Local roads, most States have adopted the option available under the Act to submit programs of allocations to individual State and Local Government Authorities for expenditure on these roads rather than submit detailed programs of projects. 
Because of their bulk, I have arranged for details of projects on Urban Local roads which I have approved as being eligible for assistance from Commonwealth grants under the Act for 1976-77, and details of allocations which I have approved to State and Local Government Authorities for expenditure on Urban Local roads during 1976-77, to be forwarded direct to  Mr Morris'  office. 
Information concerning the estimated dates of completion of projects is not supplied by a State where it submits a program of projects. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Details of the location and estimated cost of completed projects are not available. The Roads Grants Act does not require a State to provide a completion report for each project which has been approved as being elegible for assistance from Commonwealth grants. The Act provides only for a form of financial reporting to confirm that Commonwealth grants were expended on approved projects. In the case of Rural Local roads, most States have adopted the option available under the Act to submit programs of allocations to individual State and Local Government Authorities for expenditure on these roads rather than submit detailed programs of projects. 
Because of their bulk, I have arranged for details of projects on Rural Local roads, which I have approved as being eligible for assistance from Commonwealth grants under the Act for 1976-77, and for details of allocations, which I have approved to State and Local Government Authorities for expenditure on Rural Local roads during 1 976-77, to be forwarded direct to  Mr Morris'  office. 
Information concerning the estimated dates of completion of projects is not supplied by a State where it submits a program of projects. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have been advised that the Advisory Committee on Vehicle Performance has been participating in the preparation of Australian Standard 1973 for retreaded tyres. The Standard was published recently and requires branding. It is open to retreaders to commence its use. No doubt most will do so. 
I have also been advised that a regulation on branding of retreaded tyres is still under consideration by the Committee but its incorporation in Draft Regulations would be a matter for the Australian Transport Advisory Council. 
The earliest opportunity for the Australian Transport Advisory Council to consider any recommendation on this matter will be at the July 1 97 7 meeting. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is highly desirable that there is a body of uniform regulations. The adoption of draft regulations is, of course, not a matter within my statutory responsibilities. Nevertheless I would be anxious to do all I can to encourage uniformity in these matters and I will arrange for my Department to look further at the problem. 
None. 
The latest available comparison of the implementation of the recommended draft regulations is summarised in the following table: 
I am aware that it is asserted that the fire in the train in Sydney recently was caused by polyurethane seats. I understand that tests have been undertaken by the New South Wales Transport Commission to prove or disprove that assertion. It is a fact that polyurethane is used in the manufacture of aircraft seats, but I am able to inform the honourable member that, happily, the polyurethane in aircraft seats is given some fire resistant treatment that satisfies the Department of Transport in respect of the prospect of fire. The polyurethane seats in aircraft throughout Australia are quite safe. I think that during the period of office of my predecessor steps were taken to set up procedures to test flammable materials in aircraft, and polyurethane seats were subject to those overall tests. Therefore, the safety standards of Australian aircraft are very high. 
-Qantas Airways Ltd and British Airways have announced a new cheap fare from Australia to the United Kingdom and from the United Kingdom to Australia. The fare is $850 in the off-peak season compared with the present fare for the same period of $1,104. There is no doubt that in general terms the new fare structure has been widely welcomed. Indeed, Qantas received some 6000 inquiries in the first week after the announcement about bookings at the new cheap rate. 
In respect of the specific matter raised by the honourable member, I have sought information on it and I understand that the advertisement is in no way in breach of the trade practices legislation, the reason being that Qantas and British Airways have widely advertised the full fare structure, including peak and off-peak travel. Therefore no prospective traveller ought to be under any illusions as to the price he would be paying. I will, however, draw to the attention of Qantas the concern expressed in the honourable member's question. 
-I am able to reassure the honourable member that any redevelopment programs proposed by either Ansett or TAA do not in any way inhibit any future decisions that may be taken in respect of relocation of the runways at Brisbane Airport. 
In the last 12 months I suppose that if the door has not been battered down it has certainly been well pummelled by Tasmanian members seeking improvements to Tasmania's transport system, especially the connections to the mainland States. As Tasmania is an island State the great difficulty I have is finding alternative methods of transport that might be of assistance to Tasmania. Of course the best way of improving transport is by sea. We introduced the freight equalisation scheme to assist Tasmanian industry in that way. I have no doubt that that has been of great benefit to Tasmanian industries. I have looked at the air services to Tasmania, particularly the freight services, and have concluded that some innovation is desirable. That is why this week I have approved the import of 2 Carvair aircraft for Air Express and 2 Argosy aircraft for IPEC to commence carriage of freight between the mainland and Tasmania. I believe that this innovation and the improved aircraft will assist markedly the capacity of Tasmanian industries to sell their goods on the mainland and, likewise, the mainland industries to deliver their goods to Tasmania. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2), (3) and (4) The answers to these questions are provided in Attachment A. 
Under the National Roads Act, the States are required to submit for approval to the Commonwealth Minister for Transport particulars of the work to be performed in respect of each project. In addition the States supply for information the estimated total cost of each project and the latest revised figure available has been included in Attachment A. Even in the case of completed projects, however, this estimate does not necessarily represent final expenditure on the project. 
The 'estimated date of completion' in Attachment A is an approximate date only as progress on Export and  Major Commercial  Roads projects are subject to review by the States from time to time in the light of changing circumstances. Furthermore, although all Export and  Major Commercial  Roads projects in Attachment A have been approved under the Act, construction on some projects may not as yet have commenced. 
The answer to this question is provided in Attachment B. 
The States normally provide estimates of expenditure for Maintenance on fixed segments of road. A breakdown into lengths corresponding to the construction projects covered in questions ( 1 ) and (3) is not therefore available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Details of the location and estimated cost of completed projects are not available. The Roads Grants Act does not require a State to provide a completion report for each project which has been approved as being eligible for assistance from Commonwealth grants. The Act provides only for a form of financial reporting to confirm that Commonwealth grants were expended on approved projects. 
Because of their bulk, I have arranged for details of MITERS projects, which I have approved as being eligible for assistance from Commonwealth grants under the Act for 1976-77, to be forwarded direct to  Mr Morris  'office. 
Information concerning the estimated completion dates of projects is not supplied by a State when it submits programs for approval. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) An Interdepartmental Committee, comprising officers of the Departments of Treasury, Prime Minister and 
Cabinet and Transport, was established to examine alternative methods of funding programs presently financed through Section 96 grants. 
Regular consultations are held between my Departmental officials and State officers on all aspects of transport. 
I have received the report of the Interdepartmental Committee. 
The report contains reference to Cabinet deliberations and cannot therefore be made public 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Railway Group is one of four Advisory Groups established by the Australian Transport Advisory Council (ATAC) to provide advice to Ministers on railway matters. Members of the Railway Group are appointed individually by Ministers and the Group currently consists of the heads of the various Government railway systems and the Secretary of my Department. 
The Railway Group meets regularly and rotates the location of the meeting between the State capital cities and Canberra. The last meeting was held in Melbourne on 4 February 1977. 
to (6) The Group prepares advice to ATAC and the Council determines if papers are to be released publicly. Press statements are normally released following Council meetings indicating the main issues under consideration. 
Working Party on Section 96 Grants  (Question No. 1858) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is too long to be included in  Hansard.  However copies are available from the House of Representatives Tables Office. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The fare rate per kilometre on domestic air routes tapers as distance increases, for example 
I am conscious that in real terms the funding of roads as a total of all outlays has declined. To be specific, Commonwealth outlays on roads have declined from 2.9 per cent to 2.3 per cent. State budgetary outlays on roads-this is equally important of course- have declined from 3.3 per cent to 3.7 per cent. There has been a decline in real terms on road spending throughout Australia. There has been, of course, an increase in money terms but that has been eroded by inflation brought about by the maladministration of the previous Government's 3-year term in office. This would be readily conceded, I believe, by the Leader of the Opposition. He would agree with me wholeheartedly that a disastrous effect of his policies has been to cause a decline in road construction throughout the nation. 
When coming to office we were immediately conscious of the position in which local government authorities, urban and rural, found themselves. When on one occasion we allocated $64m and on a second occasion $32.5m for roads we sought to see that the majority of the money was in fact spent through local government authorities. The House will recall that of course the previous administration had reduced the level of funds to local government authorities by a much greater margin than it had reduced the level of funds for other aspects of road funding. Thus local government authorities find themselves in a serious position. The honourable member is quite correct: I have been receiving deputations from local government associations. I received one from New South Wales yesterday and an earlier one from Victoria. Representations have been made by other authorities. The wish of the Government will be to try to maintain at as high a level as possible the road funds that are spent through local government authorities. We recognise that local government authorities have road building problems as well as unemployment problems m their areas. We believe that by assisting them in this way we will help the cause of roads and employment generally. Despite the difficulties that we might face in the next Budget period I am confident that my colleague the Treasurer will assist me in helping local government authorities as much as possible. 
I am aware of the very forceful representations made to me by the honourable member for Mallee about the Mildura flight service unit. After those forceful representations were made I looked at the problem. I am able to assure him that he will be most satisfied with the arrangements. The Mildura flight service unit will be able to undertake its proper responsibilities right through the period ahead. 
I have to say at the outset that  Mr Virgo  has completely misrepresented the position, and to say that he has done it with some base political motive is probably to come very close to the truth. The fact is that on 1 5 April last year  Mr Virgo  sent to me for approval a program of projects to the value of $6.257m. He submitted that program for $6.257m at that time knowing full well that the level of Commonwealth support for the program was $2.1m in that financial year. In addition to the $2. lm we later gave to South Australia an extra $3.2m of which $1.2m was to go to rural arterial roads. It is quite clear to me that  Mr Virgo  in submitting the total program for $6.257m had held the view, knowing the level of Commonwealth support, that he would be able to secure the balance of the funds from State Budget sources. But apparently in his discussions around the Budget table he failed in his desire to get the level of funds he sought, and therefore the total level of funds available for South Australia was not as high as he had submitted to me. 
The Commonwealth's role is simply to approve the projects. It does not dictate the times by which the projects will be completed or the rate at which the work will be done. The important element is that  Mr Virgo  obviously honestly believed that he would receive a total of $6.257m that year for rural arterials. When he failed to secure funds from his own State's Budget he set to and re-ordered the priorities that had been allocated in the original application. I note, for example, that he took out the Lucindale to Penola road. Clearly, that road did not rank high enough in  Mr Virgo's  priorities to secure funds; so he cut it out and did not proceed to build the road. Then he claimed that it was cut out because of the failure of the Commonwealth Government to supply a high enough level of funds. This is not the first time that State Ministers have misrepresented this sort of position and it probably will not be the last time, but I can assure honourable members that when the new roads grants legislation comes in I will be doing my level best to make sure that each of us- Commonwealth and State Ministers- stands and is counted properly for the responsibilities that he carries m his own area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
, (3) and (4) The Department of Transport and the Bureau of Transport Economics obtain information on transport costs in the course of their continuing oversight of the transport industry and for specific purposes. 
In the course of its investigations the Bureau of Transport Economics has obtained costs of transporting specific commodities and these have been included in many of its reports. These reports include 'Transport and Handling of Australia's Wool Production' (1971), 'A Study of Intersystem Railway Freight Rating Practices' (1976), 'An Assessment of Tasmania's Interstate Transport Problems' (1973), 'Freight Transport to North West Australia 1975-1990' ( 1973) and 'Mainline Upgrading: Evaluation of a Range of Options for the Melbourne-Sydney Rail Link' ( 1975). Several studies involving the estimation of transport costs are currently underway. I am unable to say at this stage whether these studies will result in formal reports and be tabled. 
The Department of Transport also examines the material published  oy  the Australian Bureau of Statistics on transport costs. In this regard, the Australian National Accounts, Input-Output Tables 1962-63 and the Australian National Accounts, Input-Output Tables 1968-69 (Preliminary, September 1976) provide information on transport costs of different commodities and industries. Such information is being studied in relation to transport costs for the major commodity groups but it is not possible at this stage to say to what extent the information will be useful in this context. 
The findings of studies of the transport costs of the same or similar commodities in different countries will necessarily be influenced by differences in economic structure and conditions, as well as by differences in the methodology of the studies and in basic data. 
It is unlikely, therefore, that studies of transport costs overseas would yield results closely comparable with studies of the transport costs of individual commodities in Australia. 
I understand that various countries publish input-output tables and that the concepts underlying such tables in some cases are similar to those underlying such tables published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. However, differences in the economic structure of countries and in the collection and processing of the data incorporated in such tables make direct international comparisons based upon tables of uncertain validity and, therefore, hazardous. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2), (3) and (4) Consultation on these matters has taken place at meetings of the 4 advisory groups established by the Australian Transport Advisory Council (ATAC). These groups meet regularly at least twice a year. Meetings have been held in all the Australian Capital Cities. The groups include as members heads of Commonwealth and State departments and instrumentalities in the land transport area. ( 5 ), ( 6 ), ( 8 ) and (9) These groups report to ATAC on virtually all aspects of land transport. It would not be appropriate to detail specific issues in this case and it is not the practice to make ATAC papers public except where the Council so decides. As I have already indicated to the honourable member, I have referred in this House to matters which ATAC and its Advisory Groups deal with and will continue to do so. 
The term 'public service obligations' refers to obligations which the transport undertaking in question, if considering its own commercial interests, would not assume or would not assume to the same extent or under the same conditions. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows : 
and (2) See attached Table 1. 
and (4) See attached Table 2. 
5 ) The answer to this part is not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Progress reports on projects assisted under the Transport (Planning and Research) Act 1974 are compiled in a summary form and published each year by the Commonwealth. The final reports on individual projects which are furnished on their completion by the States in accordance with the requirements of the Act, are not published by the Commonwealth. 
This answerisprovided in substitution for that given on15 February 1977. 
-The last Bureau of Roads report which was given to me and which was tabled in the House was provided in 197S. The new amalgamated body of the Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics has not yet embarked on the exercise of providing information to me for the purpose of drafting the legislation which will be introduced into the House during this session and which will become the Roads Grants Act. I would like to assure the honourable member, as I have assured every shire council around Australia, that the amalgamation of the Bureau of Roads with the Bureau of Transport Economics will lead to greater expertise, greater information and a greater capacity of that new body to provide correct information to the Government when making its decisions on road spending. I also advise the House that the amalgamated body will indeed be undertaking the normal roads needs survey which traditionally has been undertaken by the Bureau of Roads over the years. That will be done in consultation with local government authorities and with State government authorities, as is normally the case on each occasion. Therefore all this concern that is being expressed about the amalgamation of the Bureau of Roads and the Bureau of Transport Economics, in my view, is not real. In my view, the amalgamated body will serve this Parliament and this nation much better than the two separate bodies. As to the question of independence, the Bureau of Transport Economics was never a statutory authority, and I do not think any of its reports, all of which have been tabled in this House, have been challenged as to integrity, nor has the volume or the value of the work done by the Bureau of Transport Economics been challenged. I do not hold with the view that change will result in terms of independence because of the amalgamation of the two bodies. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory can be assured that the Tarcoola to Alice Springs standard gauge railway line will be completed- and, I hope, on schedule. It is fair to say that the Commissioner of the Australian National Railways,  Mr Smith,  has been looking at the sort of half way situation when the railway line to Alice Springs is more than half completed to see whether a stop point should be put in so that goods and freight can be offloaded onto trucks at that point and carried by truck to Alice Springs so as to move away from the old railway through Finke and Marree. He has been giving consideration to this matter to see whether it is practicable to make use of the newly constructed railway line that is already completed. No decision has been made on the matter. The honourable member can be assured that no decision will be taken unless it proves to be a much more economic and sensible form of transport in the interim period until the railway line is completed. 
I know that the honourable member is concerned that the Stuart Highway is not yet sealed. He will be pleased to know that $1 Sm has been made available for the national highway program in South Australia this year and that as the Eyre Highway is now sealed from one end to the other hopefully a great deal of progress ought to be made on sealing the Stuart Highway this year. The honourable member can rest assured that all the problems connected with transport services to Alice Springs are under constant consideration, and the Commissioner of ANR is as conscious as anybody else of the difficulties which will ensue should there be any lapse in transport services to Alice Springs. He is making sure that that does not occur. The railway line to Alice Springs is progressing satisfactorily and will be completed on time. 
-I have to say at the outset that there has been a great deal of ill-informed comment on the allocation of road funds in Western Australia. I can assure the honourable member that there has been a real increase in funds made available for local government. He will recall that in January this year we announced that an extra $3.2m was to go to Western Australia. Of that amount, $1.2m went to local government authorities. As well as that, from Western Australia 's share of the extra funds made available late last year, $1.4m went to local authorities. Even including those 2 sums on top of last year's grant, there is an increase in funds for next year, as will be seen from the legislation when I introduce it, of 18.7 per cent for rural local government authorities and of 53 per cent for urban local government authorities. This is part of an approach which we have taken as a government to assist local government authorities, as part of the espoused policy of the Government, the federalist policy announced by the Prime Minister in the election campaign. 
I should point out that there have been complaints in Western Australia about a reduction in the urban arterial funds. I again make the point that I made yesterday that in point of fact the Commonwealth contribution for urban arterial development in Perth has been running at 85 to 90 per cent. The figures for last year in respect of urban arterial development show that the Commonwealth put in $20.3m, and the State put in a mere $3.5m. If the Western Australian Government is as concerned as it says it is about the construction of the Kwinana Freeway and other freeways in Perth we believe that it should put something like SO per cent of its funds into urban arterial development. Insofar as the dictation of the Commonwealth in respect of the expenditure of this money is concerned, we have laid down categories for the Commonwealth funds. The total funds made available to Western Australia are $60.2m. That requires a contribution by the State of $40.2m. We do not in any way tell the State how to spend its $40.2m. The State is completely free to allocate its $40.2m to any road category that it wishes. In that sense the Commonwealth is not dictating to the States in respect of the expenditure of the moneys. The final point I should make is that part of the comment running in Western Australia is that the percentage share of funds made available to Western Australia has not been sufficient. I point out to the honourable member that the percentage share of funds to each of the States is based on a Bureau of Roads report, not on some arbitrary decision taken by me as Minister or by the Government in Canberra. . 
There is a clear understanding between the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development and myself in respect of these matters. The normal procedure that is followed is that where there is a heavy Commonwealth investment in any of the States, the environmental impact proposals are brought into operation. Where the States themselves have a heavy investment and the State has an environmental agency or authority, quite often the recommendations of that authority are satisfactory for Commonwealth purposes. I do not understand the basis of the honourable member's question and I do not think there is much foundation for it. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I associate the Government with the sentiments of the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  in respect of the late Hartley Cant. I do that with all sincerity. 
The purpose for which I rose tonight was fundamentally to address myself to the question raised by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  I appreciate the fact that he was good enough to notify my office that he proposed to raise the matter. I am aware of the compassionate concern that he feels very deeply for the bereaved of those involved in the air accident at Cairns in 197S. I am unable tonight to satisfy his demand and to explain the words in my letter to him. I propose, in the course of next week, to invite him to talk to me about this subject in the hope that I might be able to assist him and to satisfy his concern. I shall extend that invitation to him formally next week. 
Having said that, I thank the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  for his comments about my efforts to try to assist those people who live in that plagued area around Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. I appreciate the fact that he has noticed the actions which have been taken on his behalf. 
On receipt of the Joy report I immediately made it public and forwarded a copy to the State Minister for Transport in Tasmania. A number of comments have come back to me as a result of the report being made public. All those comments will be taken into account when the Government decides what approach it will take to the Joy report. I have informed the Tasmanian Government that no action will be taken in respect of the report until its own comments have been received as well. The Joy report confirms an observation I made in this Parliament early last year when I said that the Tasmanian railway system could be described as the worst State system. There is no doubt that neglect over the years by State Labor governments has led to this marked deterioration of the system. However, it is now Commonwealth property and I am the Minister who has to do something about trying to get the system straightened out. 
As to the rationalisation which might flow as a result of the Joy report, if this does cause redundancies I offer an assurance to the honourable member that any redundancy that occurs will be taken up through wastage of employees rather than by mass sackings or stand-downs. Quite clearly, some changes will have to occur in the railway system. The losses involved in the running of" the Tasmanian system at the moment are about $9,000 per employee. Obviously some rationalisation is needed. Otherwise that figure will increase more markedly. But I give the honourable member an assurance that every care will be taken to see that no hardship is created by that rationalisation. 
It is not correct to say that, as suggested in the honourable member's question, meals will cease to be served on the Tasman Limited. I must make the qualification that because of the lack of customers the standard of meals is to be reduced- I suppose that is the word to use- to light refreshments rather than the full fare that is presently being served. I make the point again that it is because of a lack of customers. If the honourable member wants to see a return to the full fare that is presently being served on the Tasman Limited, it would be necessary for him to encourage more people to use the dining facilities provided on that train. As to the second part of the honourable member's question, I have to say that again there is no truth in the suggestion that the parcels service will be abolished. What will occur, though, is that the parcels and goods services will be rationalised together. The same service will be provided after the amalgamation. 
My attention has been drawn to a report of a speech made by the Victorian Minister for Transport,  Mr Rafferty,  apparently last night. I have seen Press reports about it this morning.  Mr Rafferty  reminds me of the small boy who wants to play cricket and then says: 'If you do not give me the bat I will not play'. 
Rafferty 's rules certainly apply to the approach that  Mr Rafferty  has taken in his criticism of the Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting. In fact what  Mr Rafferty  said was that during the course of the ATAC meeting I listened with mild tolerance and then calmly rebutted the arguments of State Ministers. As the House knows, I am a very calm person but on this occasion the reason I was able calmly to rebut the arguments of the State Ministers was the facts which had been placed before me. The first argument related to the total level of funds. It is a fact that I was given $475m to offer to the States as the total level of Commonwealth funds for the ensuing year. I was not able to move from that position and the States had to accept that as a fact. But the major pan of the argument rested on the allocations in the categories. 

 Mr Rafferty made great play on the fact that we had supported the local government areas considerably more in these proposals than we had done previously. Of course we did that for several reasons. One was that in our federalist policy we said right from before coming into government that we would be looking to support local government and we have demonstrated that in the roads grants allocations. All through last year there were letters from both the Premier of Victoria and the Minister for Transport,  Mr Rafferty,  to local government authorities full of complaints about the lack of Federal Government support in this area. So we have demonstrated our real concern for local government authorities by upping our share of the funds for rural local roads from $ 10.7m to $ 19m- an increase of 77.6 per cent. We have also upped our share for urban local authorities, which have a very small base start, from $4.6m to $8.9m- an increase of 93.5 per cent. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for the interjection. I believe that the Commonwealth has been responsible in this matter and that it has demonstrated its concern for local government authorities. But really,  Mr Rafferty  has nothing to be proud about. The fact is that the Victorian Government's support for road building as a percentage of the total outlays has dropped from 5.2 per cent in 1970-71 to 3.1 per cent in 1974-75. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to repeal legislation enacted in 1964 to create the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. As honourable members know, a new professional research body is being created which will be responsible for coordinated research and advice to the Government on all aspects of the transport sector. This body will result from the amalgamation of the Bureau of Transport Economics and the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. It will carry on the existing functions of both bodies but be more broadly based and capable of initiating additional and more comprehensive investigations. The new body to be known as the Bureau of Transport Economics will be more effective, we believe, in undertaking and co-ordinating this related work than the present two separate organisations. 
In deciding to amalgamate the 2 bureaux, the Government has taken into account the changes that have occurred in the transport sector of this country in recent years and the background of the 2 bureaux themselves. The decision has not been taken lightly. There is growing world wide concern, shared by the Government at the enormous and increasing costs of transport. There is an urgent need to reduce those costs. To achieve this we need to employ the most efficient transport mode, or combination of modes, for each particular transport task in the most efficient way. There is a definite need to coordinate transport activities if the gains accruing from technological advances in industry are not to be eroded by the increasing costs of transport. As honourable members will be only too well aware, the cost of transport in a country as large and as isolated as ours is important to the welfare of the nation. As Australians, we must be prepared to use every opportunity to reduce transport costs while at the same time to improve our transport system. 
The Australian transport industry has not only expanded rapidly over the past few decades, but has undergone almost revolutionary changes in technology and organisation. It is incumbent on us as a nation to adapt to and to profit from those changes; to encourage further innovation; to maintain and improve the efficiency of the industry. We must always be ready and prepared to restructure our institutions in order to meet best our rapidly and continuously changing transport industry scene. Policy decisions in regard to one transport mode must take into account the implications for other modes. We should not invest huge sums in one particular transport area without first ensuring that the investment is soundly based and is meeting the requirements of the community. In this regard it is instructive to consider the enormous increase in the level of Commonwealth funds provided to the States for road construction, maintenance and associated purposes since the first Commonwealth assistance grants to the States for roads in 1 922-23. In that year a sum of $500,000 was provided. Next year, 1977-78, a total of $475m will be provided to the States for this purpose. 
Until the end of the 1950s, the actual needs for road works in the various States were not, in general, subject to any comprehensive analysis. Similarly, needs were not specifically considered when the total allocation of Commonwealth funds to the States was arrived at each year. By the late 1950s, with the great changes taking place in road transport, and the increasing level of roads expenditure, it became apparent that the methods of allocation were not satisfactory. There had in fact developed a need for an expert body to investigate and advise the Government on matters relating to roads and road finance. To cater for this need the Government established the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads in 1964. The Bureau's main function was, and I quote from section 14 (a) of the Bureau of Roads Act 1964: 
To investigate and from time to time report to the Minister on matters relating to roads or road transport for the purpose of assisting the Government of the Commonwealth in the consideration by the Government of the grant of financial assistance by the Parliament to the States in connection with roads or road transport. 
The Bureau was formed and constituted in February 1966 but did not become fully operational until 1967. By the beginning of 1969, however, the Bureau had reported to the then Minister detailing the road works it found to be warranted, the availability of resources to carry out those works and a resultant roads program. The Commonwealth Aid Roads Act 1969 was based on those recommendations. Since its first report the Bureau has produced two further major reports on roads in Australia. The present structure of Acts providing assistance for roads is largely based upon those reports. The Acts constitute a radical departure from the previous Commonwealth Aid Roads Acts. 
The Commonwealth Bureau of Roads has of course made a number of other important contributions to research in the transport field. It has been a leader and innovator in the fields of transport data collection and of analytical and evaluation procedures. It has developed and adapted these techniques to total systems of public works rather than the project approach which unfortunately is still predominant in many other public works areas. The Bureau's aim and achievement has been to provide a framework for evaluation of the medium to long-term outlook for road transport. It has been a leader in seeking and gaining public participation in the evaluation of programs. With such impressive achievements, the decision to change the operations of the Bureau has obviously not been taken without very deep and careful consideration by the Government. 
The other part of the new Bureau of Transport Economics arose out of the growing complexity of intermodal operations and the increasing importance of the transport sectors as a whole during the 1 960s. It became apparent that the Government required expert advice on all facets of transporting people, freight and raw materials and not just road transport. To provide that advice the Bureau of Transport Economics was created in 1971. 
The BTE, like the Bureau of Roads, is a professional research body with staff drawn from a number of disciplines. It provides expertise on all aspects of the Australian transport sector. Its organisation is different from that of the Bureau of Roads only in that it is attached to the Department of Transport. It is important to realise however that the BTE has similar autonomy to the Bureau of Roads. For instance, the Director has direct access to me as Minister for Transport on all matters relating to the Bureau's work. There is a considerable misunderstanding in the minds of some people who think that the BTE is a division within the Department of Transport and is thus subject to direct influence by the Department. It is true that the BTE receives administrative support from the Department of Transport. This allows for considerable cost savings but does not put the Department in a position where it is able to alter the professional advice the BTE gives. The BTE has no less and no more independence in this regard than the Bureau of Roads. The independence of the BTE's advice and its Director's free access to me as Minister are established facts. There will certainly be no erosion of these rights as a result of amalgamation. The new body will act as independently in undertaking research and supplying advice as the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads and the BTE have in the past. 
The principal role of the BTE has been to provide expert advice to assist the Government in formulating policy for the Transport area. Its advice has been related to the reduction of transport costs, the improvement of transport efficiency, the co-ordination of transport systems and the rationalisation of planning for future transport facilities. The BTE has carried out a large number of diverse studies of airports, harbours, railway and public transport systems and inter-regional transport flows. Its studies have covered a much wider field than that of the Bureau of Roads. I stress the important point however that those studies have inevitably involved assessments related to roads and road transport. There has been a necessary and inevitable transgression by the BTE into the Bureau of Roads field. 
In its shorter life span, the BTE, like the Bureau of Roads, has attained an impressive record of professional achievement. It has been accepted both in Australia and overseas as a highly competent research organisation in the transport field. More importantly, neither the integrity nor independence of its operation has ever been challenged. 
As I have already said, the Government gave very deep and detailed consideration to the ways in which the effectiveness of these 2 Bureaus might be further improved in order to meet changing industry developments and demands. For instance the Government sought and received advice from a number of sources including the staff of the 2 Bureaus before making its decision. Having regard to the nature of the work required to be undertaken, the related skills of the 2 staffs and the general scarcity of those skills and the high administrative cost of maintaining separate bodies, the Government concluded that the resources of the 2 Bureaus should be amalgamated to form a strong integrated transport research body. The benefits to be gained from amalgamating the 2 Bureaus are clear. The staffs of each Bureau will be able to gain a greater insight into the problems of the other, an insight and an understanding that is essential for the effective handling of transport problems and their optimal solution. The new BTE will enable the full weight of total available expertise to be brought to bear on specific, complex and vital transport problems areas. Scarce professional resources can be employed to the greatest advantage possible and considerable administrative savings can be achieved. 
In considering the question of an appropriate title for the new research body it was decided that, in view of the nature of the work to be undertaken, the title 'Bureau of Transport Economies', should be adopted. I make it quite clear, however, that such a naming does not imply that the amalgamation consists of absorption of one Bureau by the other, or that the functions of the Bureau of Roads will cease to exist. The reverse is the case. The new body will continue the present functions of both the present Bureaus. Its primary function will be to assist and advise the Government. Its duties will in part be to: 
Undertake evaluations of the Australian road situation as presently done by the Bureau of Roads. These will continue to be done, as in the past, by consultation in the broadest sense with State and local government authorites. It includes conducting investigations and reporting to the Minister on the matter of the need for financial assistance to the States for roads and road transport. 
Advise and assist the Government in its consideration of financial assistance to the States for roads and road transport. 
Advise and assist in the formulation of policies aimed at the reduction of transport costs. 
Undertake research and advise on the improvement of transport efficiency. 
Advise and assist on the rationalised planning of transport facilities. 
Advise on the optimal allocation of resources in the transport field. 
Assess and advise on transport planning and administration procedures. 
A secondary function of the new BTE will be to assist State and local governments, Commonwealth and State instrumentalities and the private sector to identify and solve transport problems and to plan developments with regard to transport. To achieve these functions it is clear that the new Bureau of Transport Economics will need to engage in a wide range of activities. These activities will include: 
The assessment of the performance of transport systems and equipment. 
Carrying out feasibility studies. 
Carrying out studies of resource use and availability. 
Carrying out studies of pricing and finance. 
The evaluation of proposed investments. 
Such a work program will, of necessity, involve considerable research activity. It will also involve a heavy task of data collection, collation and dissemination and close liaison with other related organisations. 
In addition to these activities, the new Bureau of Transport Economics will further develop the educational role of the old BTE by publishing papers and reports and conducting conferences and seminar courses. Such activities will ensure that the transport industry and persons working in associated fields are kept advised of all available information; that the greatest overall benefit will be obtained from the work of the new Bureau. As I have already said the new BTE will act independently of the Department of Transport in research activities and in giving advice to the Government. I repeat its Director will continue to have free access to me as Minister for Transport. That is the Government's clear policy and direction on this matter. In addition the reports of the Bureau will continue to be made public to the same extent and in the same way as they are now. 
There will be no restriction by the Department of Transport or any other Commonwealth department on the work or advices of the Bureau. Its offices will be as freely available to State, local governments, private enterprises and individuals as at present. There has been a degree of concern expressed at the Government's action in amalgamating the 2 Bureaus. This is quite understandable given the success the Bureaus have both enjoyed in undertaking their respective duties. I repeat, however, that those same duties will continue to be undertaken, but we believe to an even greater degree of success. The Government is confident that practice will show the new Bureau providing an even better service to governments at all levels and industry than the separate Bureaus have in the past. 
The purpose of this Bill is to repeal the 1 964 legislation which created the Bureau of Roads and I particularly draw honourable members' attention to the fact that in conformity with the Government's policies the rights of officers and employees of the Bureau will be safeguarded. I am sure that members of the Bureau of Roads who transfer to the new Bureau of Transport Economics will quickly appreciate the greater career opportunities available to them. There have been suggestions that the new BTE should be established by an Act of Parliament, that its powers, duties and procedures should be set out in legislation. The Government has given careful consideration to this question and has reached the firm conclusion that legislation is not required. The present BTE is not established by legislation but is attached to the Department of Transport. As I have already said, no one has ever questioned the integrity or the independence of the BTE. It has always operated with the same degree of autonomy that the Bureau of Roads has enjoyed. The new BTE will be able to react to changing circumstances. It will be able to move with the times rather than be rigidly controlled through legislation. 
I want to pay a tribute to the staff and members of the Bureau of Roads for the invaluable contribution they have tendered to this and previous Governments. In particular, I wish to express our appreciation of the services rendered by  Mr Harold  Loxton, who has been  Chairman  of the Bureau since its inception and who continued past his date of retirement in order to assist with the amalgamation of the 2 Bureaus.  Mr Loxton  guided the Bureau to its present position of high regard by the transport sector and the community in general and the Government commends him for his dedication and successes as  Chairman.  I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the following the figures given for the scheduled movements have been extracted from the airline schedules for 14 March 1977 to 20 March 1977 inclusive. The average number of aircraft taking-off and landing have been extracted from the records of actual aircraft movements for 1976. The difference between the two sets of figures in part ( 1 ) is partly due to the different time periods surveyed but mainly due to the difference between scheduled arrival and departure times and actual landing and take-off times. 
1 ) (a) (i) The daily average number of aircraft scheduled to arrive between 10 p.m. and 1 1 p.m. is 3.7. The daily average number of aircraft landing was 5.3. 
The daily average number of aircraft scheduled to arrive between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. is 6.6. The daily average number of aircraft landing was 3.9. 
(i) The daily average number of aircraft scheduled to depart between 10 p.m. and 1 1 p.m. is 1.4. The daily average number of aircraft taking-off was 2.2. 
The daily average number of aircraft scheduled to depart between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. is 1 1.9. The daily average number of aircraft taking-off was 4.0. 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The incident occurred on 10 December 1976 and the investigation was commenced that day. It has been a comprehensive and detailed investigation which is now nearing completion. 
No. In accordance with normal practice a report will be prepared and copies will be available to all interested parties. 
The investigation has been carried out by the Air Safety Investigation Branch of my Department; it has involved a number of officers of various classifications qualified in specialities associated with air safety investigation. In addition, personnel from the Department of Civil Aviation, Singapore, and Singapore Airlines Ltd have participated in the investigation. 
In this occurrence, and that which involved a Boeing 747 at San Francisco on 30 July 1971, the aircraft became airborne at or about the end of a runway. The investigation to date suggests that there are significant differences in the circumstances of the two occurrences. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No decision has been made regarding the proclamation of the Inter-State Commission Act 197S. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1)- 
I do not need a copy of the questionnaire but I thank the honourable gentleman for the offer. I will take up with the Permanent Head of my Department that part of the honourable gentleman's question concerning the questionnaire and reply to him. With regard to the main thrust of the question, I have been at pains to try to encourage a high morale in the staff of both the Bureau of Transport Economics and the Bureau of Roads in respect of the amalgamation. In fact, the present  Chairman  of the Bureau of Roads has been acting as the co-ordinating  chairman  to effect the amalgamation. I have every faith that he would have taken into account the feelings of the people who have worked behind him in previous years. But I shall have a look at the implications involved in the honourable member's question and reply to him again. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) None-the committee generously agreed to serve without payment of any kind. 
None in view of answer to ( 1 ). 
The committee provided their own support services, including travel, from within their own resources and without charge. 
In the circumstances as indicated by the previous answers I have not considered it appropriate to seek these details. 
The committee consulted widely within the aviation industry, conferred extensively with the Department of Transport and received submissions from individuals and some industrial organisations. 
This matter has been subject to long and protracted negotiations over a period. When I was in Japan I raised the matter directly with my opposite number, the Minister for Transport in that country. We had quite useful discussions about it. The entry of the  Australian Prospector  into the Japanese trade run is under negotiation at this time and I wish to make no comment on it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The conduct of the Study is the responsibility of a Committee of Commonwealth and State officials repotting to the Federal Minister for Transport and the New South Wales Minister for Planning and Environment. The Study 
Report will recommend to both governments a program to cater for Sydney's airport needs for the next 25 years. 
In reaching its findings the Committee will take into account all relevant factors- economic and financial, social, technical, operational, environmental and land use, and community attitudes. The Committee wiil inform, and consult with, other Commonwealth and State Departments and organisations, the airlines and unions, local government authorities, community organisations and other interested parties. 
Yes. However, consistent with Government policy to restrain public spending, consultants will only be drawn into the Study where absolutely necessary. 
Two consultants have been commissioned to assist in activities concerned with economic and financial analyses, and with public participation, environmental and incidence analyses. The estimated cost is $47 1 , 000. 
It is expected that a report will be available at the end of1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A number of airports have passed out of Commonwealth control (Papua New Guinea and those transferred to local councils). The following are the airports currently serviced by Avis under its concession contract: 
Queensland 
Brisbane, Archerfield, Bundaberg, Cairns, Coolangatta, Longreach, Mackay, Maryborough, Mt Isa, Rockhampton. Townsville, Charleville, Inverell, Weipa. 
New South Wales 
Sydney, Bankstown, Casino, Coffs Harbour, Cobar, Tamworth, Wagga, Williamtown, Norfolk Island, Broken Hill. 
Australian Capital Territory 
Canberra. 
Victoria 
Melbourne, Essendon, Moorabbin, Sale. 
Tasmania 
Hobart, Launceston, Devonport, Wynyard. 
-The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 

I assume the question is directed to the tenderers in 1968. There have been several other  ad hoc  queries subsequently from Budget Rent A Car and others. The 1968 tenderers were Avis Rent A Car System Pty Ltd, Alex Kay Pty Ltd and Hertz of Australia Ltd. 
The tender bids closed on 4 March 1968. 
Secretary, Central Business Board, Department of Civil Aviation. 
Kay and Hertz offered to service the 53 airports specified by the Department. Avis offered to service these and 2 1 more. 
Avis was the successful tenderer offering a minimum of some $2.058m over the 10 year contract period. 
f) The highest offer of Kay and Hertz was some $ I m less than the Avis offer. 
Motor Vehicle Hire at Airports (Question No. 442) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All companies operating rent a car businesses are permitted to service pre-booked clients at any of the airports nominated even though there is no obligation on the Commonwealth to give such permission. Those companies, however, are not permitted to solicit or conduct non-prearranged business at Commonwealth airports as these rights were granted at public tender to Avis Rent A Car System Pty Ltd. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I can inform the House that no one from the Commonwealth Government was involved in the negotiations for the floating dock to be built for the State Dockyard. The House will be interested to know that the cost of the proposed dock is about $8.6m. It will also be interested to note that the  Deputy  Premier of New South Wales stated that the cost was slightly less than half the cost quoted in one of the tenders from Australia and that the other tender which was put in by an Australian builder was dearer than that again. The interesting feature about the New South Wales proposal is that crocodile tears were shed by the Australian Labor Party over the building of Australian National Line ships in Japan. For example, I recall the honourable member for Port Adelaide moving in this House to condemn this Government for taking what we said was a proper, normal commercial decision in the light of the extravagant costs and of the failure of the State Dockyard workers to sign a reasonable social contract about strikes if the ANL ships were to be built here. Other Labor members as well joined in shedding crocodile tears. The fact is that it was complete humbug. The actions of the New South Wales Government now in ordering a floating dock overseas show that it cared not one whit for the workers at Newcastle in the Government's own dockyard. The whole thing was an act of complete political hypocrisy right from the start. 
The Commonwealth Government and Peko-EZ have completed negotiations on arrangements for the Government's stockpile to be made available to Peko-EZ to meet early deliveries under its existing approved uranium export contracts and an agreement has been initialled. I understand that Peko-EZ wants to clear the agreement with its Japanese customers before the agreement is formally executed. I am hopeful that discussions with Queensland Mines can be concluded at an early date. 
During the course of the last couple of days I have expressed concern and disappointment at the effects that the transport industry strike is having on Tasmania. As my colleague the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations has pointed out, some 4000 Tasmanians have been stranded or have been unable to return home because of the strike. Many hundreds more Tasmanians have been unable to undertake trips. There have been cases involving bereavement and hardship as a result of the strike. Of course the strike is disastrous for Tasmania, particularly in view of its isolation. 
As I understand it, the Australian Council of Trade Unions has, during the course of the last three or four years, agreed to place embargoes on strikes of this nature as they affect Tasmania. But both the  President  and the ACTU and the Premier of Tasmania have been very silent during the course of this strike in respect of the effect it is having on Tasmania. The Premier of Tasmania may have made some wild appeal to nobody in general terms about the strike, but in terms of specific action, the  President  of the ACTU has done nothing and the Premier of Tasmania has done less. All in all the people of Tasmania have suffered very seriously. 
The Government is concerned about the effects of strikes of this nature. The proposed amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act relate, among other things, to actions which have the effect of interfering with trade and commerce between the States. Section 92 of the Constitution guarantees protection of trade and commerce between the States. Clause 26 of the Bill before the Parliament to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act will enable the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to take appropriate action to protect Tasmania on future occasions. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. The report of the Board of Inquiry into the Victorian Land Transport system states on page 146 paragraph 14.82: 'This matter of the impact of present intersystem rating practices on traffic flows and of the likely bearing a change to through mileage rates would have on such flows and in the finances of railway systems appears one for the attention of the Bureau of Transport Economics . . .' 
and (3) Yes. 
Yes. The reference to the Bureau of Transport Economics is set out in full on page 1 of the BTE Report 'A Study of Intersystem Railway Freight Rating Practices'. 
In the BTE Report mentioned above published in November 1976 it states that factors other than price affected not only modal choice but also the directional flow of traffic. It also states that to the extent that the price of the transport service was the dominant factor influencing modal choice, the effect of present intersystem rail charges was to limit the volume of traffic to and from the Riverina carried under intersystem railway arrangements. 
A calculation was made in the Report based on certain assumptions and postulated through mileage rates for railway freight. This calculation indicated that, on the premises on which it was based, there would be a saving to wheat growers and the N.S.W. Treasury and that the Victorian Railways would have gained revenue. 
Copies of the BTE Report 'A Study of Intersystem Railway Freight Rating Practices' were forwarded to the Ministers for Transport in New South Wales and Victoria, the  Chairman  of the Victorian Railways Board and the Chief Commissioner of the Public Transport Commission of N.S.W. on 17 December 1976. The issue of intersystem railway rating practices, including those in the Riverina as dealt with in the Report, is under consideration by officials prior to reporting to Ministers. 
and (8) Yes. 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council has established 4 advisory groups, one of which, the Railway Group, consists of the heads of the various Government railway systems and the Secretary of my Department. It was considered that the Railway Group was the appropriate body to consider such matters as intersystem rail freight rates and these have been discussed at its meetings on 20 January, 5 May and 17 November 1976 and 4 February 1977. It is anticipated that the Railway Group will bring its recommendations to ATAC in due course.  1972 Convention on the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea and Off-Shore Industry Vessels  (Question No.  225) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The 1972 Convention on the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea and the question of off-shore industry vessels have been discussed with my State counterparts in the forum of the Marine and Ports Council of Australia (MPCA). The meetings at which these matters were discussed are as follows: 
Advisers meeting prior to first MPCA-Melbourne 24 May 1976. 
First meeting of MPCA-Hobart 28 May 1976. 
Advisers meeting- Sydney 16 June 1 976. 
Advisers meeting-Adelaide 23 August 1976. 
Working group of Advisers- Melbourne 4 October 1976. 
Advisers meeting-Perth 16 November 1976. 
Second meeting of MPCA-Surfers Paradise 26 November 1976. 
Advisers meeting following second MPCA- Surfers Paradise 26 November 1976. 
Working Group of Advisers- Melbourne 9 December 1976. 
Finality has not been reached on either of these matters which are at present listed for further discussions at the third meeting of the Marine and Pons Council of Australia. 
Australian National Line: Operations in Queensland  (Question No. 226) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member will be aware of the situation in relation to the unsuccessful attempts by the former Government to obtain access of ANL into carriage of general cargo intrastate in Queensland. Since the present Government came to office, Commonwealth and Queensland Governments have communicated on the matter with a favourable result. Correspondence between a Premier and Prime Minister is normally regarded as confidential and for this reason I do not intend to provide information in relation to correspondence between the Queensland Premier and the Prime Minister. Communications on the matter passed between me and the Queensland Minister for Transport on 24.5.76, 30.6.76, 24. 1 1 .76, and 7. 1 .77. Also I had discussions with the Queensland Minister on the matter on 8.7.76. Commonwealth and Queensland officials corresponded on 21.4.76, 30.8.76, 20.9.76 and met on 9.7.76 and 27. 10.76. 
The result has been an offer by the Queensland Government to take action to permit the Australian National Line to undertake the carriage intrastate by sea of cars, utilities, trucks, tractors, caravans, boats, earthmoving equipment, agricultural implements and over-dimensional loads which cannot be carried by rail. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. However, there was an error in the calculation and the total cost of the New Zealand visit should have read $3,482. (Note: The Department of Administrative Services is responsible for the payment of fares and allowances etc. for  Mr and Mrs Nixon  and to  Ms M.  Slater and the Department of Transport for the fares and allowances etc. for Messrs J. Rowland and K.. W. Thompson). 
That amount paid by Department of Administrative Services was incorrectly shown as $ 1 1,356 in the first edition of the explanatory notes to the Estimates of Expenditure for 1976-77 of the Department of Administrative Services. This was amended to $2,322 in an erratum sheet issued at the time of the hearings of Senate Estimates Committee 'A' on 5 October 1976. This is mentioned on page 212 of Senate  Hansard  (Estimates Committee A, B and C) of S October 1976. 
The honourable member's Question No. 2029 was placed on notice 5 working days before the House rose in the last Session of this Parliament. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) 1 50, out of a total Central Office staff of 1 680. 
) Staff are not required to give reasons upon resignation but those reasons given were as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The study of cost recovery in transport by the Bureau of Transport Economics is not yet completed. However, it is expected that the study will be completed in the near future. 
As with all BTE reports, the question of release of results will be decided when the study is completed and the draft report is available. Therefore I am currently unable to indicate firmly whether this particular report will be released. However I would point out that past experience indicates that BTE reports have been released whenever possible. 
The honourable member's question No. 2046 was originally placed on notice 2 days before the House rose in the last Session of this Parliament. 
Industries Assistance Commission Report on Crude Oil Pricing  (Question No. 278) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Industries Assistance Commission Report on Crude OU Pricing was referred to the Standing Committee on Industry Assistance. The member Departments of that Committee, which includes the Department of Transport, considered the implications of the study recommendations on all users of petroleum energy, including transport, and advised the Government of their findings. 
The proceedings of that Committee are confidential and are not available tor public release. 
The Prime Minister announced on 1 February 1977 that the Government is currently examining the oil pricing situation and had referred a number of questions to a Committee of Permanent Heads. When advice has been received from that Committee the Government will be in a better position to proceed towards a final decision on oil pricing. 
The honourable member's question No. 2047 was originally placed on notice 2 days before the House rose in the last Session of this Parliament. 
Airline 'Merpati': Services to Australia  (Question No. 279) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
) Darwin in Australia and Denpasar in Bali. 
Scheduled services. 
Once weekly. 
Our latest advice is that  Merpati  is owned by the Government of the Republic of Indonesia. 
Vickers Vanguard, though action is in hand to temporary licence the BAC 1-11 aircraft for this service. 
23 January 1972. 
Revenue passengers 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The honourable member will have noted that I announced at the ATAC meeting on 25 February 1977 the Government's decision on the proposed allocation of a total of $475 million for roads in 1977-78. 
I also advised the Transport Ministers that as far as funds for the subsequent 2 years are concerned 1 anticipate being in a position to advise on the level of funds to be made available by April. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) In reply to a recent question by the honourable member on this subject (Question No. 1858) I indicated the composition of the Interdepartmental Committee which was established to examine alternative methods of funding programs presently financed through Section 96 grants. The Committee was chaired by an officer of my Department but in accordance with previous practice in this House I do not propose to name the officers who have participated in the work of the Committee. 
As I indicated in my previous reply regular consultations are held between my Departmental officials and State officers on all aspects of transport, including the area examined by the Interdepartmental Committee. 
None. 
As indicated in the reply to Question No. 1858 the report of the Interdepartmental Committee contains reference to Cabinet deliberations and accordingly the contents of the report will not be made public. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) (a) Ansett Transport Industries on behalf of Mac. Robertson Miller Airline Services, on 4 March 1976, for charter services: (b) Transwest Air Charter (Western Australia), on 17 March 1976, for charter services: (c) Qantas Airways Limited, on 4 June 1976, for scheduled services. 
The Mac. Robertson Miller and Transwest applications, which did not comply with existing Australian Government policy on charter flights were not approved. Mac. Robertson Miller applied again in January 1977 for two specific affinity group charters from the Pilbara to Bali. These were approved subject to the usual policy requirements for affinity charter flights. The Qantas request is still under consideration with particular reference to the question whether Qantas B707 operations could be accepted in the light of existing facilities and services at Pilbara airports, which were not designed to accommodate such operations. 
The intitial Mac. Robertson Miller application received wide support from Western Australian members of Parliament, and from representatives of local government and local organisations in the Pilbara region. 
The honourable member's question No. 2082 was originally placed on notice the day before the House rose in the last Session of this Parliament. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Air Niugini, Lufthansa and Olympic Airways applied for new or additional landing rights in Australia during 1976. 
All applications have been approved. 
None of the applications involved traffic rights at Brisbane International Airport. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Preliminary statistics, including some estimations, indicate that 3 298 000 passengers departed from Sydney Airport during the year ended 31 December 1976. 
Of this total: 
internal (domestic) passenger departures accounted for 2 447 000 movements, comprising 2 387 000 scheduled Regular Public Transport and 60 000 Communter movements. 
international passenger departures accounted for the remaining 851 000 movements. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Commonwealth Government makes funds available to the States for road works. Road works include many different activities one of which is land acquisition. In the normal course land is acquired only where actual road construction is about to begin. 
However, in the major capital cities planned corridors or planning reservations have existed for upwards of 30 years. Because of the existence of these planning reservations property owners are often unable to sell their property on the market. There are legal provisions in each State which require the relevant Transport Authority to purchase land subject to planning reservations when the owner has good reasons to sell, but cannot find a buyer. This is called 'hardship acquisition'. The Commonwealth Government takes the view that in these circumstances it is reasonable to make funds available for purchase of such properties. 
Where the Commonwealth Government approval is restricted to hardship acquisition the conditions are strict and it would not be open to the Transport Authority to influence people to sell if they did not wish to do so. However where construction is included in a  current  program and Commonwealth funds are being used to acquire land for imminent construction the Transport Authority can and does influence people to sell. 
The approved 1976-77 Victorian Urban Arterial road program included a proposal for land acquisition in hardship cases only on the Hume Freeway between Bell Street and Clifton Hill at an estimated cost of $760,000. This proposal was submitted as a contingency item so that if an owner did request hardship acquisition, funds would be available. Approval of the proposal does not imply that land would actually be acquired. It would only occur as a result of the owner approaching the Country Roads Board with a request for them to purchase. 
This question appears to be based on a misunderstanding of what hardship acquisition involves. I should reiterate that because of the long standing existence of these planning reservations property owners are frequently not able to sell their properties on the open market. In these cases the initiative rests with the owner to approach the responsible State Authority and prove a genuine need for hardship acquisition. If genuine hardship is proven the authority is obliged to purchase the property. 
I have been advised that the State Government does not intend to start construction of the Hume Freeway for a number of years. However so that the Planning Reservation may be retained hardship acquisition has been approved in those cases where property owners wish to sell but are unable to do so on the open market. 
Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the Kellogg Foundation  (Question No. 4 14) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Bureau of Transport Economics is currently preparing estimates of Australian frieght movements for 1975-76. It is envisaged that separate publications will be prepared showing estimates of (i) sea movements; (ii) rail movements; and (iii) road movements, and total movements by all transport modes. 
Published estimates for (i) and (ii) above should be available later this year, and for (iii) in 1 978. 
I am able to confirm that the Joy report has recommended to the Government that the Tasman Limited be taken off the run. I have also received a recommendation from the commissioners of the Australian National Railways that, following the recommendation of the Joy report, the Tasman Limited be taken off the run. The honourable member may know that the annual loss incurred on the Tasman Limited service is about $650 000. That is a very heavy loss and therefore I have to give very serious consideration to the recommendations that have come to me. As I said to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development the other day, no action will be taken to withdraw the Tasman Limited without a proper examination of what effect such a withdrawal would have on Tasmania and the tourist industry in particular. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No such recommendation was made by the Steering Committee. In fact the comment to which you refer was made by the Consultants who were engaged to undertake the Study under the direction of the Steering Committee. It should be noted that the Steering Committee decided it should ' not us a Committee make any recommendations for action as a result of the study'. In addition to the report being made available to the New South Wales Government all documentation has been provided to the New South Wales Urban Transport Study Group for consideration. Any future action concerning the report is now the responsibility of the New South Wales Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For the twelve months ended June 1976, there were 40 305 aircraft movements at Rockhampton Airport. 
This total can be split into the following categories: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Steering Committee which reported on the Stuart Highway Corridor Study recommended that 2 routes be considered for the ultimate alignment of the Stuart Highway. In general both of these routes are in the vicinity of the present tuart Highway. The report proposed that a decision on which of these 2 routes should be adopted should take into account, in particular, the long term future of the Woomera Research Establishments' range. 
Consultations are taking place within the Commonwealth on these matters and, in addition, I have been in touch with the South Australian Minister for Transport. I hope that a final decision can be taken in the not too distant future. 
Foreign Fishing Vessels in Australian Waters  (Question No. 487) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
During the course of its inquiry the Committee reviewed all areas of operation of the transport business undertakings. Those parts of the Committee's report which raise issues of commercial significance related to the internal operations of some of the undertakings. 
and (4) I am currently in the process of discussing the report with the  Chairman  of the business undertakings. I envisage these discussions will be complete in the near future. 
5 ) As previously indicated, in view of the matters of commercial significance raised in the report I do not propose to table the report in the Parliament. 
The honourable member's question No. 2084 was originally placed on notice the day before the House rose in the last Session of this Parliament. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments to members of the Committee of Inquiry into Commonwealth Transport Business Undertakings were: Fees $4,455, Travelling Allowances $ 1 84. 
Fees are taxable income and travelling allowance is tax free. 
An Executive Officer and Typist were provided by the Department of Transport as support staff for the Committee. The following payments were also made in connection with support services to the Committee. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
As indicated by my predecessor's statement referred to in the question, it is difficult to be precise about the estimated date for the development of the National Highway System to acceptable standards. The Government is at present considering the level of road grants to be made to the States in the next legislation. However, as the completion date for the National Highway System will depend not only on the funds available in the next legislation but also on the level of grants in subsequent legislation, it is not possible at this stage to give a firm indication as to when National Highways will be developed to acceptable standards. 
Committee of Inquiry into Australian Government Transport Undertakings  (Question No. 271) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Movements in sea freight charges to exporters of wheat from Australia to the stated destinations and from mainland States to Tasmania are shown in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Commonwealth grants to the States for roads for the years 1971/72 to 1976/77, according to category, are tabulated below: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) to (3) My Depanment has examined the High Court judgment of 17 December 1976. 
From that examination it is not clear whether intrastate operations by the Australian National Line in Queensland would, in the absence of a reference of power from the State, be authorised by the Constitution. 
Of the 5 Justices who heard the case, three found that the Australian National Airlines Commission was empowered to carry on certain intrastate operations in Western Australia. 
However, two of those three relied solely on the Commonwealth's Constitutional powers in relation to territories. Accordingly, unless the ANL services related to a territory it might not be lawful for ANL to operate intrastate. 
It is evident from a majority of the judgments that the mere fact that intrastate services were incidental to interstate services would not be sufficient to make them lawful. 
I am aware of the proposal to build a coal loader in Botany Bay and of the importance of this coal loader to proposed new coal development in the electorate of the honourable member and the electorate of Macarthur. Whilst the New South Wales Government has given approval for other construction work at Botany Bay, it has not since assuming responsibility given approval for the construction of the Botany Bay coal loader. The responsibility lies clearly with the New South Wales Government. It is a matter which I will take up with that Government to see whether I can get some advance on the present situation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Approval has been given to raise the angle of the instrument landing system glide path on the western approach to Sydney Airport. 
(a) May 1977. (b) Present estimate is for work to be completed by end of 1977. (c) Necessary to completely replace all existing equipment. ( d ) New solid state glide path transmitting and monitoring equipment together with new antenna system designed to overcome adverse site characteristics. (e)$ 1 13,914. (f)2.67"(g) 3°. 
(a) (i) 453 feet; (ii) 761 feet; (iii) 915 feet, (b) (i) 467 feet; (ii) 8 13 feet; (iii) 986 feet. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the provisions of the Roads Grants Act 1974, roads in the Darling electorate come within two categoriesrural arterial and rural local roads. Of the total road system in the electorate, an estimated 6975 kilometres have been declared as rural arterial roads under section 3 of the Act. The remainder are rural local roads. My Department does not have enough information to enable a reasonable estimate to be made of the total length of these roads. 

Yesterday in answer to a question from the honourable member for Macquarie I explained that this matter lies squarely in the court of the New South Wales Government. I pointed out yesterday that whilst the New South Wales Government has made some decisions in respect of construction work in Botany Bay it has not yet made any decision in respect of the coal loader. It is a fact that a number of coal developments are planned for the region of concern to the honourable member and that a number of these projects cannot go ahead unless decisions are taken in respect of coal loading facilities. My understanding is that Balmain at the moment is handling something like its full capacity of coal going through that area and indeed is limited by the size of ship that can go into that port. There was a recent visit by a group from the European Economic Community interested in the prospect of purchasing further coal from Australia. The group was concerned that the largest ship that can enter New South Wales ports for the purposes of loading coal is 55 000 tonnes. 
It is clear that unless decisions are taken soon in respect of the coal loader in Botany Bay a number of projects will have to be deferred. Furthermore and equally importantly, as the honourable member stated, if the Botany Bay project does not proceed alternative facilities will be required. There will be tremendous environmental difficulties in providing alternative facilities in New South Wales involving both road and rail to a considerable extent and also at a considerable cost. All of these matters must be considered if these coal projects are to get off the ground. Again I point out to the House that this matter lies squarely in the hands of the New South Wales Government and certainly decisions need to be made fairly urgently. 
I should point out that the claims of the air traffic controllers are presently before the Public Service Board. I am hopeful that the proposed and intended strike as announced by the air traffic controllers will not proceed, but I would not profess to be terribly optimistic about that at this point, in view of the publicstatement made by the air traffic controllers themselves. I am aware of the immense significance that a strike of this nature could have to 
Tasmania. It has been drawn to my attention by the honourable member for Denison and his colleagues from Tasmania many times. I congratulate the honourable member on the initiative he has taken, firstly in having discussions with senior officers of my Department and then getting in touch with the  president  of the Civil Air Operations Officers Association of Australia in respect of this matter. Hopefully the air traffic controllers will listen to the pleas of the honourable member. Certainly, if they respond to the pleas by expressing the intention of still going ahead with the strike, I shall make sure that my Department co-operates fully to ensure that services to Tasmania continue if the strike eventuates. 
The matter which the honourable member raises is, of course, important. I am aware of the initiative he took as Minister for Transport to have the study made of the cost of electrification- 
There can be argument about that, so in the presence of  Mr Speaker  I will not enter into a debate. The facts are that the honourable member for Newcastle as Minister took an initiative to refer this matter to study to see whether the cost of electrification of rail services was a viable alternative to the present railway system. I am not sure whether the study is completed. 
I thank the honourable member for the information. I will make sure that my Department gets a report to me on it as quickly as possible so I can give the honourable member the information he seeks. 
-It is a fact that the air traffic controllers have a claim before the Public Service Board for a 36 per cent increase in their award salaries. It is also a fact that the average wage earned by air traffic controllers at the moment is at about the $18,000 mark for a 35-hour week and with many other reasonable conditions. I say that in the mildest manner. On 19 April, the Public Service Board advised the Civil Air Operations Officers Association of Australia that the earliest it could consider the pay claim would be the week beginning 2 May 1977. The curious thing is that on 20 April, the very next day, the Civil Air Operations Officers Association decided that unless a satisfactory response to its pay claim was received from the Public Service Board a national stoppage of air traffic controllers would be held for 12 hours from 12 noon tomorrow. So this decision was taken the day after the Association was advised that it was impossible for the Board to listen to its claim until about 3 May. 
The action of the air traffic controllers is regrettable. It will cause a great deal of inconvenience to the travelling public. It will be costly for individuals and the airlines. The matter is presently before a Public Service Board arbitrator who has called a compulsory meeting this morning at 1 1 o 'clock to try to find a way to avert this proposed stoppage. I hope that reason will prevail, that the men will continue to work and let the proper arbitral processes proceed. The air traffic controllers should let the Public Service Board make a proper judgment in a cool atmosphere and not have the matter heated up by industrial trouble. I believe that the decision taken by the air traffic controllers is not in the best interests of either themselves or this nation as a whole. I would urge them not to undertake their strike and to let the Public Service Board make its proper judgment in the way it ought to do. 
-The information that the Queensland Government had agreed to the Australian National Line calling at intrastate ports was conveyed to me yesterday by the Queensland Minister for Railways, the Honourable Keith Hooper. I informed him that the news was very welcome. I am sure that the honourable member for Dawson and the honourable member for Capricoraia- I must mention the lot, having mentioned one- 
-Administrative arrangements for the introduction of the south bound freight equalisation scheme are almost completed. I point out to the honourable member that there is a retrospectivity about the scheme so manufacturers in Tasmania will be able to take advantage of that. With regard to the second part of the question which related to fruit and vegetables, I would have to look at the schedules as proposed to be able to advise the honourable member more fully. I do not believe at this point that those particular products would be eligible. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Australian National Railways Act 1917. The main provisions of the Bill are necessary to enable the finalisation of the transfers of the South Australian non-metropolitan and Tasmanian railway systems to the Commonwealth. The opportunity has also been taken to make some other amendments of a minor nature. Honourable members will recall that the present Government, when in Opposition, did not oppose the legislation to approve the rail transfer agreements with South Australia and Tasmania on the grounds they were agreements between sovereign governments. This was the correct course of action for us to take. But that does not mean we were happy with the arrangements made. In fact I have made it very clear that in my opinion the Whitlam Government was taken to the cleaners, whilst the 2 State Premiers laughed all the way to the bank. As I have stated however we will honour the agreements, and will complete the transfers at the earliest opportunity. 
The 2 rail systems were transferred to the Australian National Railways Commission on 1 July 1975. The transfer Acts however provided for an 'interim' period during which the rail systems would continue to be operated and administered by the State Authorities, on behalf of and subject to the direction of the Commission. The purpose of the interim period was to enable the terms and conditions of employment that would be applied to all Australian National Railways employees to be determined, so that the State railway employees could transfer to the Commonwealth. Discussions with the unions concerned have now been going on for nearly 2 years, and it is clearly time that the matter be finalised to enable the Commission to manage the total system directly. Honourable members need to be aware of the difficulties involved. For instance there are 24 unions and associations involved in the discussions, and 26 different awards covering State and Commonwealth employees. In the wages area alone there are about 600 different classifications, many of them unique to the railway service. The main provisions of this Bill result from agreements already reached with the unions. Because of the urgency I earnestly ask those involved in the discussions to co-operate to the fullest extent to enable the remaining unresolved matters to be finalised. 
The Australian National Railways Commission was established as a statutory authority to operate along commercial lines. This is important. Australia cannot afford inefficiency or a waste of resources in this very necessary mode of transport. Part of the justification for the transfers was that the transfers would enable rationalisation between the systems leading to an increase in efficiency and a reduction in the deficits being incurred. The combined deficits of the two transferred systems amounted to $45m in 1976 and I do not underestimate the task that has been set the Commission. 
The Government has taken action already to assist the Commission in its task. Committees of inquiry were established under the chairmanship of  Dr Stewart  Joy, Chief Manager, Planning and Marketing, of the National Bank of Australasia, to inquire into and report on the Tasmanian rail system and the options available regarding the construction of a standard gauge link between Adelaide and the main east-west standard gauge railway. Reports on these 2 matters have been completed and released to the public. I have invited the 2 State governments and the Commission to comment on the reports and have given an undertaking that no decisions will be taken with respect to the reports' findings without careful and proper consideration of the various options and their implications. 
Rail services must be provided to meet the needs of the States concerned at the least cost to the community and inquiries such as these undertaken by  Dr Joy  will assist the Government and the Commission to decide how this is to be achieved. I am certainly heartened by the constructive approach taken by my State counterparts towards overcoming the Railways problems. I am confident that if we can continue to receive the co-operation of the States as well as that of the unions and employees improvements in operation and the level of deficit will occur. 
I now turn to the Bill itself. I have circulated an explanatory memorandum for the information of members but I will very briefly describe the purpose of the more important amendments in the order they appear in the Bill. Clause 5 removes the necessity for contracts, where ANR receives in excess of $100,000 to be approved by me, this having been inadvertently included in the last amendment to the Act. It is inconsistent with the commercial role of the Commission for my approval to be required in this matter. The requirement for me to approve leases of land exceeding 10 years has also been deleted as this matter is covered in the Lands Acquisition Act. Clause 6 removes the possibility of inconsistency between the setting of rates and charges under this Act and the provisions of the South Australian transfer Act and agreement which provide that relative advantages in rates and charges that previously existed are to be retained. 
Clause 9 amplifies the application of the discipline appeal provisions that occur later in the Bill, and the making of determinations relating to misconduct. A provision has also been included to assist in the proving, in court proceedings, that determinations under section 46 (2) of the Australian National Railways Act were validly made and in force at the appropriate time. Clauses 10, 14 and 19 concern the industrial jurisdiction that will apply to all employees of ANRC. The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission will replace the Public Service Arbitrator. These provisions are required to apply the jurisdiction of the Commission and include transitional provisions to simplify the change in jurisdiction. 
Clause 11 concerns superannuation. Section 5 1 currently provides that the Act does not authorise superannuation benefits otherwise than under the Superannuation Act 1922. It has been agreed with the South Australian Government that transferring employees will be permitted to remain in their State schemes if they wish, because some employees, particularly those close to retirement, would otherwise be disadvantaged. Transferring employees will have a once only option on the declared date either to remain in the State scheme or to commence as new contributors in the Commonwealth scheme. The South Australian Government has enacted legislation to this effect. The same offer was made to the Tasmanian Government, and it is expected that Tasmanian legislation to give effect to this offer will be passed at the earliest opportunity. The clause has been drafted on the basis that the same arrangements apply to employees in both States. Clause 12 relates to promotions and disciplinary appeal procedures that are to apply to all employees of ANR when the rail transfers are finalised. The major provisions concerning the protection of rights and functions of the boards have been included in legislation. Other matters are to be included in regulations and by-laws. 
Clause 13 repeals the section in the Act which provides for the retirement age of employees. It is proposed to deal with retiring age under the Commission's power to make determinations relating to terms and conditions of service, provided for under section 46 (2). This practice is consistent with that used by the Australian National Line and Trans-Australia Airlines. Clause 18 ensures that by-laws made by the Commission for the purpose of applying State legislation are validly made. This provision is required because uniform operating rules and provisions prescribing rates and charges may not be finalised by the declared date under the rail transfer agreements and it will therefore be necessary for the relevant State provisions to remain in force until replaced. Other amendments are either of a minor nature, merely procedural or of a consequential nature. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from  12.55  to  2.15  p.m. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a report prepared by the Department of Transport titled  Transport (Planning and Research) Act 1974, Report on Progress to 30 June 1976.  Due to the limited numbers available, reference copies of this report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. The report was produced at the request of State authorities, and provides an example of the cooperation between State and Commonwealth which is being achieved under the Act. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
A number of cases involving alleged breaches of Air Navigation Regulation I06A are being currently investigated by my Department in close association with the Commonwealth Police. 
The honourable member's question No. 2042 was originally placed on notice 2 days before the House rose in the last Session of this Parliament. 
Hospital Service in Wynnum/Redlands District  (Question No. 370) 
In line with the agreement on this matter, I move: 
That the business of the day be called on. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The question is: 'That the business of the day be called on'. 
Question put. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Fifth Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum entitled 'Towards a National Refining Policy' is still being studied by the Government and it would not bc appropriate to comment on its recommendations at this stage. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) The matters raised were referred to in the Fifth Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum. The Report is still under study and accordingly it would not be appropriate to comment at this stage. 
Transition from Secondary Education to Employment: Report of Working Party  (Question No. 229) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 5 ) The Fifth Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum entitled 'Towards a National Refining Policy' is still being studied by the Government and it would not be appropriate to comment on its recommendations at this stage. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, my attention was drawn to the report, and the position as stated by me in that report was correct. 
The honourable member will recall that, in answer to a question in the House on 1 7 February I indicated that I was in favour of the importation by IPEC of 2 Argosy freighter aircraft, and also the importation by Air Express Limited, a company not associated with  Mr Barton,  of 2 Carvair aircraft as replacements for that company's existing fleet of Bristol Freighters. 
) Yes. I received representations. 
The honourable member will also know that the right of the Secretary to the Department of Transport to issue the necessary permits to import the 2 Argosy aircraft which  Mr Gordon  Barton's company IPEC wished to place in service between Tasmania and the mainland, and also the 2 Carvair aircraft of Air Express Limited, was challenged in the High Court of Australia by Ansett Transport Industries Limited. 
Ansett Transport Industries Limited obtained an interim injunction from the High Court restraining the Secretary from giving import permits to both IPEC and Air Express. 
Arguments on the question of law were heard before the full High Court, and on 4 March the High Court reserved its judgment. The High Court has not yet handed down its judgment, and in the meantime the injunction against issuing the import permits remains in force. 
To answer the question, without necessarily accepting the wording leading up to it. I can say that the Government has no present intention to terminate the agreement. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(D- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
2 ) The accusation is not justified. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1). (2) and (6). The Government has repeatedly indicated that its policy is to allow the export of reasonable quantities of natural gas to make the North West Shelf project viable and to encourage further exploration. 
Proposals for the development are being examined by the Commonwealth and Western Australian Governments. Amongst other things the proposed level of exports is being examined against reasonable expectations of Australia's future requirements of natural gas. 
and (5). The Department of National Resources has on its staff a wide range of expertise relating to all aspects of energy, including natural gas. It also has access to information resulting from consultations with relevant organisations outside Government. Also, machinery exists for consultation with the States through the Australian Minerals and Energy Council, and the recently established National Energy Advisory Committee will be a valuable source of advice on energy matters to both the Department and the Minister. 
The report was commissioned by the Pipeline Authority, an independent statutory body, with the approval of the Government as indicated in my answer to Question 998 of 2 1 October 1976. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I am advised that the ANR workshops at Port Augusta are being utilised for fabrication of steel girders for bridges on stage 2 of the Tarcoola to Alice Springs project between Robin Rise and Marla Bore. However north of Marla Bore the girders for the proposed bridges require more complex fabrication and the workshops at Port Augusta do not have the most suitable equipment available for this work. The Commission has decided therefore to have the steelwork fabricated at the ANR workshops at Islington, which does have the special equipment suitable for this work. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1). (2) and (4) During heatwave conditions with sustained temperatures above 38°C, the probability of heat induced faults occurring in welded rail track increases and usually reaches a peak on the third day of such conditions. Under these circumstances, track inspection patrols are extended until dusk to ensure that any potentially dangerous faults that may occur in the track during the latter part of the day are detected. Details of faults detected are immediately relayed to the district railway engineer who imposes speed restrictions as may be necessary. 
There were no reductions in the maximum allowable train speed of the Indian Pacific train due to sustained high temperatures over the section of line between Broken Hill and Peterborough during the summer of 1976-77. 
Domiciliary Nursing Care  (Question No. SOS) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, I am aware that British Airways is providing one flight per week with a scheduled elapsed time of 23 hours and 45 minutes. 
Qantas will be providing four flights per week, commencing in June 1977, with a scheduled elapsed time of 24 hours and 25 minutes. 
Thai International: Landing Rights at Melbourne  (Question No. 548) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) These matters are receiving consideration by an Interdepartmental Committee examining the 6th Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum and it is therefore inappropriate for me to comment at this stage. 
Some years ago tests were conducted by the State Electricity Commission of Victoria on the use of compressed coal gas as an automotive fuel. Tests have also been conducted by the South Australian Gas Company (SAGASCO) on the use of compressed natural gas for this purpose. However, because of the heavy weight of the necessary gas cylinders in relation to their energy carrying capacity it was concluded that such alternative fuels are impractical. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (4) The Sixth Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum entitled 'The Use of Liquefied Petroleum Gas in Australia', is currently the subject of study by the Government, and any comment on possible Government action on this Report would be inappropriate at present. 
and (3) Yes. The Bureau of Transport Economics published a report in April 1974 entitled 'Liquefied Petroleum Gas as a Motor Vehicle Fuel'. This Report concluded that there were no potential savings to be made by converting Comonwealth vehicles from petrol to LPG. 
The matter of the current lead phase down programs was covered by the Royal Commission on Petroleum in its Fifth Report. This Report is still under study by the Government. 
At present LPG plays a minor role in supplying Australia's domestic energy needs, contributing only 2 per cent of the total petroleum energy used in 1975-76. The export of naturally occurring LPG however makes a significant contribution to export earnings. 
On 10 February 1977  Mr Anthony  announced the establishment of a National Energy Advisory Committee to advise Government on energy matters and assist in the formulation of a national energy policy. The role of LPG in such a policy will be the subject of study and advice from this Committee and also in the context of the Minerals and Energy Council. It is the policy of the Government to encourage the use of LPG in commercial vehicles and fleets. 
No. The Government maintains export controls over the vital area of petroleum including LPG and these controls will be maintained to ensure that domestic requirements are met. 
Report of Royal Commission on Petroleum: Liquefied Petroleum Gas (Question No. 169) 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
1 ) This is a matter for my colleague the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. 
2 ) and ( 3 ) Yes. These reports are currently under study. 
The second part of the question is tied very much in a way to the first part. I have not yet received the report from Qantas Airways Ltd or my Department on the alleged incident. When that report is received, of course it will be given serious consideration. I do not intend to make any prejudgments on the issue; nor do I intend to make any prejudgments about the levels of alcohol that might have been consumed by the participants in the alleged incident. I think it far better to wait until I receive a report, and I will consider both matters raised by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The proportions of the Commission's research budget for operating expenditure during the financial year 197S-76 at the Lucas Heights Research Establishment were as follows: 
Research into the effects of waste products of nuclear reactors on organic matter, 0.9 per cent; 
Research into new or improved disposal methods of nuclear waste products, 2.2 per cent 
Corresponding estimates for the financial year 1976-77 are 0.9 per cent and 2. 1 per cent respectively. 
The major interest of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission in the field of waste management is concerned with wastes from mining and milling of uranium ores. Assessment and research effort in this field, together with supporting studies and site operations, accounted for 1 l.S percent of the 1975-76 research budget, and an estimated 10.1 per cent of the 1976-77 budget. 
Australian Broadcasting Commission: Notes on the News (Question No. 443) 
I suspect that the honourable member is giving information to the House. 
I move: 
In proposed new section 54b. (2) (a), omit  'Australian',  insert  'Commonwealth'. 
The honourable member will recall that back in 1975, on re-election, the Government considered the use of the word Commonwealth' in appropriate places and the use of the word 'Australian' in appropriate places. In this context the word 'Commonwealth' is more appropriate. 
-It is a fact that the previous Administration sought to raise 80 per cent in a cost recovery program by 1978. The House will recall that, on assumption of government, we put a stop to that. The program required an increase in some charges of up to 300 per cent in the 1975-76 financial year to enable the Budget target to be met. The Government has the matter under review. The honourable member's figure of 1 14 per cent is not correct if applied to all aviation in Australia. In fact, a 1 14 per cent recovery applies in particular to international aircraft flying into Australia. The reason for the over estimate of recovery arises from the fact that there was a greater number of aircraft movements than expected, including the movements generally of international aircraft into and out of Australia in this year. The average recovery rate of all sectors of aviation now rests at about 60 per cent. I can give the honourable member some percentages that are fairly accurate. The recovery rate is about 114 per cent for international operations, about 73 per cent for the major domestic operators, about 26 per cent for rural airlines such as East West Airlines Ltd and about 18 per cent for general aviation. That is about the level of cost recovery at the present time. 
The other point I must make is that the international operators are tied to the 2-airline policy in respect of the rate of recovery. Until the 2- airline policy is reviewed we are unable to change the rate of recovery for the major domestic operators as distinct from the international operators. Of course we will be looking at the situation in the Budget context. 
-It is a fact that the Leader of the Opposition has asked questions on this matter. He will be particularly pleased to know that with the introduction of the freight equalisation scheme the Government went beyond what  Mr Nimmo  recommended. It did so simply to assist 
Tasmania. I am sure I do not need to spell out the details of that assistance to the Leader of the Opposition. He no doubt has studied this matter and applauds the Government for the action it has taken. 
Insofar as the recommendations of the Nimmo Committee are concerned, work has been done in respect of a new service between Westernport and Tasmania. The Leader of the Opposition will be delighted to know that not only has the Australian National Line been doing work but also private enterprise separately has been doing work. I hope that one part of the studies will shortly come to a sensible conclusion. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill has two purposes- to amend the National Roads Act and the Roads Grants Act by providing an additional $3.2m Commonwealth financial assistance to the State of Western Australia for road works in the current financial year; and to amend these two Acts and the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act and the Transport (Planning and Research) Act by making provision for State expenditure on payroll tax to be eligible funding under each of these Acts. The proposed increase in financial assistance to Western Australia is necessary to ensure that no State receives less financial assistance for roads than in the previous year. The extra amount of $3.2m will bring the total road funds allocated to Western Australia for the year 1976-77 to $5 8.8m, this being the amount received by that State in 1975-76. 
Consequent upon this Bill the National Roads Act and Roads Grants Act will provide for a total allocation to the States in 1976-77 of $436.7m after allowing for the additional funds provided for in the Bill. As honourable gentlemen are aware, the Government has consistently acted to ensure that the needs of local government are provided for and the proposed allocations, adopted after consultation with the State Government, will assist local government by providing funds for the improvement of the rural road system in Western Australia. The House will be aware that there have been a number of queries regarding the eligibility of payroll tax as State funding under these Acts and the Government has decided to clarify the situation by the proposed amendment. 
I now turn to the Bill, which comprises 4 Parts. Part I sets out the usual preliminary information; Part II, Clause 3 to Clause 6, relates to the National Roads Act; Part III, Clause 7 to Clause 1 1, relates to the Roads Grants Act, and Part IV, Clause 12, to the payroll tax provisions. The allocations to the different road categories are set out in the detailed schedules included in clause 6 in respect of national roads and export roads and in clause 1 1 in respect of categories for the Roads Grants Act categories. The Bill provides for the additional amount set out in the schedules to be added to the 1976-77 appropriations. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
-in reply-I welcome the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  back into the Parliament. In some 18 months in Opposition he has been far too silent. It seems that the Opposition is now starting to get a voice in transport matters. The whole thrust of the honourable member's remarks was based on an assumption that the Labor Party Government when in power would achieve cheaper freight rates. That was the thrust of what the honourable member said. He said the Labor Party pledged to obtain cheaper freight rates. I remind the honourable member of one freight rate. In 18 months freight rates to Tasmania went up by 67 per cent under the guiding hand for cheaper f reight rates of the honourable member for Newcastle. I have never heard such nonsense in my time in the Parliament. I welcome the honourable member back to transport debates. At least there will be some life in them if he maintains his form. 
He talked about the agreement between himself and the Ministers for Transport in South Australia and Tasmania and the Prime Minister and the Premiers of those States. He said that they agreed on these proposals. Of course they agreed. Cannot every honourable member see Premier Dunstan and Minister Virgo laughing all the way to the bank. The fact is that they took you to the cleaners, Charlie, and you know it. Why does the honourable member not admit that? Is it any wonder there was an agreement. It is like having a bad penny and selling it for 20c down the street. Good heavens above! 
All the honourable member for Newcastle did was to buy out the South Australian railways with large sums of money. But did that or will that lead to cheaper freight? It will only lead to cheaper freight rates, having regard to the high recognised capital which is now put into the system, if the Australian National Railways can, by having a cold, hard look at the system, achieve more efficiency. It is no thanks to the honourable member for Newcastle if that is secured because he paid a high price for the system. As for the price he paid for the Tasmanian system, I think the less we say about that, the better. The honourable member said that he made an offer to all States. But with the other States he did not get to the dotted line on the cheque. He was over generous to his Labor confreres in South Australia knowing that they had a couple of elections coming up. He wanted to buy them out of trouble. But he did not get to the dotted line on the cheque with Victoria and New South Wales. What else did he do while he was being so generous to the railway system in South Australia? In a 3-year road program he cut support to shires in Victoria from $ 16.1m in the last year of my program to $4.7m in the third year of his program. That is how the honourable member financed his railway system. 
-No, it was not the Bureau of Roads report at all. I suggest that the honourable member have another look at the figures. He went far beyond the Bureau of Roads report. He complained because we reintroduced the superphosphate subsidy, totally ignoring the fact that the Industries Assistance Commission recommended its continuation. But because of some blind prejudice or blind ideological hang-up and using  Dr Coombs  as an axeman, the Labor Government cut out more assistance to industry, which is the fundamental starting point for the development of this country, than did any government in 30 years. That was the sorry record. All this was done so that he could give the Premiers of South Australia and Tasmania a golden handshake. I freely confess that I tried to get out of the agreements. The taxpayers were done in the eye by the golden handshake that the ex-Minister gave to those 2 States. I think the less he says about these matters the better. 
One other point I should make is that the honourable member for Newcastle accused me as Minister of taking over his programs and having no initiative at aU. He ignored the fact that the national highways program was laid on his doorstep when he came into office in 1972, and all he had to do was institute it. He ignored the fact that the urban transport program was a report that was lying on my desk ready for him to pick up and implement when his Party came into power. He ignored the fact that in the road safety area I had had a study done which recommended setting up an authority, and all he did was pick it up and implement it. I cannot think of one separate initiative, apart from buying out with a golden handshake the railways in South Australia and Tasmania, that the exMinister ever took. However, I welcome him back to the debate. 
Yesterday several members raised a number of questions which need answering. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  who led for the Opposition, asked why we had cancelled the second rolling stock program for 800 wagons. I should tell him that the cancellation followed advice to a meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council from the raU group which had been considering the matter and believed that the order was not required at this stage. I trust that answers the honourable member's query. He also asked why the Australian National Railways annual report for 1975-76 had not been tabled. Again, this relates to the complication of having taken over the South Australian and Tasmanian systems, which are still being operated by the States on behalf of the Australian National Railways. Their annual accounts are prepared and are then subjected to State audit. The Commonwealth AuditorGeneral has requested that composite accounts be prepared covering the total system, and there has been a problem m the valuation of assets for transferred equipment and buildings, particularly in South Australia, where the problems were magnified because of the SPlit between metropolitan and non-metropolitan railways. This work is nearly completed, and the report is close at hand. I hope that I will be able to present it to the Parliament within the month. 
The honourable member raised the question of raU electrification by Sofrerail, and that matter was also raised by the honourable member for Newcastle in a question to me in the House the other day. A report has been received and distributed to State Transport Ministers and aU raUway commissioners and Will come under consideration in the normal ATAC forum. 
-I think it was 9 March. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! With the last 2 speakers I allowed some latitude with interjections. Now that the Minister is answering questions, the House would be better served if he were heard in silence 
-I have provoked him,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I apologise. The honourable member and I had a decent joust when I sat on that side of the House and he sat on this side. I think it only fair that he be given a chance to joust back. The honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  raised the question of the increase in the Leigh Creek coal freight rate. He would know that the coal has been carried for a number of years at a loss. The freight rate negotiation has been going on for a number of years. Indeed, it may have  Deen  carried on through the period of my predecessor. Certainly I have been pushing as hard as possible to get a sensible freight rate. Negotiations are still going on, and only today I met with the South Australian Minister for Mines,  Mr Hudson,  to discuss the matter further. The honourable member also asked about the possibility of selling off houses owned by ANR in Port Augusta to the retiring employees who are occupants on retirement. 
-All employees, if you like, but the answer is still the same. The ANR does subsidise its houses which are let to its employees and has indicated in the past that the provision of housing at a low rental is an inducement to securing the employees it wants there. If it lets the houses go from the stock it would have to build more and therefore is unable to agree to the proposition put forward by the honourable member. The question of  ex gratia  payments to the Port Augusta Council in lieu of rates was raised by the honourable member for Grey. I should point out that the ANR basis of  ex gratia  payments in lieu of rates is for full rates when ANR residences front council streets, and 66% per cent of full rates when residences front streets owned by and maintained at cost to the ANR. They also pay road moiety charges on top of that. In respect of properties used for functional purposes, such as workshops, stations and marshalling yards, the Australian National Railways is not required to pay rates and this is consistent with the practice in relation to other Commonwealth instrumentalities. I thank honourable members for the contributions they have made. I will have the debate combed through and if other points were raised which I have missed I will get an answer to the honourable members who raised them. I shall move at the appropriate time the amendment suggested by the Opposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 13- by leave- taken together. 
In respect of clause 6, I am able to give the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  the assurance that he seeks. In respect of clause 1 1, there is correspondence at the moment between the South Australian Government and ourselves on the matter raised by the honourable member. I have no doubt that agreement will be reached on the outstanding issues. I missed the point the honourable member was making in respect to clause 12 because of the noise in the chamber at the time. 
The Commission may appoint a person having the qualifications prescribed by the by-laws to be the  Chairman  of a Promotions Appeal Board. 
Would it be possible for a set of circumstances to occur in which the same person could be appointed  chairman  of a Promotions Appeal Board and, at the same time or at another time, be appointed  chairman  of a Disciplinary Appeals Board? I also ask at what stage of preparation are the draft by-laws. 
In respect of clause 12, there is no apparent reason why the same person could not be appointed, as sought by the honourable member. I suppose it would depend upon the considered capacity of the person under consideration. But there is certainly nothing against such a proposition. 
I cannot answer the question. In respect of the draft by-laws I will have to find out exactly when they will be available for consideration. In respect of clause 13, as I understand it from the honourable member's comment, he is seeking an assurance that the employees presently employed in the South Australian Railways, who nave an advantage in respect of retirement age, will have that position protected. Is that what the honourable member is seeking? 
-Consideration of that matter has been deferred and will be put together with general matters in respect of the common code for agreement with the unions. It is anticipated that the matter will rest finally with the Commission, and any employee can in the normal way apply to his employer, seek to be heard and succeed with an application to retire at the age provided for under the arrangements with his present employer. 
I cannot give the assurance because the matter is under discussion between the unions and the Commission at this point and I do not want to pre-empt what might come out of their discussions. But if there is concern within the unions themselves they will be able to raise the matter directly with the Commissioner during the course of the negotiations. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 14. 
After Division 1 of Part III of the Principal Act the following Division is inserted:- 
Division 2- Powers and Functions of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in respect of the Railway Service 54a. (1) In this Division, unless the contrary intention appears- 54b. (1) The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is empowered- 
to prevent or settle, by conciliation or arbitration, industrial disputes in respect of the Railway Service; and 
to hear and determine industrial questions in respect of the Railway Service submitted to it. 
In relation to an industrial question in respect of the Railway Service, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission may, where it thinks it proper to do so, make an award that, in the opinion of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, is not, or may not be, in accordance with this Pan or with any other law of Australia relating to salaries, wages, rates of pay or terms and conditions of service or employment of officers and employees of the Australian National Railways Commission, not being- 
the  Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Act  1 97 1 ,  Long Service Leave ( Commonwealth Employees) Act  1976 or the  Superannuation Act  1976; or 
b ) any other prescribed Act or the prescribed provisions of any other Act. 
I appreciate that the honourable member for Shortland recognises the importance of the word. I think it has other fundamental meanings that are more important to the people of Australia than the fact that it has any connection at all - 
Even in origin, with the socialist world. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 15 to 17- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 18. 
Section 88 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by inserting in sub-section ( 1 ), after the words 'not inconsistent with this Act', the words 'or with the regulations'; and 
by inserting after sub-section (I) the following section:- (lA) The by-laws may prescribe any of the matters referred to in sub-section ( 1 ) by applying, adopting or incorporating, subject to such modifications or adaptations (if any) as are prescribed by the by-laws, the provisions of any Act of the State of South Australia or of the State of Tasmania that relates to the Railways in that State or of any regulations, rules or by-laws made under such an Act. '. 
I move: 
After paragraph (b) add the following paragraph: 
by omitting sub-section (4) and substituting the following sub-section:- "(4) Sections 48 and 49 of the  Acts Interpretation Act  1901 apply to by-laws in like manner as they apply to regulations.".'. 
The amendment is one which the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  and the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  sought and is one to which the Government has agreed. In moving this amendment to allow the application of the Acts Interpretation Act with respect to by-laws, I point out to the House that it is now normal for by-laws as well as regulations to be subject to the disallowance provisions contained in sections 48 and 49 of the Acts Interpretation Act. The Australian National Railways Act, since its inception in 1917, has not given the Parliament the power to disallow bylaws. This amendment will correct that position to bring the Act into line with both the Australian Coastal Shipping Act and the Australian National Airlines Act. The Government supports the amendment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Atomic Energy Commission has not decided to build a new reactor at Lucas Heights. As was stated by  Senator Withers  on 17 August 1976 in response to a question without notice by  Senator Keeffe  (Senate  Hansard,  page 38), the Commission has been making a detailed study of the Australian requirements for research reactor irradiation facilities to the end of this century. The study is taking account of the reactor needs within the community for both scientific research and radioisotope production for medical and industrial purposes. 
, (3), (4) and (3) The first phase of the study has been completed, but no further action has yet been taken. Consequently cost estimates, schedules, capacity or discharge are not as yet known. 
In his letter of 2 1 March 1977 to the honourable member, the Minister for National Resources advised him of correspondence between the Sutherland Shire Council and the Commission on this matter. 
The study has not yet reached the stage where an environmental impact statement is appropriate. 
I am not aware of the information that the honourable member has provided in respect of the proposal to build a slip road across railways tracks other than a proposal that was put to me by the Tasmanian State Minister for Transport that some arrangement be made with the Australian National Railways to overcome the traffic problems of Hobart in such a fashion. Again, I cannot give the honourable member any information in respect of the proposed rental of buildings other than information related to the Joy report. The honourable member will know that the Joy report contains a number of proposals in respect of the Tasmanian railway system. These proposals are presently under consideration by both this Government and the Tasmanian Government. No decisions will be taken in respect of any of these matters until the Government has firmly considered the proposals. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The honourable member is no  doubt aware  that the phrasing of these parts of his question is not appropriate for a parliamentary reply to be provided. 
Cheque for $50,000 was drawn on 22 April 1976. Cheque for $83,333 was drawn on 24 June 1976. 
The cheques were presented to the Bank of N.S.W. Collins Street on 22 April 1976 and 24 June 1976 respectively for telegraphic transfer to Connair in Alice Springs; they were thus cleared on the dates indicated. 
The honourable member's question was originally placed on notice 2 days before the House rose in the last session of this Parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1974-1 17 328, 1975-132 980, 1976-137 119. 
(a) 1974-785, 1975-4153, 1976-32 246. 
1974-274 819, 1975-291 238, 1976-292 674. 
Compensation for Fraser Island  (Question No. 498)  Mr FitzPatrick  asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) Further to my question without notice on 1 1 November 1976  (Hansard,  page 2595), what compensation has been paid to the Queensland Government for the cancellation of export licences for minerals from Fraser Island, to date. 
Has the Commonwealth Government placed conditions on its offer of $ 10m compensation, namely that the State Government forgo its rights to High Court action, and that the $ 10m is to apply to the labour content only of compensation projects. 
If so, has the Queensland Government expressed concern at the conditions and the amount of compensation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Insofar as can be ascertained from departmental records  Mr L.  J. Gruzman, Q.C, has received permission to fly aircraft out of Australia on 3 occasions in recent years, viz. 1 972- 20 June, Sydney to United Kingdom 1973- 1 May, Sydney to United Kingdom 1 976-3 September, Sydney to Port Moresby. 
Booklet:  The Newcomer and the Law  (Question No. 537) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I commissioned the study following representations made to me and to other Ministers in late 1973 and early 1 976 mainly by the North-South Highway Committee which is based in Mildura with a branch in Broken Hill. 
and (4) I agreed to the study being undertaken by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads and its report was tabled in Parliament on 5 May 1976. In brief, the report showed that the construction of the road in question was not justified at this stage. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) 10 killed and 29 reported seriously injured; (b) 4 killed and 10 reported seriously injured. 
Early in January 1977, 1 wrote to all State Transport Ministers, setting out the Commonwealth philosophy in relation to the control of hang gliding. In that correspondence, I pointed out that an Air Navigation Order had been issued laying down conditions to ensure the safety of third parties and other airspace users. I also stated that the Commonwealth did not wish to restrict the freedom of persons wishing to undertake an essentially sporting activity, notwithstanding the hazard to participants. I advised the Ministers that, with this in mind, it was intended to encourage hang gliding organisations to form a single federated body with the aim of achieving self-regulation and thus increasing the safety standard of the sport. In this regard, my Department convened a meeting of all known hang gliding organisations on 2 1 March 1977 and it was agreed at that meeting that a federal body would be formed and that safety standards would be formulated by that body. The whole question of hang glider operations was discussed with State Transport Ministers at an Australian Transport Advisory Council Meeting on 25 February 1977 and the courses of action being pursued by my Department were endorsed at that meeting. 
Beef : Imports from New Zealand  (Question No. 665) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australian National Airlines Commission- Trevor Ashmore Pyman, First Assistant Secretary, Department of Transport, Salary $28,623. 
Australian National Railways Commission- Colin William Martin Freeland, First Assistant Secretary, Department of Transport, Salary $28,623. 
Australian Shipping Commission- Rae Martin Taylor, Deputy Secretary, Department of Transport, Salary $30,907. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Attorney-General recently appointed  Sir Nigel  Bowen as Arbitrator under the Airlines Agreements Act. 
Interdepartmental Working Party on Interpreters and Translators  (Question No. 809) 
This answer to the honourable member's question is in substitution for that which appeared on page 974 of House of Representatives  Hansard  of 1 9 April 1 977: 
1 ) 1 50, out of a total Central Office staff of 1 960. 
) Staff are not required to give reasons upon resignation but those reasons given were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-It is a fact that, in line with international practice, we have reduced the embargo on drinking by airline pilots from 12 hours to 8 hours. It is not a fact that this is not supported by the Federation of Air Pilots; it supports the reduction. It is a fact that the 12-hour embargo was supported by a minority group of pilots who have their own organisation. I regret to say that the name of the organisation escapes me for the moment. But the Federation of Air Pilots, which speaks for the majority of pilots in this country, supports the reduction. As I have said, the decision to reduce the time was taken after studying international practice. 
-I am aware that BBA, as it is known, is threatening to cease its air service to King Island and that its aircraft are not far from being put out of order because they are unable to cope with the requirements and demands made upon them. Along with Air Express and IPEC, as well as Air Tasmania, BBA has made application to purchase aircraft to replace the present fleets. Unfortunately, after I had granted Air Express and IPEC an opportunity to import aircraft, a High Court injunction was taken out. The matter has been reserved by the High Court and we are awaiting the decision. This has clouded the whole position in respect of aircraft capacity for the airlines I have named. Because of the particular problem in relation to BBA I have arranged for discussions to be held with Qantas about the DC4s. Those discussions are presently ensuing and I am hopeful that by the end of the day I  win  have some information to help the honourable member with his problem. One of the difficulties that BBA ran into was the injunction taken out in the High Court and the company has been caught up on the snowballing effect of that injunction. I am unable to take any positive decision in respect of aircraft replacements until the High Court decision has been handed down. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) and (b) yes 
(a) Through correspondence from Qantas dated 22 December 1975, 16 January 1976 and 29 November 1976 and through timetables filed with the Department during March 1977. 
Services to and through Tahiti, Brisbane-Nadi, ' Jakarta-Singapore, and Darwin- Jakarta sectors. In addition Qantas ceased operations on the Sydney-Norfolk Island service, but this sector is a domestic one. 
In all cases withdrawal of the above services was approved. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. My statement is set out on page 705 of  Hansard. 
and (3 ) See my answer to ( 1 ) above. 
I also refer the honourable member to my reply to his question of 8 March 1977 concerning the proclamation of the Inter-State Commission Act 1 975. In that reply, I pointed out that no decision has been made regarding the proclamation of the Inter-State Commission Act 1 975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The policy under normal circumstances is that foreign airlines are not permitted to fly passengers between Australian cities in competition with domestic airlines. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Flight paths to and from Brisbane Airport are determined by the Department of Transport in consultation with representatives of the aviation industry. They are produced to satisfy the requirements of aircraft noise abatement, airspace segregation, traffic flow and terrain clearance. 
There is a Standard Instrument Departure flight path which permits aircraft to circumnavigate the suburb of Wynnum but is only used in periods of very light traffic, such as during the evening and at night. 
This outbound departure flight path requires aircraft to follow a flight path which necessitates they cross the busy inbound/outbound flight path to Sydney and also the two flight paths to Coolangatta. Consequently in moderate to heavy traffic situations the use of this flight path from Brisbane Airport would create an undue heavy workload on air traffic control and produce a complex situation in which it would be difficult to maintain the high aviation safety standards for which Australia is renowned. 
In view of the above it is not reasonable to issue an instruction that the flight path concerned be used on a continuous basis. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am unable to provide the information required as members of the public when applying for charter and aerial work licenses or an exemption under Regulation 203 of the Air Navigation Regulations are not required to supply details of their profession or academic qualifications. 
The more one looks at the problems of air services to Tasmania the more confusing the picture becomes. I say that because the proprietor of the company which is presently seeking to secure the DC4s is also the proprietor of a company known as Air Express. In other words, Brain and Brown Air Freight Pty Ltd and Air Express Ltd are both owned by the same company. At the moment, apparently some of the staff of BBA are under threat of dismissal. Likewise, some of the staff of Air Express are under threat of dismissal. Air Express presently has a couple of Bristols in service. BBA has a DC3 and an Argosy stacked up against the fence at Essendon, and from what I understand no attempt has been made to get them back into service. At the same time, both companies have made applications for the import of new aircraft. 
To try to resolve the situation, I have today written to the proprietor of BBA and Air Express, being a common proprietor, informing him that I would be prepared to permit the sale of the Qantas DC4s to Air Express subject to him cancelling his application for the import of two Carvair aircraft, which are of about an equivalent carrying capacity. I have also told the proprietor that he ought to recognise that this would permit him, as proprietor of both companies, to make the 2 Bristols available to BBA, his other company, thus resolving the difficulties that BBA faces and saving the necessity of sacking the staff of BBA. It is up to the proprietor of the 2 companies to make up his mind exactly what he wants. What I cannot do is permit all these companies to import aircraft. The first reason for this is that there is an injunction from the High Court of Australia stopping me. That is a pretty fundamental reason. The second reason is that I have a responsibility to make judgments about the capacity of the airlines. On the advice I have received, I have decided that were both these companies able to import the aircraft they want and if the aircraft that are stacked on the ground at Essendon were put back into service, there would certainly be a more than over-generous supply of aircraft to fly to King Island and back and to Tasmania and back. The ball rests very much in the court of the proprietor of BBA and Air Express. 
The honourable member seems to be under some misunderstanding or misapprehension. No curfew has been placed on Melbourne Tullamarine airport. It may well be that there has been a misreporting of a comment I gave to the Press yesterday in respect of the introduction of the new hush kits on aeroplane engines. Stage 1 of their introduction will come into effect in 1 980. Stage 2 will come into effect in 1985. It is proposed that following the successful introduction of hush kits a curfew will be placed on the Tullamarine airport to prevent the landing of any aircraft entering the country which are not fitted with hush kits. 
For the information of honourable members, I present a report by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads on national highways linking Hobart, Launceston and Burnieapproaches to Hobart- 1977. 

 -The Major Airport Needs Study is open to members of the public as from today in Sydney. If anybody is interested in going along- I invite those who live in the Sydney region to go along- the study is at the Inquiry Centre, ground floor, 59 Goulburn Street in the city. I certainly would be pleased if as many members of Parliament as possible undertook to visit this inquiry and invited their constituents to take part in it because the purpose of the MANS study is a public inquiry as well as a joint inquiry by the Commonwealth and State governments. A committee has been set up consisting of a number of departments from the Commonwealth and a number from the States. The inquiry will remain open right to its conclusion- I hope that that will be about Christmas timewhen the committee will be able to report to both governments. The options available to the MANS study relate mostly to the further development of the Kingsford-Smith Airport with additional runways, the development of a second airport combined with additional runways at Kingsford-Smith Airport, or the development of a second airport without additional runways at Kingsford-Smith Airport. So there are several options available for study. This is probably the major question facing civil aviation in the next decade or two and therefore it is a very important study. I hope that all members of Parliament will take a particular interest in it and that the study can report back to the Government by about the end of this calendar year. 1 lay on the table for the information of members of Parliament all the information relating to the study. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1-4) My Depanment received a report from the pilot of the Qantas aircraft through the Australian air safety incident reporting system and this report was conveyed to the Philippines Civil Aeronautics Administration for attention in accordance with normal safety procedures applying to international operations. 
The report submitted by the pilot is to the effect that the Qantas aircraft was being operated and descending as instructed by air traffic control which was in 'radar contact' with the aircraft. On breaking out of cloud at an altitude of 5500 feet the crew observed an Air France aircraft ahead and to their right at a distance of 'approximately 1.5 miles'. approved for the financial year 1976-77. Works which have been completed since December 1 975 also are listed. Minor works valued at less than S 1 5.000 have not been included. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) When approaching to land at Sydney on 22 April 1977, the pilot of PA3 1 aircraft VH-TWB, operated by Skyway Airlines, reported a cockpit warning indication of an unsafe landing gear condition. Immediate notification was made to the Air Safety Investigation Branch of my Department. 
The aircraft orbited the airport for some 90 minutes in order to reduce the fuel quantity to a safe minimum. During this time a technical observation from the ground confirmed that the landing gear doors were in an abnormal configuration. When the aircraft landed it did so without further incident. 
It was established that one of the 3 landing gear sequencing micro-switches was out of adjustment and, although the landing gear was properly locked down, this had resulted in the landing gear doors remaining open and an unsafe indication in the cockpit. 
Normal investigation procedures in respect of the microswitch are in progress. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian National Line has advised me that the basis of freight charges to B.H.P. for the shipment of manganese ore from Groote Eylandt is designed to cover costs and give a financial return on the southbound voyage with loading and discharge to B.H.P. account. 
The Line considers that it is not commercial practice to divulge confidential contract rates negotiated competitively for individual commodities and fixtures. 
I am advised by the Line that the southbound carriage of manganese ore offsets the cost that would otherwise be placed against the northbound voyage and cargo if the vessel had to return in ballast due to the absence of a back loading from Darwin. 
Nursing Homes in Broadmeadows, Coburg and Brunswick Municipalities  (Question No. 713) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
24November1976. 
I advised  Mr Hooper,  Queensland Minister for Transport, on 8 March 1977 that the Queensland Government 's offer to allow the ANL to enter the Queensland intrastate trade, subject to certain conditions were acceptable to the Commonwealth. I made it clear however, that the offer fell short of what the Commonwealth was seeking, and noted the matter was to be reviewed in 6 months. 
Details of cargo carried and availability of space on ANL vessels engaged in the North Queensland trade were provided to the Queensland Department of Transport on 20 September 1976 as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Cental Office of the Department of Transport occupies 10 buildings and the Victorian Regional Office occupies 4 buildings in the central business district of Melbourne. The Central Office building in South Melbourne and Victorian Regional Offices' buildings in West Melbourne and Carlton have been included in order to give a complete picture. The address of each building is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)and(2)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Negotiations had been carried out by the Department of Administrative Services for a lease of space in Nauru House for my Department; however, it has now been decided not to proceed. 
My Department had planned to consolidate certain of the Melbourne-based elements of its Central Office, located in a number of buildings, into one building. 
Transport Expenditure in Macarthur Division  (Question No.  830) 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
As explained previously, details of departmental expenditures are recorded under functional headings as set out in the Appropriation Acts and these are readily available. Extraction from these records of expenditure relating to particular electorates is a difficult and laborious task. In view of the heavy workload in the finance area of the Department and the continuing shortage of staff I am unable to suggest when, in the foreseeable future, staff resources will be available to provide meaningful figures. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I am advised that the State and Commonwealth railway authorities do not differentiate between city and country freight operations for accounting or other purposes. Therefore, the information requested by the honourable member is not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Present total strength of fettling maintenance gangs employed on ANR compared with previous two years: 1977,583; 1976, 549 and 1975,608. (3) Number of fettling maintenance gangs below strength: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) and (2 ) Present strength of various branches of A.N.R. compared with previous 2 years: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The 1976-77 Budget provided $36. lm towards the financing of the Australian National Railways Capital Progam which included provision for the Tarcoola to Alice Springs Railway Project. 
Expenditure on the Tarcoola to Alice Springs Railway Project between 1 July 1976 and 2 April 1977 was $ 11.826m. 
3 ) Projected expenditure on the Tarcoola to Alice Springs railway project between 1 July 1976 and 30 June 1977 is expected to be $ 18.44m. 
Estimates for expenditure in 1977-78 are still under consideration. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Present strength in each of various running grades classifications in Transportation and Mechanical Engineering Branches compared with previous two years: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian National Line has advised me that the operating results of the  Darwin Trader  in the Darwin trade, including backloading of manganese ore, are as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Food and water supplied to international airlines leaving on flights from Australia is provided by the 3 Australian airlines. The kitchens, in Melbourne, used in the preparation of the food are subject to periodic inspections by my Department as to the standard of hygiene and food handling. Kitchens in Sydney, except those of Qantas which are outside the airport boundaries and therefore outside the jurisdiction of my Department, are subject to less frequent inspections. However Qantas have a health inspector who monitors their flight kitchens. Food samples from the Sydney flight kitchen are regularly checked for bacterial content and Qantas have recently appointed a bacteriologist-food technologist. With the co-operation of the Depanment of Science, microbiological surveys are carried out on a weekly basis on selected food and water samples in Melbourne and Sydney. My Depanment is not in a position to exercise control over the standard of food and water provided for passengers on international nights on the journey into Australia. The standards of food and water provided on such flights are, of course, a matter of major concern to the airlines concerned but I am not able to say, at this time, what precise supervision is exercised by overseas authorities. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Available expenditure figures for maintenance and sealing works and of length of highway sealed between Port Augusta and Alice Springs during each year are shown in the table below. 
Works on the Stuart Highway in the Northern Territory are funded under the Northern Territory Civil Works Program and the information has been provided by the Department of Construction. Works on this Highway within South Australia are currently funded under the National Roads Act 1974. Prior to the 1974 Act assistance for roads in South Australia was provided under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act but all expenditure on the Stuart Highway was not necessarily financed from Commonwealth funds. No certified statements of expenditure under the National Roads Act are available. The estimates for expenditure for maintenance and construction are based on preliminary information provided around the commencement of the financial years in question, as such are provisional and do not necessarily represent final expenditure. Lengths of seal shown in the table below for the Stuart Highway in South Australia are taken from the annual reports of the South Australian Highways Department. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. Enquiries are being conducted by the Air Safety Investigation Branch of my Department, and Qantas is participating in the examination of the occurrence. 
In accordance with normal procedures applying to international operations the responsibility for the investigation of the occurrence rests with the Republic of South Africa. 
Liaison is being maintained with the appropriate authority. The investigation is not yet completed. 
Governor-General: Purchase of a Car  (Question No. 806) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have received a report from my Department regarding the 'black star' ratings given to Kalgoorlie, Meekatharra and Learmonth aerodromes by IF ALP A. 
It is not my intention to table this report because the facts are as follows- 
it is accepted that the international standards laid down by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) reflect a requirement for Rescue and Fire Fighting (RFF) services at all international airports and international alternate airports. 
it is recognised that this standard is met at all international airports in Australia, but not at some international alternate airports. 
it is clearly uneconomic to provide RFF services at all international alternate airports in Australia, considering the very few international aircraft diversions that some are required to accommodate e.g. during 1976, only seven international aircraft had cause to divert from Perth Airport to a suitable international alternate airport. -4 Boeing 707 's diverted to Meekatharra -2 Boeing 747 's and I DC-8 diverted to Learmonth -Kalgoorlie is no longer used as an alternate for international aircraft. 
d ) it is not possible to equip all airports in Australia with a full range of aviation facilities and it is important to so locate facilities as to ensure that they give the best possible service to the aviation industry as a whole. 
Australia is ranked amongst those countries enjoying the best safety records in the world, largely because of the very high safety standards set by the Department ofTransport. 
-The first thing I should say in respect of the question from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is that in total Budget terms New South Wales is in a much better financial situation than the Commonwealth finds itself in. That is an indisputable fact and comes about mostly because of the sheer extravagance and the sheer waste in some of the programs introduced by Labor when in government. As to the specific matters raised by the honourable member- as I would have expected- he is misinformed. Firstly, he ignores the special arrangements that have been made with New South Wales through the Loan Council for $ 100m to be made available for the purpose of correcting the rail difficulties in the Sydney area. I do not know whether the honourable member was overseas when that occurred, or where he was, but that provision has been made. The second matter on which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is misinformed is that for the first time since 1974 a fund for new projects in urban transport has been made available in this Budget. I remind the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that he was part of the Government that stopped new projects from being accepted into the system in the 1974 Budget and again in the 1975 Budget. So do not let the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition claim in this place any great credit for what has been done in the urban transport system. This Government has recognised the need and has at least made a provision in this Budget for new projects. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No- but it remains inappropriate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) See attached table and notes. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
CD- 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Convention on International Civil Aviation drawn at Chicago in 1944 provides for the establishment of the International Civil Aviation Organisation, known as ICAO, which came into being in 1947. It is a specialised agency of the United Nations. The permanent governing body of ICAO is the Council, which has contributed in a very important way to the development and adoption of international standards and recommended practices for civil aviation. These assist considerably towards making international air travel a safe and reliable mode of transport. 
Members of the Council are elected by the Assembly of the Organisation, at which all contracting states are entitled to be present. The Council, of which Australia has been an elected member since ICAO came into being, meets in almost continuous session throughout each year. The size of the Council was increased from 21 members to 27 members in 1962 and from 27 members to 30 members in 1971. The 21st Session of the Assembly held at Montreal in 1974 adopted a Protocol amending Article 50 (a) of the Convention to increase the number of members of the Council from 30 to 33. This amendment requires ratification by 86 contracting states before it comes into force. Fifty-two ratifications had been received from states at 1 July 1977. More ratifications from other states are expected before the 22nd Assembly convenes in Montreal on 13 September 1977. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary approval for Australia to ratify the Protocol. Parliament approved the ratification of the Chicago Convention in 1947 by an amendment to the Air Navigation Act 1920 and authorised the making of regulations for carrying out and giving effect to the Convention. Subsequent protocols amending the original Chicago Convention were approved in amendments to the Air Navigation Act in 1960, 1961, 1963 and 1971. This Bill continues the practice and proposes the insertion of the Protocol as the Ninth Schedule to the Air Navigation Act 1 920. 
An increase of three in the size of Council is appropriate. Total membership of ICAO grew from 84 states in 1961 to 129 member states in October 1974 and is now 140 states. Proportionate increases have been made over the years in the size of the executive bodies of other specialised agencies of the United Nations. It was the clear wish of the majority of member states at the last Session of the Assembly that Council membership should be increased to 33 members. The Australian Delegation to that Assembly supported the proposal. 
The increase in the ICAO Council is expected to add little, if any, to the secretarial costs of the Organisation. Any costs for such services should be absorbed in the normal provisions of this service and would be offset by the rentals which would be paid by the new members for the use of delegation office space in the ICAO Headquarters Building. The present Australian Government contribution to the International Civil Aviation Organisation would be only fractionally increased, if at all, by the addition of three members to the Council. I commend the Bdi. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
This is a replacement answer to that which appeared in the weekly  Hansard  of 2 June 1977 (page 25 78): 
Yes. 
) and ( 3 ) The New South Wales Government submitted a proposal for electrification work between Gosford and Newcastle in 1975/76 estimated to cost $32.22m. An economic evaluation was provided and when reviewed by the Bureau of Transport Economics produced a benefit/cost ratio of 1.03 at 7 per cent discounting and 0.79 when discounted at 10 per cent. No provision was made by the previous Government in its 1 975-76 Budget for new projects. 
and (5) Yes. The Budget provides $5.0m for new projects under the Urban Public Transport Agreement. The New South Wales Minister for Transport and Highways had advised that in the circumstances allocations to his State should be directed to the acquisition of suburban doubledeck rail cars. I am also of the view that this project should be accorded highest priority within New South Wales. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Details contained in Table 1. 
Hours of Duty 
Rostered hours of duty for Air Traffic Controllers, Air Traffic Controllers-in-training and Trainee Air Traffic Controllers engaged on shift work are 72 hours per fortnight. Such hours are rostered on the basis of 10 shifts of 7 hours each with provision where required for up to 12 minutes additional per shift for handover duties as part of and within the ordinary fortnightly 72 hours. 
Overtime 
Shiftworkers 
Public Service rates of time and a half and double time on hourly rates of salary up to a maximum salary of $15,163 a year apply. Payment at this maximum hourly rate may be made to officers receiving salary in excess of $15,163 a year provided that the minimum salary of their office does not exceed $16,785. Payment is made at the time and a half rate for the first three hours and at double time rates thereafter. Double time and double time and a half rates apply to overtime on Sundays and public holidays. 
Others 
The rate of time and a half hourly rates of salary up to a maximum salary of $1 1,633 a year applies, provided the minimum salary of the occupied office does not exceed $16,785. Double time and double time and a half rates apply to overtime on Sundays and public holidays. 
Leave 
Recreation Leave- 5 weeks per annum for shift workers and 4 weeks for all other staff. Staff in designated remote localities receive up to 10 days extra leave a year. 
Long Service Leave- 3 months after 10 years plus 3/10 month for each year of service thereafter. 
Sick Leave-2 weeks on full pay and 2 weeks on half pay a year. Any leave which is not taken accumulates. 
Special Leave- Up to 3 days a year may be granted upon sufficient cause being shown. Leave without pay may also be granted at the discretion of the Chief Officer. 
Study Leave- Up to 5 hours a week may be granted to attend lectures and tutorials for approved courses of study. 
Maternity/Paternity Leave- Up to 52 weeks maternity leave may be taken before and after the binh of a child, with 12 weeks paid leave. Recreation leave, sick leave and long service leave credits may be used, and leave without pay may be taken. Paternity leave of 5 days may be taken at the time of the birth of a child. 
Superannuation Provisions are laid down in the Superannuation Act 1976. 
Free Transport 
Where an officer or employee is stationed at a locality designated by the Public Service Board as 'isolated' he may be paid an allowance for the use of his private vehicle to and from the place of employment 
Because of differences in such things as traffic flow, location of airports, legislation and civil service practices, it is not possible to make meaningful comparisons between terms and conditions of employment of Australian Air Traffic Controllers and their counterparts in the United Kingdom and the United States of Amenca. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) and (b) The States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act 1974 and the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Act 1974 do not specifically relate to projects but appropriate funds for the purposes of the Urban Public Transport Agreement. These two Acts and the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Act 1976 provided $ 158.02m for that purpose. As at 30 June 1977 the following advances had been made to the States: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Scales for the different categories of crew members on Australian ships are set out in the Schedules to the Navigation Act 1912. The scales cover most crew categories. They may be varied (or categories not covered may be prescribed ) in respect of a particular ship by the Minister after taking into consideration the advice of a Manning Committee. In practice, most ships have at least part of their manning complement determined by the Minister following the deliberations of a Manning Committee. A Manning Committee is a committee of advice constituted under the provisions of section 424 of the Navigation Act and comprises representatives of the owners of the ship, and the relevant maritime union, and is chaired by an officer of the Department of Transport. The members of the committee frequently make an inspection of the vessel, and occasionally call witnesses, before making their recommendation on the appropriate manning. 
No-only in those cases where the numbers for a particular crew category to be carried on a ship are to vary from the Schedules to the Act or, in the case of crew categories not set out in the Schedules, where there is a dispute between the parties concerned. The Minister does, however, have the power to detain any ship that is considered to be unseaworthy through a deficiency in the numbers or qualifications of the crew. 
See answer in part (3) of question No. 1055. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no evidence available to suggest that ships registered in so called 'flag of convenience countries operate on an unmanned bridge basis in Australian waters, either by day or by night. 
Flag of Convenience' Ships (Question No. 1 OSS) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Traditional maritime practice is that the manning of any vessel is a matter for determination by the flag State. In some cases, it appears that vessels registered in so called 'flag of convenience countries do have a lesser number of qualified personnel than that on comparable Australian vessels. 
However, internationally acceptable minimum standards of marine training and qualifications are currently being developed within the framework of the Intergovernmental Maritme Consultative Organization (IMCO) and the work will culminate in an international conference next year. Australia is actively participating in the work of IMCO to ensure that the standards adopted are adequate to ensure safety at sea and are uniformly applied by maritime countries. 
Crew manning and qualifications for Australian National Line (ANL) vessels, wherever they trade, are in conformity with the provisions of the Navigation Act, 1912. There is no difference in the prescribed number, or qualifications, of the crews on ANL vessels carrying ore from north west Australian ports to (a) overseas destinations and (b) domestic ports. 
The only records available in respect of crews of overseas vessels are the crew lists which are submitted primarily for customs and immigration purposes and which lists all persons on board. The crew list does not show the crew requirements for the vessel, or the qualifications held by the officers. 
The following table shows the total crew numbers carried by ANL vessels and by a number of comparable overseas registered vessels in the overseas ore trade from north west Australian pons. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3) Number of accidents, or incidents, involving ships in the categories requested, are set out in the table below for the period 1970 to 1976. The nature of the accident or incidents, and the subsequent action taken by me or my Department, is also indicated. 
The information is derived from the reports which shipmasters are required to make under section 268 of the Navigation Act. This covers ships registered in Australia (wherever they are operating) and other ships whilst making a voyage to a port in Australia or whilst within Australian territorial waters or limits. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
In conformity with my answer to question 1058 I do not intend to identify individual recommendations. 
The Government considers that the present departmental organisational arrangements should stand. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) (a), (b), (c) Details of expenditure by item code for the month of April, May and June 1977 and for the year 1976-77 are set out below. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
In October 1975 the Bureau's report was forwarded to the Australian Government Publishing Service for printing prior to tabling. 
Yes. 
This question is one which falls within the responsibility of the Minister for Northern Territory. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Draft Regulations are, in effect, recommendations to State governments from the Australian Transport Advisory Council. The extent to which State Governments choose to adopt these recommendations is entirely a matter of State Government policy. 
The preparation of the draft regulations and the manner and extent of their incorporation into State legislation is the subject of continual review and discussion through the various committees nl' Commonwealth and State officials supporting thu Australian  Transport  Advisory Council. 
Some time ago the New South Wales Government joined with the Commonwealth Government in setting up a select committee to inquire into the airport needs of Sydney. As a result there is on public display in the heart of Sydney the  Major Airport  Needs Study. I thought I had invited all Federal members of Parliament to see that display. If the honourable member has missed out on an invitation I will make sure he gets one. I am sure it would be to his edification if he went along to see MANS and looked at what is proposed in terms of total needs for Sydney airports in the future. Referring to the specific matter that the honourable member raised, I would advise him to take his question along to that display and to ask the State and Commonwealth officers present at that display for information about what is happening in regard to it. 
That is so, but related to the national need of Sydney Airport is the need for secondary airports and the use that will be made of them. All this can be seen in a study of the general question. I would advise the honourable member to go along to the MANS display and see what he can learn. 
in reply- I thank those honourable members who have contributed to the debate. There are one or two points arising out of the debate that I want to comment on. I refer firstly to the position concerning Laker Airways. I cannot help but agree with those who have mentioned that  Mr Freddie  Laker certainly has a great way of advertising Laker Airways. I cannot recall anybody receiving as much publicity before his arrival in Australia and then after his arrival as Freddie Laker received. An exception might be - 
Elvis Presley has not been here. I was thinking of those fellows who had long hair. I cannot think of their names. 
-Yes, the Beatles. I think the amount of publicity Freddie Laker received rivalled the amount of publicity given to the Beatles. The fact remains that Freddie Laker still does not have an application before the Department of Transport for his airline to come to Australia. That is not to say that he will not be putting in an application. He has certainly had some in-depth discussions with the Department and with me on the matter but at this point in time he has not yet put in an application. One would assume from the publicity he received prior to and after his arrival that he was certainly testing the water insofar as potential Australian traffic to the United Kingdom is concerned. I am not averse to looking closely at such a proposition if and when it comes forward. Indeed, for the sake of air travel in this country, I hope that he does put forward a proposition. Let us then see how it measures up. 
I should point out to the House that there are other means of travel that are not much different in price from what  Mr Laker  might be offering. It is true to say that instead of flying for 26 hours in an aircraft that has six toilets people can fly for the same period for a little more money in an aircraft that has 14 toilets. The comfort that might be enjoyed by having that number of toilets might be more important to them than the $100 that they can save on an air fare. But all those things are hypothetical and are still speculativeexcept the number of toilets. We will have to wait and see what comes out of the proposition. 
The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  raised the subject of nights to Australia by Continental Airlines. It is a fact that Continental has been granted by  President  Carter the right to fly to Australia. That is completely proper under the bilateral arrangements that exist between Australia and the United States of America. When the original bilateral arrangements were signed it was agreed that Qantas Airways would be the Australian carrier. In order to secure the right to fly to San Francisco and across America on its way to Europe and thus have the ever-loving round the world trip that everyone was seeking Qantas gave a second carrier the opportunity to fly from America to Australia. 
At this point in time there is nothing before me in respect of Continental's application other than the knowledge that it is going to come to Australia. I had the opportunity to meet the  President  of Continental,  Mr Robert  Six, when I was at the Paris Air Show. We had a very enjoyable conversation. He is an aggressive salesman. Should he and his airline come to Australia I am sure that they would put up a great battle for their share of the market. This matter does raise in my mind the very serious question of overcapacity on the route. Pan American World Airways, Air New Zealand, Canadian Pacific Airlines and Qantas are already operating on that route. In my view the introduction of another airline is not going to add much to the profitability of all concerned. We do have a right under the bilateral arrangements to raise the question of total capacity on the route. We will be talking to the American authorities about that before any final decisions are taken on the number of flights that Continental may make into this country. 
The subject of overriding commissions for travel agents was raised. It is the practice of some travel clubs and associations to subsidise travel from funds that they have raised for their membership by other means. That situation does apply and it is not in breach of the air navigation regulations. This subject has arisen for discussion again as a result of the crash by AUS Travel. I am not alleging that the payment of overriding commission was the cause of that crash which at present is the subject of an inquiry. Therefore it would be improper of me to speculate on what caused the crash. Because the overriding commissions have a part to play in the difficulties into which travel agencies have been getting, after discussions with the Crown Law officers my Department will be writing to travel clubs and associations seeking to find out the basis on which they might pay to travellers out of their funds a subsidy above and beyond the normal commission. We will be doing this simply as a means of protecting the public. I think it is proper that that should be on record. 
Finally, I visited the International Civil Aviation Organisation in June on my way back from Europe and I was most impressed with the very efficient way in which it carries out its technical responsibilities. The honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  read out a list of its responsibilities. It operates in a highly technical area and a highly responsible area. The existence of ICAO certainly leads to there being safer and better aviation throughout the world. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Matters have come to a pretty serious state in this country when developments of the nature of Norwich Park cannot get off the ground because of the selfish activities of some unions. 
Look, bonehead, if you want to interject use some sense in doing so. The background to this dispute is that the Seamen's Union wants coal to be carried out of Australia in Australian flag ships with Australian crews. What that means, because of the differential between the cost of Australian crews and, for example, British crews, is that the freight rate for coal would need to go up from $9 a tonne to $ 1 8 a tonne. The fact is that the cost of using Australian crews in this trade is 233 per cent higher than for using British crews. That is the rip-off that the Seamen's Union is trying to perpetrate on the Australian economy and the Australian taxpayer. The result is, of course, that the principals of the Norwich Park development have had to defer any progression of development, thus robbing the area of prospects for jobs and the like. 
I should have thought that the interjector on the Opposition bench, who is not known for his interest in some of these matters - 
Since the visit to Australia of  Mr Freddie  Laker of Laker Airways there has been a great deal of public discussion about the possibility of cheaper air fares to the United Kingdom. As I said in the House, I think the last week we sat, at this point of time there is no proposition before me in respect of Laker flying to Australia. He certainly had discussions with the Department and with me about it, but at this point I do not have a firm proposition. Nevertheless, as I indicated elsewhere, I have said to the board of Qantas Airways Ltd that it should take note of what is said by  Mr Laker  while he is in Australia so that I may be in a position to consider what the attitude of Qantas might be if  Mr Laker  should put in a firm proposition. That is where the matter rests at this point. 
I would not propose to widen the review of the two-airline system that has been announced to take into consideration problems associated with international air fares. International air fares are governed by bilateral agreements between governments. Any change to the fare structure must be agreed upon by the two governments. I had discussions yesterday with the British Minister,  Mr Clinton  Davis, on a variety of subjects. Laker's so-called proposals about coming to 
Australia were certainly part of that discussion. I do not propose to go into details of the discussionthat is a matter between the visiting Minister and me- other than to say that we have agreed that under the bilateral arrangement nothing can occur without the agreement of him at his end and me at this end. I repeat that I do not think it proper to widen the terms of reference of the review of the two-airline system which relates completely to domestic fares by broadening it to take in international fares which would need to be dealt with separately. 
-The collapse of AUS Student Travel Service Pty Ltd came as a shock to many students around Australia. Certainly it caused some distress to students who were overseas. I am able to inform the honourable member and the House that, as a result of the co-operation by the airlines, stranded students overseas were able to complete their journeys. 
The future is not yet quite clear. The House may know that at the request of the creditors a provisional liquidator was appointed on 10 August. The provisional liquidator has come forward with a proposed scheme of arrangement to trade the company out of its financial difficulties. Meetings will be held this week to consider that proposed scheme of arrangement. Of course, as the Minister for Transport, I shall have to satisfy myself that there are no breaches of the air navigation regulatons in the proposals. The House will recall that the Government was exploring, with the Victorian Government, a proposition to hold a joint inquiry. However in view of the proposal by the provisional liquidator the Victorian Government has now advised that it does not believe that a formal investigation would be appropriate. Therefore I do not think it is possible for the Commonwealth to proceed with an inquiry of substance at this time. 
I know that many members of this House and, indeed, Ministers have received representations seeking an inquiry into this matter. It will be a matter of some disappointment that an inquiry cannot proceed at this time, but doubtless the provisional liquidator will inform the appropriate authorities if he finds that something improper has occurred. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Bureau of Transport Economics is currently undertaking a study of the freight transport needs of the Northern Territory. 
The report is expected to be completed by the end of September. 
1 will consider the matter of publication of the report after it has been presented to me. I have generally adopted the position that the results of BTE studies should be given as wide a circulation as possible. 
Initiation of Law Reforms by Government  (Question No. 1210) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are four Commonwealth members on the Committee, three of whom live in the Australian Capital Territory and one lives in Melbourne. 
The four State members on the Committee live in Sydney. (2)I consider that like any other citizen, a public servant is entitled to privacy and hence I don't propose to disclose this information. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Air Navigation Orders require Australian airlines to carry a limited range of indefinitely storable items for first aid for physical injuries. Airlines carry additional medical supplies and equipment, of their own choice, appropriate to their operations. 
Regarding the items required by Air Navigation Orders- Yes. The adequacy of additional medical supplies and equipment is a matter for each airline to determine in the light of its needs and experience. 
Australian international and major domestic airlines give or require their cabin crews to have first aid training. The extent of the training is determined by the airline in the light of its needs. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) The information sought by the honourable member is quite extensive and is not readily available from departmental records in the form requested. I have asked my Department to examine the possibilities of calculating the desired information and will advise the honourable member as soon as this assessment is made. 
-The Leader of the Opposition, as is usual in these matters, is correct in terms of the timetable which he has laid down. The reason for the holding up of the program is simply that the projected legislation has been sent to Queensland for its consideration. We have not yet had a response from Queensland. I am advised that it is necessary for there to be a referral of power in this matter for the Australian National Line to operate intrastate on a daytoday basis and to provide regular services, as is requested and required by those who live in northern Queensland. Quite a number of honourable members of the National Country Party have made representations to me specifically on this matter. 
It is true that the ANL is providing one service. That has been done by an exchange of correspondence. That is the carriage of minerals out of Weipa to Gladstone. I am not able to rely with any confidence on an exchange of letters standing up to any challenge by a road transport operator or anybody else. Therefore it is necessary for the Premier of Queensland to agree to a reference of power specifically in this matter. I make the point that if a reference of power should be granted it would be within the capacity of the Premier of Queensland to get agreement that the reference of power could be withdrawn if circumstances altered. I am hopeful that the Queensland Government will agree shortly to the proposed legislation and that it will be in the House before the Parliament rises for the summer vacation. 
Since coming to office the Government has made it quite plain that it wanted to see a lift in funds made available to rural and urban local shires. A Bill will be introduced into the Parliament tomorrow in this regard. Two special provisions to increase the level of funding have been made to those areas in the last 12 to 18 months. In the Bill to come into the House tomorrow provision again has been made for an increase in funds to local councils for road construction. I point out that in South Australia the increase in funds for urban local roads is 100 per cent and the increase in funds for rural local roads is 26.4 per cent from $S.3m to $6.7m. That supports what I have said- that there has been an increase in government aid to local councils and that this is the real aim of the Government's policy. 
It is interesting to note that in South Australia the relative needs of local councils are not considered to be very high. Apparently they do not rate any priority at all because the South Australian Government has not allocated any funds from its own resources to either rural or urban local shires. This must be the first time in history that a State government has done something like that. I am surprised that the South Australian Government should act in such a way and so deter the capacity of local government associations and shires to complete the road constructions they want. The upshot of that is that in total terms- that is the combination of Commonwealth and State moneys- as a result of the lack of interest by the State government, 3.S per cent less, in total terms, will be available for expenditure on rural local road programs. I do not like being political, as the House Knows but I have to say that this is an absolute indictment of the Dunstan Government for its attitude towards local government. 
-I thank the House. Honourable members will recall that in my second reading speech introducing the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Bill 1976 I referred to program revisions I had approved to that stage. 1 have continued to work with the States to approve the revision of programs and the reallocation of available funds to projects with the highest priority. This approach of course greatly assists the States in meeting their more urgent needs. For the information of honourable members Table 1 provides for further details of the approved program revisions. I seek leave to incorporate Table 2 in  Hansard. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197709154_29_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="106131197709154_30_4.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. It is also significant that our provision for new projects this year is the first allocation for new works under the Urban Public Transport Agreement since the 1974 budget. Although $5m is a relatively minor amount I believe that its allocation is a clear indication of the commitment this Government has to ensure urban public transport services are upgraded. However, the apportionment of the $5m for new projects was not an easy task. Consequently I sought from my State colleagues their views on possible allocations. In all cases there was an overwhelming priority given to the acquisition of rolling stock. I am in agreement with this ranking and I therefore decided to allocate all funds towards rolling stock commitments. 
In determining each State's allocation I have taken into account the relative availability of funds from current appropriations and existing State commitments. In particular I took cognizance of the opportunity which New South 
Wales has to reallocate its available funds. Allocations were: $0.60m to New South Wales for double deck suburban rail cars; $lm to Victoria for suburban trains; Sim to Victoria for trams; $0.06 to Queensland towards electric rail cars; $0.94m to Queensland for buses; Sim to South Australia for buses; $0.30m to Western Australia for buses; $0.1m to Tasmania for buses. 
Table 2 provides details of the allocation to the States of the funds for approved projects other than the $27.73m for cost increases for 1977-78. I seek leave to incorporate Table 3 in  Hansard. 
-I thank the House. The remaining $27.73m of this year's allocation of $5 lm is to meet cost increases. As honourable members will appreciate these funds are not payable in relation to particular projects until cost increases are justified in accordance with clause 16 (3) of the Agreement. Consequently it is not possible at this stage to advise Parliament of the ultimate allocation of these funds. Whilst many projects are yet to be finished we are already seeing the benefits from those that have been completed. In a number of cities, for example, it is now not unusual to see people allow older rolling stock to pass so that they can catch the new bus, train or tram that is following. This is a clear indication of the value the community attaches to the improvements in comfort and ride provided by the rolling stock funded under the Urban Public Transport Agreement. 
Substantial increases in ridership have occurred, for instance, since the Christie Downs Railway was opened. Patronage at the Christie Downs station is already exceeding 1975 predictions by almost 30 per cent. Particularly pleasing is the fact that over 50 per cent of users previously travelled to central Adelaide by car. The success of this project is a clear indication that well planned public transport improvements can increase patronage particularly by attracting previous car users. Similar results have also been achieved by the interchanges constructed in Brisbane and Perth. At Petrie and Enoggera railway stations, for example, since completion of the interchange facilities increased ticket sales of almost 70 per cent and over 50 per cent respectively have been experienced. At Innaloo about one third of all park-and-ride patrons previously did not use public transport. The success of this interchange is demonstrated by the recent agreement between the Western Australian Minister and myself that a second car park will be constructed. 
Honourable members will appreciate that allocations under this program are not the only contribution made by the Commonwealth to transport services in urban areas. We make substantial investments in the provision of transport infrastructure in urban areas such as airport and port facilities, as well as the substantial funds which are provided towards the urban roads programs. Overall the Commonwealth Government's financial commitment to urban transport and the problems of the cities is clear and significant. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to provide financial assistance by way of section 96 nonrepayable advances to the States for road construction and maintenance over the three financial years 1977-78 to 1979-80 inclusive. The Bill is a major item of legislation and involves a number of fairly complex issues. I have therefore arranged to have circulated to all members an explanatory memorandum outlining the main principles of the legislation. 
As honourable members will know, the Commonwealth has made assistance available to the States for roads by way of non-repayable advances for a great many years. For the 3-year period ending 30 June this year, assistance was provided to the States for roads purposes under the National Roads Act and Roads Grants Act. Pending passage of the Bill now before the House, the States Grants (Roads Interim Assistance) Act 1977 was passed in the autumn session to cover advances to the States for the first three months of 1977-78 equal to one-quarter of the proposed 1977-78 allocation. The legislation now proposed will subsume the interim assistance arrangements. 
The legislation now before the House provides for a basic grant in each of the three years of $475m. The States have been advised of the Government's intention to maintain the basic grant to each State for 1978-79 and 1979-80 at an amount equivalent in real terms to 1977-78. Each State's share of the indexed total grant will, of course, remain constant. The Government is proposing to give effect to this intention by adjusting the basic grant to allow for cost movements on an annual basis in line with movements in the national accounts' implicit price deflator for private investment in 'other building and construction*. 
This adjustment may be varied on account of special factors which cannot presently be foreseen or which may not be adequately reflected in the proposed index. Details of this particular aspect are to be finalised in discussion with the States. These discussions will also be useful of course in helping to avoid any misunderstandings about the indexation arrangements. Generally I would not anticipate any drastic alterations to the adjustments derived by use of the price deflator proposed and the overall effect of the proposed arrangements will be a substantial basic guarantee to the States. Furthermore, I must also point out to the House that the proposed indexation arrangements will provide a guaranteed minimum. As the States already know through advice from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Commonwealth's commitment is to provide funds at least equivalent in real terms to the 1977-78 allocations. The actual increase each year will need to be finalised in the light of the overall budgetary and economic situation. 
Total funds to be appropriated for roads will be $ 1,425m, an increase of almost $200m above the grants provided in the triennium just ended. This is a very substantial effort on the part of the Government and it signifies our determination to stay with our proper responsibilities with regard to Australia's road network. It is a particularly significant effort on our part when considered in the light of overall budgetary problems. The Government recognises the importance of adequate transport networks for the economic well-being of Australia and I should comment in passing that in addition to our funding for roads purposes we also have substantial commitments in relation to other transport modes which we are discharging responsibly. Honourable members will probably be aware that at the February meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council I announced that the Government intended to make $475m available for road grants in 1977-78. At that time I also announced a number of significant policy initiatives on the part of the Commonwealth Government with regard to the areas in which we propose to concentrate our financial assistance. In particular, I announced that the Commonwealth Government intended to ensure that its funds were made available for use by local authorities in such a way and to such an extent that the Commonwealth Government could not in the future be held out as responsible for inadequate road finance at this level. It was also made clear in the allocations which I proposed to the Australian Transport Advisory Council that we were committed to continue funding for the national highways network and the main rural arterial network, which is of course a key part of the inter-regional and inter-urban transport system. 
This re-direction of Commonwealth effort was in part based on recognition of the fact that support for urban arterial roads in the legislation just ended had, in our view, taken an excessive part of the total available Commonwealth funds. In fact, we informed the State Governments that we were not prepared to continue providing a major part of funds for the construction of urban freeways at the expense of other road works. We are not abandoning urban transport as is evidenced by our decision to provide a further $5 lm to the States under the urban transport agreement in 1977-78. We recognise that in the cities a balanced approach to transport, including the use of public transport, is essential and we are pursuing vigorously with the State governments the problems which are faced in developing and improving these systems for the future. Honourable members should also be aware that since our return to office we have held detailed and extended discussions through the Australian Transport Advisory Council with the object of eliminating unnecessary complexity and intrusion on our part in the affairs of State governments in relation to transport matters. This is, of course, part of our wider approach in the development of a federalism policy designed to avoid the many areas of friction which characterised our predecessor's arrangements. 
I should comment that the allocations for 1977-78 which are proposed in this Bill, also reflect to an extent, requests from State Ministers for changes to allocations which I proposed to them at the Australian Transport Advisory Council. The allocations which I am proposing in the schedules to the Bill to cover 1978-79 and 1979-80 will maintain the new thrust of Commonwealth funding to which I have already referred. However, the legislation will continue to contain provisions which will enable me to approve requests from the States for transfers between road categories, to meet for example, changes in State road works priorities. Furthermore I should make it quite clear to the House that the Bill does not allocate the additional indexation funds for 1978-79 and 1979-80 to particular road categories. Obviously the Parliament will in due course be asked to appropriate these extra funds and their allocation to the various road categories within each State. 
I would now like to draw the attention of honourable members to the main features of this Bill. Firstly, in the interest of simplified administration the legislation is being presented as one Bill instead of two separate Acts similar to those which were in force up to 30 June last. State Ministers have welcomed this feature. In addition there will in future be no difference in the financial administration for national roads as compared with other road categories since  pro rata  advances will be made to the -States for all road categories on a monthly basis. The present separate financial arrangements in respect of national highways will be discontinued. The Bill also provides that the only Ministers with administrative responsibilities will be the Minister for Transport and the Treasurer. 
Of particular interest is our decision that the new legislation will continue the change introduced recently whereby payroll tax may be included as an eligible item of expenditure both from the Commonwealth grants and as a component of matching State quotas. This is consistent with the approach adopted in relation to Commonwealth grants in some other programs. The road categories which are specified in the legislation are as follows: National highways construction; national highways maintenance; national commerce road construction; rural arterial road construction; rural local road construction and maintenance; urban arterial road construction; urban local road construction; and Minor Traffic Engineering and Road Safety Improvements Program. 
Honourable members will be aware that these categories are similar to those of the previous legislation. There is, however, no longer a separate reference in the legislation to beef roads or developmental roads although beef roads will continue to be eligible for assistance. The category export and major commercial roads has been replaced by the category national commerce roads. The legislation will provide for State quotas of matching expenditure. The States are required to find from their own resources a minimum amount of roads expenditure in order to qualify for the Commonwealth funds. I wish to stress that this provides only a base below which State roads expenditure cannot fall. It does not in any way limit total State road expenditure. In fact honourable members should be aware that in recent years New South Wales has heavily exceeded its State quota. It is also important to note that under this legislation the States remain free to allocate their own funds to roads in accordance with their own priorities. The legislation also provides for a minimum quota each year for all States combined of $4 18.8m. It is intended to index the individual State quotas in line with any increases in the Commonwealth grant. The Commonwealth sees the road funds that it provides as supplementing rather than substituting for State finance. On this basis, we consider it reasonable that increases in the Commonwealth grant ought to be matched by increases in the matching State quotas. 
The legislation continues to provide for the annual submission of programs' to be carried out using Commonwealth funds for the approval of the Commonwealth Minister. In the case of local roads a program of allocations for road works can be submitted as an alternative to a program of projects. On the basis of discussions and agreement with State Ministers I have included in the Bill provision for the establishment of joint Federal-State planning committees as a possible alternative to the system of program approval. Initially this provision can be used to establish planning committees for national roads but is capable of being used for other road categories if desired and agreed. It will be a matter for agreement between individual State Ministers and the Commonwealth Minister as to whether planning committees are to be adopted at all. In each case the conditions under which the alternative approach is adopted will be a matter for agreement between Ministers. 
This legislation, unlike the previous legislation brought in by our predecessors, will not require the submission of all programs for urban arterials no matter how they are funded. The final feature of this Bill which I should draw to the attention of the House is the inclusion of a standard information clause. This information clause is intended to enable the collection of information consistent with Commonwealth purposes under the legislation. It does not permit wholesale intrusion into State affairs. Against this background honourable members should note it is my intention to continue to work with State governments on a co-operative and federal basis. 
The explanatory notes I have circulated describe the main feature of the Bill and I would not therefore propose to deal with individual sections in any detail. The important points for members to note are that Parts II and III of the Bill contain the clauses necessary for program approval and payment of grants for national roads and other roads respectively. Part I sets out the usual definitions. Part IV specifies the general administrative machinery, appropriation clauses, provisions for reports, information and audit certification and so on. The schedules provide details of allocations to individual road categories within each State for each of the three years based on $475m. Quota details are also included in the schedules. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I indicated in answer to an earlier question on this subject, priority would be given to Commissioner Nimmo's recommendations relating to Westernport when the transport assistance scheme is implemented. The Government recently announced details of the southbound scheme and we are now able to direct our attention to the remaining recommendations of Commissioner Nimmo. 
While ANL has had a very preliminary look at some aspects of the Nimmo recommendations, it has not proceeded to a serious study involving surveys, costing and engineering feasibility. An Inter-Departmental Committee is currently considering the recommendations of Commissioner Nimmo which have not yet been the subject of action by this Government I understand that the InterDepartmental Committee is examining proposals for a more comprehensive study of the feasibility of using Westernport than could be performed with the expertise available within ANL. I will announce the further action the Government will take when I have received the report of the InterDepartmental Committee. 
The company which is examining a proposal involving a fast small container vessel between Westernport and Devonport, has made available to my Department a copy of its consultant 's report However, any developments in this proposal would be a matter to be announced by the company concerned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Australian Shippers Council for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
For the information of honourable members I present an agreement to establish an Omega navigational faculty in Australia. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
During ^ the years 1971-72 to 1973-74 rural road grants to all States, including Victoria, were made under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Aa 1969. Under this Act the States were not required to submit road programs for approval by the Commonwealth Minister for Transport. Because of delays in having the Roads Grants Aa 1974 passed by the Parliament, the then Minister for Transport did not ask the States to submit programs of works on rural roads for the 1974-75 financial year. 
I am, therefore, not in a position to provide the details sought in respect of those four years. 
Because of their bulk I have arranged for details of the rural arterial road projects for 1975-76 and 1976-77 and the rural local road projects for 1975-76 to be forwarded direct to the honourable member. Copies of this information are also available from the Table Office. 
In the case of rural local roads in 1976-77, Victoria adopted the option available under the Roads Grants Aa 1974 to submit a program of allocations to individual local government authorities. Details of these allocations have also been forwarded to the honourable member. 
The amount of funds indicated for each individual project and for allocations to councils are, in all cases, a mixture of Commonwealth and State funds which the State estimated would be provided during the year. I am therefore unable to provide details of the amount of Commonwealth funds, as distinct from State funds, spent on each individual project or allocated to each council. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since payments commenced in 1966-67 a total of $203,789.29 has been paid by Australian National Railways to employees suffering loss of hearing as a result of their employment with the Railways. 
During that period the cost of supplying hearing aids to those employees where such hearing aids were considered necessary was $1,1 1 7.32. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Vehicles stored in railway sidings and yards between Port Augusta and Whyalla are not awaiting repairs. They are part of the intersystem pool of rolling stock and are currently surplus to requirements due to a downturn in the traffic conveyed on other systems. 
and (3) ANR has been experiencing some short term problems with the maintenance of freight rolling stock due to the increase in the size of the fleet in recent years. Action has been put in hand to transfer rolling stock for repair to the Islington workshops where surplus capacity exists. Recruitment of extra staff is therefore unnecessary. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The committee has completed the major portion of its task and is awaiting final comments before completing its report. 
On present indications, the report should be received within the next few weeks. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I do not think it proper for me to disclose personal information concerning New South Wales State Government officials. Consequently I can add nothing further to my reply to the previous question. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Burdekin Project Committee on resources and potential of the Burdekin River Basin, Queensland. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I would like to refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs to his question No. 1086  (Hansard,  8 September 1977, page 989). 
For the reasons given 1 am not prepared to authorise the expenditure of money and effort that would be involved in the major task of collecting and assembling the kind of information that is requested. 
One of the problems we found when coming to office resulted from die decision of the previous Government to cut out support for small airlines and commuter services servicing isolated areas. One of the great tragedies of the Whitlam Government was its decision to stop that support and to phase out subsidies for Connair Pry Ltd and Bush Pilots Airways Ltd services on a great number of runs. We said from the start that we were concerned to see that outback areas and isolated people were properly serviced in this manner. The House will be aware of the forceful advocacy of the honourable member for Kennedy in this regard. I know that when the Prime Minister was up there late last week he received deputations on the matter and listened with a great deal of concern and interest to the people who were putting their case to him. 
We have decided to reinstate the subsidy of $30,000 to Bush Pilots so that that airline can maintain the service. The honourable member for Port Adelaide is attempting to interject. I know that he has no sympathy on a subject like this. He has no concern at all for isolated people. The actions of the previous Labor Government proved that. The honourable member has as much interest in the outback of Queensland as has the man in the moon. We have decided to reinstate the subsidy to Bush Pilots so that the service from Rockhampton through Alphax to Barcaldine and on to Longreach can be continued. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All members of the Committee are either Commonwealth or State Government officials. There are no airline industry representatives on the Committee. However, under the Committee 's terms of reference it is to inform and consult with, as appropriate other Commonwealth and State departments and organisations; the airlines and unions; and local government authorities, community organisations and other interested parties. 
Prescriptions Dispensed by Medical Practitioners  (Question No. 1495) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Lease rentals for the airport buildings in question comprise both a site and building rental. The site rental is a common rate approved by the Minister for Transport from time to time, though varying with the particular category of airportprimary, secondary and country. The building rental is assessed on commercial lines at 12 per cent of current replacement value less an allowance for physical depreciation. 
Aero clubs have been granted a phasing in period of four years for their new rents. Estimated revenue from their hangars and buildings is some $30,000 per annum in the first year rising to about $ 120,000 in the fourth year. 
The Department of Transport does not depreciate its buildings individually but the Taxation Office Valuation Section in December 1976 gave the figure of $1,096,051 as current market value and $1,924,198 for replacement cost for insurance purposes. 
The Department of Transport agrees that its policy concerning insurance, although justifiable, warrants review towards giving the tenant the option of replacing the building with the insurance moneys. This review is nearing finalisation. 
Generally, under the law, a landlord is under no obligation to carry out repairs of any kind in the absence of an agreement. Where there is an agreement between the landlord and the tenant, a condition is generally included as to who is liable for the maintenance of the demised premises. In this case, a condition is included in the Commonwealth's tenancy agreement for the particular maintenance of the demised premises. Again, the nature of these conditions is under current review. 
Generally, yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that: 
commercial reprocessing plants are currently only in operation in the United Kingdom and France. It is believed that a reprocessing plant is m operation in the USSR. Pilot and laboratory-scale plants are in operation with irradiated fuel in the Federal Republic of Germany, India, Italy, Spain and Yugoslavia. A pilot plant has been tested in Japan, but has not yet been operated with irradiated fuel pending implementation of the agreement now reached with the USA. 
plans to install new reprocessing plants, or to reactivate plants not currently in operation have been announced or are under consideration by Argentina (laboratory-scale), Belgium, Brazil, the Federal Republic of Germany, Sweden, Taiwan (laboratory-scale), Japan, France and the United Kingdom; the last is subject to a national inquiry; and 
negotiations are believed to be proceeding for Pakistan to purchase the technology for a reprocessing plant from France. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The report was tabled in the House on 5 October 1 977. 
I am happy to inform the honourable member that I have been able to have some friendly discussions with the Victorian Minister of Transport about this matter. I shall remind the House of the facts. In 1976-77 the Victorian rural shires were to get $3 1.24m for road making; in 1977-78 the amount was to be reduced under the Victorian proposals to $29.8m. Of course, that was to be done in the face of representations that we had received and, indeed, complaints from both the State Government and local government authorities over the preceding months about the level of funds made available for local shires. I am pleased to be able to inform the honourable member that as a result of the discussions the Victorian Government has agreed to lift the level of funds made available to rural local shires to $33.02m. I think that is a clear recognition by Victoria, and certainly by this Government, of the high place, the high standing and the high regard in which we hold local government in the affairs of government as a whole. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
No. 
I am expecting to receive the report of the departmental study group in the near future. Decision has not been made on whether the report will be tabled. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department has seven libraries, whose purpose is to meet the specialised transportation information needs of users in Departmental offices, located as follows: 
Central Office, Melbourne. 
Central Office and Bureau of Transport Economics, Canberra. 
New South Wales Region, Sydney. 
Victoria/Tasmania Region, Melbourne. 
South Australia/Northern Territory Region, Adelaide. 
Western Australian Region, Melbourne. 
Queensland Region, Brisbane. 
Acquisitions: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
So far as I am aware, no. It might be added that the USA legislated for a lower absolute speed limit in 1973 (55 mph or 88 kph). There is considerable controversy about the resultant fuel savings, but one official report indicates that the saving was between 1.1 and 1.8 per cent. 
-Only this morning I spoke to the Leader of the House about the introduction of a complementary Bill which needs to go through this House to facilitate the capacity of the Australian National Line to trade intrastate along the Queensland coast. Subject to the legislative procedures of the House, the Bill will be passed during this session. 
-I appreciate the fact that it will not be opposed. I am pleased to see that the Labor Party is joining us in a bilateral approach on this matter. Insofar as Trans-Australia Airlines and its operations up the west coast of Western Australia are concerned, that matter has been before an arbitrator. I understand that the arbitrator has finished hearings on the matter and has yet to bring down an adjudication on it. When that is done I shall be able to notify the House of the result. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) As Ayers Rock is a licensed aerodrome and unmanned by departmental staff, except at special peak traffic periods, details of air traffic movements are not available. 
OC3 aircraft meet the aerodrome operational requirements although they may be subject to certain payload restrictions; details of movements are also not available for the reasons above. F27 aircraft require special approval before operating at Ayers Rock. The last F27 aircraft to land there was in 1 970. 
The aerodrome has been non-operational because of flooding since 1970 on 18 separate occasions for less than one day and a total of 92 days for one day or more. 
The largest fully loaded civil aircraft currently operating in Australia which could land at the aerodrome, but only on a dry pavement, is the F27-500. However, its take-off weight would always be restricted due to a combination of runway length, altitude and climatic conditions. In addition, the frequency of operation by this aircraft would need to be limited to avoid unacceptable erosion of the aerodrome surface. 
Connair Pty Ltd, the licensees of the aerodrome, carry out and pay for all maintenance works, consequently no details are available. 
I must say that the honourable member for Denison is an indefatigable fighter for his electorate. 
He is completely tireless- I thank the honourable member for Port Adelaide for his assistance- in his representations on behalf of the electorate of Denison and Tasmania. The Federal Government is taking an interest in the proposition of a jetfoil service from the mainland to Tasmania. It certainly would be an exciting proposition if it is possible and if it proves to be economic and viable. A number of companies have shown a great interest in the matter. My own Department is keeping abreast of it. The honourable member can rest assured that the Federal Government will continue to take a keen interest in this proposal and pursue it to its finality. 
Pursuant to section 39 of the Australian Shipping Commission Act 1956 I present the annual report of the Australian Shipping Commission for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
The most common practice adopted in relation to a group of people seeking concessional air fares is, of course, for them to apply to be recognised as an affinity group. Students are recognised in that way. The Australian Union of Students is recognised as an affinity group and its members can obtain cheaper international air fares as a result. It is true that the domestic airlines in Australia give students the benefit of a discounted air fare. I think that is something that is welcomed by many parents throughout Australia whose children are being educated in a part of the country away from where they live. The granting of individual concessions involves a commercial decision which the airlines have to take. I think it important therefore that if a pensioner group were seeking from the domestic airlines that sort of discount, as distinct from the affinity group arrangement that can be obtained, it might be in the interests of such a pensioner group to approach the airlines and to put its case to them. 
As I have said, it is a matter for commercial decision. The Government does not subsidise the major domestic airlines. I do not know that we would want to get into the business of subsidising the major airlines. A distinction can be drawn between the operations of the major airlines and the operations of perhaps the public transport services within a State, because it is true to say that, I think without exception, within every State the railway services, the bus services and the like are subsidised heavily by that State. Therefore a social input can be made by the State governments. It is a complex question and one which cannot be easily answered. I do not see the Commonwealth as being able to provide funds for this purpose. I recommend to the honourable member that he suggests to his pensioner groups that they take up the matter with the airlines. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Queensland Metropolitan Transit Authority wrote to my Department on 8 August 1977 seeking Commonwealth assistance for a feasibility study of a rail link extension from Lota to Redland Shire under the Transport (Planning and Research) Act. As yet I have not made decisions on the planning and research program for Queensland for 1977-78. Approval of the programs will not be possible until the enabling legislation has been passed by the Parliament. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. When examined shonly after the landing at Goulburn no fault was found. Subsequently the engine was ground run then flight tested and no fault was found. 
The investigation, which has been comprehensive and detailed, is now nearing completion. I will advise the honourable member of the findings when I am in a position to do so. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no plans for the introduction of television on the Indian-Pacific. Such a proposal was investigated about four years ago but was unsuccessful for technical reasons. 
Firstly, I would like to thank all those honourable members who contributed to the debate. There have been yesterday and again tonight one or two constructive suggestions put forward. I will not have an opportunity to reply to all the matters that have been raised so I will make sure that the various speeches that have been made are studied and I will respond to them later. With regard to the matter raised by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  he has put the case very correctly. The fact is that the New South Wales Minister prefers to upgrade the Doyalson-Swansea road and in that he has the support of the Newcastle Chamber of Commerce. I am aware also that every Federal member of parliament- representing the area believes that the national highway should go west of Lake Macquarie. Honourable members will be pleased to know that this matter is moving. There has been some correspondence between the State Minister and me and hopefully we will reach a reasonable compromise. 
The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  raised one or two matters.  His  interest in aviation is well known and I appreciate his knowledge of it. Like the honourable member for Bowman, I am looking forward to the conclusion of both the domestic study on aviation and the international study on aviation as I believe that plans for aviation in this country for the next generation or so will be able to be laid down in proper perspective and in a proper context after those reports are received. I must say to the honourable member that so far as charter operators coming into Brisbane are concerned, I am at a loss to understand why the honourable member believes this cannot be done. 
I think the honourable member is being misled or misinformed on this matter. I am advised that they can get in with full loadings and get out with satisfactory loadings to the next place of refuelling. I am informed that the airport, even in its present condition, will in no way debar the proper handling of the Commonwealth Games m 1982. I know the honourable member for Bowman does not agree with that proposition but that is the advice which my Department has given me. My Department, of course, has a very great regard for air safety matters and the like. That is a matter that ought to be established as a matter of fact. It should not be a matter of debate or dispute. Therefore, I will pass on the facts to the honourable member for Bowman and see whether I can settle him down on that point. With regard to the provision of trolleys, airlines themselves have some responsibility in this matter but I will take up the honourable member's question and look at it. The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  and the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  raised the question of the level of road funds being made available, particularly to South Australia. I point out to them that despite the fact that the Government was unable to provide the total level of funds as recommended in the report of the Bureau of Roads, within the context of the funds available, South Australia received its proper percentage. Therefore, I do not think it proper for the honourable members to accuse me of being biased against South Australia in that respect. 
I want to thank the  Chairman  of the Transport Committee, the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  for his contribution which was a very constructive contribution, and the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  who made a very constructive speech last night. The shadow Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  last night expressed some concern about the provision of fire services and I want to lay at rest any doubt with regard to my own or the Department's approach on this question. The honourable member ought to be aware that orders will be placed this year for 19 ultra large fire tenders and nine rapid intervention tenders at a total cost of $3.2m. That certainly is a rapid stepping up on previous provisions of this type. Also under division 6SS.2.12 provision for air transport moveable plant maintenance has been increased by 20 per cent in the current appropriation to $220,000 to ensure that an adequate maintenance service is available for both the existing fleet of fire vehicles and also pending new deliveries. 
I make the point that International Civil Aviation Organisation standards are not mandatory requirements at all airports, but it is government policy to keep international airports up to those standards and to ensure that fire services at other locations are kept close to that level. The honourable member also raised the question of the provision of civil aviation meteorological services. I remind the House that the provision of finance for those services is based on the formula devised back in 1952 for the Bureau of Meteorology, whereby 35 per cent of the Bureau's salary expenditure and 28 per cent of its general expenditure was attributable to aviation services. Numerous attempts have been made to change the formula, and recently the Government has received an inter-departmental committee report which we are looking at in an effort to review the basis of charging that is currently operated by the Bureau. 
The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  very proudly mentioned that he had spent $ 100m in providing four new bulk ore carriers for the Australian National Line. What he did not tell the House is that when he ordered those four bulk ore carriers, which are the dearest four bulk ore carriers ever built and ever put into the trade, he did not at the same time secure orders for those bulk ore carriers. It has been left to me and ANL to negotiate with the Japanese to try to put those bulk ore carriers into the trade because of the honourable member's lack of businesslike approach to this problem. Only two of those vessels have been fitted into the trade and two are on standby to be fitted in at a later date. 
The final point I want to make concerns the problem raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  He spoke about the allocation of funds this year for urban public transport and pointed out that only $51m is being made available. He made the point that that figure represents a 13 per cent reduction on the $5 8.4m which was advanced in 1976-77, but he ignored the fact that the 1976-77 allocation of $58.4m was some 70 per cent greater than the $33.8m allocated in the last Labor Budget. He also ignored the fact that it was his Government which abolished the allocation of new funds for urban public transport in 1975-76. In fact, it is true to say that this Government has provided $ 109.4m in two years, and that is some 40 per cent more than the $79m provided by the Government of which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was a member. I think therefore it is unfitting and unbecoming of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to make the allegation that this Government is not interested in the problems of urban public transport. 
Once again I thank all those honourable members who made a contribution to the debate. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
Pursuant to section 40 of the Australian National Airlines Act 1945, 1 present the annual report of the the Australian National Airlines Commission for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
-I should make it clear to the honourable member that I am not in charge of the purchase of Government cars. So, I shall take up his question with my colleague, the Minister for Administrative Services, to see whether I can encourage him to act on the proposal put forward by the honourable member. Secondly, I should pay a tribute to the honourable member for Frankin. Since he has been a member of this House, I think he has sponsored as many bright thoughts and initiatives as any other member of parliament has in a long time. Quite clearly he deserves, and he will get, the support of the people of the electorate of Franklin because of the way in which he handles these matters. 
Having said that, I point out that there is a world wide concern about the prospect of running out of petrol supplies by about the mid- 1990s. Indeed  President  Carter has foreshadowed that, by the 1990s, there will be a serious shortage of petrol. So, quite clearly, the honourable member's question is timely and we, as a Government, should be looking at the question of the use of LPG which is available in very large quantities. I know that my colleague, the Minister for National Resources, has established a committee of inquiry into the use of fuels, which is very much a part of this question. Similarly, State Transport Ministers have agreed with me at Australian Transport Advisory Council meetings that we ought to be looking at the question of the use of fuels in transport in the years ahead. We have under way a study in relation to that matter. As I said, I shall take up the question with my colleague, the Minister for Administrative Services, in order to ensure that a proper study is made of it. 

 Mr PETER LEAKE 
At the moment a review of the domestic air industry is in progress. Indeed it is hoped that the report will be made to me within the next few months. I have encouraged the commuter services to place before the review committee as part of that review any views they might have as to their part in the travel industry in Australia. So far as that part of the question is concerned, I think we should await the review. At that time I will be putting down a policy statement in respect of it. In respect of the fuel problem, representatives of the general aviation organisations saw me last week. They put before me their concern at the expected rise of the price of fuel in the ensuing months as a result of the Government's policy. I said to them that it was a matter for budget consideration but that I would look at it in the context of budget consideration. 
It has been plain since coming to office that we have been doing our best to encourage commuter services. The House will be aware that this year we did not raise the air navigation charges. Last year we raised them by only 15 per cent. When we came to office at the end of 1975 we reduced the air navigation charges proposed in the 1975 Budget brought in by the Labor Government for general aviation and commuter services. The proposed increase was 300 per cent. We reduced that to 15 per cent. Therefore I think it is well known throughout general aviation organisations that we have a real sympathy for maintaining a high standard of service in the remote areas and for keeping commuter services going. 
I must confess some surprise and disappointment that  Mr Northey  would make such a wild and stupid accusation. The fact is that there was a derailment of the Tasman Limited on 24 October. It was carrying 24 passengers and five crew at the time. Fortunately for everybody concerned no one was injured although a number of people were badly shaken by the accident. The Australian National Railways has set up a board of inquiry. Therefore, it would not be proper of me to make any comment on the accident itself until such time as the board of inquiry reports. If there has been any neglect of the railway line on which the Tasman Limited runs, it has not been by this Government. The fact is that the Tasmanian Labor Government for years and years starved the State railway systems of funds. When the Leader of the Opposition was Prime Minister, his Minister for Transport bought out the Tasmanian railway system. The Labor Party bought at the highest price the worst railway system in Australia, the most neglected railway system in Australia, and a railway system that had had less capital injection than any other railway system in Australia. One can see that the job confronting the Australian National Railways in getting the Tasmanian system into any sense of order is difficult. 
I make the point that we have provided in this Budget $4.3m for upgrading of the railway system. The Joy report recommended the closure of the Tasman Limited service. I gave an instruction to the ANR that there should be no consideration of this question until 1978 when a proper opportunity would be given for the tourist industry of Tasmania to see whether there would be value in maintaining the Tasman Limited service. It does run at a heavy loss. There will be no change from that date. It will still be 1978. Despite  Mr Northey  's allegations, there will still be no change from that date. The Australian 
National Railways will be keeping the Tasman Limited running until that further report comes to hand. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following are those recommendations in the report of  Mr J.  F. Nimmo, C.B.E., on transport between Tasmania and the mainland which was presented on5 March 1976 and have not yet been the subject of action by the Government: 
That ANL be asked to carry out as expeditiously as possible a study of: the cost of moving general cargo between a port in Westernport Bay and a wharf in Devonport in a Pure Ro-Ro vessel that completes the round trip in 24 hours as compared with the cost of moving the same cargo between Webb Dock and Devonport in a Searoader or the  Melbourne Trader. 
That, if the study reveals that a Pure Ro-Ro service between Westernport Bay and Devonport should be more efficient and cheaper, the Ministry of Transport be asked to carry out a study of relative cost of door-to-door movement of goods between places in Victoria and places in northern Tasmania over this route on its own wheels as compared with cargo boxes or on flats in Ro-Ro vessels from Webb Dock. 
That, if the foregoing studies show that it would be more efficient and cheaper to move cargo by Pure Ro-Ro from Westernport than Ro-Ro from Webb Dock, consideration be given to the design, speed and capacity of a Pure Ro-Ro vessel suited to trans-Bass operations. (Chapter 6, Section 6. 10. 1 ). 
That, if a fast cargo Pure Ro-Ro service is introduced between Melbourne and Northern Tasmania, the Tasmanian terminal be located at Devonport. (Chapter 7, Section 7.9.4). 
That an in-depth investigation be carried out into all aspects of the provision of a rail ferry service for the carriage of goods and livestock on Tasmanian rail wagons between Westernport Bay and Devonport. (Chapter 6, Section 6. 10.3). 
That, if it is decided to introduce a rail ferry service between Westernport Bay and Northern Tasmania, the Tasmanian terminal be located at Devonport. (Chapter 7, Section 7.9.4). 
That the future sea passenger service between Tasmania and the mainland be provided by two vessels operating between Westernport Bay and Burnie. Features of the service would be return crossing in 24 hours; daylight passenger service; and express cargo service by night. ( Chapter 6, Section 6. 10.4). 
That, if a fast daylight passenger service and return cargo service by night is to be introduced between Westernport Bay and Burnie, consideration be given as to whether the Ocean Wharf at Burnie be upgraded. (Chapter 7, Section 7.9.4). 
d ) That all replacement pallets for use in the Tasmanian trades be constructed on the 1,100 mm x 1,100 mm basis. (Chapter 4, Section 4.4). 
That a meeting be convened of all interested parties to consider the practicability of establishing a pool of cargo units of standard size, and its contribution to improved efficiency. (Chapter 4, Section 4.7).  (0  That the Tasmanian Government be requested to consider setting up a central port authority to coordinate future port development. (Chapter 7, Section 7.10.3). 
That the Tasmanian Government be requested to consider, in regard to the port of Stanley- the the Marine Boards of Burnie and Circular Head be amalgamated; and that the port of Stanley be closed to Ro-Ro vessels. (Chapter 7, Section 7. 1 1 ). 
Not all members of the Interdepartmental Committee are concerned with the outstanding recommendations. The departments involved are: 
Department of Transport 
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet 
Department of Finance 
Department of Industry and Commerce 
Department of Business and Consumer Affairs 
Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development 
Department of Productivity. 
The terms of reference of this committee are to consider the report and prepare a submission for Ministers' consideration. 
The Interdepartmental Committee first met on 31 March 1976. Since then the Committee has met on a number of occasions and has been reporting progressively on certain recommendations in the report. The honourable member will be aware of the action progressively taken by the Government to introduce first the northbound then the southbound freight equalisation schemes and the operating subsidy for the  Empress of Australia  to the extent of $2m per year. 
It is expected that the recommendations of the committee on these outstanding issues will be available to me in the near future. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Basic Treaty was ratified on 21 July 1977 and entered into force on 20 August 1977. 
Article X covers all forms of shipping between Australia and Japan. Australian flag vessels participate in the liner trade between the two countries and negotiations are continuing between ANL and the Japanese steel mills on the employment of the remaining two of four Australian flag vessels in the iron ore trade. 
The scope and purpose of the Basic Treaty are broader than those of Japan s treaties of commerce and navigation with a number of other countries. Accordingly, specific guidelines and objectives have not been established under Article X. This Article is intended to provide a framework for strengthened relations between the two countries in the field of shipping. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. A helicopter charter service between Townsville Airport and Nellie Bay, Magnetic Island, does operate. It is operated by Rotorair Pry Ltd under the terms of the specific approval issued by the Department of Transport. A specific authorisation was required because Nellie Bay is situated within the Townsville Airport Control Zone and as such the operation might conflict with other air traffic in the zone unless appropriate conditions are applied. 
(a) In regard to the first part of this question, the normal requirements of the Air Navigation Regulations and Orders in regard to the embarkation and disembarkation of passengers and luggage apply to this operation. In addition, in the specific authorisation issued by my Department, Rotorair are required to have a company representative present at the authorised landing site on the beach at Nellie Bay to keep the area clear of persons and to supervise the unloading and loading of passengers and luggage and to brief embarking passengers on emergency procedures. 
Regarding pilot qualifications, a charter operation of this kind requires the pilot-in-command to hold at least a Commercial Pilot Licence- Helicopter. 
The regulations do not prohibit the loading and unloading of a helicopter with engine(s) and rotors operating. It is standard practice in both helicopter charter and regular public transport operations to follow this procedure subject to supervision by responsible company personnel. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) At this stage I have nothing further to add to my earlier reply to similar questions posed by the honourable member on IS September 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) All departmental fire-fighting appliances are equipped with standardised fire hose couplings and associatedfittings. 
All departmental fire-fighting appliances carry coupling adaptors to ensure interchangeability with nearby firefighting authorities. In addition, some local authorities have been provided by my Department with coupling adaptors for their fire appliances, thus enabling them to give support to airport fire appliances. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The existing fleet of fire appliances at Australian airports is comprised of the following: 
Large Fire Tenders: Thornycroft Nubian chassis, 3,600 litre water capacity, 1,800 litre per minute discharge rate. 12 built in 1958; 16 built in 1960; 9 built in 1963-65; 2 built in 1967. 
Large Fire Tenders: Atkinson chassis, 5,400 litre water capacity, 1,800 litre per minute discharge rate. 2 built in 1972. 
Ultra Large Fire Tenders: Thornycroft  Major chassis,  6,800 litre water capacity, 3,200 litre per minute discharge rate. 8 built in 1971-72. 
Medium Fire Tenders: Bedford chassis, 2,000 litre water capacity, 450 litre per minute discharge rate. 10 built in 1965-66. 
Ultra Large Water Tenders: Atkinson chassis, 9, 100 litre water capacity. 4 built in 1 967-70. 
f) Rescue Tenders- 
Light Rescue Tenders: Willys chassis, carries special rescue equipment. 5 built in 1962-65. 
Medium Rescue Tenders: Bedford chassis, carries special rescue equipment. 4 built in 1972. 
Location: The location of my Department's Rescue and Fire Fighting Appliances are shown in Attachment 
Normally, the life of specialist vehicles is considered to be of the order of 15 years. Against this criterion many of these appliances have, or are reaching the end of their reasonable economic and practical life. The remaining life will depend on when replacement new equipment becomes available. 
At the present time my Department has on order 12 Rapid Intervention Tenders (RIT) and 10 Ultra Large Fire Tenders (ULFT). The future location of these vehicles and the consequent redistribution of appliances is currently under review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department has not carried out any studies into the costs of ownership and operation of private motor cars in urban and inner urban areas compared with the use of cars available from rent-a-car firms. I will give consideration to initiating such a study should the need be clearly demonstrated. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Expenditure incurred at Brisbane during the past 10 years together with the nature of that expenditure, is summarised as follows: 
I must say that I read with some surprise yesterday a letter which has been circulated to local government authorities throughout New South Wales urging them to make representations to me because commuter services to Sydney Airport are about to be eliminated. I understand that letter was signed by  Mr Gruzman.  I must say that there is absolutely no substance to the allegation. I am surprised that  Mr Gruzman  did not check either with me or with my Department before being silly enough to alarm so many local government authorities throughout New South Wales. There is a review going on of the usage of Sydney Airport. At critical periods Sydney Airport is close to full capacity. At times of full capacity priority has to be given to certain aircraft such as commuter aircraft, for which provision has been properly made, the major domestic airlines and international airlines. In the review we are putting privately owned and singly flown aircraft at the bottom of the ladder. But I make it quite clear to all local government authorities in New South Wales that there is no substance in the allegation because proper provision is being made for commuter services. 
The allegations about lack of fire fighting services were made in this House by the honourable member for Shortland and they were rather deplorable in light of the facts. The facts are that in the budgets brought down by the LiberalNational Country Party Government in the three years up to 1972, $2.4m was made available for the purchase and provisions of fire fighting services. In the three years under Labor, from 1972 to 1975, only $600,000 was made available for that purpose. In the two years we have been back in office we have stepped up expenditure to $2m. So if there are to be any allegations about a shortage of fire tenders at the Sydney airport, those allegations ought to be directed against the Labor Party. The fact is that since coming back into office we have ordered another 19 ultralarge fire tenders and another nine interventionist fire tenders. We have done that simply because of the neglect by the Labor Party when it was in office m not carrying out its proper responsibilities in this matter. 
I move:  That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill now before the House continues and extends arrangements for the provision of assistance to the States for land transport planning and research. Honourable members will be aware that the Government has included a sum of $8m in Appropriation Bill (No. 2) for transport planning and research assistance in 1977-78. The Bill now before the House provides standing legislation specifying the conditions and arrangements covering the use of these funds and funds to be appropriated in subsequent years. 
At the Australian Transport Advisory Council the future arrangements concerning the planning and research program have been discussed with my State colleagues. There has been unanimous support for the continuation of the program and the structure of the arrangements proposed has been influenced by the views of the States. Some general introductory comments are appropriate. The Commonwealth Aid Roads Act 1969 provided assistance for road research. The transport (Planning and Research) Act 1974 extended assistance to urban public transport as well as roads. The present Bill further extends assistance to cover planning and research into all forms of land transport as well as into areas involved in the relationship of land transport and other modes. 
The transport planning and research program has achieved its objectives through effective Commonwealth-State co-operation. It has promoted an integrated approach to planning and research, to the sharing of results and to avoidance of duplication. Commonwealth assistance to more than 500 projects has totalled over $23m since 1974. Examples include large studies such as the south west area study in Western Australia, the north east area transport study in South Australia, the Koonung Creek corridor study in Victoria and the Newcastle, GosfordWyong and Wollongong urban studies. There are also many smaller projects such as area control of traffic in Hobart and crew rostering by computer in Queensland which are directed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of existing facilities and infrastructure. With regard to the Bill itself, I should say that several changes from previous legislation have been introduced to simplify administrative arrangements while preserving the essential features of a CommonwealthState co-operative program which has developed successfully to this time. A change from former arrangements is that State programs will now be approved rather than individual projects. This is to allow States greater flexibility in implementing and managing their planning and research programs and at the same time further encourage the development of balanced programs. 
I turn now to financial aspects. In 1977-78 the Government has proposed an appropriation of $8m for transport planning and research and the Schedule to the Bill indicates the assistance to be given for each State. The 1977-78 grants will be provided on a matching basis of two Commonwealth dollars to one State dollar in line with previous legislation. However, after 1977-78 the Government proposes to contribute to the program on a dollar for dollar basis. We recognise that continuity of funding is very important in a rogram like this and we have already told the tates that for 1978-79 and 1979-80 we are prepared to contribute our share on a dollar for dollar basis of a total program maintained at the 1977-78 level in real terms. 
The explanatory notes I have circulated describe the main features of the Bill and I do not propose to deal with individual clauses in detail. The important points covered by the Bill include definitions, arrangements for approval, details of grant entitlement in 1977-78 and in later years, provision to cover planning and research projects carried out for the States by research organisations and details of financial administration and provisions for delegation. Honourable members will recall that on 24 August 1976 and 3 May 1977 1 tabled reports of progress on projects under the Transport (Planning and Research) Act 1974. The Bill now before the House provides for continued communication of results through annual progress reports and final project reports. The transport planning and research program to date has provided a good example of Commonwealth-State co-operation. This Bill will enable this co-operation to continue and ensure effective use of resources. It will encourage planning and research relating to land transport, will allow for emphasis on new initiaties and for the avoidance of unnecessary duplication. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to seek authority for the Treasurer to guarantee on behalf of the Australian Government, loans raised by Ansett Transport Industries Ltd to finance the purchase of one Boeing 727-200 series aircraft. This will be the eighth aircraft of its type in the Ansett fleet. The company also operates four Boeing 727-100s and twelve DC9s. The Australian National Airlines Commission, Trans-Australia Airlines, which operates the same number of aircraft of each type as Ansett, has informed me that it intends to finance its eighth Boeing 727-200 from its own internal resources. The need by both Ansett and the Commission to seek additional aircraft to incorporate into their fleets, is to meet the strong growth in traffic that has been evident throughout most of this year. The industry is optimistic that these trends will continue through 1978. 
During 1976 both carriers experienced relatively depressed market conditions with a situation of no growth in some areas and only marginal gains in traffic being made in other areas. By comparison to 1975, when very high rates of growth were achieved, 1976 was indeed a most difficult time for both airlines. However, statistics indicate that for the first three quarters of 1977, the number of passengers carried was 4 per cent higher than for the comparable period in 1976. Average load factors, or the number of seats occupied compared to those available, have also improved. Aircraft utilisation, or the number of hours flown by each aircraft in the fleet, has also increased. Ansett and TAA have achieved levels of utilisation which are amongst the highest in the world. This facet must be considered as one of the more beneficial features of Australia's two-airline policy. The achievement of such levels of utilisation ensures that the aircraft are flown to their fullest capacity, of course within the strict margins dictated by safety. This in turn assists to keep fares down by avoiding the cost of surplus capacity within the fleet. 
Earlier this year both airlines introduced two new routes on to their network. For the first time there is now a weekly direct jet service between Canberra and Adelaide. Similarly, there is a weekly service offered between Sydney and Alice 
Springs. On this route, the service is provided by each of the airlines on alternate weeks. These developments, I believe, reflect the airlines initiative and their willingness to explore new markets and break new ground. Apart from these factors which are contributing to a tightening of available capacity within the fleets, there is another matter which also should be mentioned. For some years now both operators have been going through a process of upgrading their fleets. As I mentioned earlier, in addition to the Boeing 727-200s and the DC9s that each airline operate they also have four Boeing 727- 100s. This particular aircraft was first introduced onto the domestic network in 1964 and in fact was the first jet aircraft type to operate regular services in Australia. 
During 1976, both airlines sold two of the Boeing 727- 100s overseas and I understand that they intend to continue the retirement program over the next few years for the remaining umts of this aircraft type in their fleet. The decision to retire these aircraft is based not only on age, but also on the fact that this aircraft is somewhat smaller and relatively noisier than the Boeing 727-200s. On the general question of fleet expansion, the domestic operators have been watching with interest the experience of overseas operators with the new generation of a wide-bodied aircraft. Of course, it would be some years yet before their introduction could be expected on the domestic network. Network expansion and fleet re-equipment are matters most pertinent to Australia's two-airline policy. Indeed, I think it can be said that most forms of air transport in this country are to some extent influenced by this policy. 
Whilst the policy has both its supporters and protagonists, I do not believe it can be denied that it has nurtured Australian aviation through its relative infancy of the early 1950s, to its present position. In fact, it has enabled Australia to develop a first class internal aviation transport system which has been the envy of many nations. Nevertheless, even though the two-airline system has served Australia well, we should from time to time review and test that policy to ensure it still meets the community's needs to the fullest. Accordingly, I announced m July of this year that a review of domestic air transport policy is being conducted and being directed by a steering committee of senior officers from my Department. The terms of reference are expansive and will include such topics as: The role of the Commonwealth and the States in the licensing of air services; the possibility of improving the Commonwealth air service licensing arrangements; the possibility of up-dating the two-airline policy arrangements; seeking to clarify the role of the smaller airlines and commuters; and the dual scheduling arrangements engaged in by the two major operators on trunk routes. 
All interested parties from both private and government sectors together with the aviation industry and major users have been invited to forward submissions to the study group. These views, where appropriate, will of course be taken into consideration in preparing future policy. Similarly in the field of international aviation I have also directed my Department to undertake a major review of air pohcy. Like the domestic review it will be a comprehensive study of all factors affecting international air travel. 
At the present time, there is considerable interest in the possibility of lower international air fares to and from Australia. While such fares would benefit certain sectors of the public and the tourist industry, the effect on the level and frequency of schedule services must also be taken into account. It is essential that the Government's regulatory policies do not prevent such benefits being available to Australia. At the same time, however, the Government must ensure that our air links with other countries are not placed in jeopardy by those who may only wish to 'cream the trade '. 
Further, this study of the international situation will assist the Government in making a proper contribution to the work of the International Civil Aviation Organisation which will be preparing studies over the next three years to help the world aeronautical community to find solutions to the problems affecting the industry. I am sure that the outcome of both of these studies will offer sound and positive guidelines for the continued development of both Australia's domestic and international air transport system. 
While on the general issue of developing future guidelines for air transport, it seems appropriate that I mention the present study m progress on the planning of future aviation facilities in the Sydney area, namely the MANS Study. Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport is not only the centre of Australia's domestic air transport network, but it is also the major international airport in Australia. In the last seven years the number of persons moving through Sydney Airport has increased by 16 per cent, from 4,214,322 to the year ended June 1970, to an estimated 4,869,000 for the year to June 1977. It is expected in future years that the number of passengers handled at Sydney Airport will continue to increase at a substantial rate. 
In a joint statement, in October 1976, the Prime Minister and the New South Wales Premier announced the establishment of a committee of senior Commonwealth and State officials to recommend a suitable strategy to cater for the future aviation demand in the Sydney area. My Department, and I understand other departments, including those within the New South Wales Government, are making a considerable manpower commitment to the study to ensure that the optimal solution in every sense, is achieved. In the long term the outcome of studies such as this, involves the sinking of capital into aviation facilities and infrastructure. Of course this raises the thorny issue of who should pay. One would be foolish to deny the contribution that aviation makes to our economy; yet this can also be said of other forms of transport. We would all like to see air fares kept as low as possible; however it must be borne in mind that this can only be achieved at considerable cost to the taxpayer. 
As I have said in the past, it is the Government's objective to ensure that Australia's overall transport system is the most efficient possible. The general issue of cost recovery in the aviation field is certainly not new. In fact, in the Airlines Agreement Act of 1961 it was stated that the Commonwealth would implement a policy of full recovery of the cost of facilities properly attributable to civil air transport. Of course, the policy received notoriety under the previous Government when it announced its intention to increase the level of recovery for the costs of civil aviation to 80 per cent across the board by 1978-79. 1 believe the Government has taken a responsible decision by deferring the very harsh line of the previous Government until the industry has been properly consulted on the levels of costs, revenues and services. These discussions are continuing and proving to be a most fruitful exercise. 
Deferral has also been made to facilitate proper studies and comparisons of cost recovery programs of other transport modes to be made. These studies are being carried out by the Bureau of Transport Economics and are now well advanced. Estimates by my Department for the year ended June 1977 show a total outlay of $2 12m on civil aviation in this country including both capital works and overheads. Revenue estimates for the same period show a return of approximately $124m. Of this $124m, half is contributed by air navigation charges, 20 per cent by aviation fuel tax, the balance being made up by airport rentals and concessions. This gives an overall recovery position of 59 per cent. When it is considered that, for the year ended June 1969, the percentage of revenues covering costs was only 44 per cent, this is a considerable achievement. 
Considering the same estimates to the year ended June 1977, a clearer picture emerges when the overall recovery position is looked at on a sector basis. For international operations full recovery of costs is being achieved. For domestic trunk operations, namely those routes over which Ansett and TAA operate, the recovery position is approximately 76 per cent. For the remaining sectors, rural airlines and general aviation, the recovery situation is somewhat less. Although this situation is recognised, the ability of the industry to pay has to be considered. There are also the needs of persons in remote areas of Australia who rely almost entirely upon air transport to meet their everyday needs. 
I would now like to mention a number of announcements the Government has recently made on this general theme, in respect of subsidies for air services in remote areas of Australia. Honourable members will know that it has been the Government's position that the people in outlying areas of Australia should enjoy the best possible air services while at the same time keeping the cost to the taxpayer, of subsidies, to a reasonable level. 
To this end, the Government last year established an inter-departmental committee to assess the demand for air services in the area served by the Northern Territory airline, Connair Pty Ltd, and to recommend to me how that demand might best be satisfied. The Committee comprised representatives of the Department's of the Northern Territory, Aboriginal Affairs, Finance and my own Department of Transport. The Committee placed considerable importance on conducting its inquiries on the spot and sought to obtain the widest possible range of comment and opinion from all sections of the community. 
The decisions recently taken by the Government were not solely based on the recommendations of the Committee. I myself had a number of ?uite frank discussions with the  Chairman  of lonnair,  Mr E.  J. Connellan. The proposals which are now to be implemented were to some extent developed during the course of these discussions. These recent decisions by the Government provide for the continued operation of Connair Pty Ltd as a viable enterprise. The airline will continue to meet the air transport needs of the people in the area who depend so much upon it. 
The Committee also made a number of recommendations in respect of certain new initiatives, which the Government has implemented or will implement shortly. These too will assist in catering for the air transport needs of the people in the area, in the most efficient manner possible. In considering the general question of subsidies to operators serving remote areas, the Government did have the benefit of similar studies concerning northern Western Australia and northern Queensland. These studies were undertaken by the State Government authorities in conjunction with my own Department. 
Honourable members will appreciate from this brief resume of the aviation industry that the responsible attitude taken by the present Government has been an influencing factor upon the re-establishment of a stable climate within which confidence is being restored, and which is enabling industry growth. The reviews which are at present underway will enable the Government to continue to be well advised and to respond to the needs of the people of Australia in the rational development of air services which are so vital to our general well being. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In the absence of full details of  Mr Laker  's plans at the present time, an answer would be speculative. However, it is usual for aircraft operators to plan for high load factors so as to provide the economies to offer lower fares. 
Not applicable. 
No. 
Not applicable. 
A runway of 7760 feet in length at Tullamarine Airport would not be adequate for all of the operations currently being undertaken at that airport. 
1 cannot see how any useful purpose would be served by asking Qantas and the other international carriers such a hypothetical question. 
I have not had an exhaustive study made, but I am aware that the runway at Wellington in New Zealand is considerably shorter, and the available take-off distance at Christchurch is less than that at Brisbane. 
All other parameters being the same, greater lengths are required at higher temperatures. The adequacy in any particular set of circumstances is clearly related to the demand. 
Runway length is not the only parameter involved. For example, although the runway at Alice Springs is longer than that at Brisbane, limiting take-off weights are less than those at Brisbane at the same temperature, because of the elevation of Alice Springs. In determining the specific needs for any given location, the Government is guided by advice given by the operators concerned. In relation to Brisbane, the operators have indicated that they consider the existing runway length is adequate to meet their needs until at least 1980, perhaps longer. 
10) As I stated previously, the operators of services to Brisbane have indicated that the existing runway at Brisbane is adequate at this time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The records of aircraft movements at Brisbane Airport on a typically (a) busy day (21/8/77) and (b) quiet day ( 14/8/77) are at Attachment 'A'. 
) The answer to the question is set out in Airways Operations Instructions RAC-2-29 to RAC-2-32 and RAC-2-37, the details of which are also set out in Attachment ' B '. 
The answer to this question is set out in Airways Operations Instructions RAC-2-26 to RAC-2-28 and RAC-2-37, the details of which are also set out in Attachment ' B '. 
The separation standards contained in Airways Operations Instructions RAC-2-26 to RAC-2-32 (Attachment B') are those prescribed by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) and which are adhered to by Australia as a Contracting State. The standards have been in use for many years. The wake turbulence separation standards in RAC-2-37, which have been applied since 1976 were developed after consultation with the industry, including the Australian Federation of Air Pilots (AFAP). Since these standards were introduced there has been no indication that they are in any way unsafe. 
The nature and bulk of attachments are such that it is not practical to reproduce them in  Hansard.  Copies are available from the Table Office. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) For international operations ICAO prescribes three grades of advice having a descending order in the obligation each places on ICAO member States. The first grade is known as a standard, followed by recommended practices and by guidance material. The capability of a rescue and fire fighting service to be provided at an airport is not the subject of a ICAO standard. In determining the fire fighting capability to be established at an airport Australia generally follows ICAO recommended practices. Note is taken of the guidance material of ICAO and the advice of Australian experts. 
and (3) The service provided at Sydney and Melbourne meets ICAO recommended practices and ICAO guidance material. The services at Brisbane, Darwin and Perth only fall marginally short of some of the guidance material. At domestic airports the provision of water and foam capacity and the capacity to discharge this extinguishing material in accordance with the prescriptions of ICAO are recognised as the primary objective. These prescriptions were revised at the end of 1976 and maximum effort has been made to utilise existing fire appliances and improved foaming agents to meet these revised specifications wherever a service is provided. Meeting them in full depends on the purchase of new equipment Initial purchases are in progress. 
Expenditure on airport fire fighting services is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department provides fire-fighting services at primary airports at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Darwin, Perth, Norfolk Island, Adelaide, Alice Springs, Cairns, Canberra, Coolangatta, Hobart, Launceston, Mackay, Mt Isa, Rockhampton, Bundaberg, Devonport, Dubbo, Essendon, Maryborough, Port Hedland, Tamworth, Wagga and Wynyard and at secondary airports at Archerfield, Bankstown, Jandakot, Moorabbin and Parafield. In addition, a fire-fighting service is provided at the training airport at Avalon. 
For international regularly used airports a fire service is provided. For airports used only occasionally as an international alternate airport a fire service would be provided if the general level of aircraft activity was sufficient to give it priority for the service over other domestic airports. For domestic airports the general objective adopted has been to provide fire services to cover about 90 per cent of all users of regular public transport air services. Provision of a service at an airport handling 25,000 embarking/disembarking passengers per annum was judged to achieve this objective. Another guide taken in establishment of services was that, in order to maintain a minimum level of preparedness and efficiency in a fire service unit, there would need to be an aircraft activity of at least 2,800 regular public transport movements per annum or, where this level was not achieved, total aircraft movements in excess of 1 5,000 per annum. 
(a) Fire fighting services were withdrawn as followsLongreach, June 1971; Mangalore, Nov. 1973; Derby, Nov. 1973;Narromine, Feb. 1974; Broken Hill, Aug. 1974; Geralton.May 1976. 
Services installed- Melbourne (Main station June 1971; Melbourne (Satellite station), Aug. 1973; Sydney (Satellite station), to be commissioned later in 1977. 
The extent of provision of airport rescue and firefighting services over the next five years is currently under review. Until it is complete lam unable to answer this part of the question. 
Establishment of Technical College at Redcliffe (Question No. 1706) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Under the Air Navigation (Charges) Act, charges are payable in respect of the use by aircraft of aerodromes and other facilities and services provided by the Commonwealth. By virtue of payment of these charges, operators of aircraft are entitled to use those areas of land within the boundaries of Commonwealth aerodromes which are available for the landing, take off and surface movement of aircraft other than those apron areas which are provided and maintained by individual operators for their own aircraft by virtue of arrangements made with the Department granting such an operator exclusive rights in respect of those areas. 
The areas of land provided for the manoeuvring and standing of aircraft are normally defined by appropriate markers or markings at each Commonwealth aerodrome. 
-I present the Overseas Cargo Shipping Legislation report prepared by my Department, dated October 1977. Because of the limited number of copies available, two copies have been placed in the Parliamentary Library and copies will be distributed to all honourable members and senators as soon as they become available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main provisions of this Bill to amend the Australian Shipping Commission Act are designed to encourage a regime of equal opportunity for competition in coastal trades between the Australian Shipping Commission and private shipowners, and to enable the Australian National Line to undertake shipping services for the carriage of goods between places in a State where that State authorises the Commission to provide such services. The opportunity has also been taken to effect a number of minor amendments to the Act. 
The Australian Coastal Shipping Agreement 1956 expired in September 1976 and the Government has considered the effectiveness of this Agreement and whether any useful purpose would be served by entering into a new agreement. The main purpose of the Agreement was to facilitate trade and commerce in coastal shipping by ensuring the continued operation of ships by private shipping companies and the Australian Shipping Commission, and to ensure the maintenance of competition between the private companies, and between the companies and the Commission. Following discussions with private shipping interests and the Commission, the Government concluded that a new agreement was not necessary but that certain amendments to the Australian Shipping Commission Act were desirable to ensure that ANL enjoys no special advantages or suffers any disadvantages vis-a-vis private shipping interests. The amendments proposed are therefore designed, among other things to provide a situation of equal competition and equal opportunity as between ANL and private shipping companies. 
I propose to refer only briefly to the principal amendments to be effected to the Act. An explanatory memorandum that is being circulated gives details of all the amendments contained in this Bill. Section 17 of the Act is being expanded. This section currently provides that the Government may direct the Commission to operate a particular service in the public interest. If such a direction is given and the service incurs a loss, the Commission is entitled to reimbursement of the loss. However this provision does not enable other shipowners to be offered the subsidised operation. There will be added a requirement that if such a direction- to provide a particular service in the public interest- is issued, the Minister must at the same time set up an inquiry into alternative services, and the form and amount of assistance that such alternatives might need. Where a service is considered necessary in the public interest all Australian shipowners and other forms of transport will have the opportunity to compete for that service. All possible ways of handling the cargo will be explored and a proper commercial evaluation made of the best way to solve the transport problem involved. 
A new section 17a will be inserted to require the Commission to earn sufficient to pay dividends in respect of its coastal operations to the Commonwealth on a basis that puts the Commission on a footing with comparable private enterprises. The Minister will have power to instruct the Commission as to the target dividend it should aim for in respect of its coastal operations, and the Commission will be required to report to the Minister during the trading year with proposals to correct the situation should it appear that the target will not be achieved. These requirements would place additional pressure on the Commission to operate in a commercial way. Section 30 is to be amended to require the Commission to pay interest on borrowings from the Commonwealth at the going rate paid by private first class borrowers. This is in fact the position now, but it will be expressed specifically in the Act. Under the amendment to section 36 the Commission will be required to pay State and Territory taxes as well as Commonwealth taxes. 
Under its present legislation, the Commission is not empowered to trade intrastate. However following extended negotiations between the Commonwealth and Queensland governments, the Queensland Government recently legislated to authorise the Commission to operate intrastate shipping services in Queensland following its decision some time ago to allow the Commission unrestricted access in the general cargo trade from Brisbane to north Queensland ports. 
A new section 16a will be inserted to enable the Commission to carry out the powers and functions relating to intrastate trading conferred by a State government, such as Queensland. The service between ports in Queensland will be provided by the Line's vessels which currently operate regular services between southern ports, Brisbane and north Queensland, but are presently unable to accept cargoes from Brisbane to northern ports in the State. This will provide residents of north Queensland with the benefits of an alternative transport system previously denied them. The Bill also provides an opportunity to make a number of minor amendments of a procedural or consequential nature to the Australian Shipping Commission Act which will bring the provisions of the Act into line with present practice and make for uniformity with legislation in relation to other Commonwealth transport undertakings. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present a study of the Port Pirie Bogie Exchange. 
-For the information of honourable members I present the report on 'Urban Transport: Capital Requirements 1977-78 to 1979-80'. 
-Pursuant to section 39(4) of the Australian Shipping Commission Act 19S6 I present the annual report 1977 of the Australian National Line. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. However, before a decision is made on any transport proposal it should be properly evaluated to take account of all the relevant benefits and disbenefts. Energy considerations are of course a factor, although not necessarily the critical determinant, in such assessments. 
In his report on the Adelaide to Crystal Brook railway gauge standardisation project,  Dr Stewart  Joy made it clear that the economic benefits which would be derived from the provision of a standard gauge link to Adelaide did not justify the very large cost involved. Accordingly, the question of funding for this project has to be considered carefully in relation to the many other transport needs that the Government has to meet, and it will therefore not be possible to provide funds for the project in this financial year. 
Ex-service Tuberculosis Pensions (Question No. 1817) 
It so happens that the vendor of the land in Darriman is known to me, as are most of the landholders in the area. By some chance most of the landholders in the electorate of Gippsland know me personally and I know most of them personally. I just happen to have a happy relationship with my constituents. That might sound strange to the honourable member for Shortland who looks for conspiracies in these sorts of matters. To lay the matter properly at rest let me tell the honourable member that the land was purchased for the sum of $ 190 per acre. That can be converted to hectares if somebody would like to do it; I am an old fashioned farmer and I still talk in terms of acres. 
Four properties were offered to the Department of Administrative Services which handled the matter and I understand that this was the cheapest of the four properties. The price finally agreed upon was not the price  Mr McDonald  asked for but the price that the taxation valuer recommended to the Department of Administrative Services ought to be accepted. I know that implicit in the honourable member's question is a suggestion that I have some personal interest in this matter. Let me assure the House that I have no knowledge of the activities of the Department of Administrative Services. That Department is totally independent of my Department. If the honourable member had had any experience in handling such matters he would have been aware of that and would not be asking stupid questions. 
-A great number of rumours have been flying around about changes to services into Mascot aerodrome and the effects this may have on Bankstown. As I said last week, these rumours have been supported by  Mr Gruzman  who has a vested interest in a building at Mascot servicing commuter airlines. I understand his natural interest in maintaining the number of commuters using his building but I think he ought to be intellectually honest in putting his case before the commuter operators. The facts are that there will be no change to the commuter services going into Mascot aerodrome. There are no plans to shift the commuter services to Bankstown nor are there any plans to shift any of the major domestic or regular public transport air services out of Mascot to Bankstown. There has been a rescheduling of priorities into Mascot at busier times so that single engine aircraft drop to the lower end of the list and aircraft carrying a great number of passengers have top priority. That is the only change. Out of that change a whole whirlwind of fantasies has been dreamed up. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A departmental inquiry into this incident has already been conducted. 
(a) The inquiry has been completed, (b) As part of normal departmental procedures, but it was not a formal inquiry under the Navigation Act in accordance with Section 377A of the Navigation Act. (c) The Commonwealth officer involved was Captain M. D. Kiely, Marine Surveyor, Department of Transport. 
The report is in the form of an internal minute of the Department of Transport and is not appropriate for release. 
Yes. 
My Department has already completed its report on the incident and has indicated its willingness to assist the Fremantle Port Authority with notification to industry of any changes in procedures that the Authority may require as a result of the incident. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. A preliminary investigation pursuant to section 377 A of the Navigation Act has been held. 
Broadly the circumstances are that a small fishing vessel the  Barossa Girl  capsized with the subsequent loss of one life following the passage of  B.P. Endeavour  in proximity to the boat about four miles south east of Sydney Heads, New South Wales, on 14 August 1977. 
The recommendations of the preliminary investigation, which I have accepted, are that the matter does not call for a Court of Marine Inquiry. It is expected however that there will be a Coroner's inquiry into the death of the fisherman concerned. My Department is also issuing a Marine Notice drawing the attention of navigators of all sizes of vessels to the potential hazards of passing too close to each other. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  lam advised that during the year ended 30 June 1 977, the operation of the Australian National Line vessel  Darwin Trader  in its service to Darwin incurred a loss of $647,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A temporary 3° glide path was tested late last month and the results are being evaluated. If the test was successful a permanent 3° glide path will be installed. 
The work will not be completed by the end of 1977. Owing to difficulty in obtaining parts from overseas, the raised glide path is not expected to be operational before March 1 978 and possibly not until July 1 978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. I am informed by the Directory of the Bureau of Transport Economics that the report is now undergoing final editing before printing. 
As I indicated in my reply to question No. 1207, 1 will consider the matter of publication of the report after it has been presented to me. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since I answered the honourable member's question in October last year, the Queensland Government has submitted its 1977-78 urban arterial road construction program under the States Grants (Roads) Act in respect of which Commonwealth financial assistance is sought. The program does not include any works on the Hornibrook Viaduct. 
I have to say that I feel sorry for the Leader of the Opposition on occasions when I hear these sorts of questions coming from those bums who sit behind nim. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-The honourable member for Shortland has to be the slowest learner in the House. The first thing he does not understand is the proprieties that usually accompany the naming of individuals in the Parliament. When the Leader of the Opposition was Prime Minister he was very precise on this matter and said that any time an individual was named in a question that question should go on the Notice Paper. I do not know that the Leader of the Opposition has been so pernickety on that matter since he came back as Leader of the Opposition, but that is something for the record. The honourable member for Shortland ought at least to follow those procedures. In his question he has made what I would call some rather scurrilous suggestions. I do not propose to deal with them lightly. I will treat the question as though it is on notice and give him a considered reply. 
Pursuant to section 40 of the Australian National Airline Commissions Act 1945, I present the Trans-Australia Airlines final annual report for 1975-76. I am advised that there are no substantial differences between the final report and the interim report which was tabled in December 1976 and distributed to all members. For this reason, it is proposed that copies will not be made available for distribution to members. 
-As I said the other day, the honourable member for Shortland is a very slow learner. He has proved that again today. The Minister for Administrative Services made the files on this matter available in the Senate. It is clear that the honourable member for Shortland has been reading those files word by word, very slowly, since they were made available. I make no secret of the fact that I did ring the Secretary of the Department of Administrative Services - 
-I am able to confirm that two ships containing yellow cake for the United Kingdom left during the weekend. The Associated Transport Container Australia ships  ACT III  left with 12 containers, and the  ACT VII  left with a record tonnage of 292 tons in 34 containers. I am happy to inform the House that only a handful of demonstrators were present. I think two things have been brought home sharply to those Australian people who are thinking about this question. Firstly, the way in which the Government has explained its policies on this question is being understood more and more by the people of Australia. The second factor, I think, is the visit by  Dr Mabon,  the British Minister who distinguished and contrasted sharply the approach taken by the British Labour Party and the British Trade Union Congress with that of the Australian Labor Party and the Australian trade union movement. I think it is fair to say that as a result the pro-communists and left-wingers were unable to get the general support for preventing the shipments last weekend that they were getting at an earlier date. 
I think the Deputy Leader of the Opposition ought to take note of the lack of support for preventing the shipment from getting out last weekend. I have no doubt that the people of Australia are genuinely comprehending more and more that the United Kingdom is short of energy, is desperate for energy and requires energy for the jobs of its people and for the heating of its homes. The only thing I am sorry about is that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition should so embarrass the Labor Party by splitting it down the middle by coming out with the communist line, as he has done. I am sure the people of Australia will recognise that fact and register their disapproval on 10 December. 
Leader was taking a communist line. If he had made a comment which reflected personally on the  Deputy  Leader I would have required him to withdraw. To suggest that a line taken by the  Deputy  Leader may coincide with that taken by some other political party is not an unparliamentary expression. 
The point I was making was that I think there are six communist parties in Australia and that the six communist parties have a policy of opposing the mining and exporting of uranium for peaceful purposes. 
This is part of my answer. 
-The Deputy Leader of the Opposition supports that policy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The cost figures quoted in the following answers are those made by the Commonwealth for 1976-77 and do not include any payments made by the State or local governments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1-4) See answer to Senate question No. 1 1 1 6. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1-5) See attached tables. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Number of employees, North Australia Railway: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Both requests are still under consideration by the Department of Transport. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Road freight rates are liable to vary from operator to operator. In addition, rates actually charged for particular consignments may not necessarily coincide with published rates. In these circumstances, it is not possible to provide meaningful information about the freight rates prevailing on the specific dates. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The investigation into the complaints raised by the Australian Federation of Air Pilots in respect of the operation of air services by South Australian and Territorial Air Services has been completed. At my direction, a detailed summary of the findings of that investigation was sent to the Australian Federation of Air Pilots on 9 December 1976. 
Briefly, the investigation revealed several breaches of flight and duty time limitations in the case of a pilot previously employed by the operator. Of these breaches, only two were regarded as serious. 
These matters have been taken up with the operator to ensure that breaches of these limitations are avoided in the future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)Yes 
and (3) The interdepartmental committee on air links in the area currently served by Connair Pry Ltd was established by the Government to look into the demand for air services in the area served by Connair and to recommend to me how that demand might best be satisfied. This the committee did, and its report to me was most comprehensive, providing a useful basis for the decisions in regard to future air services in the area which the Government has subsequently taken. 
The honourable member will know that those decisions secure the continued existence of Connair through the grant of substantial Commonwealth financial assistance, so that it may continue as a viable enterprise to cater to the needs of the area it serves. He will know that the Government is also looking at the provision of alternative air services to those communities from which, for reasons of economy Connair may find it necessary to withdraw, and the provision by operators other than Connair of services which are not now operated but for which demand is apparent 
It has, of course, been the Government's position that the people of remote areas of Australia should enjoy the best possible air services while keeping the cost to the taxpayer of subsidies at a reasonable level. The decisions which the Government has taken are consistent with that position and are designed to give it practical effect The report of the interdepartmental committee was a report to me, and I do not intend to table it in the Parliament The decisions of the Government, which are based to some extent on the report and the recommendations contained therein, are open to parliamentary scrutiny and judgment 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no record kept at Sydney Airport as to whether pilots lock on to the instrument landing system (ILS) during final approach. However, nearly all approaches into Sydney Airport on any one of the three runways equipped with an ILS would use the ILS and/or the visual approach guidance system for final approach. 
(a) For the approach on to runway 07 which tracks over or near the suburbs mentioned, the height in feet above mean sea level of the glide path at a distance in nautical miles measured by the Distance Measuring Equipment sited on the airport is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Representations were made to me and to other Ministers in late 1975 and early 1976 mainly by the North South Highway Committee which is based in Mildura with a branch at Broken Hill. In 1977 I have received representations from the North South Highway Committee, the Federal Inland Development Organisation,  Mr P.  S. Fisher, M.P.,  Dr E.  N. Stack, Mayor of Darwin, the National Party of Victoria, Cr. L. S. Andriske, Mayor of Mildura, and the Boulia Shire Council. 
In view of the interest in the proposed road, I commissioned the former Bureau of Roads to investigate its possible development. The Bureau's report, which I tabled on 5 May 1976, found that development of the proposed North South Highway was not justified at that time. In the circumstances I nave not agreed to undertake to upgrade and construct the road link. 
The Bureau found that the estimated cost in 1976 prices to develop the road from Mt Isa to Broken Hill was $160m to national highway standards, $65m to beef road standards and $40m to unsealed standard with minimal waterway crossing improvements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. 1 am well aware of the problems facing the people of Whyalla 
Yes. There are vacancies for tradesmen in certain areas. 
No. Tradesmen have been recruited from Whyalla and others may be engaged as further vacancies occur. However, I am advised by the Australian National Railways Commission that large scale recruiting is not contemplated, irrespective of staff ceilings. 
While the application of a staff ceiling has created some minor problems in certain categories of employment, in general I am assured the Commission can work within the ceilings. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australian National Railways expect to introduce a twice weekly goods service to Manguri in December. The possibility of a co-ordinated road service being provided between Manguri and Coober Pedy by road transport operators is also being investigated. 
Weisscredit:  Mr Renzo  di Piramo (Question No. 561) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I have advised previously this matter is under consideration by the Australian Transport Advisory Council and its Railway Group of Advisors. When the Railway Group reports to ATAC the Ministers will consider the report. 
Non-government Schools  (Question No. 1809) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My attention has not been previously drawn to the concern which exists among railway employees in Peterborough, South Australia regarding future railway activities in the town. The Australian National Railways Commission has yet to assume operational control of the nonmetropolitan South Australian railways. When the Commission assumes this control, it will be giving more detailed consideration to the rationalisation of railway activities relating to South Australia. 
In this connection, I mention also that I received only a few days ago a report by a joint Commonwealth/State committee of officials on the proposed closure of the Peterborough to Quorn and Gladstone to Wilmington branch lines. This report is presently being examined. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes- there is substance in the allegations. 
Qantas. 
b) No actual loss has been incurred. 
Full police investigation has resulted in the detention of two persons and Qantas is maintaining close contact with the police to assist in the further investigation of this matter. 
Overseas Travel by the Prime Minister  (Question No. 1607) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department is undertaking currently a study of the carriage of international air traffic over routes within Australia. This will be a contribution to the work of the teams undertaking the domestic aviation and international civil aviation policy reviews on each of which it clearly impinges. 
Full details of the basis for and scope of each review were given in my announcements of the reviews. The Government has not yet decided whether reports of these reviews will be made public 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since the introduction of the new fare package for travel between Australia and the United Kingdom, there has been an average increase in the number of passengers carried on Qantas in both directions of 17 per cent compared with the corresponding period last year. The number of passengers travelling from Australia to the United Kingdom has increased by 1 S per cent for the period April to October 1977 compared with the same period in 1976. The comparable figure for passengers travelling in the other direction was 19 percent. 
I am informed that Qantas believes that it is still too early for the company to make a final evaluation of the extent of the success of the new fares package. However, the results to date, together with current forward booking patterns, are most encouraging and Qantas considers that the new fares package has certainly stimulated the travel market between Australia and the United Kingdom. 
and (3) I am advised by Qantas that figures are not available showing the number of tickets sold by the month of purchase. However, a comparison can be given of the total number of passengers carried by Qantas on its AustraliaUnited Kingdom services over seven comparable periods in 1976 and 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The answers of these questions were given in my reply to question No. 1 492. 
The names of the officers conducting the domestic aviation policy review have already been released. The Steering Committee for the international civil aviation policy review will comprise, apart from Professor C. A. Gannon, Assistant Professor at Monash University, whose appointment has already been announced, the following officers of the Department of Transport: 
The answer to the honorable member's question is as follows: 
Air fares are generally constructed in accordance with the principle, which I consider to be fair and reasonable, that passengers travelling anywhere in Australia over the same distance pay the same fares, after allowing for the class of travel and the type of aircraft used. In fact, in the report of the commission of Inquiry into Transport to and from Tasmania initiated by the previous Government and presented in March 1976, Commissioner J. F. Nimmo, C.B.E. stated that 'The air fare formula used by Ansett and TAA is standard throughout Australia for all routes. Thus Tasmania suffers no disability so far as comparative air passenger charges are concerned '. 
The tourist industry in Tasmania is favourably served by the large discounts extended by the airlines in the form of package tours from the mainland, some of which are as high as 30 percent. 
In addition there are off peak fares available at substantial discounts such as the newly introduced APEX fares. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Aerodromes in Australia can be considered under two broad headings namely (i) Government/Licensed aerodromes, and (ii) Authorised Landing Areas. 
Government/Licensed aerodromes are available for public use and are subject to Department of Transport inspection to ensure adherence to standards. They range from capital city major jet aerodromes, to small local government or privately owned general aviation aerodromes. Under the headings requested these aerodromes are: 
AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT OWNED 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A joint Public Service Board/Departmental team was established in July 1976 to inspect the Airport Safety Officer work group within the Department As a consequence, agreement in principle was reached between the two parties in the first half of this year on a new structure for Airport Safety Officers. 
The study, as such, of the structure and functions of the Airport Safety Officer work group has been completed. But, inasmuch as it took the form of a joint inspection as distinct from a joint review, a formal report was not prepared. 
The agreement with the Public Service Board provides for the introduction of a new three level structure for Airport Safety Officers. The Department and the Public Service Board are currently pursuing finalisation of position classification standards prior to seeking final agreement to and implementation of the new structure. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek to correct an answer that I gave to a question asked by the honourable member for Franklin. 
I need to make two points perfectly clear to the House. The first one is that, under the terms of the Hobart Disaster Fund, any assests that are left after it is wound up belong to the Commonwealth. Having said that, I should point out also that, under the terms of the Fund, the State may retain any assets that it wishes to retain. The State has done so in respect of a number of other items. In respect of the ferries, the State made it clear that it did not want to retain them. Therefore, under the terms of the Fund, we asked the State to call for tenders for the disposal of the ferries. The Commonwealth was informed that there was only one tenderer for the ferries, and that was the Launceston Port Authority. Nobody else was interested in the matter. It was not until I approved the transfer of the ferries to Launceston that I was notified by Tasmania that Sullivans Cove Ferry Co. Pty Ltd was interested in the ferries. I make it clear to the House that it was perfectly within the province of Tasmania under the terms of the Disaster Fund, to have kept the ferries operating as they were. If there is to be any blame for the disposal of the ferries in this fashion it must rest with the Tasmanian Government. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled 'A Study of EastWest Rail Passenger Services: The Indian Pacific and Trans-Australian '. 
All I know of this matter is what I read in the newspapers this morning. In the newspaper reports I read that  Mr Jephcott  claimed and stated flatly in the Parliament of Papua New Guinea that he had received no such payments. It ill-behoves the honourable member for Shortland to repeat in this House an allegation which already has been denied by the Minister for Transport in the New Guinea Parliament. Having said that, I shall make inquiries of Qantas Airways Ltd to see whether Qantas has anything to add. 
For the information of honourable members I present reports by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled: 'Mainline upgrading- evaluation of a range of options for the Adelaide-Serviceton rail link' and 'Mainline upgrading- evaluation of a range of options for the Sydney-Brisbane rail line'. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled 'Cost Recovery in Australian Transport 1974-75'. 
in reply- I do not want to delay the House but because some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  might be misunderstood outside this place I think it is necessary to put the record straight. Before dealing with them may I say first of all that the Government proposed setting up the Committee again simply because of the good work done by the previous Committee. It is in recognition of that good work and for no other reason that the Government is reestablishing the Committee. I want to congratulate those members of the Committee who worked tirelessly over the last couple of years for the work that they have done. I look forward to the same sense of co-operation in the period ahead. 
The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  said that the Committee had not acted politically in any sense but had argued the merits of each case and come to conclusions. I thought it rather a shame that the honourable member for Shortland, in his words to the House, introduced politics to the subject in a party political sense. He demeaned the value of the work of the Committee and the activities of the Committee. He referred to some 52 recommendations, a number of which he enumerated. He has not been doing his job as a member of the Committee if he does not know the procedures that follow those recommendations. A great number of those recommendations have gone before the Safety Design Rules Committee that services the Australian Transport Advisory Council and a great number of them are being introduced, have lead times and are well under way. 
It ought to be noted that the motor car of today has changed considerably from that of earlier years as a result of the safety design rules that have been introduced. People do not realise that the knob on the handle has changed, the dashboard has changed and the steering wheel has changed. The motor car is presented in a much safer fashion in order to lessen injury and damage when accidents occur. People ought to take note of the number of changes to motor cars. I will have a statement prepared for the Committee to demonstrate some of the work that has been done. The honourable member for Shortland ought to know these things. He ought to know also of the continuing talks between the Federal and State governments, through the Australian Transport Advisory Council, in which these matters are brought to fruition. He demeans the work of the Committee in not recognising the flow-on that occurs. 
Another aspect, one which was raised by the honourable member for Kennedy in a proper sense, was the question of a uniform approach in terms of accident reporting. Again, this matter has been studied by ATAC and its servicing committees and some progress is being made. One of the difficulties I found when this Government was returned to office was that the forced establishment of an independent authority against the wishes of the States in earlier days did nothing to help relationships between the Commonwealth and the States. Fortunately I have been able to heal those differences and with the establishment of the Office of Road Safety, with a very high level and quality of personnel, which I think the Committee will recognise, I look forward to a great deal of successful work being done in the future in the area of road safety. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of Qantas Airways Ltd for the year ended 3 1 March 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In November last the New South Wales Minister for Planning and Environment,  Mr D.  P. Landa, and I both agreed that the study period should be extended in order to permit an effective public participation program. 
As the House knows, the function of the MANS Committee is to provide recommendations to the Government on the airport needs of Sydney for the next generation or so. I think the honourable member will agree with me that this is probably the major aviation decision that we have to take in the years ahead. The MANS Committee has proceeded very effectively to this point. It has been devoid of any sense of party politics from this Parliament. I congratulate members from both sides of this Parliament who have helped to keep it that way. 
Some politics have been played on this subject in Sydney. I do not want to exacerbate the situation by saying any more than that. I hope that politics will be kept out of it so that the MANS Committee can reach a final decision in advising the State and Federal Governments on the options for further development. 
At the moment the MANS Committee is having discussions with interested groups in the public area around Sydney. I am advised that the discussions are likely to take another five or six weeks. By that time the MANS Committee ought to be in a position to advise both State and Federal governments on what the real options might be having regard to the social, environmental and economic factors with which it has been confronted. It is not my wish to delay the processes at all, nor do I want to so hurry them up that they are cut short and it is thought that they are not carried out properly. Therefore I ask the honourable member to convey to the concerned people in his electorate that we are taking our time on the matter; not trying to rush it or to delay it. Hopefully in about six weeks advice will come to both governments. It will then be a matter for the State and Federal governments to make a decision. I remind the House that the MANS Committee is advisory. It is no more nor less. It cannot take any decisions at all. It is a matter for this Government, ultimately, to make a judgment in respect of Federal matters and to seek the support of the State Government if it has to make certain judgments in respect of the provision of services for airport needs in Sydney. Therefore the process is working very well. I am hopeful that we can arrive at a proper and rational decision on the matter later this year. 
A number of fairly extravagent claims has been made in respect of the development and usage of Perth Airport. Let me give some figures to put the matter straight. It is a fact that between 1970 and 1976 the international traffic at Perth airport increased by 300 per cent. I should point out that for the same period international traffic at Melbourne airport increased by 650 per cent and at Sydney by 200 per cent. Between 1970 and 1976 domestic traffic increased by 50 per cent in Perth, 153 per cent in Melbourne and 137 per cent in Sydney. So the claim that has been made, that the growth in traffic at Perth has been greater than the growth in other capital cities, is not correct. However, that does not deny that there is a problem at Perth airport in peak periods. 
The problem arises from the two-airline system, with parallel scheduling, with Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines both discharging passengers at the same time. The honourable member will know that the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review committee is to report to me on 3 1 March. One of the particular questions at which it is looking under the two-airline arrangement is parallel scheduling. I hope that the report will lead to a solution to that problem. In addition I should point out to the House that a Commonwealth and State committee has been looking at the very question raised by the honourable member as a result of the concern expressed by the people of Perth. It likewise will be reporting very shortly on ways of overcoming the problems at Perth Airport. I am conscious of the matter that the honourable member raises and I hope that something can be done about it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The interdepartmental committee has not yet forwarded its recommendations. As is normally the case interdepartmental reports are confidential to the Government. When received the interdepartmental report will be considered by the Government and if appropriate an announcement of any decisions taken will be made in the usual manner. 
The views of the Minister for Primary Industry, in common with my own, reflect a recognition of the necessity to upgrade the Stuart Highway. The discussions of the Minister for Primary Industry with the honourable member for the Northern Territory also reflected the concern of the people of the Northern Territory that the South Australian Government is doing nothing about the upgrading of the Stuart Highway. The fact is that this Government is making available $20m for national highway construction in South Australia this year. It suits the political purposes of the South Australian Government not to make funds available for the Stuart Highway because it does not think there are any votes for it in the Northern Territory. It is to the everlasting shame of the Labor Government of South Australia that that situation exists. 
I fixed my priorities in this way. I wrote to the South Australian Minister for Transport informing him that I would appreciate knowing that funds would be made available by South Australia in the next financial year for an expenditure program on the Stuart Highway. The Minister has written to me concurring in this matter. 
Pursuant to paragraph 1 1 of Schedule 3 of the Airlines Agreement Act 1952 I present the annual financial report relating to the operation of air services by Ansett Transport Industries Ltd for the year ended 2 July 1 977. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report on the working and administration of the Department of Transport during the year ended 30 June 1977, including those matters on which I am required to report pursuant to section 29 of the Air Navigation Act 1920. 
-The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Nil. 
As no free travel was undertaken by members of the family no declaration was required. 
Minister for Transport: Overseas Travel by Members of Family (Question No. 429) 
-The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
1 ) to (3) As free travel was not provided for either wife or child the questions are not relevant. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of the Bill relates to the arrangements agreed upon between the South Australian and Commonwealth governments to finalise the transfer of the non-metropolitan South Australian railways to the Commonwealth. In accordance with those arrangements, provisions are to be included in the Australian National Railways Act, which will allow transferring South Australian railway employees to maintain their current long service leave entitlements and their workmen's compensation arrangements. The Bill also includes a minor amendment to the principal Act to preserve the long service leave entitlements of a small number of employees of the former Commonwealth Railways. 
Before turning to the details of the Bill, I want to remind honourable members of some of the background to the proposals now before the House. As honourable members will be aware, the arrangements whereby the non-metropolitan South Australian railways and the Tasmanian railways were transferred to the Commonwealth resulted from a policy initiated by our predecessors. The transfer of the liabilities and assets of both those railways took place on 1 July 1975. Since that time the railways have been operated by the State authorities concerned, but subject to direction by the Australian National Railways Commission. During the period since 1 July 1975 we have been working with the governments of South Australia and Tasmania, as well as with representatives of unions and railway management, to finalise a number of detailed operational and industrial issues. In December 1977 the three governments agreed that all matters had progressed to the point where a date for completion of the transfers could be set. This date, called the 'declared date' in the transfer agreements, is 1 March 1978. From that date, the Australian National Railways Commission assumed full control of the complete ANR system. 
This is not the occasion for a long statement on railway policies. There are, however, a number of comments which are appropriate at this point. First, the completion of the transfers will place the ANR in a far better position to get on with the number one task of increasing the overall efficiency of services and reducing their deficits. I also remind honourable members that the Government has recently announced new measures aimed at assisting the railways operated by the State governments. We have undertaken to provide substantial support for the setting up of the Australian Railway Research and Development Organisation, which is designed to improve the railways systems' analysis and development capability. The work of setting up this organisation is well under way and the Government will be looking for it to come up with constructive, management-oriented proposals, to improve the railways ' overall commercial and operational performance. We have also announced that we will provide substantial capital assistance, amounting to some $70m over the next five years, to upgrade State government railways that are part of the main interstate national railway network, and $65m to upgrade interstate railways in Western Australia. This proposal was discussed by Ministers at the last meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council. All State Ministers welcomed our initiative, and discussions will commence shortly at officer level on the details of this proposal, and I hope to be able to bring forward proposals for consideration by the Parliament during the autumn session. 
Turning to the Bill, I have circulated an explanatory memorandum to assist honourable members. One point of clarification may however be appropriate. While the substance of the Bill covers arrangements with regard to transferring South Australia employees, there was no requirement for such arrangements with regard to transferring Tasmanian employees but there are a number of machinery references to Tasmanian employees. Honourable members will note that the legislation has been drafted to provide for retrospective operation as from 1 March 1978, and clause 2 covers this aspect. The substantive provisions relating to long service leave and workers compensation are set out in clause 5. The agreement reached on long service leave is that transferring South Australian employees who make application for long service leave or pay in lieu, after the declared date, will be entitled to either the State provisions which apply on 1 March 1978 or the Commonwealth provisions applying at the date of the application, whichever is the more favourable. The agreed arrangement in respect of workers compensation is that transferring South Australian employees will be given the right to elect, at the time of injury, to have their claim for compensation dealt with under either Commonwealth or State workers compensation legislation. Provisions have been included to achieve this, and no reciprocal amendment of State legislation is required. Clause 5 also preserves the long service leave entitlements of a small number of railway employees, whose employment with the former Commonwealth Railways began before 7 October 1944. Their entitlement was originally defined under a 1936 railway by-law. This by-law will be repealed as from the declared date, and the proposed clause in effect expresses their entitlement as part of the principal Act. The other clauses of the Bill are the normal definitions and machinery clauses and are selfexplanatory. 
Finally, although the long service leave and workmen's compensation amendments relate to areas normally within the responsibility of my colleagues, the Minister assisting the Prime Minister and the Minister for Social Security, the particular provisions relate only to railway employees and for this reason it was thought more appropriate to amend the Railways Act, rather than other Commonwealth legislation. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Is the honourable member referring to repatriation benefits? 
Because there is some doubt as to the clarity of the situation, the matter has not yet been resolved by my colleagues. It will be dealt with in the Committee stage if an appropriate settlement can be reached. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Movement of cargo by sea is recorded in terms of either weight or volume, depending on the basis on which freight is charged. Cargo figures for weight and volume are sometimes added to obtain a 'freight tonnes' figure for total cargo. On this basis the estimated percentage of total overseas shipping cargo carried by Australian flag vessels is: 
I have four amendments relating to clause 5, which reads in part: 
After section S 1 of the Principal Act the following sections are inserted: " 52b. ( 1 ) If, when a claim for compensation in relation to an injury sustained on or after 1 March 1978 by a transferred South Australian employee is served on the Commissioner by or on behalf of a person under section 54 of the  Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act  1971, there is also served on the Commissioner an election, in accordance with a form prescribed by regulations made under that Act, by or on behalf of the person to have the claim dealt with in accordance with the applied South Australian provisions, that Act applies to and in relation to the claim, subject to this section, as if the applied South Australian provisions were substituted for the provisions of Part III of that Act. "(2)Where- 
a transferred South Australian employee sustains an injury (in this sub-section referred to as the 'subsequent injury') that relates to a previous injury sustained by him on or after 1 March 1 978; and 
compensation was paid under the  Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act  1971 in respect of that previous injury. that Act applies to and in relation to any claim made by or on behalf of the employee in respect of the subsequent injury- 
if an election was made under sub-section ( 1 ) in relation to that previous injury (whether or not an election is made in relation to the subsequent injury)- as if the applied South Australian provisions were substituted for Part III of that Act; or 
d ) if no election was made under sub-section ( 1 ) in relation to the previous injury but an election is made under that sub-section in relation to the subsequent injury- as if that last-mentioned election were of no force or effect. "(8) In this section- applied South Australian provisions' means the provisions of Parts II, IV and  Vin  of, and the Second Schedule to, the Workmen's Compensation Act, and of any regulations and Proclamations in force from time to time for the purposes of those Parts and that Schedule, as modified by regulations made under the  Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act  1971 for the purpose of enabling matters connected with the payment of compensation in relation to transferred South Australian employees in accordance with those provisions to be dealt with under Pans I and II and IV to IX (inclusive) of the  Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act  1 97 1 ; 
Commissioner' means the Commissioner for Employees' Compensation under the  Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act  1971; modified Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act' means the  Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act  1971 modified by the substitution of the applied South Australian provisions for Pan III of that Act; 
Workmen's Compensation Act' means the  Workmen's Compensation Act  1971 of the State of South Australia as amended and in force from time to time. 
I seek leave to move the amendments together. 
Leave granted. 

In proposed section 52b (1), after 'Act', insert 'and section 98 of that Act were omitted '. 2, In proposed section 52B (2) (c), after 'Act', insert 'and section 98 of that Act were omitted '. 3, In proposed section 52b (8), omit 'Pans I and II and IV to IX (inclusive)' substitute 'Pans I, II, IV and V, Part VI (except section 98) and Parts VII and IX '. 
In proposed section 52B (8), in the definition 'modified Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act', after 'Act' last occurring, insert 'and by the omission of section 98 of that Act'. 
The Government has received representations in relation to the application of section 98 of the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act to a transferred South Australian railway employee even though he has elected to have his claim for compensation dealt with under the modified Commonwealth Act. The effect of that application would be to preclude a compensation payment in respect of an injury for which a repatriation pension is payable. The transferred South Australian employees have had the right under the State provisions to compensation payments in respect of such injuries. Consistent with the principle that transferring South Australian employees shall not be disadvantaged by the transfer, I am proposing an amendment to the Bill which effectively removes the application of section 98 of the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act in respect of claims dealt with under the modified Commonwealth Act. 
I am surprised at the sudden interest by leading members of the Press Gallery in what I can describe only as a very important Bill. In respect of the first matter raised by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  I think it best that I read a letter that I sent to the South Australian Minister in regard to this matter. The relevant paragraphs state: 
As regards your other suggested amendment, i.e. to bring the provision of Section 38 of the South Australian Workers Compensation legislation into the Bill, I have some difficulty with understanding the purpose of this proposal. I am advised that sub-sections 20 (6) and (7) of the Commonwealth Compensation Act provide a benefit equivalent to that provided by Section 38 of the State Act. Therefore there seems no need to take up Section 38 of the State Act. I am also advised however that the circumstances described in that Section are not precisely the same as the situation described in point 1 of your letter of 1 4 March. 
If the differences between Section 38 and the situation described in your letter relate to some administrative practice in the State, to allow recovery of legal costs in a more flexible way than Section 38 provides for, I would be prepared to examine that point further. If that is the case perhaps your officials might contact my Department on the point. 
If on the other hand your letter asked only for introduction into the Commonwealth arrangements of what is provided in Section 38 of the State Act, then the advice to me is that there is no need for such a provision, because the Commonwealth arrangements are at least equivalent to the State provisions. 
I think that takes care of that point. With regard to By-law No. 70, 1 am able to give the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  the assurance he seeks that the act of grace arrangements that were set up in earlier days will be continued. 
The honourable member may describe it as he likes. The honourable member for Grey can carry that information back to the railway workers. The only other point that I want to make concerns the annual report of the Australian National Railways, referred to by the honourable member for Shortland. This has been delayed because of the failure to achieve a hand-over date. Therefore, it was impossible to set a date for the setting up of new financial accounts. The Government has used the individual system accounts to provide the information of the financial result of the systems and with the passing of this legislation hopefully we will have the impetus to conclude the new financial accounting system, and the tabling of the report will ensue. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 

 -Mr Speaker- 

For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled 'Darwin and Northern Territory Freight Transport Study '. 
-Clearly, the Minister for Transport in New South Wales is playing a political game. There is an old saying: If you are going to quote facts, quote all the facts. In terms of road assistance to New South Wales the facts are that whilst the overall Commonwealth increase in funds to roads throughout Australia was 8.8 per cent last year, New South Wales, out of the total level of funds, received an increase of 12 per cent. We did that because we felt that the New South Wales Government was falling down on its own job of funding road programs properly. That is the first point I make. 
The second point I make is that we increased the level of funding for rural arterial roads by 1 7 per cent. We also increased the funding for rural local roads by 40 per cent. New South Wales has legislation that prevents it giving any money to local government for local roads. The New South 
Wales Government finds it convenient to sit behind that piece of legislation. It uses it as an excuse for not helping local government to construct roads. In terms of the facts,  Mr Cox  has been less than honest with the State Parliament. From the time of coming back into government in 1975 I made it plain to all six State Ministers for Transport that I would leave it to them to set priorities for the allocation of expenditure of money on cane roads. If cane roads are not included in construction or reconstruction programs it is because the New South Wales Minister decided that they were not worthy of priority. The responsibility rests entirely with the State Minister. 
-I think that  Mr Laker  has now been to Australia on three occasions. Either on his first or second visit he put before my Department a number of working papers on the sort of service he might be able to commence between Australia and the United Kingdom. He has said publicly that he has not yet filed an application to fly to Australia. He does not propose to do that until he sees the result of the international civil aviation policy review which is due to report to me on 3 1 March. He will then make a formal application to commence a service between Australia and the United Kingdom.  Mr Laker  has to receive approval to commence the service not only from me but also from the United Kingdom Government. As I understand it, he has made a formal application to the United Kingdom Government and it has deferred consideration of that matter for the moment. 
To answer the honourable member's question, it is physically and practically impossible for  Mr Laker  to commence a service to Australia, firstly, until he receives the okay from the British Government and, secondly, until he receives the okay from the Australian Government. Having had discussions with  Mr Laker  about his proposal, I have said publicly many times that I am greatly in sympathy with the suggestions he is making about low cost fares. But  Mr Laker  will have to wait until after 3 1 March for the Government to have an opportunity to consider, in a proper context, the many applications that are before it for non-scheduled services of the type  Mr Laker  proposes in the light of the present scheduled services to and from this country provided by a great number of international airlines. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) and (2) The total expenditure of $6. 162m incurred in 1976-77 on travel and subsistence was attributable to $317,000 on overseas travel (5.1 per cent) and $5,845,000 on domestic travel commitments (94.9 per cent). 
Included in the domestic travel component is $2. 504m for Public Service Board Regulation 90 (use of private vehicle) allowance payments and $0.300m for travel and subsistence payments associated with crewing the department's navigational aid vessels. 
This question did appear on the Notice Paper of 5 October 1977 and remained unanswered at the dissolution of the last Parliament. 
Department of Education: Expenditure on Travel and Subsistence (Question No. 254) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Qantas Airways Limited does not hold records of the unions to which its employees may belong. The table below shows the unions/associations which cover employment categories in Qantas Airways Limited and the number of employees who could be eligible to join each. There is one State association involved. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) and (2 ) The Australian National Railways does not hold records of the unions to which its employees may belong. The table below shows the unions/associations which cover employment categories in the Australian National Railways and the number of employees who could be eligible to join each. There are no State unions/associations involved. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Air conditioning of the passenger terminal was considered in July 1973. 
(a) and (b) Due to the Government reduction in expenditure this proposal did not reach the planning stages, (c) No estimate of cost was calculated, but it was considered the cost would have been high and in the rough order of $1.5m. (d) The project was not proceeded with because in the light of restricted Government expenditures at that time and since, and its high cost, it could not be given sufficient priority in comparison with other demands on the domestic funds. 
There are no plans at the firm proposal stage to air condition the passenger terminal. However, the airlines and the Department of Transport are currently discussing improvements to the terminal to cater for the growing traffic and the possible introduction of larger aircraft. Out of these discussions some improvements, which could include air conditioning, are likely to be agreed upon. 
As no project has yet been agreed (a) no estimate of cost is available and (b) no program of work has been established. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I tabled the report on the review of overseas cargo shipping legislation in Parliament on 2 November 1 977. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Nil. 
One. 
Nil. 
$55. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report prepared by the Department of Transport entitled 'The Transport (Planning and Research) Act 1974 Report of Progress to 30 June 1977'. The report was produced at the request of State authorities and provides an example of the co-operation between State and Commonwealth which is being achieved under the Act. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Trans-Australia Airlines does not hold records of the unions to which its employees may belong. The table below shows the unions/associations which cover employment categories in Trans-Australia Airlines and the number of employees who could be eligible to join each. There are no State unions/associations involved. 
-The answer to the honourable  member's  question is as follows: 
I ) and (2) The Australian National Line does not hold records of the unions to which its employees may belong. 
The table below shows the unions/associations which cover employment categories in the Australian National Line and the number of employees who could be eligible to join each. There are no State unions/associatons involved. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
1 ) The present organisation for reporting foreign fishing vessels to the Marine Operations Centre was established in 1975. Since that time the following reports have been received: 
During 1 975-76 473 reports of foreign fishing vessels 
During 1976-77 505 reports of foreign fishing vessels 
It should be noted that on many occasions reports contained a plurality of sightings. 
Records commenced since August 1977 show a total of 1 1 unexplained aircraft movements. 
) Approximately one third. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In answer to a question from the Member for Shortland on 3 November 1977 I said: 'It so happens that the vendor of the land in Darriman is known to me as are most of the land holders in the area. ' 
1 have had confirmed  Mr McDonald  was a director at that time. 
to (6) I have no knowledge of a  Mr Leslie  Phillip Smart or of any relationship he may have, or had, with Great Gippsland Farms Pty Ltd. I have no recollection of ever meeting or holding discussions with a  Mr Leslie  Phillip Smart 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Prime Minister has announced that the Commonwealth Government will contribute about $70m over five years, beginning in 1978-79, to a joint Commonwealth/State program for upgrading State railways that are part of the national railway network. As the railway line between Adelaide and Serviceton is owned by the Commonwealth, the upgrading of this line would not be funded as part of the national railway network upgrading program. 
Work on upgrading the Adelaide to Serviceton line has commenced. This work, which involves the installation of centralised traffic control equipment and the extension of crossing loops, is expected to be completed in 1 980. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The British Phosphate Commissioners have advised that of the phosphate rock shipped to Australia from Christmas Island and Nauru/Ocean Island, the following percentages were moved in Australian manned and licensed vessels: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) Yes. 
Any extension of the present domestic terminals must obviously be integrated with the major development of Brisbane Airport which is currently under consideration, particularly having regard to investment considerations. 
There is no proposal to relocate the Ansett Airlines terminal on the present airport. The redevelopment of the airport on the site adjacent to the present airport would involve a new domestic airline terminal area. 
This is possible, but such a view would probably overlook the lead time involved in major airport works at the new site. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the Treasurer, on behalf of the Commonwealth, to guarantee loans raised by Ansett Transport Industries (Operations) Pty Ltd to finance the purchase of one Boeing 727-200 series aircraft. Traffic growth on the domestic network has revived over the last 12 months and an additional B727-200 aircraft is required by both Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia to meet the anticipated increase in demand. The proposed Government guarantee will be limited to an amount of $US 10.3m or its equivalent. This amount represents 80 per cent of the total cost of the aircraft and associated equipment. 
It has been long-standing practice for the Commonwealth to grant such guarantees and it is proposed that this practice be continued. The company will be required to consult with the 
Treasurer on the form of documentation for any loans negotiated and on the terms and conditions on which moneys are borrowed. Also, the company will be required to satisfy the Treasurer that adequate and proper security is given to the Commonwealth over the aircraft. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the Treasurer, on behalf of the Commonwealth, to guarantee loans raised by Qantas Airways Ltd to finance the purchase of two Boeing 747 series aircraft, the sixteenth and seventeenth in its fleet. The Qantas Airways Limited (Loan Guarantee) Bill 1976 enabled Qantas to negotiate loans in its own name, with the backing of a government guarantee, for the first time. It is proposed that this practice be continued. The airline will be required to consult with the Treasurer on the form of documentation for any loans negotiated and on the terms and conditions on which the moneys are borrowed. Also, the airline will be required to satisfy the Treasurer that adequate and proper security is given to the Commonwealth over the two aircraft. 
The proposed Government guarantee will be limited to an amount of $US80m or its equivalent. This represents 80 per cent of the total cost of the two aircraft and associated equipment. Qantas requires these two additional aircraft to assist in the progressive replacement of the less economic Boeing 707 aircraft and to assist in meeting the increasing demand for international travel. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
It is with great pleasure that I introduce the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill 1978. The BDI, which honours our election policy commitment, will provide $300m to the States over the five years commencing 1 July 1978, by way of non-repayable grants, to upgrade urban public transport. As honourable members will be aware, the current Urban Public Transport Agreement, under which the Commonwealth assists the States with urban transport capital works projects, comes to an end on 30 June 1978. Under that program, which has covered the five years since July 1973, we expect Commonwealth payments to total above $190m. As indicated, the legislation now before the House is to appropriate $300m. In other words we propose to increase our assistance for urban transport by more than 50 per cent as compared with the current program. I think this is a very clear demonstration of the concern of this Government to do all it can to improve public transport in Australia's major urban centres. It is a particularly significant increase when viewed against the difficult budgetary situation. 
Before turning to details of the legislation, I should make a number of general comments. Firstly with regard to the general arrangements under which the program will operate, I should point out that these have been the subject of extensive discussions between me and my State government counterparts, as well as between officials. In fact, these discussions were first begun in early 1 976 and it would be, in my view, difficult to find more comprehensive and frank discussions. The legislation before the House reflects the give and take of those consultations. Many of the arrangements provided for under the proposed legislation will in fact continue procedures which exist under the current legislation. However, a number of important changes have been made and new features introduced to meet States 'wishes. 
One particularly important change which the States have repeatedly emphasised is the decision to commit the Commonwealth Government to a five-year funding program. Funds guaranteed in this way will greatly assist the States. It will enable them to enter into long term contracts, secure in the knowledge of a guaranteed level of assistance from the Commonwealth. Under current arrangements the level of Commonwealth assistance was determined in the annual Budget context. To take one example, contracts for the supply of buses would be guaranteed assistance from Commonwealth sources only in respect of work carried out on units delivered within the one year. Under the new arrangements, any State will be able to secure a guarantee of assistance for contracts covering a five-year program. It is in recognition of the wishes of the States in this regard that we are proposing in the legislation to give each State a basic guaranteed allocation. Over the five years of the program this guaranteed amount will total $200m, allocated between the States as follows: 
New South Wales- $70m over the five years of the program, 
Victoria- $60m over the five years of the program, 
Queensland- $35m over the five years of the program, 
South Australia- $20 m over the five years of the program, 
Western Australia- $ 10m over the five years of the program, 
Tasmania- $5m over the five years of the program. 
I should inform the House of the appreciation which the States expressed when I announced details of this new program at the recent meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council. 
The remaining $100m of the Commonwealth's contribution to this program has not at this stage been allocated between the States. This amount is available for allocation to the States at the rate of about $20m per annum. Each State's share of this unallocated amount will be decided annually on the basis of needs and priorities assessed in the light of proposals put forward by the States. I must stress, however, that funds under this program- all of the funds to be appropriated by the Bill- can be made available only to support projects proposed by the States. It will not be an option for the Commonwealth to determine projects of its own accord. Such an approach will allow us to respond to changing needs and priorities throughout the five years of the program. It provides an essential element of flexibility for both the Commonwealth and the States. I should also comment that Commonwealth assistance will continue to be made available towards these State projects on a two-thirds to one-third basis. Therefore the total urban transport program under this Bill will amount to $450m. 
I should also make another important point here. The new program departs from existing arrangements in that there is no automatic provision for the Commonwealth to support cost escalation as an additional contribution to each project. The provision in the 1973-78 program has proved difficult to administer, and places considerable demands on both the Commonwealth and each State. It introduced an element of open-endedness which created uncertainties. Consequently under the 1978-83 program the extent of the Commonwealth's liability to each project will be specifically determined at the time the project is approved. 
Turning now to questions of administrative arrangements, the States will be required to submit proposals of projects to be assisted. All projects, including those which are to use a State's guaranteed funds, will be subject to Commonwealth approval. This was of course the practice under the 1 973-78 program. The requirement for approval of projects has been the subject of some comment. It is, as honourable members will be aware, a feature common to many such assistance programs. One obvious example is the Roads Assistance Scheme. As with the roads legislation, this process of approving the use of Commonwealth funds in respect of particular projects is the best way of  ensuring  that this Parliament knows what use is being made of funds it has appropriated. There is no mystery in this; there is no unwarranted interference in State processes. Honourable members will observe that the Bill provides for a process of consultation between the Commonwealth and the States after submission of proposals and before decisions are made on the projects the Commonwealth will support. As I stated earlier, the provisions of this Bill allow approval of a project to extend up to the full period of the program, that is, five years. States will, however, at the least be required to submit proposals on an annual basis for a share of the annually allocated $20m. 
It would be appropriate to now briefly summarise the main provisions of this legislation. I have, as the House will be aware, circulated an explanatory memorandum outlining the principles on which this legislation is based. I hope this additional material will prove helpful to members. Turning now to details, clause 3 sets out the definition of terms used in this legislation, including 'approved cost' and 'project'. The coverage of this program has been extended to bring it into line with our roads and decentralisation programs. The six State capital cities plus Newcastle, Wollongong and Geelong will again be eligible. In the case of Sydney, the statistical division has been extended to include the Blue Mountains area. We have also extended coverage of this scheme to urban areas with populations in excess of 40,000 and, through the operation of Section 4, I will, after appropriate consultation with the States, be able to include the urban areas of Ballarat, Bendigo, GosfordWyong, Toowoomba, Gold Coast, Townsville, Rockhampton, Cairns and Launceston as eligible under this program. Section 4 will also allow the inclusion of areas to permit assistance to be provided for improvements in the three inter-urban corridors linking Newcastle, Wollongong and Geelong to Sydney and Melbourne respectively, as under the current scheme. 
Clause 5 contains the project proposal, evaluation and consultation and approval arrangements which I have described previously. Clause 6 prescribes the two thirds-one third Commonwealth and State contributions. This clause also gives the States autonomy to implement approved projects. They will be restricted by only two financial ceilings: Firstly, by the amount of the maximum grant to the State for a year and, secondly, by the total approved cost of each project. Within those ceilings the State will have complete flexibility to adjust the rate at which projects are implemented. This will enable a State to, say, accelerate expenditure on one or more projects in the light of circumstances, for example unavoidable delays in other projects. Most importantly it will no longer be a requirement for the States to seek my concurrence before awarding contracts or deciding how approved works are to be implemented. 
Under clause 7 provision is made to enable any moneys not spent in a year to be transferred to subsequent years of the program. However, I must emphasise that the States should not regard this provision as an easy way out if their expenditure performance does not meet the States' expectation. In other words, the States must get on with the job. That has not always been the case. Under the existing Urban Public Transport Agreement the States have had a history of not being able to live up to their expenditure expectations. For instance, in 1974-75 an amount of $67.0 lm was budgeted on the basis of States' forecasts but only $45.03m was spent. In 1975- 76, because States' expenditure was so low the previous year, an amount of $40.3m was made available in the Budget; but the States were only able to spend $33. 8m. Last year, 1976- 77, was the States' best year; they were able to spend $58.4m but this was still short of the Budget figure of $64. 6m. It is expected that this year's allocation of $51m will be fully taken up. 
Provision exists under clause 7 to transfer unspent funds from one State to one or more other States if circumstances warrant. Thus if a State fails to expend its additional allocations made under clause 8, those unexpended funds could be reallocated to another State or States if they have demonstrated needs. I should emphasise that the States' guaranteed allocations as set out in the Schedule to the Bill cannot be transferred to another State. 
The remaining clauses cover the normal financial and administrative requirements relating to the provision of advances, justification of expenditure and appropriation of funds for this program. Clause 1 1 provides for the States to meet normal requirements relating to inspection of works and documents and also provides for regular progress reports. As with the current arrangements clause 1 1 provides for the Commonwealth to be represented on an appropriate State body concerned with forward planning of urban transport improvements. This arrangement has provided an important forum for exchange of Commonwealth and State views and has worked to the benefit of both parties under the current arrangements. 
The current Agreement has seen undoubted benefits flow to urban public transport. We have seen new rolling stock- trains, trams and busesadded to the fleets of public transport operators. Railway track extensions and additional tracks have been constructed to increase the capacity of systems. We have seen major work undertaken towards the electrification of the Brisbane suburban rail system as well as work towards linking the southern and northern sections of the Brisbane suburban network by construction of the cross-river rail link. Overall the current program has had a significant effect. It is my intention to have prepared a comprehensive report on the impact of the current program which I will present to the Parliament in due course. However some of the projects commenced under the current program are not yet completed. I therefore see one of the first priorities of the new program as being the rapid completion of such projects. 
The requirements for adequate urban public transport are beyond dispute. Road congestion, car parking and pollution problems reinforce the need for a transport system which provides alternative means of urban mobility. We must never neglect those members of our society who depend upon public transport services. This Bill represents a substantial advance in our methods of assisting the States in urban transport improvement both in terms of funds and administrative arrangements. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I understand that ANR has recently examined the possibility of introducing a limited multi-tariff fare structure for the Indian-Pacific and Trans-Australian but does not consider that its introduction would lead to any increase in revenue at present. Any proposal to implement a multi-tariff fare strategy would, of course, have to be agreed upon by ANR and the other systems jointly responsible for the operation ofthe service. 
and (3) Consideration is currently being given to the promotion of all intersystem passenger operations through the Railways of Australia organisation to improve profitability. Any changes to fares would be considered during the next scheduled review of intersystem fares and would be implemented after 1 September 1978. 
Fares charged for the Trans-Australian and IndianPacific rail passenger services are identical. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2), (3) and (4) Australian National Railways does not presently advertise Trans-Australian Railway passenger services independently but participates with other systems in advertising through the Railways of Australia Organisation on an ongoing basis. As Trans-Australian Railway passenger services are part of a joint operation with other systems, it is considered that promotion should be undertaken on the same basis. Railways of Australia passenger advertising budget for 1977-78 is $208,000 which is used for promotion of passenger services in all States, on the basis 97 per cent television, 3 per cent press. ANR meets 13.25 per cent of this amount. In addition, there is incidental expenditure on publicity material such as timetables, booklets, strip maps and other material. Extensive use is also made of public relations avenues for promotion of these services. These include extension of free travel to television, press, radio and other media representatives for promotional purposes. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council, which consists of all Commonwealth and State Ministers with responsibility for transport, decided at the last meeting in February to defer the third stage of Australian Design Rule 27a (ADR 27a) dealing with vehicle emissions for one year. Before making this decision, which was agreed to by all Ministers, available information on the effects which emission controls have on fuel consumption was considered. This information included data by the New South Wales State Pollution Control Commission on tests which they have undertaken, and also results of tests carried out in the Department of Transport's Vehicle Emissions Laboratory at Waterloo. It will be some time before the results of the complete test program at Waterloo are available. 
In February 1973 ATAC agreed in principle to the introduction of regulations based on United States Federal regulations and in 1974 endorsed ADR 27a to take effect in July 1976. The rule offers manufacturers the choice of two methods of demonstrating compliance. The first method in effect involves tests on representative vehicles, which are driven for 80,000 kilometres in accordance with the driving cycle specified in the rule. Alternatively, manufacturers may choose to apply assumed deterioration factors to emission results obtained from representative vehicles after a stabilisation period-this stabilisation may for general purposes be regarded as the distance accumulation needed to 'run in' the engine and for the purposes of understanding the rule can be thought of as up to 6,400 kilometres. These assumed deterioration factors are, of course, intended to relate emission at say 6,400 kilometres to emissions at 80,000 kilometres. In other words they are an approximation of the deterioration in emission performance over the vehicle's useful life*. As endorsed by ATAC, the deterioration factors were to be progressively stepped up as from January 1978 and January 1979. This was done in order to allow industry the lead time necessary for design and manufacture of vehicles to comply with the rule; and to allow for the January 1979 factors- that is the 'third stage' of the rule- to be examined in more detail. 
As a result of recent decisions by the Australian Transport Advisory Council, the third stage of the rule is currently scheduled to come into effect as from January 1 98 1 . 
Monitoring of air quality levels has been carried out by the various State and Territory Authorities concerned. The conduct of these tests and the evaluation of the results obtained are matters on which questions might more properly be addressed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Australian National Railways Commission in conjuction with the State Government Railways systems reviews the level of fares and freight charges for intersystem operations at six-monthly intervals. These reviews take account of all relevant factors including profitability of services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 (2), (3) and (7) Expenditure incurred on advertising in: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 18 November, 1976, the only convention falling within the categories mentioned to which Australia has become a contracting party is the Convention on the International Maritime Satellite Organisation (INMARSAT). 
The honourable member for La Trobe has raised a number of very important questions which bear on the problems that AUS Student Travel Service Pty Ltd has been involved in recently, namely, its operations, the debt that it managed to get itself into and its capacity to get itself out of that debt. The honourable member will know that an arrangement has been entered into by the airlines which are owed money to try to assist AUS Student Travel Service in its difficulties. It is a fact that AUS Student Travel Service is not an accredited travel agentthat is the first point- but there is nothing peculiar about that. There are hundreds of nonaccredited travel agents throughout Australia and AUS Student Travel Service happens to be one of them. AUS Student Travel Service issues special tickets which are honoured for travel by Trans-Australia Airlines and some of the international airlines. As I understand it, on these tickets seven of the AUS Student Travel Service executives are given the right to travel free of charge in the discharge of their duties as executives of AUS Student Travel Service. They are able to secure seats only when there are empty seats on an aircraft. The honourable member also raised the question of the cost of such travel last year. I am advised that the value of these free tickets last year was some $5,700. 
An honourable member- Each? 
-That is the total cost. We should not exaggerate the position. The 25 per cent discount is available to all university students and students of other tertiary educational establishments under 26 years of age who present an identity card which must be purchased from TAA or Ansett Airlines of Australia. My understanding is that students have to present proof that they are bona fide students before they can purchase that identity card. TAA has advised that it does not accept any other card and has instructed AUS Student Travel Service accordingly. I am advised that TAA carries out at airports regular checks of people travelling on the reduced rate and, if there is any misuse of the system, action is taken against the offenders. 
Since I assumed responsibility as Minister for Transport I have said time and time again that I am not prepared to put up with any condition that would lead to the view, as implied in the honourable member's question, that air safety in any sense or shape is in some jeopardy. I am not aware of the circumstances referred to by the honourable member involving the Melbourne Flight Service Centre, nor am I conscious of any report coming to me drawing my attention to it. I shall have an investigation made of the matter. If the allegations made by the honourable member are correct, they are quite serious. I shall view them as being serious and take the appropriate action. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am aware of the transit lane operating from Balgowlah to Cremorne via the Spit Bridge. Indeed the Commonwealth provided assistance to New South Wales under the Transport (Planning and Research) Act 1974 in order to evaluate the impact of this project. The evaluation found that both bus and car travel times were reduced significantly. It was also found that the number of car pools increased. 
To date no proposals have been submitted by the States for financial assistance to construct transit lanes under the Commonwealth's roads assistance programs. However such projects are eligible for Commonwealth aid under the States Grants ( Roads) Act 1 977. 
Under the Urban Public Transport Agreement $8,067 was provided to Western Australia as two-thirds of the cost of a bus-only lane at the northern end of Adelaide Terrace to give buses priority access to the Causeway roundabout. This measure has facilitated bus travel time savings of up to 8 minutes. 
A further bus lane is under construction in Sydney from Darlinghurst to Randwick at an estimated cost of $320,000 of which the Commonwealth will provide two-thirds under the Urban Public Transport Agreement. 
The Commonwealth is also assisting the States under the Transport Planning and Research legislation to undertake the following investigations: 
Bus priority treatment for Brisbane Bus priority investigations for Western Corridor in Brisbane 
Bus priority lanes in Melbourne Bus operation study in Adelaide Bus priority at isolated signals and signal systems in Sydney 
Bus priority lanes signalling systems in Melbourne Bus priority traffic management measures in Perth. 
Further details of these studies are set out in The Transport (Planning and Research) Act 1974 Report of Progress to 30 June 1977 recently tabled. 
Compensation for Incapacity resulting from Recreational Activity  (Question No. 679) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No such reports have been submitted to me. 
See ( 1 ) above. 
I received leave. You were not  listening. 
in reply- I thank all those honourable members who took part in this debate. It is an important area of activity in the transportation field, both in Australia and in relation to our connections overseas. The provision of a further aircraft, of course, is a demonstration of the growth in the airline industry, as it relates both to our domestic services and to our international flights. I should deal with one or two points which various honourable members have mentioned. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  who is the Opposition spokesman, has shown a flexibility in his approach to the matter of lower air fares which has not been displayed by any other honourable member in this House. For a long time he was silent altogether on the issue. Then he made a speech in the House here last year in which he expressed concern about the possibility of lower air fares and the effect that would have on the Australian tourist industry. He certainly gave no indication of support for such a proposal. But he was finally flushed out only a few weeks ago when he said in a Press statement that it had long been Australian Labor Party policy to seek cheaper air fares and that he was in favour of them. It is interesting to note that at a Labor Party policy meeting in Perth the policy paper submitted by the honourable member for Shortland mentioned nothing whatsoever about cheaper air fares and nothing at all about aviation policy. So the view of the honourable member for Shortland on transport as it affects Australia is that aviation does not rank more than a line. 
-I am telling the facts though. The honourable member says that I am being nasty. Far be it from me to be nasty; I am telling the facts. The fact is that there is nothing contained in the Labor Party's policy about aviation. I am just reminding the honourable member so that he can correct the situation. I suggest that he gets the Labor Party Transport Committee to help him concoct something. 
I have a copy of it with me. Does the honourable member want me to table it? He should get his Transport Committee to work up a policy for the Labor Party. He should come to a conclusion as to whether he wants cheaper air fares. In the speech he made today he reverted to his speech of last October when he was hedging his bets and not declaring himself. When making a speech in the Parliament the honourable member has a perfect opportunity to tell the world what is the Labor Party's view on the two airline policy and to give us an indication of what knowledge he has of the industry. Obviously he has none because he offers no view at all on the two airline policy as it stands. So quite clearly the House can expect very little of a contractive nature from the honourable member for Shortland. I think the Labor Party Transport Committee ought to have a look at its  chairman  to see whether he is worthy of keeping that position. Now that we have a newcomer from Victoria who was shadow Minister for Transport in the Victorian Parliament we might get an injection of a spirit of opposition or of competition in the Labor Party Transport Committee and have some really good stuff coming out of it. 
Having said all that, let me turn to the second point raised by the honourable member for Shortland. It was related to the South Australian and Territorial Air Services. He referred to a Press statement of SAATAS and claimed it is of today's date, but I think it was issued some three weeks ago. SAATAS made some very wild claims in that statement. They lack accuracy and fact, and they are rather tragic. The first claim is that I have refused to see the director of that company. That is the first I have heard of that. I sent a telex to  Mr Cavill  of SAATAS on 30 March inviting him to meet me, but he has not bothered to reply to that telex. I do not understand why he is now saying that one of the difficulties has been that I will not meet with him. Everybody in the aviation industry knows that my door is always open and that I will always see people. 
If the SAATAS board takes a decision to pull out of certain routes in the Northern Territory, that is a commercial decision which it must take. I must tell the House that SAATAS was one of a number of tenderers for routes in the Northern Territory. It was beaten by other tenderers who had put in lower tenders for the various routes which became available when Connair Pty Ltd withdrew from a great number of routes. I cannot help SAATAS if it cannot compete with Chartair and other operators in the Northern Territory. If the commercial judgment of SAATAS cannot win the route by offering the lowest possible tender, I believe that there is nothing a Minister for Transport in this House can do about it. 
The claim was made that the Government in some way has supported Connair as distinct from SAATAS. Let me deal with that. The fart is that Connair runs a regular public transport with scheduled services throughout the Territory. SAATAS is a charter operator. There is a vast difference between the requirements of the two services. For SAATAS to say that it is in some way damaged by the operations of Connair, which has an entirely different form of service to provide in the Territory, is just nonsense. The fact is that the decision of SAATAS to pull out of the Territory was a commercial decision, and there is nothing that this Government can do about it or should do about it. Other operators are prepared to fill the gap. 
All honourable members are interested in the matter of cheaper air fares. A number of suggestions have been made about how they might be achieved. One of the things which has concerned me- the honourable member for Shortland referred to this- is the confusion that exists in the minds of the public as a result of statements made outside this House by operators who, in their own way and wanting to promote their own airline, have made suggestions about cheaper fares. 
Some are operators, but I shall come to that in a moment. Air Hibiscus is one. The honourable member for Shortland properly raised that one. There are others, such as Pan Am and British Airways, which are not without guilt and are proffering to the public a suggestion about cheaper fares without first coming either to me or perhaps even to their own governments. In point of fact, the Pan Am suggestion was, as I have described it before, simply a gimmick. It offered a cheaper air fare for 125 seats a week to America when 3,245 seats were available. To proffer that as a genuine attempt to provide cheaper air fares for a few people who might be able to take advantage of it I think is no more that a gimmick. I will not be satisfied to accept such a limited proposal by any airline company. Of course, as the honourable member for Shortland rightly said, the damage has been done- people outside in the market place believe that these fares are available and should be available, and there is some confusion. 
One mistake the honourable member for Shortland did make was for him to say that I have done nothing about this. I have received a letter from the travel agents association thanking me for the public statements I have been making. I must send copies of my statements to the honourable member so that he can keep himself informed. 
I shall come to this challenge of secrecy in a minute. The fact is that outside in the market place airlines such as Pan Am and British Airways, which have proffered these gimmick fares, do nothing to assist the major question which is before the country. 
Let me turn to the other matter of great substance and importance, namely, both the Domestic Aviation Review report and the International Civil Aviation report. The honourable member for Shortland attacked me for not making these reports public. I have made it clear before that when I invited submissions to both these inquiries I invited them from a wide ranging cross-section of the Australian people. To anybody who was interested I said that I would appreciate a submission from them. A great number of submissions have been received. These people took up my invitation to give us the real commercial information which would help us to come to a proper decision in this matter, in trying to achieve what we all desire in the structure of air fares out of this country. 
The truth is that we have a great number of submissions which carry a great deal of confidential commercial information which would not have been made available to us in a public inquiry and which would not have been made available to me as Minister if they thought that I would blithely place it on the table. I am in quite a dilemma. It is not my wish to be secretive about this, despite the charges of the honourable member for Shortland. I have to maintain the integrity of the submissions put before me. I will not break the confidences of those people who were good enough to provide information for me so that the Government might come to a rational and sensible conclusion. I am having a look at this to see what can be done. That is the reason the reports are not tabled at the moment. 
The other implication in the honourable member's speech is that I have been somewhat tardy in dealing with this matter. I find that amusing, to say the least, because both reports were handed to me at 9 p.m. on Friday, 31 March, in my Melbourne flat. At 10 p.m. I read a Press release from the honourable member for Shortland saying 'Why does the Minister not make a decision?' There is no question about him; apart from the usual charges of conspiracy, secrecy and these sort of words that he  usually  uses, he now blames me for being tardy. Having had the report in my hand for one hour, the Press rang me to ask me what I thought about  Mr Morris's  charge about tardiness. The report contained several hundred pages and had been handed to me one hour before. I shall say no more about it. 
-It may well be a great tribute. I had to take the matter to the Government for a final decision. I could not do that on a Friday night one hour after I received the reports. The question raised by the honourable members for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  and Bowman  (Mr Jull)  in respect of the possible future replacement of present domestic aircraft with wide-bodied aircraft calls for a major commercial decision. At the moment the airlines are studying closely the impact that these aircraft may have. As I understand it, neither TAA not Ansett believe that they can fit these aircraft into their fleets for several years; 1981 or 1982 would be the earliest possible time. Clearly, when such a decision is taken it will have a very heavy impact on the commercial domestic airlines. The Government is of course in no position to make any comment about one type of aircraft or another at this point. Until the airlines decide that they are ready to purchase such aircraft and start looking to make a decision on it, the Government will not become closely involved, apart from being kept informed about what aircraft are available in this area. 
I thank again all honourable members who have taken an interest in this debate. Aviation has a very important part to play in Australia. It is a major industry. It provides our only real link with countries around the world. Therefore, it is significant and important that the Parliament should debate the issue before it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
in reply- I join with the previous speakers in thanking other speakers for the kind remarks that have been made in this debate and also for the good spirit in which honourable members have debated the legislation. I must add my piece to what the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  has just said. So that history is not improperly recorded, I inform the House, for the benefit of those who do not know, that it was as a result of an Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting in South Australia in July 1972 at which I tabled a report of the Bureau of Transport Economics on the needs of urban public transport that the first Bill of this nature was introduced in 1973 after the change in government. So the capacity of the Labor Government to introduce a program was facilitated by action that we had taken at an earlier time. There is an old saying that success has a thousand fathers. I suppose it applies equally on this occasion. Another matter which I must put straight for the record is the amount of funds allocated. I do not recall any Minister in the previous Administration promising, as claimed by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  to provide about $500m for such a program. There was certainly no public statement on record at that time. In point of fact in the three years of office of the previous Administration, I regret to say, the abysmal sum made available for urban public transport amounted to only $79m. It was not until we came back into office in the last two years in which the previous piece of legislation operated that we increased funds to the $190m that was finally made available. It is as well to get the record straight on these matters. 
The honourable member for Shortland was concerned about the sum of $20m which at present has not been allocated. I put aside the snide remarks about pork-barrelling. The fact is that the legislation provides that the money will be made available to all the States. Indeed knowledge of it will be given to the Parliament and the States will be able to put up their programs. This part of the Bill was discussed by Ministers at the last ATAC meeting and agreement was reached on it after questions were asked by the various State Ministers. With reference to escalation, in the first instance we do not have the rabid inflation that we suffered under the Whitlam Administration, running as high as 20 per cent. Inflation is on the downturn; we have halved that inflation rate and we believe that we will continue to lower it. It is now possible under good economic management for the States to be able to submit programs in which they ought to be able properly to judge the full cost. Certainly I accept that they could not do that under the Whitlam Government simply because of the bad economic management of the day and the fact that they could not measure the inflation rate from day to day. The States experienced very serious difficulties managing their programs. Under our economic management we genuinely believe that the States can measure the costs of their projects with some accuracy and can place them before the Government for approval. 
The honourable member for Shortland also raised a question as to why safety is not included under clause 3 in the definition of 'project' which mentions quality and efficiency of the program. Safety is an automatic and natural component. Insofar as urban public transport is concerned, its safety standard is the direct responsibility of the States. We would look at the criteria of quality and efficiency to ensure that safety is recognised by the States. 
I am sorry, I could not hear the honourable member's interjection. I will have to take up the point with him later. A question was raised by the honourable member for Shortland, the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr 
McVeigh) and the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  in relation to the new provision for urban public transport funds to be made available to cities with populations of 40,000 or more. Quite a number of cities outside the great metropolitan areas take advantage of that provision. It is a statistical division used by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in the census and it has been included in other Commonwealth legislation. There has to be a line of demarcation somewhere and this method was adopted in the earlier program. I think it was also adopted in the sewerage program of the previous Minister for Urban and Regional Development. A population of 40,000 was the level above which funds would be provided by the Commonwealth. It is believed that for cities with populations of less than 40,000 the States ought to be able to take care of the transport problems. 
The honourable member for McMillan raised an interesting suggestion that the Latrobe Valley as it is properly known, extending south as far as Traralgon, ought to be treated as one statistical division thus giving it a population in excess of 40,000 and being eligible for the grant. The Bill certainly does not provide for that in that it states specifically that it must be a single urban area with a population in excess of 40,000. Because of the honourable member's interest and my personal interest in this matter, I will look at his suggestion and see what can be done about it. The honourable member for Shortland raised a number of questions with respe1 to the share given to Tasmania. I think that shows how easy it is to distort facts with figures. The fact is that under the previous program introduced by the Labor Government, Tasmania's budgeted share was 2 per cent. Of course the honourable member can work out for himself that under this legislation the Tasmanian share is 2.5 per cent. 
If I am wrong, I am receiving bad advice from the best advisers that any Minister or department in Canberra can receive. 
-I will let the honourable member work out the figures for himself. He also raised the question of the Mornington bus depot. That program is presently being considered for inclusion in the 1977-78 program. So I can put his mind at rest on that point. The honourable member also criticised the Government for not continuing the Springfield bus depot project. I should make the point that the previous Administration had a five-year program, yet all it considered in that five-year program was the acquisition of the land. It restricted any assistance to land acquisition, so one must question its sincerity in respect of that project. 
Because there are one or two Tasmanian members now present I must mention the charade concerning the pontoons in Tasmania. It is an indisputable fact that the Tasmanian Government was the sole cause of those pontoons being removed. It handled the business. It was responsible for their removal, and it made a thorough mess of the situation. 
-It is an indisputable fact. The honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  raised the prospect of the north-east corridor being included in the program. I assure him that if the South Australian Minister includes it, certainly it will be properly evaluated. I must point out that in the first instance it would be desirable for him to speak to  Mr Virgo  and make sure that he does include the program in the projects in South Australia he wants considered. 
I thank the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  for his complimentary remarks. I make the point that as a Minister he was a great federalist. I saw him in action on a visit to the Latrobe Valley. I am not sure whether it was on my invitation or the invitation of the member of the day. He demonstrated quite clearly on that occasion that he was prepared to work with local government authorities and with State Ministers. He has not changed. In all the years he was Minister he kept his word in any exercise of co-operation and certainly was not the centralist that a number of his colleagues were, which finally led to the downfall of the Labor Government. He raised a couple of very important questions that go to the heart of transport planning and urban planning. There is a relationship between this Bill and urban planning, and there is a lot of work done by the Australian Transport Advisory Council and the State Ministers on the impact of urban transport expenditure of this nature on urban planning and urban growth as a whole. There is a direct relationship that cannot be ignored. 
I was criticised by the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  for not making more of that aspect in my second reading speech, but of course one cannot cover every important philosophical point in a second reading speech, which is a technical speech related to the Bill in a direct fashion. 
The States are co-operating with us. We have joint planning committees to try to evaluate the impact of urban public transport programs in the major cities, and in that way I think we are covering this point. The honourable member for Reid may not believe that it is a satisfactory way of dealing with this matter and that the method may be improved, nevertheless there is a willingness on the part of the States to pick up the major point raised by the honourable member for Batman in their attempt to cover it. The honourable member for McMillan was concerned also with the total question of transport planning. It is a valid question to raise. As I said, it was not something I was able to cover in the second reading speech. Perhaps on another occasion we will have a much more philosophical debate on that question.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the Whip is vitally concerned at the way time is passing. In conclusion, I thank all honourable members who took part in the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are three passenger terminals at Brisbane Airport. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are two (2) passenger terminals in the Sydney Domestic area. Each airline (TAA and AAA) has constructed its own building. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I want to clear up a point raised by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford). 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Does the Minister claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. I assure the honourable member for Adelaide that I had no intention of including him in any accusation of devious activity, nor, I believe, does the statement I made do so. I put it on record that I do not associate him with any devious activity. Doubtless he has properly undertaken those responsibilities of a good member of Parliament in putting forward the claims of SAATAS Pty Ltd. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  misrepresented me in a number of ways. I think it would be better if I wrote him a letter. He might better understand the misrepresentation after he reads the report. If I can assist him further in any way in this affair I will be happy to do so. It is quite clear that he still has a lot to learn. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
by leave- I am compelled to make this statement to the House because of charges laid by  Mr R.  R. Cavill, Managing Director of SAATAS- South Australian and Territorial Air Services Pty Ltd- and the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Peter Morris).  I am making a statement so that the Parliament itself can consider the charges and impose its own judgment on those involved. The charges question the integrity not only of myself as Minister for Transport, but of officers of my Department, of the former Ministers responsible for civil aviation in previous governments, of the Directors of Connair Pty Ltd, of the owners and operators of several charter air services in central Australia, of certain members of the National Party in the Northern Territory and of the Government. 
I want to say at the start that the charges are totally false and malicious and clearly demonstrably so; and that it is regrettable that the Labor Opposition, through the member for Shortland, has become actively involved in what I will call the Cavill Affair. This matter was first raised on 13 April by the member for Shortland in this House during the debate on the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill. He made certain charges concerning air service operations in the Northern Territory. He quoted from a statement by  Mr Cavill  of SAATAS, not then available in Canberra, which had been given to him prematurely by  Mr Cavill.  I have not received nor seen a copy of  Mr Cavill's  purported Press statement of 1 3 April. I understand however that it is similar to a telex sent to me on 3 1 March.  Mr Cavill  repeated his charges on at least two occasions- on  A.M.  and  This Day Tonight  on 14 April. The member for Shortland supported  Mr Cavill  with a statement on 20 April and an interview on  A.M.  on 2 1 April. 
To the best of my belief the charges by  Mr Cavill  and the member for Shortland are contained in  Hansard  of 13 April, their Press statement of 20 April, interviews with  This Day Tonight on 14 April, A.M.  of the same date and  A.M.  on 21 April. The major charge is that Connair as the so-called opposition airline to SAATAS has been given unfair Government assistance and I and the National Country Party stand accused of pork barrel politics and discrimination. The charge is quite mischievous and clearly cannot be sustained on the facts. For the information of honourable members I table a report prepared by my Department following the charges made by  Mr Cavill  and the member for Shortland. I draw honourable members' attention to the first part of my Department's report headed 'Types of Service', which shows the sharp distinction between the two operators. Quite clearly SAATAS is not and has never been an opposition airline to Connair. Connair is the airline providing regular regional scheduled services in the Northern Territory. There are only five airlines of this type in Australia, namely, Ansett Airlines of Australia, Trans-Australia Airlines, Qantas Airways Ltd, East-West Airlines Ltd and Connair. SAATAS on the other hand is a charter operator in competition with other charter operators of which there are more than 480 in Australia. 

 Mr Cavill has known since at least October 1972 the position of the Commonwealth when the then Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Cotton,  wrote to  Mr Cavill  stating: 
The position of the Commonwealth in these matters is as follows: 
It has restricted the issue of air service licences in the Territory in an effort to ensure orderly, economic and efficient development of the industry there; 
Your company is one of the favoured few who have been fortunate to gain an operating licence for the Territory; 
In granting this licence to you originally, it was made perfectly clear what the relationship between Connair and the Commonwealth was: 
The Commonwealth's contract with Connair is a perfectly normal subsidy contract of a type which has been entered into with subsidised operators for many years; 
This contract enables the Commonwealth to carry out all necessary investigations into the company's affairs and to control its operations so as to ensure that subsidy costs are kept to a minimum; 
The fundamental role of Connair, and the basis of its original foundation and development, is the provision of regular air services to remote localities in circumstances where uneconomic services are unavoidable; nevertheless, the company should be encouraged to develop other operations likely to reduce its subsidy requirement; 
There is no evidence to suggest that SAATAS, for example, could perform the task allotted to Connair at a significantly different order of cost to the Commonwealth; 
The late  Sir Donald  Anderson, when DirectorGeneral of Civil Aviation, had written to  Mr Cavill  on 14 January 1972, and listed seven benefits his company had accrued as a result of Commonwealth policy or action. That letter states: 
I find it somewhat puzzling to note your apparent belief that this Department, or the Government, has acted to the disadvantage of SAATAS. Let me recapitulate some of the benefits which have accrued to the company as a result of Commonwealth policy or action: 
SAATAS has been permitted to commence and expand operations in the Northern Territory even though this might have resulted in some increase in the subsidy requirements of Connair; 
In the interests of SAATAS (and other existing operators) additional licences for services in the Northern Territory have been refused or severely restricted; 
The limitations on charter flights over airline routes in the Territory provided under ANR 197 (2) have been administered liberally in the case of SAATAS; 
SAATAS operations to Ayers Rock have been facilitated, and recently, at the request of the company, a higher fare was approved for this route; 
The Department did all it could to promote the commencement of services to and within Indonesia by SAATAS; lt has been insisted that charter services by the subsidised operator, Connair Pty Ltd, which would be competitive with SAATAS services, should bc quoted for at charter rates based on full costs plus profit allowance so that no unfair advantage would be gained by Connair as a result of the Commonwealth subsidy; 
The Department has assisted SAATAS considerably in making available hangar accommodation at Darwin Airport. 
That letter puts the matter into the correct perspective. Our policy has never deviated from that described in October 1972.  Mr Cavill  and his colleagues have always been aware of it.  Mr Cavill  's claim that Connair Pty Ltd has been given unfair Government assistance therefore is ludicrous. Clearly, the overall operations of the two companies are not comparable, nor are the services they provide. My Department's report which I have just tabled sets out the history of the Government's financial arrangements with Connair. 
The report shows that since its inception in 1939 successive Commonwealth governments have supported, with financial assistance, the operation of the only regular scheduled regional airline for central Australia. Attachment I to the report sets out the payments made to Connair since the new agreement was entered into in 1965. The table shows that subsidy was continued during the three years of the Labor 
Government even though that Government made a decision to phase out the subsidy. 
To suggest that the National Country Party of Australia is in some way responsible for the agreement is ludicrous. In the first place until December 1975 when I became Minister in charge of the Department of Transport, no member of my party had held ministerial responsibility for aviation matters since before the current agreement was negotiated in 1 965. In addition, as my Department's report demonstrates, all decisions relating to payments of financial assistance to Connair have been made on the basis of decisions by the Government, that is, the Cabinet. No individual Minister has been in a position to act without Cabinet's direction and approval. 
It should be clearly understood that the basis of the financial assistance to Connair was an agreement negotiated in 1 965 and approved by the then Government. I point out that the 1977 interdepartmental committee referred to in the Department's report made the following recommendation: 
The Committee recommends that the basis of Connair Pty Ltd, be confirmed as that of a regional airline. 
The committee further recommended: 
That the Government does not accept the option of doing nothing for Connair Pty Ltd, and thereby bringing about its immediate demise. 
As I have said, Connair is central Australia 's regional airline. It is quite distinct and separate from charter operators such as SAATAS Pty Ltd. The airline was the brainchild of those living at the time in central Australia who saw a need for such a service. Since its inception it has served the people in the Northern Territory and central Australia well. It has been necessary for the Government to provide financial assistance to Connair to ensure that regular air transport services were provided for people requiring them in the remote areas of the region. But as I have said the details of that assistance have always been publicly available and approved by governments, not individual Ministers. 
The second charge is that I, as Minister, have consistently refused  Mr Cavill  the opportunity to meet me. I was curious that  Mr Cavill  could take this view. All he had to do was ask. In fact, I held a meeting with  Mr Cavill  on 6 October 1 977 and have had regular correspondence with him. In addition my records show  Mr Cavill  has not sought a meeting with me since 6 October. All  Mr Cavill  has done is to say he is prepared to meet me if I formally call a meeting. On 23 March this year,  Mr Cavill  sent me a telex saying the directors of SAATAS were considering closing their Australian flying operations the following week,  Mr Cavill  did not seek a meeting. What he said was: 
The Directors are prepared to discuss the proposed close down and any other matters if you wish. 
On 30 March I sent a telex to  Mr Cavill  saying that his company must, of course, make its own commercial decisions but that if he felt a meeting could be of benefit I was happy to meet with him.  Mr Cavill  sent a reply on 3 1 March 1978 which stated:  1 remain happy to meet with you ... I would however suggest that such a meeting would need to be called by you and a specific agenda be sei by you . . . 
My reply to  Mr Cavill  on 13 April said that because SAATAS was responsible for its own commercial decisions it was not proper for me to call for a meeting or specify the agenda. I then repeated my earlier offer to meet with the company if  Mr Cavill  saw advantage in such a meeting. I have not heard since from  Mr Cavill.  Clearly I have never refused to meet with  Mr Cavill.  What I have done is to refuse to allow  Mr Cavill  to use my ministerial office to assist his commercial activities. 
The third charge is that the Commonwealth in granting air service licences to Chartair and Tillair had acted in a discriminatory manner actionable in the High Court of Australia. The Department's report sets out the details followed in granting or extending air service licences to Chartair and Tillair late last year. I am not sure what  Mr Cavill  's own legal advisers are telling him. What I am sure of, however, is that my Department's actions have been quite correct and in accordance with Government policy and established procedures. On 20 October 1977 I approved the issue or extension of charter licences to Rossair Pty Ltd- trading as Chartair- to  Mr John  Tilley of Katherine,  Mr Frank  Ashton of Tennant Creek, the Port Keats Mission in the Northern Territory and the Balgo Hills Mission in Western Australia. The decision to issue the licences was not an arbitrary one. It was made in consultation with the responsible member in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and the licences were expressly recommended by interdepartmental committee set up to examine air links in the area currently serviced by Connair. 
Charter operators by their very nature cannot expect to be given a guaranteed monopoly by governments. As 1 have said there are more than 480 operators like SAATAS in Australia. There was, therefore, nothing discriminatory in issuing the charter licences on 20 October 1977. The Department's report deals at length with the granting of financial assistance to undertake Connair's mail services out of Alice Springs and new services of a similar type out of Katherine and Tennant Creek. The report speaks for itself and SAATAS was given an equal opportunity with the other operators in the region to bid for two routes. In both instances their bid was higher and, therefore, more expensive for the Government than the successful bidders, Chartair and Tillair. Again the report speaks for itself. In Alice Springs, Chartair indicated it required $20,514 per annum from the Government to undertake the mail service whereas SAATAS said it would require $22,350 per annum. At Katherine Tillair undertook to run the service for a payment of $20,280 whereas SAATAS stated that it would require $26,180. Clearly there was nothing discriminatory in awarding the services to the most economical and, therefore, efficient operators. After all taxpayers funds were involved. 

 Mr Cavill appears to be confused about the timing of the approval to the two operators to run these services. The department's report states the position quite clearly, however. I repeat that  Mr Cavil]  and his company were provided with an equal opportunity to bid for the services, and the Government's duty is to do no more than this. The operators' decision to commence the services without waiting for government approval on the levels of subsidy required was theirs to make as charter operators. SAATAS could have done the same. After being given an equal opportunity to bid for mail routes and after being unsuccessful because its bid was too high, SAATAS complained to my Department. It believed the method of seeking offers was unconventional and could give rise to legal challenge. At that time my Department sought legal confirmation that its approach had been correct. Such confirmation was given by the Assistant Crown Solicitor. 
Again I point out that the proposed arrangements were developed by my Department, the Postal Commission and the Department of Finance in consultation. The decisions on maximum levels of financial assistance were recently finalised by the Minister for Finance and me in consultation. There was clearly no discrimination, nor could there have been under the procedures followed in the matter. All procedures followed by the Government, me as Minister, my Department, Australia Post, and the Department of Finance and its Minister have been proper, responsible and totally fair. The Department's report shows clearly that all the charges by  Mr Cavill  and the honourable member for Shortland are totally false. There has been no discrimination against SAATAS or any other operator. There has been no pork-barrelling by the National Country Party or any other party. No individual or single company has been given unfair advantage. 
That brings me to the next point. What were  Mr Cavill  's true intentions and those of the honourable member for Shortland in this matter? An examination of all the relevant papers has led me to only one clear conclusion-  Mr Cavill  has consistently sought a position of monopoly and unfair advantage over other operators in the Northern Territory. The honourable member for Shortland claims he has evidence proving the charges that he and  Mr Cavill  have made.  Mr Cavill  says that he has evidence with respect to malpractice by the Government and personally by the Country Party in the Northern Territory. I have already invited the honourable member for Shortland to publish such papers, but to no avail. If  Mr Cavill  would like to have the honourable member for Shortland table all the correspondence he has had with me and my Department in the last ten years or so, I will accommodate him. I would be surprised, however, if  Mr Cavill  would want to table his correspondence- correspondence aimed at securing for himself and his company a privileged position in the Northern Territory. As far back as February 1968,  Mr Cavill  wrote to the late  Sir Donald  Anderson, and I quote from that letter: 
What my company seeks is a fair distribution of work given by Government Departments. 
Again, on 29 November 1976, the Managing Director of SAATAS wrote to a senior officer of my Department stating: 
. we ask that your Department does these things: assists and encourages Connair to scale down. scales down the Connair subsidy in accordance with a logical formula. processes favourably all our applications under ANR 203. rejects all applications by Connair to subcontract its routes under AN R 20 1 . refrains from introducing any new operators to the Northern Territory, at least until the IDC has done its work. allows SAATAS to be the sole operator on the Alice Springs- Ayers Rock route. 
In another letter of the same day to my Department's South Australian/Northern Territory regional director, the Managing Director of SAATAS stated: 
We demand, therefore, when Connair phases out, that we are permitted to run Alice Springs/Ayers Rock as a monopoly . . . 
That letter of 29 November really gave SAATAS ' game away when it said: 
Now, then more than ever, we need the economies of scale and we really believe that the service we have given has earned us the right to become the scheduled operator for the Northern Territory. 
It is clear from the documents available that  Mr Cavill  and SAATAS have run a deliberate campaign aimed at causing the demise of Connair and the imposition of SAATAS in its place as the scheduled airline in Central Australia. 
Let me give the House an indication of the lengths to which  Mr Cavill  has gone in his campaign. In December 1 97 1  Mr Cavill,  on his own initiative, provided the late  Sir Donald  Anderson with what he described as 'an assessment I have made of the financial operations of Connair'. The 'assessment' painted a picture of unrelieved gloom and showed Connair in a hopeless financial position.  Sir Donald  dismissed  Mr Cavill  's assessment' on 14 January 1972 in the following words- 'interesting but inaccurate in a number of respects'.  Sir Donald  went on to say: 
I see no particular point in continuing this exercise. If Connair is willing to make public its accounts, estimates such as you have made will be unnecessary. If the company does not wish to take this step, it would be improper for the Department to comment on your efforts, and discussion based on incorrect assumptions would be fruitless. 
That attempt to have a Commonwealth department of state provide an opinion of a private company's operations and financial structure to another company demonstrates a complete lack of business ethics by  Mr Cavill. 
A more sinister move occurred on 8 April 1972 when  Mr Cavill  wrote to the  Chairman  of Connair asking if the company would be prepared to negotiate a sale. To assist SAATAS, Connair made available copies of the loan agreement and subsidy agreement to  Mr Cavill.  Then, on 1 1 May 1972,  Mr Cavill  sent a document titled Northern Territory Air Services: Proposals for Reconstruction' to a senior officer of the Department of Civil Aviation. The document proposed the formation of a new company to run air services in the Northern Territory with SAATAS holding 5 1 per cent of the shares and the Commonwealth holding 49 per cent. In the document  Mr Cavill  proposed that his company should absorb: 
. those elements of CONNAIR Pty Ltd and South Australian and Territorial Air Services Pty Ltd that were considered desirable . . . 
Eventually CONNAIR Pty Ltd as it exists now could be liquidated thus avoiding continued tenure of embarrassing accoutrements. 
Because no takeover offer was ever received the Connair board formally rejected SAATAS' takeover suggestion on 20 December 1972. The letter from Connair to  Mr Cavill  said in part: 
The Board . . . wishes to emphasise, once again, and finally, that our correspondence, and our release of information to you have been entirely in response to your declared intention to make a cash offer for all the shares in our company. This has not eventuated, and we regard the matter as closed. 
I do not wish to take up the time of the House in disclosing any further  Mr Cavill  's activities in seeking the demise of Connair and its replacement with his own company or with a company or organisation of his own choosing. On the 19 August last year  Mr Cavill  wrote to me saying that his company:   . . could, with notice of a few days only, provide all those services needed in the Northern Territory, as mentionedmy previous correspondence with your Department- - without subsidy and with efficiency. 
In the light of this claim by SAATAS, the capacity of the company to undertake the services should be examined. Just 9 days before  Mr Cavill  wrote to me on 19 August the Department of Construction had complained bitterly to SAATAS describing the service the company provided as most unsatisfactory. The Department's complaints ranged from SAATAS being late for scheduled take off times and the inability of the company to have a light single aircraft on site to the fact they had to pay the hiring cost of a 9-seater aircraft to carry just one person. Unfortunately, the internal operations of SAATAS do nothing for the company's image. From the brief outline I have given of the actions of  Mr Cavill  and his company during recent years and its aviation performance the House will see what  Mr Cavill  has been up to. It now appears that  Mr Cavill  has made some unwise commercial decisions in the past and is trying to blame everyone but himself for those mistakes. I am not sure what the company's financial position is and what mistakes have been made with its management. On 29 November 1976, however, the Managing Director of SAATAS, in a letter to a senior officer of my Department said: 
Today our ability to survive is being eroded in two ways. Firstly the Austraiian Government's cost-cutting program has caused a serious decline in the demand for air charter in the Northern Territory. Secondly, our Indonesian operation has gone sour with our large foreign customers pulling out of the country. No longer can the profits from Indonesia prop up the struggling charter business in the Northern Territory. 
As I have said, SAATAS is a charter operator, one of more than 480 in Australia. It is a private operator and, therefore, free to make its own commercial decisions. Its mistakes are of its own making and its future of its own choosing. 
The role of the honourable member for Shortland in this unsavoury matter is curious and sad. On 8 December 1972, six days after the change of government,  Mr Cavill  wrote to the then Director-General of Civil Aviation and said: 
A change of Government sets the stage for essential civil aviation reforms particularly in that section involving my company. 
He effectively repeated that comment in a letter to me on 4 February 1976 when he said: 
I feel that a practical and positive solution to this problem can now be achieved particularly having regard to the changed political environment. 
That statement may come as a surprise to the honourable member for Shortland and those of his colleagues who were under the impression  Mr Cavill  was one of theirs.  His  actions clearly show a devious duplicity. In 1972  Mr Cavill  was meeting with the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  to press his case. During 1973  Mr Cavill  was negotiating with the Labor Government, using pressure from the Dunstan Government. In 1975 he was seeking me, in Opposition, to press his case again. 
I am quite sure that my predecessor, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  could have warned the honourable member for Shortland about  Mr Cavill's  methods. I am pleased to say he did not get anywhere with the honourable member for Newcastle and I am pleased to be able to show the House he has not got anywhere with me and will not. I regret that the honourable member for Shortland has not shown the perception and understanding of his colleague, the former Minister. The honourable member for Shortland, of course, has not had the sobering experience of ministerial office. Perhaps after his performance in this matter he never will. 
The charges brought by the honourable member for Shortland at the instigation of  Mr Cavill  were indeed serious. They were given public airing on at least two national media programs. It is never my wish to disclose damaging information or evidence against any member of the public or member of this House. However, if the media are used to bring charges which are totally false and mischievous- charges which if unrebutted are personally damaging to the integrity and character of those they have been brought against- the persons bringing them must be exposed. It is my sincere wish that the honourable member for Shortland has learnt his lesson. It is my sincere wish that on future occasions the honourable member will make sure of his facts before making such outrageous statements and allowing himself to be used by devious operators for commercial reasons. I thank the House and present the following papers: 
Airline Services in Central Australia- Ministerial Statement, 2 May 1978; Report by Department of Transport, dated 1 May 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matters of: (a) the 1972 Convention on the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea; and (b) off-shore industry vessels, were discussed by Marine and Ports Council of Australia (MPCA) on 28 May 1976 and 26 November 1976. Advisers to MPCA on 3 October 1975, 24 May 1976, 16 June 1976, 23 August 1976, 16 November 1976, and 21 March 1978. Commonwealth/State discussions on both these matters are continuing. 
Royal Commission on Human Relationships: Access and Assistance to Migrants  (Question No. 152) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The honourable member will be aware that the Australian National Railways Commission assumed full operational control of the non-metropolitan South Australian railways on 1 March 1978. The Commission is presently examining the current spread of railway activities in various railway towns, along with many related matters, consequent upon assuming control of the South Australian railways and of their amalgamation within the complete 
ANR system. Until this examination proceeds further, I am not in a position to indicate what changes might be expected to take place in these three towns. Any proposed changes would of course take full account of the rights and welfare of the employees involved. 
Department of Industry and Commerce: Expenditure on Travel and Subsistence  (Question No.  246) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (i) Head Office is located in both Canberra and Melbourne and is housed in three separate buildings in Canberra and ten in Melbourne, (a) 15 full-time, (b) 6 part-time. 
Regional Offices in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth, (a) 6 full-time, (b) 6 part-time. 
(i) $236,534, (ii) nil. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The provisions applying in respect of the reimbursement of legal costs relating to workers compensation claims by transferred South Australian railway employees are prescribed in the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act. I am advised that the Commonwealth legislation provides benefits which are at least equivalent to those provided under the South Australian Workmen's Compensation Act. 
I have however advised the South Australian Transport Minister,  Mr Virgo,  that I would be prepared to examine further the question of re-imbursement of legal costs, having regard to the administrative practices followed in South Australia. Following a recent reply from  Mr Virgo,  1 have arranged for this examination to be carried out. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) An investigation was conducted immediately following the occurrence by my Department's Rescue and Fire Fighting Service who reported on the fire hazard aspects. A more detailed Departmental study which will cover broader aspects is in its final stages. 
A Coroner's Inquiry has been conducted and the finding was that the driver of the fuel tanker died as a result of burns received in the accident. It was further found that he was driving the fuel tanker at the time of the accident whilst under the influence of intoxicating liquor. 
Costs of repairing and/or replacing items damaged by the fire were as follows: 
The first point to make in a debate such as this is that its importance should be measured by the spokesmen the Opposition chooses for the occasion. We had firstly today the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  whom one newspaper article described as one of the young members of the Labor Party with some potential for leadership, until one of his more experienced colleagues said to the reporter: 'That may be so, but the trouble is that the fellow is a young pup and he has no chance of growing up'. I do not want to make any judgment about the honourable member for Blaxland. Time alone will tell. Then we had the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  and I suppose that the best way I can describe his contribution to the debate and the standard he brought to it is by quoting from an article that I understand appeared in the  Newcastle Morning Herald  on 25 May 1975: 
Four preselections, wholesale fraud, blackmail, corruption and bribery were needed before the Left's candidate finally won endorsement for the seat . . . 
I was unaware of that,  Mr Speaker.  I thought it was quite appropriate because it was in an article in the  Newcastle Morning Herald.  However, on your request, I will do so. If that is not capable of being used - 

 -Yes, Mr Speaker. Let me put it in another context. Perhaps the honourable member for Shortland might best be described by his predecessor in the House,  Mr Griffith,  who declared at the time that he was amazed and disillusioned by the Tammany Hall practices that had been perpetuated in the New South Wales Australian Labor Party. 
The second thing that has to be done in the debate, having set the pattern by the standard of the speakers the Labor Party has put up, is to look at the terms of the matter of public importance before us, which state: 
The Government's insensitive action in the procurement of two Boeing aircraft for the VIP flight at a time of record unemployment and economic hardship. 
Insensitive is right, in the terms put forward by the Labor Party, when one recalls that when Labor came into power in 1972 there were 126,000 people unemployed and when it went out of power in 1975 there were 328,000 people unemployed. That was an increase of more than 100 per cent in the unemployment figures during that time, and the inflation rate stood at 19 per cent. Hardship and difficulty were created for the community unknown since the days of the Great Depression. That was the background against which the then Prime Minister of Australia, the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  undertook a number of his great and important trips overseas. I had something to say at the time, and it is a wonder that it was not quoted to me today. I found it very interesting indeed. 

 Mr colleague the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  quoted the number of trips taken by the previous Prime Minister and his Ministers in a comparitive study of the trips of the present 
Prime Minster  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his Ministers. Let me repeat the figures. Ministers in the present Government have completed a total of 96 visits overseas covering 1,147 days. The total cost for these visits, whilst not yet completed, are estimated at about $ 1 .2m. During a similar period under the previous Government 130 visits were completed covering 1,776 days and a total of $2. 62m was expended. The previous Prime Minister set a new record, as Prime Minister of this country, in the extravagant way he travelled. He was never prepared to use ordinary commercial aircraft. Rather he went to Qantas and took from them a Boeing 707 and chartered it. He took with him on his trips a whole retinue of people, down to his own car driver, who he thought needed a six weeks' holiday, along with a couple of other people to handle the baggage. He spent $ 1. 5m on one trip. Not one benefit resulted from that trip. He came back absolutely empty-handed of anything of value to this country. 
He visited Knossos. I have no doubt that at the time of the Darwin cyclone Tracy disaster those ancient ruins would have been of historical interest to him. He flew back to Australia for two days and then returned to Knossos to complete his study of those ruins, having left the ruins of Darwin. That showed a totally insensitive approach to the problems of Australia and the people of Darwin and to the hardship that was created at that time. 
The Labor Party has come into this House today and told us that there is something improper about the purchase of two 727 100s for the VIP fleet at a time when the whole world is entering a new era of security problems, at a time when studies show that, both for the protection of the Prime Minister and his party and, equally importantly, for the protection of those people who travel on commercial aircraft, it is much simpler if the Prime Ministers of the world today travel on separate aircraft. Difficulties are created for commercial operators in having to carry VIPs of the standing of Prime Ministers. For example, Qantas has to go to enormous trouble to provide the required level of security for the Prime Minister both at points of take-off and at points of landing. When a Prime Minister has to travel on our own airlines and then join other airlines of the world, it is more difficult for those airlines to provide the levels of security which are required and deemed necessary, both for the Prime Minister and his party and for the travelling public. 
What we have done is to take a very careful look at the options available to the Government to meet this heavy responsibility of looking after the interests of a Prime Minister who must meet his international obligations by travelling overseas. We looked at a variety of aircraft. We have considered carefully what might be the best option to take in overcoming this terrific and horrific problem of security for the Prime Minister when he undertakes his very necessary trips. We have settled on two 727 100s. I put it to the House that a 727 100 is quite a modest aircraft in comparison with the Boeing 707 which the previous Prime Minister used. The fact is that the 727 100, with its three engines, provides the necessary level of safety. Spare parts can be obtained and servicing can be facilitated because the domestic airlines in this country are outfitted with similar aircraft. The 727 100 aircraft, with its long range fuel tanks, has the capacity to reach the distant destinations from an isolated country such as Australia. 
Having taken those options into account, having looked at the matter coldly, and having recognised the difficulties we create, not only for the travelling public but also for the Prime Minister himself by asking our Prime Minister to travel on Qantas, we took the decision properly and responsibly that something had to be done about the situation. We have purchased two aircraft, which are modest by any international standard, to add to the VIP fleet. I do not think anybody in this country would be critical of that decision if he or she recognised and realised that we have to hand today reports on security which demand that we, as responsible members of parliament and Ministers of the Crown, provide for those VIPs who visit Australia and for our own Prime Minister when he leaves Australia a level of security which equates with the level of security provided to other Prime Ministers around the world. 
For the Labor Party to come into this place and to try to make cheap politics out of a serious situation like this just shows the depths of despair to which it will plummet and sink. For the Labor Party to take up the time of the House on a matter of this nature when there are other important matters to be debated again demonstrates the paucity of the Labor Party's policy proposals. 
What we have done is to look at the requirements of Australia and Australia's Prime Ministers for the next 15 or 20 years. We have faced up to a heavy responsibility in the transport area. The whole world is demanding that VIPs be provided with proper security. We have taken steps to ensure that the ordinary commercial travelling public and the tourists are not embarrassed by the fact that our Prime Minister, who undertakes these very important trips for Australia's benefit, is on board their aircraft. We have taken this step so that the Prime Minister can alter that situation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have nothing to add to my answer to Question 1701, Hansard, 1 5 February 1977, page 86. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer to the honourable member to the answer given to a similar question asked of the Prime Minister (Question No. 468 ) shown on page 978 of  Hansard,  4 April 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following approaches from three Premiers, the Prime Minister gave an undertaking in September 1977 that the Commonwealth would not proceed with the Bill until certain aspects had been fully discussed with the States. Those aspects are still under discussion. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments in 1976-77 as shown in the accounting records of my Department were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A release note issued for an aircraft part by an approved distributor reduces the onus of proof on a person using the part in the maintenance of an aircraft that the part is genuine and identical to the one it replaces. The relaxation requested was to enable approved distributors of aircraft parts in Australia greater freedom in the conditions under which a release note could be issued for aircraft parts distributed by them. The distributors have had problems in obtaining airworthiness documents recognised by my Department for certain replacement parts even though the parts were obtained from genuine sources. There is therefore no suggestion that this particular request for relaxation was to facilitate the use of bogus parts. However, in rejecting this request, my Department was conscious of the possibility that in relaxing the requirements it could have removed at the same time some of the safeguards against bogus parts receiving the imprimatur of a release note. 
The relaxation request was made to my Department by  Mr R.  J. Jarman, Managing Director, Aircraft Equipment Overhauls and Sales Pty Ltd who conveyed a resolution of a meeting convened by him in October 1 976 in which the following organisations participated. 
Aircraft Equipment Overhauls and Sales Pty Ltd 
Ansett General Aviation 
Hawker De Havilland Australia Pty Ltd 
Society of Aircraft Licensed Engineers and Technology 
General Aviation Association (Australia). 
The US FAA identified 35 electrical and electronic components supplied by ADS Supply Co., Bellevue, Washington or by Air Spares International, Inc. Seattle, Washington as being not found to comply with the FAAapproved type design data. These components had been purchased by certain airlines and installed in Boeing 727 and 737 aircraft. The list of parts identified by the US FAA are: 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek the indulgence of the Chair to correct an answer to a question that I gave in the House today. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Charter aircraft. 
(a) Private; (b) A personal appreciation of living conditions of and present assistance arrangements for the Aboriginal community at Mornington. We met the management and staff, leaders and members of the Aboriginal community at Mornington and inspected the town and its facilities. 
The cost of the charter aircraft has been paid by the Deputy Prime Minister and myself. 
Australia Post: Purchase of Land at Gold Coast 
The procedure followed by the States in respect of roads expenditure programs is as follows: Before the commencement of a financial year the States send to the Commonwealth their programs of works for the ensuing financial year. During the course of the financial year the Department of Main Roads in New South Wales or the Country Roads Board in Victoria may, for some reason or other, be delayed in carrying out the program submitted. The honourable member drew attention specifically to the Shoalhaven shire. It is true that there have been delays with the expenditure program as submitted to me for this financial year by the Department of Main Roads in New South Wales. I do not think that the Department of Main Roads has any intention of breaking the spirit of the arrangement between the Commonwealth and the State. There may have been fundamental reasons for the delay such as weather, industrial trouble or a host of other reasons. The honourable member will be pleased to know that, as I understand it, the contracts in the Shoalhaven shire either have just been signed or are about to be signed for some of the works programs in which he is interested. 
As to whether the delay in this 12 months will cause a further delay in the next 12 months, that really depends on the programs submitted to me for the next financial year by the New South Wales Minister. If, by chance, when I receive the program I notice that there is no continuation of the program of road expenditure in the Shoalhaven shire the conclusion could be drawn that the Department of Main Roads was delaying any further development until the present program was completed. I shall keep my eye on the program when it comes to hand and keep the honourable member informed. 
I was advised that the Australian Wool Corporation had negotiated freight rates, as stated by the honourable member. I was also given an assessment of the effect of those freight rates on other commodity trades. I was assured by the advice given to me that the freight rates negotiated were proper and in accordance with the principles applied to freight negotiations. I am also advised that the effects on other freight rate negotiations will be nil. Therefore the whole negotiation is completely proper and in accordance with Government policy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) Since I detailed work being undertaken by the Department of Transport and the Bureau of Transport Economics in my answer to question No. 1748  (Hansard,  23 February 1977) two further studies have been completed and tabled. These are, 'Cost Recovery in Australian Transport 1974-75 ' and the 'Darwin and Northern Territory Freight Transport Study '. 
Other BTE studies in progress are an updating of the Index of Road Construction Prices' which provides a basis for determining the impact of changes in factor prices, a study of 'Transportation of the Australian Wheat Harvest' (now in the final stages of report preparation) and a 'Rural Products Movement Study' (expected to be completed later this year). I will consider the matter of publication of these reports after they have been presented to me. I have generally adopted the position that the results of BTE studies should be given as wide a circulation as possible. 
I am well aware of the honourable member's concern in relation to this matter. He has made representations to me continuously since he has been a member of this Parliament, and hopefully his efforts will finally be rewarded. If the information he has given me is correct, I am concerned that at some times of the year air ambulances are unable to attend to patients on Kangaroo Island. I will have a look at the information which he has given me. Insofar as Commonwealth airports are concerned, Kangaroo Island has to compete with such airports as Brisbane, Sydney, Tullamarine and Perth, just to name a handful of them. The honourable member will realise that I have had representations from people like the honourable member for Lilley, the honourable member for Bowman and the honourable member for Brisbane about the Brisbane airport. I have had representations about the Perth airport from all honourable members from Western Australia. The Sydney airport problem continues to bug me and every other member of this Parliament, as do the problems that I have in relation to making a decision on secondary airports. Having said that, I can only say to the honourable member that in considering the next Budget allocation I will seriously rank Kangaroo Island against the needs of Brisbane, Sydney, Tullamarine and others. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report on overseas cargo shipping legislation which is tabled in substitution for the photostat copy presented on 2 November 1977. This document is the final report and contains some editorial corrections to that report which I presented previously. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled 'National Highways Linking Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra, 1978'. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1,104. 
$118,619. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The current freight equalisation assistance payable for the interstate movement from Southern Tasmania of beer is $14 per cubic metre to Victoria, $15 per cubic metre to South Australia/ Western Australia and $ 1 7 per cubic metre to the rest of the Mainland. For each 370 ml can of Cascade beer, these rates of assistance are approximately equivalent to 1.44c to Victoria, 1.54c to Western Australia/South Australia and 1.75c to the rest of the Mainland. 
Air Services to and from Tasmania  (Question No.  926) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is correct that on 23 March 1 978 and 10 April 1 978 airline services between Tasmania and the mainland were disrupted. 
Disruption on 23 March 1 978 was caused by some aircraft unserviceability and deteriorating weather conditions at a number of locations on the airlines networks. 
On 10 April 1978 there was severe storm activity which closed Melbourne, Devonport and Wynyard airports for several hours, resulting in some flights being delayed and others cancelled. 
The honourable member will recognise from the above explanation that it would not be appropriate for me to give a firm directive to the airlines that they should not delay or cancel Tasmanian nights through shortage of planes or any other reasons. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) Domestic airlines are required to: 
prevent or deter the unauthorised carriage on their aircraft of any firearm, weapon, ammunition, explosive or incendiary device, in baggage or on the person of a passenger; 
prevent or deter unauthorised access to their aircraft; 
ensure that baggage, cargo and mail are loaded only in accordance with the company's specified security procedures; 
ensure that adequate inspections of aircrafts are conducted in the event of bomb or other threats being received. 
International airlines are required to observe the same procedures as the domestic airlines both in Australian territory and at least at posts from which aircraft last depart for Australia. 
The Air Navigation Act and the Air Navigation Regulations made under that Act. 
Air Navigation Regulations No. 82 (2) and 89 (2) are applicable in the case of all airlines. Air Navigation Regulation No. 82 (2) provides that aerodromes and air route and airway facilities established or provided in pursuance of this Regulation shall be under the control and management of the Secretary to the Department of Transport who may, subject to these Regulations, determine the conditions of the use thereof. Air Navigation Regulation No. 89 (2) provides that the Secretary to the Department of Transport may, in relation to any aerdrome, air route or airway facility, air route or airway licensed, authorised, established or designated under this Part, issue such directions as he considers necessary to ensure the safety of aircraft and compliance with the standards, recommended practices and procedures adopted from time to time in pursuance of the Convention. The Secretary has exercised powers conferred on him by these Regulations to require the domestic airlines to observe security procedures at airports. 
Part XVIA of the Air Navigation Regulations is specifically applicable to international airlines. It provides that an operator of an international airline service to or from Australia shall not cause or permit an aircraft used in that service to fly over Australian territory or land at or take off from an Australian airport unless an aviation security program prepared and submitted by the operator has been approved by the Secretary and that approval is in force. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Conference lines in our overseas trades charge a basic rate for the carriage of sea freight between specified ports in Australia and overseas. They add to this basic rate surcharges, such as the bunker adjustment factor (BAF) and the currency adjustment factor (CAF). The magnitude of the surcharges are negotiated between the Conferences and the Australian Shippers' Council. The BAF, or bunker surcharge as it is sometimes known, was introduced at the time of the oil crisis when fuel prices rose sharply, and at such frequent intervals that ship operators were unable to absorb the cost. The surcharge is calculated using a formula which varies from trade to trade depending on ports of bunkering, types of fuel used etc. 
The CAF has been introduced by Conference lines as a contingency provision aimed at alleviating the short term effects of currency fluctuations and avoiding any significant financial gains or losses to shippers or shipowners. They are calculated using a basket of currencies in which shipping companies make disbursements. BAF and CAF surcharges are usually applied as a percentage of the basic rate. However, with the stabilisation of oil prices, an increasing number of shipping companies now incorporate this cost component in basic rates, with appropriate provision for adjustments should the cost of bunkers exceed agreed limits. Currency fluctuations however, have not stabilised sufficiently for the CAF to be generally incorporated in basic rates. In addition to the above rates, there are also fixed rates charged by Conference lines for wharfage and additional services such as transhipment, change of destination or discharge port, port congestion, receiving and loading, and inland haulage etc. 
Freight forwarders are normally employed where individual shippers do not have sufficient cargo to fill a container. In cases where freight forwarders are able to ship full container loads (FCLs), I understand individual clients are billed according to their proportion of the freight, net of the allowance, as charged by the shipping lines. BAF and CAF are generally applied to the basic freight rate, before adjustments for additions and allowances. 
) I am not aware of any regulations in force which require freight forwarders to detail charges in invoices to importers. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. Pan X of the Trade Practices Act which regulates overseas cargo shipping provides for negotiations of freight rates in outwards trades only. Inwards rates are established by the Outward Comment/Australia Conference in Europe. 
Information is not available on specific incentives, if any, that may be offered to European freight forwarders to use only Conference vessels and charge Conference rates. However the shippers generally find Conference services more attractive because of the quality of service offered in relation to frequency and regularity of sailings, reliability of sailing schedules as well as wider range of ports served and other services offered by Conferences. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1976-156,136 movements, 1977-162,406 movements. 
Statistics of movements in the form requested by the honourable member ate not maintained by the Depanment. The following estimates of movements have been made: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Security checks of freight and luggage, other than hand luggage, are performed by both domestic and international airlines only at times of increased security alert. Luggage not accompanied by a passenger is subjected to manual searching before it is carried and freight deposited by an individual or by shippers who are not known to the airline is not carried during the period of the alert 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The in-depth study of casualty accidents in Adelaide has not yet been completed. Work is expected to be finished by 30 June and a major report on the findings of the study will be published as soon as printing can be achieved. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) As far as the Commonwealth is concerned I am advised that a preliminary study, which indicated there was little merit in further evaluation, was undertaken when this proposal was first put forward. However this could not be described as a full cost/benefit study. 
A report was prepared by the French National Railways Consultant Organisation, SOFRERAIL, on the technical aspects of alternative technology that might be used for long distance rail electrification in Australia. 
Copies of the SOFRERAIL Report were sent to the State Transport Ministers, the Chief or Chairman of Commissioners of each of the State Railway System and the Australian National Railways and to others who have specifically requested a copy. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following amounts were paid by my Department to Connair Pty Ltd or its predecessor, Connellan Airways Pty Ltd in each financial year since 1962: 1961-62, $215,092; 1962-63, $229,890; 1963-64, $236,422; 1964-65, $281,200; 1965-66, $386,000; 1966-67, $400,000; 1967-68, $483,981; 1968-69, $449,025; 1969-70, $447,739; 1970-71, $838,620; 1971-72, $755,805; 1972-73, $886,410; 1973-74, $764,884; 1974-75, $625,000; 1975-76, $608,333; 1 976-77, $550,000. 
These payments were made for the purpose of ensuring the continuity of operation of air services within the Northern Territory and other remote parts of Australia. 
Extradition Arrangements with Israel:  Mr M.  Glickman and  Mr I.  Makler (Question No. 993) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I am unable to say how many kilometres of unused or lightly used railway line exist in Sydney and Melbourne. Under the terms of the Commonwealth's urban transport assistance program the potential contribution any such line could make to the transport strategy for a city would be considered in the event that the State proposed improvements relating to such a line. 
The present Commonwealth/New South Wales  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney (MANS) Study has under consideration a number of surface access options including that of a direct rail link between the City and Mascot Airport. Provision has been made at Tullamrine Airport to cater for future rail access. At this stage there are no firm proposals to link either of these airports with their respective city centres by a direct rail service. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The financial assistance which can be provided by my Department under the Aerodrome Local Ownership Plan is limited to 50 percent grants towards approved development and maintenance works on licensed aerodromes owned by properly constituted local government authorities, and 50 percent grants towards approved maintenance works on privately owned licensed aerodromes with regular public air services. 
Both the Andamooka and Coober Pedy aerodromes are Authorised Landing Areas (ALA) only and generally of a lower standard than licensed aerodromes. 
Accordingly, in the present circumstances, there are no means by which financial assistance can be arranged within the existing policies. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The proposal mentioned on page 14 of the 1976-77 annual report was designed to provide an interim organisation for the Office of Road Safety and the Public Service Board has completed its consideration of it. A further proposal to vary and strengthen the organisation structure was forwarded to the Public Service Board in February 1 978 and is currently under active consideration in the Board 's Office. 
(a) Yes. 
The Office has two Branches, each comprising four Sections. The establishment of the Office is sixty-four positions. 
The titles of the functional areas of the Office are Road Safety Branch and Vehicle Structures Safety Branch. 
The Director of the Office is classified as Level 3 Second Division and the position is occupied by  Mr F.  E. Yeend. The Road Safety Branch is headed by a position classified as Level 1 Second Division and  Dr I.  R. Johnston has recently been provisionally promoted to this position. The Vehicle Structures Safety Branch is headed by a position classified as Engineer Class 5 which is occupied by  Mr J.  H. Permezel. 
The Director of the Office reports to the Permanent Head of the Depanment,  Mr C.  C. Halton. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled 'Mainline Upgrading: Evaluation of a Range of Options for the Trans- Australia Link'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
No services are provided at this stage. 
The project is currently continuing at a low priority due to the necessity to finish higher priority work. It is hoped that the initial ATLIS system concept would be studied fully in 1978. However, co-ordination and associated activities would be a continuing task, and no firm commitment beyond the evaluation stage has yet been made. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The current freight equalisation assistance payable for the interstate movement from Southern Tasmania of cider is $ 14 per cubic metre to Victoria, $15 per cubic metre to South Australia/ Western Australia and $17 per cubic metre to the rest of the mainland. For each 740 ml bottle of Tasmanian cider, these rates of assistance are approximately equivalent to 2.6c to Victoria, 2.8c to South Australia/Western Australia and 3. lc to the rest of the mainland. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following table sets out the number of passenger movements, i.e. passengers who embarked or disembarked, at Sydney Airport during 1976 and 1977: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 )  Major runways  works and terminal building works have been undenaken by Ansett Transport Industries at 
Proserpine and it is believed that the estimated cost of these works is of the order of $3m. 
Expenditure by the Commonwealth Government on new capital works at Proserpine in each of the last three years is as follows: 1974- 75, nil. 1975- 76, nil. 
1976- 77, $18,417. 
These figures do not include any costs for maintaining or operating existing facilities at Proserpine. 
The expenditure in 1976-77 was incurred for the replacement of an obsolete NDB under a departmental equipment replacement programme and the commencement of work on airport lighting. 
$100,000 for the provision of airways facilities to meet basic requirements for jet operations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, my attention was drawn to the article and, no, there is no substance in the report. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no plans to change the conditions of the curfew at Sydney Airport. 
-I have read the letter that the honourable member mentioned in his question and it certainly carries some disturbing implications. Before we jump to hasty conclusions about the expenditure programs proposed by the New South Wales Government I must say that no proposals have yet been submitted to me. Despite the terms of the letter, it is possible that the New South Wales Minister for Transport still intends to maintain the expenditure program on the southern freeway, the road which is of concern to the honourable member. I am therefore not able to make an absolute judgment on what the implications of the letter are. Whilst one can come to the hasty conclusion that this looks like pork barrelling of the worst type, I cannot come to that ultimate conclusion until I see exactly what programs are proposed by the New South Wales Minister for Transport. When the program is received, I shall, of course, have a look at it to see whether or not there is any transfer of funds or an appearance of transfer of funds against expenditure on last year's program from the southern freeway to the northern distributor. If such a transfer occurs, I shall let the honourable member know. 
I am aware that over one million Australians left Australia last financial year, and I think something like 1.4 million Australians will be able to leave Australia this financial year. 
It is correct, as the honourable member says, that on 9 June this year we will commemorate the fiftieth anniversay of the landing of the late Charles Kingsford-Smith at Brisbane aerodrome. Indeed, as one of the marks of that historic occasion the son of  Sir Charles  Kingsford-Smith, Charles Kingsford-Smith Junior, will be flying across the Pacific. I hope to be at Brisbane airport- in fact, I will be at Brisbane airport; I just hope Charles KingsfordSmith is there- at 10 o'clock on 9 June 1978 for a welcoming ceremony. 
The Commonwealth Government is joining in a number of ceremonial occasions during those couple of days to commemorate what is a very significant event. Without question, the late Charles Kingsford-Smith did more for aviation than any other individual in history. The House will know that he flew the Pacific both ways. He flew the Atlantic, he flew the Tasman and he flew from England to Australia. He is, without doubt, the greatest Australian aviator ever and one of the greatest aviators in the world. It is fitting that the Commonwealth join in marking this historic occasion. 
I will just leave the parochial issues to one side for the moment. The Commonwealth has also invited the wife of the late  Sir Charles  Kingsford-Smith,  Mrs Mary  Tully, to come to Australia. We have also invited the son of Charles Ulm to go to Brisbane for the occasion. We have asked  Mr W.  E. Hunt, a cousin of the navigator H. W. Lyons, to represent the two crewmen. We have tried to bring together a number of people or a number of relatives of those who were associated with that earlier occasion. There is to be, as well as the landing by Charles Kingsford-Smith, a commemorative air race. I think the honourable member for Phillip may know something of that. I am to flag off out of Brisbane the aircraft which are to fly to Sydney. A great number of aircraft and very keen aviators in Australia are gathering for that event. As well as that, a number of celebratory dinners will be held in Sydney, Brisbane and in Melbourne. I think the honourable member can be satisfied that we are doing our absolute best to mark this very important occasion in a proper and responsible way. 
Pursuant to section 1 1 of the Road Safety and Standards Authority (Repeal) Act 1976 I present to Parliament a report on the operations of the Road Safety and Standards Authority for the period 1 May 1975 to 9 June 1976. 
I never cease to be amazed at the keenness with which honourable members from Tasmania push their State. I can see why there has been a fair amount of advancement in that State in the last two or three years. There have been a number of significant changes to legislation to boost Tasmania and- I have to put it simply- these have come about because of the representations of the five members, including the two Ministers, from that State. Having said that I should say that the matter of a triangular operation between Hobart, New Zealand and the mainland raises both domestic and international aviation policy questions and, as the honourable member knows, I have had under review both international aviation policy and domestic policy. I hope to be able to make a statement on those matters at an appropriate time. The matters that the honourable member has raised have given consideration in that review. 
I also should say that there has been no application by any civil aviation operator anywhere to run a service between Hobart and New Zealand, and whether the routes the honourable member has proposed will be of interest may well be a matter for judgment in the future. I will take care to consider the question raised by the honourable member when the review is concluded. 
Pursuant to section 40 of the Australian National Airlines Act 1945, 1 present the Trans-Australia Airlines final annual report for 1 976-77. This report contains two amendments, on pages 27 and 42, to the report presented to the House on 25 October 1977. The amendments do not affect the financial result as disclosed in the accounts included in the annual report. 
Some weeks ago spokesmen for AUS Student Travel- I think they described themselves as the  President  and General Manager of AUS Student Travel, but my terminology may be wrong- came to see me. I informed them at the time that I believed what they were doing to be in breach of the air navigation regulations and advised them that they ought to follow the provisions of the air navigation regulations correctly and properly. I said that I would be forced to make sure that they were not doing something that other travel agents in Australia were not permitted to do. In other words, I make the general observation that all people travelling outside Australia ought to be treated in a nondiscriminatory fashion. I made that point to AUS Travel. In the event, we served notice on AUS Travel that we thought that it was in breach of the regulations. The outcome has been a High Court challenge and the High Court has upheld the Government's action. I can say no more other than that until such time as there is a complete change of the air navigation regulations, and acting in accordance with my proper responsibility as Minister for Transport to make sure that air navigation regulations are upheld, I am not prepared to give to AUS Travel some benefit which other travel agents cannot give to those people who travel under their aegis. Therefore, I am not able to concur with the honourable member's proposition. 
No, I have not received any new approaches from the New South Wales Government for funds for urban arterial freeways. However, I read in the Press over the weekend a statement by the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Wran,  about the construction of freeways in New South Wales. All I can say is that, with the possible exception of the retention of some land for the Warringah Freeway corridor, there is nothing new in the statement that I understand was proffered to the Australian Labor Party conference on the weekend from what was said earlier this year, on 30 March. The fact is that I have not seen yet a copy of the New South Wales proposals for urban freeway construction in the ensuing year. I expect to get that in the next couple of weeks. 
I understand that at the conference,  Mr Wran  put forward a proposition that he would be asking the Commonwealth for $50m through the Loan Council for freeway construction. Of course, that proposition will have to wait until the Premiers Conference to be dealt with. I make the point in passing that, in the same speech,  Mr Wran  said that he would not be putting up State taxes or car registration costs or in any way imposing additional costs on New South Wales motorists. I suppose that  Mr Wran  sees himself in the position of blithely going along to the Premiers Conference and asking the other State Premiers and the Prime Minister to agree, through the Loan Council, to $50m for freeway construction, at the same time being very generous to his own taxpayers in New South Wales by saying that he will not raise taxes. If by chance the State Premiers and Commonwealth do not agree with  Mr Wran's  proposition that State freeways should be funded in that way,  Mr Wran  will find himself in the political situation of being able to blame somebody else. Whilst that might sound like good politics, I make the point that it is cheap politics.  Mr Wran  ought to stand up and be counted in a responsible financial fashion, and I must express some disappointment that the Premier of a State should barter so lightheartedly with both the taxpayers' minds and the taxpayers' money. 
I am afraid the honourable member, as usual, has a misconception of the situation. The purpose of my statement of 31 May was to draw to the attention of Victorian Dairy farmers the fact that the Victorian Government had stated that it was not prepared to join in the Commonwealth scheme of underwriting and that it was proposing to do something individually and separately from the sensible scheme that my colleague the Minister for Primary Industry has proposed as a solution to the problems experienced by the dairy industry in this country. I make it quite clear to the House that I wanted to be sure that if the Victorian Government were to increase the underwriting from 75c to 80c per lb butterfat, as proposed by the Commonwealth without joining with the Commonwealth, it would not do so simply by imposing some levy on wholemilk or increasing the price of milk and then passing that off as being a satisfactory solution to its commitment. If the honourable member had read my statement more closely he would have seen that I made the point in the statement that if there is an increase in the price of milk it ought to go to the dairy farmer unencumbered by some government decision affecting underwriting. The two things ought to be separate. If the price of milk can stand a rise, the farmer ought to receive the benefit of that separately. In addition, the farmer should receive separately the benefit of the Victorian Government's commitment to underwrite to 80c. The honourable member will have to agree that there is no difference between the stance taken by the Prime Minister and me on this matter. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes, the views of the chairmen of the Transport business undertakings were taken into account in consideration of the committee 's recommendations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
MrsE. G. Whitlam. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2), (3) and (4) I do not recall the specific details asked in the honourable member's question. 
Statutory Body responsible to Minister for Construction  (Question No. 1362) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. The Government decided early in 1977 that all Commonwealth employee food services would be operated by Commonwealth Hostels Limited. Handover of these services to the company was completed on 13 November 1977. However, in 1976-77 the cafeterias listed in (4) were operated by my Department. 
Commonwealth employee food services are required to operate on a self-supporting financial basis, within the division of costs prescribed in Treasury (Finance) Directions, Section 8. 

Item 
Charge for 1976-77 (a) (b) (d) 
(f) (g) 
Cleaning- Dining-room .... Kitchen..... 
Electricity and powerLighting and heating Power...... 
Rent or lease . . . . 
Repairs and maintenance Replacement of plant and fittings Depreciation of plant, furniture and fittings 
(4)- 
Numbers of staff Wages and currently salaries paid in employed by 1976-77 (prior Commonwealth to hand-over to Hostels Limited Commonwealth (includes some Hostels Limited ) staff employed (excludes part-time on beverage cafeteria duties) labour) 
Queensland- 
Yes. 
See answers to Questions (2) and (3) above. 
The cafeterias are provided for the use of Commonwealth employees only. However, it has always been seen as reasonable for persons visiting a Depanment on official business to be allowed to use the food service facilities on such occasions, at the Department's invitation. 
Signs are displayed at the entrances to each cafeteria indicating that the dining-rooms are for the use of Commonwealth employees only. 
In general, Commonwealth food services are available for the use of any Commonwealth employee. 
10) No. See answer to Question ( 1 ) above. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
and (d) The cases involve a wide variety of practices believed to be contrary to the requirements of Air Navigation Regulation 106A. In a number of cases the airlines or travel agents concerned were prevailed upon to cease or desist. Other cases were passed to the Crown Law Authorities for consideration, however, certain evidentiary problems precluded prosecution. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) From time to time I approve requests from Government Ministers to travel on Qantas flights over domestic sectors within Australia. Such approvals are given only in circumstances when tight ministerial itineraries impose severe demands on Minister's time and suitable connections are not available on domestic services. 
The following categories of persons are entitled to travel on Qantas flights over internal domestic sectors: 
Qantas' own stopover traffic and passengers interlining from other international airlines to Qantas, 
Commonwealth Police travelling on official duty, 
Commonwealth Public Service Officers on official duty escorting foreign dignitaries, 
IATA accredited travel agents under specific internationally agreed conditions, 
Qantas and other airline staff under specific internationally agreed conditions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The total number of aircraft landings and take-offs at Sydney Airport during each month of 1 977 is shown in the following table. The statistics in this table were collected through noise monitoring of Sydney Airport. They do not include helicopter movements, which do not use the runway, and practice landing approaches. The latter occur during the daylight hours. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 )  Mr G.  CD. Crowther, company director and solicitor acted as Government Director on the Board from 1 April 1964 to 22 May 1972 inclusive. 

 Mr C. J. Smith an officer of the Department of Transport has acted as Government Director on the Board from 2 June 1972 to date. 
It has not been necessary for the Commonwealth to exercise its powers under clause 2 7 of the Subsidy Agreement. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follow: 
The actual costs associated with aviation security measures instituted by individual airlines are not available to my Department nor are the detailed costs of the measures of the Australian Government in this area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is assumed that the question refers to the case where a steward is sought by a shipowner who is not a party to the Award. In that case there are no prescribed procedures for selection because the Award does not apply. The matter is left to negotiation between the shipowner and the union concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) The aircraft types operated by the Australian airlines in 1976 and 1977, and the airlines which operated those types in each year, are shown in the following table: 
AIRCRAFT TYPES OPERATED BY AUSTRALIAN AIRLINES IN 1976 and 1977 
Aircraft type 
Bell 206A Jet Ranger....... 
Boeing 707-338C........ 
Boeing 727-76......... 
Boeing 727-77......... 
Boeing 727-276......... 
Boeing 727-277......... 
Boeing 747-238B........ 
De Havilland DH.l 14 Heron .... De Havilland DHC.6 Twin Otter Series 100 Series 320.......... 
Douglas DC. 3......... 
Douglas DC. 4......... 
Douglas (McDonnell Douglas) DC.9-3 1 
Fokker F.2 7 Friendship Series 100 . . . . 
Operator 
Ansett Airlines of Australia . . . 
Qantas Airways Ltd..... 
Trans-Australia Airlines .... Ansett Airlianes of Australia . . . Trans-Australia Airlines .... Ansett Airlines of Australia . . . 
Qantas Airways Ltd..... 
Connair Pty Ltd....... 
Macrobertson Miller Airline Services Macrobertson Miller Airline Services Trans-Australia Airlines .... 
Connair Pty Ltd....... 
East- West Airlines Ltd..... 
Qantas Airways Ltd..... 
Ansett Airlines of Australia . . . Macrobertson Miller Airline Services Trans-Australia Airlines .... 
East- West Airlines Ltd..... 
Trans-Australia Airlines .... Ansett Airlines of Australia . . . Ansett Airlines of New South Wales Ansett Airlines of South Australia Mac.Robertson Miller Airline Services Trans-Australia Airlines .... 
East-West Airlines Ltd..... 
Ansett Airlines of Australia . . . Macrobertson Miller Airline Services Trans-Australia Airlines .... Ansett Airlines of New South Wales 
East- West Airlines Ltd..... 
Trans-Australia Airlines .... 
Macrobertson Miller Airline Services 
Qantas Airways Ltd..... 
Ansett Airlines of Australia . . . Ansett Airlines of Australia . . . 
Year in which operated 
Series 200 
Series 300....... 
Series 400....... 
Series SOO....... 
Series 600....... 
Fokker F.28 Fellowship 
Series 1000...... 
Hawker Siddeley HS. 1 25 Mark 3 Lockheed L. 188A Electra . . Sikorsky S.6 IN...... 
1976 1976 1976 1976 1976 1976 1976 1976 1976 1976 1976 1976 1976 1976 1976 
1976 1976 1976 1976 1976 
1976 1976 1976 1976 1976 1976 1976 1976 
1976 1976 1976 1976 
1977 1977 1977 1977 1977 1977 1977 1977 
1977 1977 1977 
1977 1977 1977 
1977 1977 1977 1977 1977 1977 1977 1977 1977 
1977 1977 1977 1977 
1977 1977 1977 1977 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Public Service Board has largely completed its consideration of the study in question. The Second Division structure subordinate to the approved positions of Director and Deputy Director is still the subject of discussion with the Public Service Board. 
(a) The structure of the Bureau consists of a Director and Deputy Director, a professional management group of Second Division positions, a pool of professional research staff, and an administrative support cell. 
The titles of the functional areas of the Bureau have not been finally determined but the functions to be accommodated are: 
Transport Planning, Economics, Forecasting, Finance, Resources, Systems, Technology, Information, Assessment and Inter-Disciplinary Studies. 
As mentioned in reply to part ( 1 ) of this question, the classification of senior functional area positions has not been settled and therefore it has not been possible to commence action for selection for these positions. The positions of Director and Deputy Director have been established at Level 4 and Level 3 of the Second Division respectively, and have been advertised throughout Australia and overseas. 
The Director of the Bureau reports to myself as Minister for Transport on the Bureau's program of work. However, the Bureau is attached to the Department of Transport for administrative purposes and in that sense the Director reports to the Permanent Head of the Department,  Mr C.  C. Halton. 
-The answer to the honouarble member's question is as follows: 
I ) Yes. An interdepartmental committee was established to consider the Department of Transport's Overseas Cargo Shipping Legislation Report. The article is speculative since the interdepartmental committee has not yet finalised its report. 
) The departments represented on the interdepartmental committee are: 
The Department of Transport. 
Attorney-General's Department. 
Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. 
The Department of Finance. 
The Department of Primary Industry. 
The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
The Department of Trade and Resources. 
The Treasury. 
The membership of the committee has changed from time to time. The classifications of officers attending meetings of the interdepartmental committee have been appropriate to the matters under discussion and the stage of those discussions. 
A representative of the Department of Transport has chaired meetings of the committee. 
The Overseas Cargo Shipping Legislation Report was tabled in Parliament on 24 May 1978. The advice the Government receives from the Interdepartmental Committee on this report will not be tabled. 
Breaches of Air Navigation Regulation 106A  (Question No. 1195) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. 
(a) Yes. (b) The Committee's recommendations will be, and have been, taken into account when consideration is given to action which should be taken or policy is developed in relation to particular matters of interest to the aviation industry and on which the Committee has commented. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I provided an answer to the honourable member's almost identical Question No. 816  (Hansard,  23 May 1 978, page 2352). I have nothing further to add. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Qantas Airways Limited; Australian National Airlines Commission (TAA); Australian Shipping Commission (ANL); Australian National Railways Commission (ANRC). 
(a) and (b) Yes. The following sets out, by Division, sums appropriated 1975-76, 1976-77 and 1977-78. Appropriation figures for 1977-78 include only amounts included in Appropriation Bills Nos 1 and 2. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(i) Export Finance and Insurance Corporation 
Export Development Grants Board 
Joint Coal Board 
) (a) (i) Export Finance and Insurance Corporation 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Details of Australian imports of major cheese varieties from the principal overseas supplying countries are set out below: 
Officers of my Department automatically swing into operation as soon as incidents, such as those mentioned by the honourable member, occur. The Air Safety Investigation Branch began an immediate investigation and it will eventually report to me on each of those incidents. Insofar as the general question of air safety is concerned, I am able to tell the House that in terms of statistics- mark you, statistics are never satisfactory to those people who are involved in incidents of this nature- the fact is that there has been a declining trend over the last 10 years in incidents of this nature. In terms of manpower of the Department and funds made available for expenditure in areas which fall within my responsibility, each year I have made sure that, despite budgeting difficulties with which the Government might be faced, appropriate funds are found for the continuance of a program of maintenance of air safety. In fact, I have said on occasion after occasion that I am not prepared to prejudice air safety because of budgeting difficulties. If the honourable member waits until tonight's Budget he will see that an appropriate amount of money has been made available for air safety and for the maintenance of air facilities. Incidents of this nature are a very vexed problem. When the reports on these incidents come to hand I will, of course, table them in the Parliament. 
The negotiations with the British Government in respect of cheaper air fares in and out of this country have been proceeding very satisfactorily. The British team returned to the United Kingdom about a week ago to report to the Government there. The next step is for me to arrange for negotiations to be undertaken with other countries of Europe, Asia and America that have airlines coming in and out of Australia. A team will be leaving for America towards the end of this month. There have been a number of reports stating that for some reason the Australian Government has got the axe into KLM, JAT, Lufthansa, UTA and, I suppose, Alitalia. A great number of representations have been made to me, particularly about KLM. 
As I have said, the facts are that we will be sending a team to negotiate with the Dutch Government and other governments of Europe within the next couple of weeks. Those governments can make their own judgments about the proposals that we have. I point out to the House that on a previous occasion when there was an opportunity for KLM to pick up a cheaper air fare which British Airways and Qantas had negotiated and agreed to, KLM showed no interest in that particular air fare. Therefore, I am unable to make a judgment as to whether KLM will be interested in the sorts of proposals that we have before us. A great variety of figures has been chosen by media writers and others speculating about the air fares. I can confirm for the honourable member that the figure chosen will be of great interest to the members of the Australian travelling public. It is certainly much cheaper than any fare available today. However, I am not able to disclose the actual figure because it is part of the negotiations and it would be improper for me to confirm a figure that as yet has not been conveyed to other governments. I know that the honourable member will understand my sensitivity on that point. I hope to be in a position to table at an early date the report of the International Civil Aviation Review. 
the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have seen reports in the media to the effect that Englehard Minerals and Chemicals Corp. of the United States has negotiated an agreement with West Australian Kaolin Pty Ltd to undertake the development of a Kaolin deposit at Gabbin in Western Australia. 
to (4) I have been advised by the Bureau of Mineral Resources as follows: 
Clays are a potential source of aluminium although their use in aluminium production is currently uneconomic and not competitive with the Bayer process for the extraction of alumina from bauxite. From an average of chemical analyses carried out by CSIRO, the alumina content of the Gabbin coating clay is 38 percent, or about 20 percent aluminium. 
Gross reserves reported by West Australian Kaolin Co. Pty Ltd (in terms of clay content) are- 
Coating clay 10,700,000 tonnes 
Filler clay 6, 1 50,000 tonnes 
No analysis of the filler clay is available, but it is a less pure variety than the coating clay, and the alumina content is probably lower. 
It would seem from reports that the Gabbin clay owes its economic importance mainly to its suitability as a paper coating clay because of its very high grade. There are several large deposits of clays in Western Australia better situated in respect of transport and ports, which would be equally as suitable as sources of alumina should there ever be a demand for clay for this purpose. 
The United States Bureau of Mines has been involved for more than 50 years in research on methods of extracting alumina from its vast domestic resources of nonbauxitic materials. Studies of a variety of process technologies developed within the outside USBM have shown that to date none of the alternative processes is competitive with the Bayer process using bauxite. 
The USBM reported in 1976 that it was not possible to predict which alternative process might eventually prove to be commercially feasible. A pilot plant based on the most promising mini-plant technology would need to be built and operated to provide data for scaling up the selected process to commercial size and enable cost estimates to be made. The main advantage of the research to date is that it has demonstrated that the US could, in national emergency and if necessary, satisfy its need for alumina from its own resources. However, because of the uneconomic nature of the alternative processes any such project to produce alumina would need to be a government venture and could not be undertaken economically by a private company. 
The importance of titanium as a by-product of any process for the extraction of alumina from clay would depend on the concentration of titania in the clay, the form in which it occurs, and the feasibility of extracting it from the residue resulting from the alumina production process. It is important to realise in this context that Australian bauxites contain titanium (usually in higher proportion than that in the Gabbin kaolin yet the titanium is not in a usable form in the red mud residues, and so far extraction has not been feasible. 
An average of analyses carried out by CSIRO on the Gabbin clay showed it to have a ti02 content of 0.41 percent. 
(a) In view of the above technical advice, it would seem highly unlikely that development of a kaolin deposit in Western Australia would be based on its potential as an alternative to bauxite in aluminium production. (b) Any proposal by Englehard to jointly develop these Kaolin deposits would need to be submitted to the Foreign Investment Review Board for examination under the Foreign Investment Guidelines and would be considered by the Government in the light of the Board 's report. 
It has not been, however, the practice of this Government, nor that of its predecessor, to provide information on whether or not a proposal has been submitted to the Foreign Investment Review Board. 
by leave- As the Minister for Transport, I regard it as my duty to make a statement to the House today concerning aviation safety in Australia. All honourable members will be aware of a number of allegations and charges made in recent weeks through the media concerning aviation safety- allegations and charges that have little foundation in fact. It is of course not necessary for me to defend Australia's air safety record which on the basis of aviation accident statistics alone is exemplary. Australia has one of the best aviation records in the world. There is a need however for me to set out the actual record of those in my Department, such as flight service officers, rank and file air traffic controllers and our highly trained pilots, and others in the aviation industry who have been denigrated by many of the recent statements and Press stories. There is also a need to reassure the people of Australia who have been caused quite unnecessary concern by these irresponsible statements. 
Let me say right at the beginning that it is the Government's policy to maintain aviation safety at the highest possible level. However, aviation safety is for experts to maintain; it is not for politicians, journalists or laymen to determine. As Minister I, of course, rely upon the advice of my Department and the industry on all aviation safety matters. I never have, and will not, make arbitrary personal judgments on aviation safety matters, but will continue as always to rely on those experts in my Department and in the industry itself who can and do advise me. 
Let me give one example of the sort of allegation and the sort of media headline that have caused a totally incorrect picture of the level of aviation safety in Australia to be presented to the Australian people. I refer to an incident concerning two domestic airline aircraft near Brisbane on the seventh of this month. The Sydney  Daily Telegraph  on Monday of this week carried the headline: 'Mid Air Near Miss for Three Jets'. The story quoted a so-called departmental spokesman saying the three jets were only seconds from collision and went on to quote the 
Vice-President of the Civil Air Operators Association,  Mr Gosling,  as saying: 
It is a very serious incident. 
The Melbourne  Herald  carried an extravagent front page story but, so far as I can ascertain, no check was made with responsible officers in my Department. Other newspapers carried similar stories and headlines claiming that my Department had covered up the incident. 
Now let us look at the facts. An interim report by my Department indicates that there was no danger of collision between any aircraft. The incident concerned only two aircraft, not the three reported in the newspapers. The incident involved only a marginal breakdown in the standard separation of five miles. The report indicates that the aircraft were flying in the same general direction about four miles apart instead of five and were also separated by 1,000 feet in height when the situation was recognised by the air traffic controllers themselves and appropriate action taken. What is even more disturbing is that the departmental spokesman quoted in the paper was not a departmental spokesman, a fact later acknowledged by the journalist himself. I would like to have incorporated in  Hansard  a statement I made on this matter. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

NO DANGER OF COLLISION 
An interim report by the Department of Transport's Air Safety Investigation Branch indicates that there was no danger of collision between a TAA 727 and an Ansett 727 at Brisbane last Monday. 
The incident involved a marginal breakdown in the standard separation of five miles, a Departmental spokesman said today. 
The aircraft were estimated to be about four miles apart and separated by 1,000 feet in height when this situation was recognised by Air Traffic Control and appropriate action taken. 
Both aircraft were approaching Brisbane and were being sequenced by Air Traffic Control for landing at the time. 
A third aircraft which had been mentioned in media report was not involved in the incident. 
Some reports had included a statement by a so-called 'Departmental spokesman' who was quoted as saying the margin was 'extremely dangerous' and the aircraft were 'only seconds from collision'. 
Both these statements were not attributable to the Department and were not the opinion of the Depanment. 
Canberra 14August 1978 
Of equal concern is a report in yesterday's  Courier Mail  quoting the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  saying that the Department's view of the incident appeared to conflict with information provided by, 'an air safety official' on Friday. The honourable member for Shortland was even quoted as saying that a spokesman from my office confirmed the view that the incident was a near miss and attributable to pilot error. There was no spokesman from my office, and there has been no suggestion that pilot error was involved. The honourable member for Shortland clearly does not want to believe the facts. He is prepared to say anything in order to get a headline and denigrate officers of my Department, including air traffic controllers and airline pilots. 
The honourable member for Shortland has made recent public calls for a public enquiry into aviation safety. My statement this afternoon rejects entirely the need for the expenditure of public moneys on the undertaking of such an enquiry. The honourable member for Shortland would be contributing far more to aviation safety in this country if he were to support and be constructive, rather than try to undermine the activities of those involved in safety matters in the aviation industry. It is clearly necessary for me to present the true position of aviation safety in Australia to defend our pilots, our air traffic controllers, and other officers of my department, men and women who, I believe, are doing a difficult job magnificently, maintaining our aviation safety standards as perhaps the best in the world. 
Let me take the incidence of air accidents as a beginning. That our scheduled airline safety record is beyond reproach cannot be denied. Since 1968 there has been only one fatal accident in scheduled airline operations. That accident occurred in 1975 with the loss of 11 lives. The safety trend of general aviation is best established by the consideration of accident rates, that is, the ratio of accidents to hours flown, and over relatively long periods. In practice, the rates are established over each year and the preceding two years. Examination of these statistics up to and including 1977- the most recent year of complete figures- shows an improving safety trend until about 1973 and, from then on, a relatively stable accident rate. There is no evidence to suggest that this pattern has since changed. 
This conclusion is in no way varied by the fact that in early July there was a series of fatal accidents, two of which occurred on successive days, one causing the deaths of six people in a Melbourne suburban home. I can assure all honourable members that in putting these accidents into their proper perspective, I am not seeking in any way to diminish or gloss over tragedies. However there have been other instances of a cluster of fatal accidents, of three accidents in three days, and they were in May 1978, in July 1977, and back in 1969, to quote examples. These clusters do not in themselves provide any basis for conclusions about safety levels. 
In 1969 there was a total of 236 accidents of all kinds in general aviation, that is, in operations other than airline and gliding. This occurred in a year when a total of over one million hours were flown by general aviation. In 1977- the last year of complete record- there were 224 accidents despite a huge increase in hours flown in general aviation in Australia to a total of nearly 1.5 million hours. The number of accidents has actually fluctuated from 236 in 1969, to a high of 245 in 1970 and then to a low of 182 in 1972. Yet during this period there has been a dramatic upsurge of some 42 per cent in the number of hours flown by general aviation aircraft. 
During this period of increasing activity the number of fatal accidents in general aviation has moved from 16 in 1969 to 18 in 1974 and to 19 in 1977. Although there have been 17 fatal accidents out of a total of 133 fixed wing accidents in general aviation in the first seven months of this year it is not possible to make any meaningful comparisons with previous years. I could point out, for instance, that in the first seven months of 1974 there were 16 fatal accidents out of a total of 132. A real comparison can be made only at the end of the year when we can measure the total accidents against the total hours flown. What can be said is that the number of fatal accidents in any one year is relatively small and certainly in terms of rate the Australian record compares more than favourably with the record of most other countries. One needs only to contrast this record with the appalling carnage on the roads to put it into some sort of perspective. So statistically our safety position has improved rather than deteriorated. The plain fact is there is no tangible evidence of a deterioration of aviation safety in Australia. 
As well as the charges in recent weeks about so-called near disasters, there have been allegations of cover-ups of aircraft incidents by my Department. Yesterday my Department made a statement which explained the incident reporting system and I table a copy of that statement and seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

AVIATION INCIDENT REPORTING AIDS SAFETY 
The public was being confused by recent unofficial accounts of 'near misses' of aircraft and allegations of a decline in aviation safety standards, a Department of Transport spokesman said today. 
Many media reports had exaggerated the danger of incidents which were being investigated by Departmental aviation safety investigators. 
There was a well-established reporting system which encouraged operational people throughout the industry to report incidents to enable them to be investigated in the interests of improved aviation safety. 
Departmental aviation personnel were required to report as an incident any departure from the Department's operating standards. 
The incident reporting system was additional to the Notice to Airmen (NOTAM) system whereby pilots were given instructions or were advised of circumstances which had a bearing on flying safety. 
The Department made available to media enquirers on request the basic details of aviation incidents, but could not comment beyond the factual circumstances while the incident was under investigation. 
While such incidents were always treated seriously, the degreee of actual danger was often more potential than actual. 
The real value of the incident reporting system lay in proper and full investigation of incidents by experienced invetigators with the aim of taking initiating action to prevent recurrences. 
Exaggerated, incorrect and emotionally-written media reports were causing unnecessary public unease. 
Yet Australia's aviation accident rate- and there were millions of aircraft movements each year- still remained among the world 's best. 
The Department was nevertheless not complacent about Australia's record and continued to take steps to improve it further. 
The incident reporting system was a vital part of the machinery to enable this to be achieved. 
Essentially the aviation incident reporting system is an aid to safety. There are several thousand incident reports submitted to the Department each year. For instance, in 1974 there were 8,198 incidents reported, 7,051 in 1977 and 3,160 in the first seven months of this year. The majority of the reports are related to occurrences such as communications or weather problems and these reports are used essentially for monitoring effectiveness of departmental facilities and services. 
Obviously my Department cannot be expected to put out a public statement every time an incident is reported. When an incident occurs which does have significant safety implications, however, my Department provides factual information when requested to do so. I might add that the system of notification of incidents to the Department has not changed significantly in over 20 years. There is not, there has not been, and there cannot be any 'cover-up'. The fact, however, that these incidents- and I emphasise the word 'incidents'- are reported and fully investigated is indicative of the high standards we maintain. It is a well established fact that the 
Australian incident reporting and investigation system is one of the most comprehensive in the world. It is now being adopted as a model by some other countries. I make the important point, however, that it is implicit in that system that it attracts reports where danger or the potential for danger can be seen, however remote the real probabilities of disaster might be. The intent is that the proper investigation and reporting of these occurrences will point to lessons which can make the probabilities even more remote. 
The recent charges and claims orchestrated through the media would appear to be part of a campaign- a campaign designed to cause concern in the minds of the travelling public, a loss of morale of those in the safety areas of the aviation industry and political gain for those behind the campaign. But sadly for those concerned the campaign has no basis of fact; it is clearly not supportable. For instance, the Manager of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots,  Mr Coysh-  in case there is lack of knowledge of the matter by the public I point out that he is not a pilot himself, but a paid industrial officer- has made claims about the alleged breakdown of navigational aid facilities and used the Department's notices to airmen system, known as NOTAMS, to try to demonstrate his point.  Mr Coysh  's allegations were all investigated and were all rejected on the facts as providing evidence of any deterioration in the Department's safety standards. For the information of honourable members, I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  two statements I issued on 14 and 1 8 April dealing in detail with these allegations. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

Statement by the Minister for Transport, the Honourable P. J. Nixon, M.P. 
The Minister for Transport,  Mr Peter  Nixon, said this evening he had made a thorough investigation of all the allegations made by  Mr Coysh  of the Australian Federation of Air Pilots concerning aviation safety yesterday. 
On the reports submitted to me by my Department today there is no basis of truth in the allegations made by the AFAP,  Mr Nixon  said. 
In releasing details concerning each of the specific allegations made by  Mr Coysh, Mr Nixon  said he was satisfied that all the proper procedures had been followed in rectifying and servicing navigational aids and other equipment. 
In all cases concerning the breakdown of specific navigational aid facilities there were appropriate back-up facilities available. ' 

 Mr Nixon reiterated that he would not allow air safety to be prejudiced. 
There has been no cut back in funds but rather an increase in funds for the provision and maintenance of navigational aids',  Mr Nixon  said. 

 Mr Nixon said the appropriation for the maintenance of airways had risen from $5m last year to $5.2m this year while the appropriation for capital equipment had risen from $5.5m last year to $6.4m this year. Similarly the appropriation for airport fire fighting services had risen from $920,000 last year to$ 1 .9m this year. 

 Mr Nixon pointed out this was a substantial increase on the appropriations under the Labor Government three years ago. 
Australia enjoys an air safety record unparalled throughout the world and that record will continue, '  Mr Nixon  said. 

 Mr Coysh has done nothing by his extravagant claims to assist air safety but has merely raised unnecessary concern in the minds of the travelling public, '  Mr Nixon  said. 
Of the 36 accusations made by  Mr Coysh  in April this year, I gave 36 answers presenting the facts, which in each case demonstrated that the allegations were not supportable. 
I can also refer to the prevalent practice of putting constructions out of context on internal documents 'leaked' from the Department. One such document, originating from the VictoriaTasmania region of the Department, was used last week, in an article in the Melbourne  Age  on 12 August, to suggest that funding for overall maintenance materials would be inadequate. In fact the primary purpose of the document was only to ensure that the maintenance material requirements for safety services and facilities had precedence over other requirements; this can hardly be construed to be detrimental to safety. It is a quite normal administrative measure to ensure that maximum efficiency in the use of public moneys is maintained and that aviation safety is in no way prejudiced through material shortages. 
So far as funds are concerned, there has been a substantial increase in expenditure on the provision and maintenance of navigational aids, compared with the record of the Labor Government. Expenditure on the maintenance of airways has risen from $9.57m in 1973-74 to $ 14m in 1977-78, which does not suggest any lack of appreciation of the safety importance in this area. To illustrate further the Government's recognition of the importance of safety services, let me quote other examples of expenditure. For instance, the airways capital expenditure was $4.8m in 1973-74 and $7.5m in 1977-78. Fire service capital expenditure under the Labor Government actually fell from $120,000 in 1973- 74 to an all-time recent low of $30,000 in 1974- 75. By 1976-77 we had increased this to $250,000 and we increased it to $lm in 1977-78. Again, in respect of fire service maintenance, expenditure has risen from $960,000 in 1973-74 to $ 1.35m in 1977-78. 
Yet the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  claimed in a statement of 1 1 August that this Government was following a policy of deliberate neglect' and 'denial of proper funding' of air safety requirements. Needless to say, his statement did not contain any actual figures to sustain that claim. The figures I have just quoted obviously do not sustain that claim; instead they demonstrate quite the opposite. I have been referring to actual expenditures to date, and I cannot talk in the same terms in respect of our 1978-79 Budget as the money is yet to be spent. I make it clear, however, that in the 1978-79 appropriations we have maintained adequate levels of funding in the safety areas and have increased appropriations where required. 
It is true that there has been a reduction since 1975 of 558 staff to a 1978 total of 6,078 in the technical and operational areas of the regions of the Department. These are the areas of the Department most closely concerned with the implementation of safety aspects. This reduction reflects improvements in efficiency, and technology and economies resulting from changing demands. One example is the close-down of flight service facilities at Katherine which are now handled from Darwin. In the key operational areas, however, which include air traffic control, flight service, fire service and flying operations and airworthiness, the 1978 total is still 2,630 compared with 2,666 in 1975. In the area of air traffic control staff numbers are down less than 3 per cent of the presently required strength of 955 in the regions, or down 27 officers. This requirement takes into account all operational needs plus relief for leave and sickness. I point out that this is not an abnormal situation for any organisation of this type; but in addition the Department took action some time ago to accelerate the trainee intake to alleviate even this small shortage as quickly as possible. More particularly, the Department and the Public Service Board are currently giving urgent consideration to a restructuring of air traffic control training. This will give even earlier relief, whilst at the same time giving better training and improved prospects of career satisfaction. 
In the area of flying operations, a recruitment campaign was initiated some months ago. More recently, offers of employment were made to five examiners of airmen, to provide additional strength in this area, and another recruitment campaign for examiners is being planned. There has been a significant increase in the number of aircraft on the register and in the number of licensed pilots. Accordingly, the staffing situations in flying operations and airworthiness areas are being examined to determine what additional staffing may be required to ensure that appropriate standards continue to be maintained in the industry. 
Before I conclude, I want to make reference to one additional matter. It illustrates perfectly the point I have been making about the unnecessary concern being generated in the minds of the public by unsubstantiated claims and assertions about safety from people who should know better, and by media reports that are directed towards the sensational and the selling of newspapers rather than fact and responsibility. 
On 8 August I announced that the Government had purchased 10 ultra-large fire tenders from an American company. At the same time, I said that a separate order for 12 rapid intervention fire tenders from a British company had been cancelled because the vehicles delivered had not met the required specifications and were unsuitable for the task required of them. One Sydney newspaper interpreted this, in both an article and an editorial, as the cancellation of the British order at a cost to the public purse of $450,000, with the United States order replacing the cancelled tenders. That is incorrect, as any inquiry to either my Department or my office would have shown. To demonstrate my point, I ask that a copy of my statement on the matter be incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

NEW AIRPORT FIRE ENGINES 
The Department of Transport has bought ten Ultra-Large American-built fire tenders for use at airports throughout Australia, the Minister for Transport,  Mr Peter  Nixon, said today. 
The tenders, which will substantially increase fire suppression capacity, cost $ 1 . 5m. 
They were built by the Walter Truck Company of Voorheesville, United States of America, specifically for airport fire-fighting and are among the most modern in the world. 

 Mr Nixon said eight of the fire tenders had already arrived in Australia and the full ten would be introduced progressively at Melbourne, Sydney, Canberra, Hobart, Launceston, Adelaide, Darwin, Brisbane, Mt Isa and Coolangatta airports. 
Training of departmental instructors to handle the tenders, which have a water capacity of about 6,800 litres of liquid through-put rate of about 3,400 litres-a-minute through the monitor, had already begun at the Department of Transport 's fire training school at Melbourne Airport. 
The unit would be demonstrated to senior department officers, industry representatives and unions at Melbourne Airport on Thursday. 

 Mr Nixon added that the department had cancelled an order with another company for twelve Rapid Intervention Tenders because they had failed to meet the department's contract specifications. 

 Mr Nixon said the department was taking further action to obtain suitable replacement vehicles. 
Canberra, 8 August 1978. 
The original order for the British built rapid intervention tenders was placed by the former Government in May 1 975. When they arrived they proved unsatisfactory because they did not meet the specifications. As a result, under the contract all moneys were refunded and no public money was lost. The American built vehicles are not to replace the British built tenders but were designed to complement them in the airport rescue and fire fighting plan. Indeed, as I announced, action is being taken to re-let the tenders for the rapid intervention vehicles. 
This House should be deeply concerned at the serious effect such inaccurate reporting is having, not only in the minds of the Australian public but also on the morale of officers of my Department, on the pilots flying our airline services, and others in the aviation industry. As I have said, they have a proud record in aviation safety and they are maintaining, as my statement has demonstrated, that record. 
I repeat that the Government will not allow air safety to be prejudiced. Where circumstances come to light indicating weaknesses, they are rectified. Nothing but public distress and uncertainty will be achieved by the present campaign by the honourable member for Shortland and others who are trying to make a political issue out of one area that should be kept out of politics- aviation safety. 
I repeat: I have confidence in my Department of Transport and its operations officers, which include air traffic controllers, flight service officers, fire service officers, and examiners of airmen, as well as all others in the aviation industry. I present the following paper: 
Aviation Safety in Australia- Ministerial Statement, 16 August 1978. 
Motion ( by  Mr Fife  ) proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
You haven't asked me about an extension of time. You haven 't got that far yet. 
I don't know what the arrangements are. Ask Mick Young. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, except that these locations serve alternative routes between Melbourne and Sydney and not the same route. 
Each location is served by a Non Directional Beacon (NDB), Distance Measuring Equipment (DME) and VHF Omni Range (VOR). The VOR's at both locations are presently out of service for major maintenance involving replacement of faulty cables which is an extensive task requiring considerable recalibration. 
The re-cabling is almost completed and recommissioning tests are scheduled for 28 August. 
The two remaining aids (NDB and DME) at each location are supplemented by radar surveillance from Canberra in the case of Williamsdale and Melbourne in the case of Albury. These facilities provide an adequate service while the VOR's are unavailable and there is no danger to the travelling public. 
The total complex of facilities has been planned with specific regard to the need to remove individual aids for periodic maintenance or to repair equipment faults when they occur. The temporary closing down of the subject aids was a normal and safe procedure within these planning principles. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Australian National Railways Commission has long recognised the urgent need to plan and re-organise its accounting structure so that acceptable principles of asset valuation and operating result derivation could be applied consistently from the inception of its operations on 1 July 1975. Implementation by ANR of a new accounting structure however has been delayed because the Commission gained effective control of the transferred systems only on 1 March this year, the delay resulting from the protracted negotiations with the South Australian Government on the timing of the declared date. 
There are some outstanding matters yet to be resolved but it is to be hoped that the accounts for 1975-76 and 1976-77 will be tabled in the near future. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Hazardous cargo is termed dangerous goods in Australian legislation and is defined as explosive substances and things which by reason of their nature are liable to endanger the safety of an aircraft or persons on board an aircraft or which are declared, by notice published in Air Navigation Orders, to be things which are likely to endanger the safety of an aircraft or persons on board an aircraft. 
This definition applies to Australian aircraft wherever they may be and to foreign aircraft operating in or over Australian territory. 
Air Navigation Regulation 120 and Air Navigation Orders Part 33 cover the air transportation of dangerous goods. 
All prosecutions launched have led to convictions. Two prosecutions occurred in 1973, four in 1975 and one in 1 978. There were no prosecutions in 1 974, 1 976 or 1 977. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) 270 officers took a total of 1 3,486 hours sick leave. 
) These figures represent 80.35 per cent of the total staff and 2.1 per cent of the total hours available to be worked in 1976. 
I can allay any fears in respect of the future of the Ghan. The Ghan will not be closed until such time as the Alice SpringsTarcoola railway line is completed. The honourable member will have noticed that $27.2m is made available in the Budget for continuance of the construction of the Alice Springs-Tarcoola railway line. That is the level of funds required to allow Australian National Railways to keep to its time table for completion of that railway line. As I understand it, the rumour that the Ghan railway was to be closed came from the South Australian Minister for Transport who has been very prominent in issuing ridiculous statements about the situation in respect of the whole Australian National Railways system. The facts are that ANR will lose some $60m this year, and that is recorded in the Budget Papers. Some time ago I asked ANR for a 10-year plan for overcoming its loss situation. I think  Mr Virgo  has simply picked up a bit of scuttle-butt around the traps and has decided to go public and try to create as much mischief as he can. It is a pretty typical ploy that he uses quite often when he wants to create difficulty or embarrassment for anybody, particularly me. I would like to assure  Mr Virgo  that what he says does not worry me one bit. The only thing that does concern me is that he might be causing some concern to the people of the Northern Territory and the people of South Australia who live along the railway lines. 
The South Australian section of the ANR complex is the most rundown railway system in Australia, barring the Tasmanian system. It is interesting to note that both States have had Labor governments and neither of them has ever put money into their railway systems. Of course, when the Whitlam Government fell for the three-card trick in taking over the South Australian railway system we had to pick up the bill. I think it is completely responsible for ANR to draw up a 10-year plan to try to overcome some of the deficiencies, particularly in the Southern Australian section which was neglected over the years by the South Australian Labor Government. When that plan comes to this Government we will consider it in a responsible fashion. ANR is facing up to the real difficulties created by the South Australian Government because of its failure to put money into the system over the years. I am hopeful that ultimately the South Australians will benefit considerably from an improved railway system throughout the State. To go back to the original question in respect of the Ghan, please assure the Northern Territorians that it is the wish of this Government to complete the Alice Springs-Tarcoola railway system as soon as possible so that they too can benefit from an improved railway system. 
For the information of honourable members I present a Department of Transport manual entitled:  Road Safety Guidelines for Town Planning. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)1 have not established or continued any advisory or consultative committees which include members of parliament. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Offices of both the Central Office and the Victoria/Tasmania Region of the Department are located in Melbourne and it is the Central Office elements only which are covered below. 
1) 1 10 resignations. 
Staff are not required to give reasons upon resignation but those reasons given were as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Offices of both the Central Office and the Victoria/Tasmania Region of the Depanment are located in Melbourne but the Canberra- Melbourne transfer program involves positions in the Central Office only and it is these which are covered below: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I will take the last part of the honourable member's question first. I said last week that a team was to leave for America, I think next week, to discuss the Continental Airlines question and also the question of air fares on the Australia-America route. Unfortunately we received a message from the Americans today asking that these talks be postponed because of some difficulties that the Americans had run into at their end. That means that the discussions in respect of the proposed entry of Continental Airlines to the Australian route and the air fare arrangements will have to be held over to a date to be fixed. As I have said on earlier occasions, the Australian Government does not mind whether it is Continental Airlines or Timbuktu Airlines that operates to Australia from America. That is not a matter for us. What is a matter for us is the total capacity on the route. The whole question of cheaper air fares bears down pretty heavily on the total capacity on the route. We hold the view that it is impossible to lower the air fares if there are more and more empty seats on flights across the Pacific. The question that we have raised with the Americans is how they can lower the air fare when they want to fly more and more empty seats across the Pacific. That will be one of the substantial matters to be discussed when the Americans finally fix a date for the discussion. 
In respect of the proposition in general, what we as a government are seeking to obtain is a range of air fares which is non-discriminatory. In other words, if anybody walks in off the street and wants the lower range of air fares that we are seeking to obtain he should be able to obtain it. That cheaper air fare ought to be applicable on all routes in and out of Australia. I think that that approach is slightly different in concept from the one that President Carter is taking. The Americans have 240 million people in their country. They run nearly half the world's airlines. I think that President Carter is adopting a let her rip' policy, believing that American companies can withstand all the competition, and not having much regard for smaller countries such as Australia and many other countries around the world and not taking into account their priorities and the views that they might hold on the matter. Having said that, let me say that when we get to America ultimately we will discuss this matter in a proper, sensible and rational way. I believe that ultimately we will achieve on the American route the same sort of fare structure that we are trying to achieve on other routes throughout the world. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) Of the 197 persons employed on the North Australia Railway prior to its closure, 4 retired as they had reached the maximum age, 22 accepted the offer made to all employees of transfer to other parts of the Australian National Railways, 83 were found alternative employment in the Northern Territory and 88 refused the offer of transfer and could not bc found alternative employment by ANR, and were retrenched. 
There are no ANR amployees currently working on the North Australia Railway. The care and management of ANR's assets has been left in the hands of government departments and authorities to whom these have been leased. No further track maintenance is being undertaken as a resumption of services is not contemplated in the immediate future. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Road grants to the States, including Victoria, are made available under the States Grants (Roads) Act 1977 for the following categories: 
National Highways National Commerce Roads Rural Arterial Roads Rural Local Roads Urban Arterial Roads Urban Local Roads 
Minor Traffic Engineering and Road Safety Improvements. 
The grants may be used for construction works on each of the road categories and for maintenance of National Highways and Rural Local Roads. 
The Shire of Werribee is totally within the Melbourne Statistical Division and all roads within the Shire are therefore either Urban Arterial or Urban Local roads for funding under the States Grants (Roads) Act 1977. 
There are about 670 kilometres of roads in the Shire of Werribee. However, I have no information on the length of particular roads within the Shire which would enable me to give an indication of the percentage of roads falling into the above two categories. 
I am able to say that the roads listed below are Urban Arterial roads. The remaining roads within the Shire are Urban Local roads. 
Aviation Road, Ballan Road, Boundary Road, Central Avenue, Derrimut Road, Duncans Road, Fitzgerald Road, Geelong/Bacchus Marsh Road, Heaths Road, Hoppers Lane, Little Boundary Road, Little River Road, Merton Road, Morris Road, Princes Freeway/Highway West. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Studies have been carried out on blood alcohol in fatal general aviation accidents in Australia. 
The results of the studies referred to are set out in a paper by Brown and Lane published in Aviation, Space and Environmental Medicine, Vol. 48, No. 8, pages 771 to 775, August 1977. The conclusions developed in the paper are: 
While there are difficulties associated with acquiring blood samples suitable for analysis, determination of postmortem BACs is a practical procedure in fatally injured occupants of crashed general aviation aircraft. 
Extant surveys of BACs in fatal general aviation crashes in the USA and Great Britain are reviewed and Australian experience is described. When the percentage of all fatal accidents from which samples were obtained is fairly high, the percentage with positive BAC are generally similar. 
Estimates of the percentage of fatal accidents in which alcohol was adjudged to have casual significance can be derived from two sets of US data and the Australian series. The Australian percentage is not significantly different from that derived from the lumped US data. Overall, about 9 per cent of fatal general aviation accidents show alcohol as a casual factor. 
Comparisons with other modes of personal transportation shows that alcohol plays a role in fatal accident causation in descending order cars in single-vehicle accidents, cars, motorcycles, and general aviation aircraft. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) In the interest of safe, expenditious and efficient Department operations the key operational, policy, administrative and technical staff listed below have their home telephone rental paid in full in accordance with the provisions of Finance Direction 23.7 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) For international regularly used airports, a rescue and fire fighting service (RFF) is provided. 
For domestic aerodromes, a RFF service is provided to meet the objective of covering about 90 per cent of all users of regular public transport air services. 
(b) ICAO recommended practices and guidance material are used as the basis of determination of the standards of the rescue and fire fighting services. 
For international airports, the basis of determination of which airports should be provided with a rescue and fire fighting service has not changed. However, the ICAO guidance material related to the standard of the service to be provided at airports was revised at the end of 1976 to cover more realistically the operation of modern-day aircraft. 
For domestic aerodromes, the objective has not changed over the last two years. However, the guidelines adopted to meet this objective have been revised to more logically select the aerodromes to be provided with the service, taking into account the total number of passengers and crew passing through these aerodromes. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 to 3) Offices of both the Central Office and the Victoria/ Tasmania Region of the Depanment are located in Melbourne and it is the Central Office elements only which are covered below. 
As officers are not required to give reasons, or even notify their own Depanment when seeking transfer or promotion it is not possible to answer the first three pans of the question. 
One hundred and fifty-five officers transferred or were promoted to other Departments or to Regional Offices of the Depanment of Transport. This includes trainees from the Central Training College who were posted to positions in Regions on completion of their training. 
The Department first considers whether or not vacant positions should be filled. If the decision is affirmative the vacant positions are advertised in the Commonwealth Gazette and in the Department's Administrative Circulars. 
Vacant positions as at 7 June 1 978 are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No such specific instruction peculiar to ANR has been issued, but in line with general Government policy there have been gradual staff reductions imposed in recent years which have been achieved by natural wastage without retrenchments. As a result Australian National Railways staff numbers have reduced from 14,591 at 30 June 1975 to 13,041 at 30 June 1978. Continuing this policy, ANR's staff ceiling for 1978-79 has been set at 12,700 implying a further reduction by wastage of 34 1 by 30 June 1 979. 
and (3) Effects on particular branches of ANR would be a matter for the Commission to decide in the light of its responsibility to provide safe and efficient railway operations. I do not anticipate that the general policy on staff reductions will in any way affect protection of the rights and conditions of salaried and wages railway staff. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department of Transport and the Authorities under my control have made arrangements through the Department of Administrative Services, dealers and scrap merchants for the collection and disposal of all types of waste materials including paper, scrap metal, cable and wire, sump oil, batteries, tyres, and tubes. An exception is the recycling of metals by the Australian National Railways Commission in foundaries operated by the Commission. 
Certain airport waste is subject to quarantine and is incinerated under the supervision of the Department of Health at the respective airports. Some combustible recyclable airport waste is used in the burning to achieve fuel economy. 
The Department of Transport and the Authorities are conscious of the advantages of recycling of waste and will continue to make suitable arrangements. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) (i) Questions relating to funds provided to the Territories for road works during the period 1 July 1959 to 30 June 1978 should be addressed to the Minister for the Capital Territory or the Minister for the Northern Territory. 
During the period 1 July 1 959 to 30 June 1 978 the majority of funds for road works were made available to the States under six separate Commonwealth Acts. As the purposes for which these funds were appropriated differed between certain of these Acts, I am unable to reply to the question in the format requested by the honourable member. However, the information available has been grouped in a way which meets the honourable member's request as nearly as practicable. In respect of road grants made available in the period 1974-75-1977-78 actual advances under the respective road Acts varied from the amounts incorporated in the schedules to the Acts because of authorised transfers of grants between categories of expenditure. 
For the reasons set out in 1 (ii) above it is not possible to express the items of expenditure referred to by the honourable member as a percentage of National Gross Domestic Product. Table H below however sets out the total road funds made available to the States by the Commonwealth Government expressed as a percentage of the National Gross Domestic Product during the period 1 July 1959-30 June 1978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The study indicated that the full extent of the surveillance commitment could only be assessed in the light of experience gained in administering the zone. Factors such as the number of foreign fishing vessels granted licences to fish in the Australian Zone and the areas of major foreign fishing activity will all have a bearing on the amount of surveillance needed. 
Information gathered during the study will be used in planning the initial surveillance of the 200 mile Australian Fishing Zone when it is established. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) and (b). The Department of Transport operates 57 domestic terminals (many no more than a waiting room) and five international terminals. Two of the international terminals are separate from the domestic terminals, three are combined buildings. In addition, 8 domestic terminals are operated by airlines. Each airport director or officer in charge is required to develop and maintain a plan for getting help to passengers and visitors who may be injured or become ill. In general, medical facilities are not provided. 
(a) and (b). At Sydney international terminal, first aid equipment in the Customs Hall is provided by Department of Transport. Doctors from the Depanment of Health and sisters and doctors from Qantas are authorised to use the equipment. For the airport generally a medical first aid service is provided by a nurse on call. At Melbourne international terminal, a first aid/rest room with basic first aid equipment is provided by Depanment of Transport. For the airport generally, a medical first aid service is provided by a nurse on call. At Brisbane international terminal, a first aid /rest room with basic equipment is provided by Department of Transport. A casualty centre, staffed by a nurse, is adjacent to the domestic terminals. At Perth international terminal, a first aid /rest room with basic equipment is provided by Department of Transport, (c) No. In general, the likely frequency of use does not justify the provision of costly staff or facilities. Most airports, and all capital city airports, have access to radio-controlled city ambulance services. 
(a) and (b). The only first aid equipment required by regulation on domestic and Australian international flights consists of a stock of indefinitely storable sterile dressings and the like. The airlines carry additional equipment suited to their needs. 
(a) and (b). Many airline aircraft, which are required to carry oxygen for passenger use, must also provide the means of supplying oxygen at therapeutic rates, but those not so required also provide therapeutic oxygen flow rates. Aircraft are not required by regulation to carry Air Viva equipment, but many airline aircraft do carry Air Vivas. 
The oxygen masks provided for passenger use are suitable for therapeutic oxygen administration, but not for resuscitative methods which require oxygen to be supplied to the subject above cabin pressure. When Air Vivas are provided, oxygen can be supplied to them. 
(a) and (b). The items carried in airline aircraft, above those required to be carried by regulation, vary from airline to airline and no general answer is possible. 
It is not possible to give a general answer. All cabin attendants are given basic first aid training as part of their airline induction. A proportion of airline ground staff also get basic first aid training and, in some cases, cardio-pulmonary resuscitation training, but the percentage varies greatly from port to port, according to local need. 
No. 
ICAO training manuals contain lists of first aid topics on which instruction or training is advised for cabin personnel and for operating crew. 
10) As reported to the Department of Transport, (a) 7 in the three years 1975, 1976, 1977 (includes three passengers who were evidently patients), (b) 35 in three years to 3 1 May 1978. 
No. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of houses included in the Study Zone options which would have to be acquired are as follows: Northern Zone 1-500, North Western Zone 1-380, South Western Zone 1-690, South Western Zone 2-670, South Western Zone 3-260, and South Western Zone 4-260. In the case of possible development at Sydney airport; the number of dwelling units in the Wide Spaced Parallel Runway West option would be up to 800 (dependent on the positioning of the northern end of the runway), in the Wide Spaced Parallel Runway East option- 350. 
Health Programs in St George and Adjoining Electoral Divisions  (Question No. 1067) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The statistics requested in respect of the number of major accidents are set out in the following table. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Cost of maternity leave in the Depanment of Transport in 1976-51 12,770; 1977-1125,728; 1978-$41,985(to24 May). 
Total hours of leave in respect of these employees- 64,09 1 . 
Number of employees who resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in 1976-44; 1977-38; 1978-4 (to 24 May). 
Sum paid for maternity leave for first child in 1976-$95,184; 1 977-$ 1 15,479; 1978- $36,184 (to 24 May). 
Sum paid for maternity leave for second child in 1976- $17,583; 1977- $10,250; 1978-$5,803 (to 24 May) 
No paid leave is recorded for a third child in any of the years under review. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Delivery of  Flinders Range  and  Selwyn Range  to the Australian National Line was made on 1 1 August 1978. Delivery was delayed to allow modifications to be undertaken to bring the vessels to specification. 
The principal cost incurred since delivery has been interest charges on funds employed in the vessels. It is not the practice to divulge the actual commercial costs of the Line's operations which are considered to be confidential. 
Yes. ANL has been examining a number of avenues of employment for these vessels including the possibility of their use in the  shipment of  wheat to the Middle East. However, the Line has indicated that it is unable to offer the vessels for the carriage of wheat at rates competitive with existing international grain freight rates. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Discussions have been continuing with the States on the study plan. At a meeting of Advisers to the Marine and Ports Council of Australia on 16 August 1978, three of the six States sought further discussions on some aspects of the current plan. In the expectation that agreement on the study plan will be reached shortly, it is anticipated that the study will be completed late in 1 979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Three, except Saturday and Sunday when only morning and afternoon shifts are worked. 
Eight hours. (3)I understand the contractor at present engages on each shift- 
Morning- Monday-Friday, 1 7 employees 
Morning- Saturday-Sunday, 1 2 employees 
Afternoon- Monday-Friday.17 employees 
Afternoon- Saturday-Sunday, 10 employees 
Night- Monday-Friday, 3 employees 
Night- Saturday-Sunday, nil. 
It is a matter for the contractor to determine the number of staff required to provide cleaning services in accordance with the contract specification. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) Yes. 
The Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design has the capacity to approach individual vehicle companies for detailed costs and other information whenever necessary for the purposes of design rule formulation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The information requested is of a confidential commercial nature and accordingly cannot be made public. 
In addition to the answer I provided to the honourable member  (Hansard,  8 June 1978, page 3389) I supply the following supplementary information in respect of part (2) of the question: 
Members of Parliament from the Northern Territory subject to my prior approval. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
Immediately prior to his term as Government Director of Connair Pty Ltd,  Mr G.  O. 'D Crowther was a director of the following Companies: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Twenty-five thousand and eighty-five bales. 
) Standard high density dumped bales. 
See (2). 
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane. 

I can confirm that tenders have been called for three aircraft to provide a service to the Bureau of Customs. I should point out though, that before tenders were called discussions were held with my colleague and the Bureau about the specifications required by the Bureau to undertake the job properly. As I understand it, investigations were made overseas about comparable activities of light aircraft in this field. The tender was drawn on recommendations based on that experience. It is not correct to say that the tenders were specifically drawn around a means of preventing the Nomad from being used in this task: Rather they were drawn specifically to meet the requirements of the user department. As I understand it, one of the difficulties about the Nomad is that it fails to reach the speed required by the Bureau of Customs to undertake its job. I point out that tenders are also being called for 10 other aircraft for use around the coast from Geraldton to Cairns for general purpose surveillance. Again, tenders will be drawn in such a way as to allow all aircraft manufacturers to put in a bid for the operation. There is absolutely no truth in the story that the Nomad aircraft is being specifically, or in any other way, excluded from the operation. 
I have not received all of the roads programs from New South Wales. I am at a loss to understand why I have not received them because by this time last year, without question, all the programs were to hand. It so happens that a New South Wales State election is to be held. This might be very cruel of me, but I suspect nevertheless that politics might be coming into this question. I have been noticing a few sneaky Press reports about roads programs appearing in country newspapers and the like. I make the point that the New South Wales Government does not give one dollar for road construction to local government authorities in the country areas of New South Wales. Yet, sneaking out in the country Press are reports of allocations of road funds that are Commonwealth funds and Commonwealth funds alone. 
I do not know whether  Mr Wran  thinks he is playing a nifty political trick but in case he does think it is nifty I will inform the House of the definition of the word 'nifty' given in the  Oxford Concise Dictionary.  Mr Wran  might be interested to know that the definition of 'nifty' is spruce'- that might apply; 'smart'- the Opposition would agree with that I see; 'stylish' and the last one is 'smelly'. I think that in that last part of the definition there is a proper description of what  Mr Wran  is up to in the whole of the road program in New South Wales. The fact is that the Commonwealth is a major provider of funds to the New South Wales road program. If  Mr Wran  were a Premier at all, he would not be quite so nifty and would give proper reward to the Commonwealth Government for the efforts it has made to improve the roads in New South Wales. 
As I pointed out a moment ago, there seems to be a New South Wales State election on.  Mr Wran  is certainly getting busy making use of all the Commonwealth funds he can. The fact is that the road between Liverpool and Mittagong is a national highway. The Commonwealth has provided $84.3m for that highway and, to the best of my knowledge, the State Government has provided something of the order of $lm. If  Mr Wran  has the cheek- I do not say he has, mark you- to go down there and officially open the SW5, the national highway between Liverpool and Mittagong, and claim that it is some great work of the New South Wales Government, I think the people of New South Wales will see him for what he is. That would be the act of a charlatan. I do not say that  Mr Wran  is a charlatan, but we will see whether he goes to the trouble of opening this road. The whole performance of the New South Wales Government in this election will want to be watched by the people of New South Wales. Quite clearly it is going to try to misconstrue - 
-I appreciate that,  Mr Speaker;  but, with due deference, I think it is very important to the people of New South Wales. 
I wind up by saying that the people of New South Wales really ought to watch with care the claims, the statements - 
-. . . and the announcements coming from the New South Wales Government in the next few weeks. 
I understand that statements have been made in Tasmania by the Tasmanian Transport Minister,  Mr Baldock,  to the effect that the Australian National Railways Commission is about to close down the Tasmanian railways. I am told also that there has been some support for these statements from the secretary of the railways union,  Mr Neil.  I must say that that surprises me because I think it was  Mr Neil  who came to see me some weeks ago, accompanied by two members of this House- the honourable member for Franklin and the honourable member for Denison.  Mr Neil  got a clear impression and understanding of the role of the Australian National Railways Commission in Tasmania and what it is seeking to do in respect of the worst railway system in Australia. I have made speeches before about the poor condition of the Tasmanian railway system and the cause of that poor condition, that being the failure of the Labor Government in Tasmania ever to give it any money to upgrade its capital works. 
I make the point that the Australian National Railways Commission has been asked for a 10-year plan to try to reduce the massive losses presently being incurred by the railway system, which I point out are estimated to be some $ 14.6m in this year alone. The Commission has rightly been asked by us as a Government to try to produce a 10-year plan to upgrade the railway system.  Mr Baldock  apparently seized on some portions of this plan that he heard about through scuttle-butt in some pub on some occasion from somebody who might have made a submission to the Commission, and promptly announced that he understands that ANRC is about to close the railways in Tasmania. Plainly, that is not true. There is no decision of that kind either in prospect or in fact, and I nail that statement for what it is. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Comprehensive figures of the type being sought are not held by my Department. Recall campaigns for the correction of defects are undertaken by vehicle manufacturers or importers under a voluntary code. The only information available in my Depanment reflects the notification advices provided by manufacturers under the terms of the code. 
On the basis of the information notified, the following vehicle makes and models were recalled: 
1976-77 
Kenworth trucks 
Fiat 131, 132 GLS, 127, 128, 128-3P and 132 sedans 
Ford Escort (1975-76), Fairlane, Marquis and Cortina TD(1976) sedans 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
1 had already publicly indicated, well before the press article, that I hoped to publish the report on the Committee that enquired into Australia's International Civil Aviation Policy. I have not deviated from that view. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. But a Joint Committee of senior Commonwealth and State officials has been set up by the Commonwealth and Victorian Governments to examine the airports planning needs in the Port Phillip district. 
(a) The Joint Committee comprises the following representatives: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Concessional air fares for aged and invalid passengers are not made available on interstate domestic and international airlines as a general rule. The domestic airlines do, however, allow a SO per cent discount on both fares when a blind person travels with an attendant. 
The Government is not giving consideration to the possibility of providing pensioner concessions for air travel. 
The provision of concessional travel is a matter for decision by the domestic airlines within their commercial judgments. 
In regard to international services, Australia would in any case, be unable to act unilaterally in providing concessions because of the terms of our bilateral air agreements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The terminal building needs to be replaced. 
and (4) Firm estimates of costs are not available but it is expected a new terminal and associated works would involve expenditure of several million dollars. The project would therefore require the scrutiny of the Public Works Committee. 
Following consideration of my proposal that a new terminal was necessary at Coolangatta and as a first step towards the scrutiny by the Committee, the Government has authorised the development of the project to a stage where it might be considered by the Public Works Committee. 
-The facts of the situation are that on 13 July I approved a program sent to me by the South Australian Minister for Transport,  Mr Virgo,  for a sum of $270,000 to be spent on one section of the Stuart Highway, from Bookaloo to Mount Gunson, and an extra $60,000 on general works on the Stuart Highway. I wrote back to  Mr Virgo  expressing my dissatisfaction at the expenditure level of the proposed program and suggested that in this financial year there ought to be at least an effort to spend about $ lm on the Stuart Highway. I am pleased to say that  Mr Virgo  did write back to me suggesting that he could make available $900,000 on this year's program. So that there would be no misunderstanding and to confirm that, I wrote to  Mr Virgo  informing him that I would be prepared to transfer $530,000 from the national commerce roads section to the national highways section to be spent specifically on the Stuart Highway. So far as I am aware I have had no response from  Mr Virgo  to that proposal. The proposal that he had for this $530,000 was in respect of a road of much lesser importance than the Stuart Highway and could easily be funded from the State's own resources. The truth is that the ball is in  Mr Virgo's  court. I would like to see and I have made provision for, according to my sums anyway- if  Mr Virgo  does not agree he can write to me again- an amount of $ 1 m to be spent on the Stuart Highway this year leading to a better program next year and the year after. I make the point further that we have provided some $66m for national highway programs in South 
Australia over the past few years and  Mr Virgo  has not made $1 of that money available for expenditure on the Stuart Highway. I think it is time  Mr Virgo  started to do something, stopped talking and stopped playing politics with roads as he does all the time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The recommendations of the Urban Transport Marketing Seminar call upon those authorities concerned with the operation of urban public transport services in Australia to develop and implement positive user oriented marketing techniques as a means of improving and encouraging greater use of such services. 
The report on the Seminar was published by the Australian Government Publishing Service and disseminated to all participants in the conference, a large number of interested bodies in Australia and overseas and placed on sale through AGPS bookshops. 
Since the Seminar a number of States have sought assistance under the Commonwealth's planning and research legislation to undertake studies on aspects of marketing their public transport services. The following studies have been assisted by the Commonwealth under the Transport (Planning and Research) Act 1974: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The aircraft types were a Fokker F27 VH-CAT, sold to CSIRO, for $250,000, a Hawker Siddeley HS125 VH-CAO, sold to Arnjul Pty Ltd for $307,000, a Fokker F27 VH-TFE, sold to Parker and Heard Pty Ltd for $156,000, a Cessna 310 VH-CAZ, sold to the New South 
Wales Department of Technical and Further Education for $18,000 and a Cessna 170 VH-CAS, sold to the Department of National Development for $8,000. 
Yes. McDonnell-Douglas DC3 VH-CAN and Fokker F27 VH-CAV have been withdrawn from service. Disposal action is in the hands of the Department of Administrative Services. 
Nil. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Sixteen aircraft are employed in Australia by Department of Transport. 
Fokker F28- VH-ATD, VH-ATE, VH-ATG; Swearingen Merlin 2B-VH-CAH, VH-CAJ, VH-CAK; Swearingen Merlin 3-VH-CAL, VH-CAM; Aero Commander 680E - VH-CAX, VH-CAY; Beech 35/36-VH-CAB, VH-CAD, VH-CAE, VH-CAG, VH-CAQ; Piper PA28 VH-CAF. 
Fokker F28 aircraft are used for the following purposes: 
Commissioning and periodic checks of navigation aid installations throughout Australia and Papua New Guinea. 
Training and flight proficiency checks of Departmental pilots and operational personnel. 
Search and rescue operations. 
Assistance in times of national emergency, e.g. flood relief, bush fires, cyclone relief. 
The provision of transport and aircraft facilities as required in aircraft accident investigation. 
Transport commitments as requested by Department of 
Prime Minister and Cabinet or Department of Defence under established arrangements- 
Transport of Departmental personnel travelling on duty to points which are served by unsatisfactory alternative methods of transport. 
Merlin aircraft and Aero Commander aircraft are used by Central Office and Regional Offices of the Department for similar purposes and for the transport of operational and technical personnel engaged in liaison with and Surveillance of the industry, e.g. Examiners of Airmen, Airworthiness Surveyors. 
Beech 35/36 aircraft and Piper PA28 aircraft are used by Regional Offices of the Department for search and rescue flights, transport of operational, technical and accident investigation personnel, periodic checks of airports and training and flight proficiency checking of Departmental pilots and operational personnel. 
and (5) Refer to attached table. 
No. 
Details of the cost of operation and maintenance of each aircraft during 1977-78 are not yet available but are expected to become available within the next three weeks. 
I must compliment the honourable member for La Trobe for the intelligent interest that he has taken in the negotiations that we are undertaking to secure a regime of lower air fares in and out of Australia. It is a pity that some spokesmen of the Opposition did not take a like intelligent interest. If they did so they might learn something. 
The honourable member's intelligence is equalled only by his stupidity. I am extremely concerned- 

 - Mr Speaker, I wonder whether I could seek the indulgence of the House to complete an answer given to a question asked earlier by the honourable member for Lilley. 
-The joint Commonwealth, State and Brisbane City Council committee is in fact meeting in Brisbane today. It is the first meeting to try to draw up a time-table for the redevelopment and construction of the new Brisbane Airport. A number of important works have to be considered, such as the floodway works, the movement area drainage, the main outfall for building area drainage, the pavements for runway and field taxiways and the clearing of approachways. In addition, there have to be discussions between the Queensland Government and the Brisbane City Council about access roads and the like. All in all it is a very big construction task. The time-table will be laid down. It is the Government's intention to stick to the time-table that we had earlier worked out as being a possibility, that is, the completion of stage 1 by 1986. The honourable member asked a question about the environmental impact study. I will have to check to see at what stage that is. I will let the honourable member know. 
I should point out in the first instance that the draft tender form that has been issued for discussion with interested groups is designed, in my view, to seek competition from those who want to compete. Having said that, I should point out that I have had a visit from  Mr Bob  Ansett of Budget Rent-a-Car and, since then, I have received a letter from him in which he states that in his view it is not possible for anybody to compete on a proper basis with Avis. I have told  Mr Bob  Ansett that I will look at what he has put to me and of course consider that before final decisions are made about tendering. I make the point that in  Mr Bob  Ansett 's letter to me I do not think he has come up hard to the questions that I put to him in a way that satisfies me at this point. I have asked my Department to go back to him and hold further discussions about the point that is made. Certainly consideration will be given to the points that he has made. What I am seeking to do, of course, is to get the best service for the people of Australia. I am really not terribly interested whether it is Budget, Hertz Rent-A-Car or Avis that wins the final tenders. 
-Taking the last part of the honourable member's question first, I of course have my Department investigating the claim that has come in from the airlines for an increase in air fares. I will be in a position to give an answer on that at a later point. Insofar as the article in the  Bulletin  is concerned, what the writer purports to do is to come to conclusions which the Domestic Aviation Policy Review Committee was not able to reach. The writer also tended to make judgments which the Review Committee was not prepared to make. For my part, I would back the work of the Review Committee against the skill of the person who wrote the article in order to help sell the magazine. 
The fact is that the Committee concluded that insufficient evidence and information were available to come to that conclusion. In terms of costs, I should point out to the House that there has been a wide-ranging argument about the level of air fares on the domestic scene in Australia. This is one example of the sort of debate that is going on in the community. 
Let me give  some  information to the House. This is information which is hard to equate as between one country and another because of other factors which we are not able to ascertain. Nevertheless, in the broad, on an economy fare the rate on a cents per kilometre basis from Melbourne to Sydney is 7.93c and from Melbourne to Canberra 8.21c. From Montreal to Toronto the rate is 9.7c, from Frankfurt to Munich 11.68c, from Wellington to Auckland 8.55c, from London to Edinburgh 7.42c, from Vienna to Graz 8.17c, and from Washington to New York 5.34c return. That shows that a range of domestic air fares in other countries is in fact either around the same price as or dearer than in Australia. People therefore should not rush to quick conclusions that the Australian air fare structure is much dearer, or in fact dearer at all, than international domestic air fare structures. 
-So far as I am aware, the Government has not received any proposition to replace registration charges with a fuel tax. We have received suggestions from the States from time to time that the States' own tax, the road maintenance tax, ought to be abolished and replaced by a fuel tax. As I have explained to the House before, it is a State tax. The States are responsible for the tax and it is quite within their own competence to change the form of the tax if they do not like it. The total amount raised by road maintenance taxes throughout Australia is only about $44m and in the State of Victoria, for example, the Victorian Government recoups about $ 10m from the road maintenance tax. 
If this tax is is discriminatory and difficult as the States make out, why do they not face up to the situation and abolish it? After all, Victoria, for example, has received an extra $100m or thereabouts this year under the general revenue assistance plan. It ought therefore to be within the competence of Victorians to face up to their own responsibilities and abolish the tax. Under the federalist approach that this Government takes we believe that the State governments ought to be responsible and take a responsible attitude about any taxes that they control. In my view there is no chance that the Commonwealth will replace the road maintenance tax with a fuel levy. The question has been considered and discarded because we do not believe in the principle of hypothecation of taxes in the first instance. Again I make the point that we believe that the States ought to be responsible for the taxes that they themselves raise. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is difficult to get precise costs on a comparable basis for taped music. However, given that a public address system is provided the cost of providing music is quite small. 
Whether pre-programmed music is played is a matter for the airlines to decide. Presumably they are of the view that it pleases the majority of passengers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The Government has no reason to alter the target date at this time. 
As you are aware considerable consultations and investigations are required before construction work on this large project physically commences. To date development is proceeding satisfactorily and it is believed that the early 1986 completion date will be met. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Minister for National Development wrote to me on 23 February 1978 and suggested that the Report by the National Energy Advisory Committee (NEAC) on Motor Spirit Octane Ratings and Lead Additives be examined by the Australian Transport Advisory Council (ATAC). 
and (4) ATAC's Committee on Motor Vehicle Emissions is currently examining the NEAC Report. ATAC will consider the matters associated with the NEAC Report at its next meeting in February 1979. 
I am aware that the South Australian Minister for Transport seems to be making many statements these days- statements that are not always based on fact. But, as I told the House earlier, the Government asked the Australian National Railways Commission to give it a 10-year plan showing how it proposed to deal with the new circumstances which existed, it having taken over both the South Austraiian and Tasmanian railway systems, and also, how it proposed to tackle the massive losses incurred by ANR. It appears that the South Australian Minister for Transport who has, I might add, a representative participating in some of these studies, has taken the opportunity to use selected parts of the report to ANR- mark you, it is a report to ANR and not to the Government- for his own political purposes. ANR has no intention of closing down prior to the grain harvest any part of the railway system of South Australia. As to what will happen following the grain harvest, no decision has been taken in respect of the ANR system other than that the ANR is putting to study its proposals for the 10-year plan. Therefore, I am able to assure the honourable member that, as usual, the grain harvest in South Australia will be carried on the railway system. As to the position in future years, the proposals that ANR has for study will come to the Government, which will make appropriate decisions thereon. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Public tenders were invited in August 1978 for the following tasks: 
daily air patrols of the northern coastline between Geraldton and Cairns by chartered light twin aircraft, and 
b) provision of three specially equipped chartered light twin aircraft for the full time use of the Bureau of Customs. The aircraft will be stationed at Port Hedland, Darwin and Townsville and will be deployed as required. 
The closing date for daily air patrol tenders was 19 September, and the closing date for Customs aircraft tenders is 10 October. 
The tenders call for two year contracts which will be arranged as soon as possible. In the meantime ad hoc charter flights are being undertaken in selected areas of the northern coastline. 
Charter aircraft arrangements are likely to cost about $4m during 1978-79. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to Question No. 1661 appeared in  Hansard,  14 September 1978, page 1095. 
by leave- For the information of honourable members I table the report submitted to me by a committee which reviewed the economic regulatory aspects of Australia's international civil aviation policy, together with a statement of policy decided upon after Government consideration of that report. I seek leave to have the latter document incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

The Government has agreed that Australia's overseas air service arrangements should be changed. In making this decision we are cognisant of the very real difficulties that change will involve. We are equally aware, however, that while the existing arrangements have allowed the rapid development of international air services, they are in many ways inefficient. In particular, they are not appropriate to expanding the opportunities for lower cost travel. The report, in fact, confirms there is gross under-utilisation of existing capacity of such magnitude as to indicate a serious inefficiency in the present supply of air services. It is the Government's aim to introduce lower fares on our international aviation routes on a completely non-discriminatory basis. In other words, fares will be available to all members of the public. In addition, appropriate selling arrangements will be established which do not unduly advantage one section of the travel industry as against another. 
In accordance with our determined policy the Government has decided to seek to negotiate changed air service arrangements on an endtoend basis, that is, an exchange of the Third and Fourth Freedoms of the Air. The Government considers that the full economies of serving genuine end-to-end traffic could best be realised by this course. I draw the attention of honourable members to page 6 of the report for an explanation of the Freedoms of the Air. It is our intention that the airlines of each country should supply a full range of different types of air travel, that is, from the lowest possible cost travel, which necessarily will have conditions attached, such as advanced purchase, right through the range to first class, which offers on demand travel with higher quality of in-flight service. To put it quite simply, the objective of the policy is to get better utilisation of expensive aircraft by filling empty seats. By achieving this, the cost to the airlines of each passenger carried will be reduced thus enabling a lower range of fares to be offered. There will also be some important side benefits such as the conservation of fuel- a matter of increasing importance- and the more efficient use of airport facilities in the medium to longer term. 
As well as reducing fares, the arrangements we are seeking to negotiate will provide reasonable frequency of service at all Australian gateway airports, not merely just at our largest cities. This is a most important point not only to the Australian residents who use Perth, Brisbane and Darwin as their international gateways, but also to the promotion of tourism to Australia and to regional development. The need to retain the international significance of Perth, Brisbane and Darwin was one of the major considerations in our decision not to support at this time the well  publicised proposals of a United Kingdom carrier to offer lower fares by what were described as charter type services between Australia and the United Kingdom. 
There were, of course, other proposals put to the Government advocating alternative methods for providing lower cost travel. None of these proposals, however, individually addressed how fares could be lowered on all routes to and from Australia. They did not address the question of how a reasonable level of service frequency could be continued to be operated to all Australian gateway points. They did not give consideration to how changed arrangements would affect other countries with which Australia has bilateral air service agreements. 
While the United Kingdom charter operator's proposal was to operate two DC- 10 aircraft a week between the United Kingdom, Europe and Sydney, it would not provide any opportunity for visitors to other centres to have access to lower fares to Australia. Nor would it have allowed Australians who did not live in Sydney to have the opportunity to use these lower fares. The fares therefore would have been quite discriminatory. More passengers both at Sydney and elsewhere would wish to travel at the lower fares than the number of services could accommodate. In short, there would be gross under supply and a rationing problem created leading to extensive public dissatisfaction. 
If the Government then simply extended services of this type to meet demand further problems would have arisen. Significant scheduling changes would have been made which would have impacted adversely on service availability and frequency, particularly at the smaller gateways of Brisbane, Perth and Darwin. This would have most adverse affects on business and tourism and for Australian travellers in those centres and the regions they serve. Additionally, these developments would have happened without any regard to our relations with those other countries whose interests would have been affected. 
The arrangements we propose are expected to offer approximately five times the number of seats at lower fares than would have the UK operator's proposal. Indeed, off-peak seat availability alone is proposed to be twice that total. Most importantly, such seats will be offered to and from all Australian gateways. The UK operator argued that the lower fares he was proposing would generate additional traffic. But the Government accepts fully that lower fares will generate additional traffic. In fact, many of the proposals we will be advancing to other countries rest for their economic justification upon significant generation of new traffic. 
The Government's proposal will allow the full range of different travel requirements to be met within the one air service. This will permit those consumers who are prepared to travel under charter type operations at lower fares to do so. In addition, however, it will provide sufficient capacity for those who wish to travel at short notice or with more flexibility in their travel arrangements. The Government's proposal will permit maintenance of reasonable frequency levels at all airports and, as traffic grows, allow the development of more city-to-city direct service. 
The new arrangements we have proposed for lower international airfares will provide further stimulus to the travel and tourist industry. They follow a series of initiatives taken by this Government to assist the development of" tourism in Australia. I refer, in particular, to extension of the export market development grants scheme and the investment allowance to the tourist industry, establishment of a Travel and Tourist Industry Advisory Council, and a record 37 per cent increase in funds this year for the Australian Tourist Commission which will enable the doubling of its overseas promotional activities. In the light of these developments, growth prospects for the travel and tourist industry are extremely favourable with consequent benefits in terms of increased employment opportunities and foreign exchange earnings. 
Whilst it is not normal practice to be specific about details of proposals under negotiation, I am compelled to be on this occasion. There has been a great deal of Press speculation and some criticism concerning the Government's endeavours to reduce air fares wherever possible on our international routes. This has had its effects on the travel industry. It has also affected public confidence and led to consumer difficulty in planning future travel arrangements. In order to put at rest this Press speculation and to overcome some of the uncertainty it has caused in the travel industry and within the Australian community, I have agreed, in consultations with the British Government, to outline today the indicative fare levels I am hopeful of achieving on the United Kingdom-Australia route. 
I make the point that the fares I am about to outline are indicative only. There is no firm agreement on this matter between the British Government and the Australian Government. The fare levels proposed could alter depending upon circumstances such as prevailing currency rates of exchange, world fuel pricing policy and the details of the final agreements negotiated. The new fare structure proposed will provide a new range of advance purchase fares, both return and one way. The advance purchase excursion fare return would be $998 for the peak periods. Currently is it $ 1 , 1 50. The shoulder fare would be $870. Currently it is $1,050. The off peak fare would be $568. Currently it is $850. These fares are close to those which had been proposed for charters while still retaining the benefits of scheduled services. The one way APEF fare would be: Peak, $582; shoulder, $532; and off peak, $432. This is compared to the current economy excursion one way fare of $695 at all times of the year. The advance purchase period would be shortened from the current 90 days to 45 days. There would be no minimum or maximum stay conditions. Importantly, the economy fare would be reduced from $1,880 to $ 1 ,450 return but without a stop-over. 
A new type of fare with different conditions is suggested for introduction between economy and first class fares which would retail at $1,950. First class fares, it appears, should be increased with the exact level to be determined but probably with different service conditions. The figures I have just quoted are for direct services from Sydney, Melbourne or Brisbane to London. Appropriate adjustments are proposed for Darwin and Perth. I must stress again these are provisional only as no final agreement has been reached with the United Kingdom Government. They do illustrate to the House, however, the significant level of fare reduction we are confident it is possible to achieve under the changed arrangements we propose. The Government has now authorised negotiations to commence with a number of other governments and these will proceed as quickly as possible. The House will understand that it is impossible for me, ahead of these negotiations, to indicate what changed arrangements and fare levels may apply in the future to those countries. Nevertheless significant savings in most fare types are believed to be possible under the proposals we will be advancing to those countries. Priority is to be given in the first instance to negotiations with countries along the Australia-United Kingdom route. 
I shall make a more detailed statement upon the arrangements agreed as soon as I am able. I have instructed my officers to endeavour to reach sufficient agreement to allow me to make a further announcement before Christmas. I am hopeful at least some of the new fares can be introduced early next year. The level of fares and fare types between Australia and any other country require approval of both the Austraiian and at least the government of the other country. I stress that changes cannot be made unilaterally. What the Government is proposing is a radical change in the structure of our air service arrangements. We believe, however, that these will be generally acceptable to many other governments. They respect fully the bilateral character of air service arrangements. The Government has agreed on the approach the Australian delegations will take in negotiating changed arrangements with other countries. I repeat that priority is to be given in the first instance to negotiating these changed arrangements with countries along the kangaroo route. Negotiations with other countries will commence as soon as practicable. 
The speculation that we propose to terminate the operations of some European carriers now flying to Australia is not true. The Government has considered proposals that can be discussed with governments in Europe aimed at maintaining the operations of those carriers. We would, however, expect that our policy objective could be achieved and lower fares introduced. 
-Including KLM. The new arrangements we will seek are aimed at maintaining the right of Australia to participate equally in our international air services. The Government believes Qantas is a relatively efficient carrier. We propose to maintain the long standing policy that Qantas shall remain the sole designated Australian airline to operate services allowed an Australian carrier under our air service agreements. The Government will, however, review the position in 1981 to determine whether or not our overseas air travel markets have grown sufficiently to allow the possible designation of another airline to provide a further competitive spur. 
I make the point in answer to those who will argue that those proposals will create a monopoly situation that this is not the case. Nor is it a simple duopoly. Passengers wanting a wider choice of airlines to many destinations can do so but at higher cost and a change of aircraft. For the many who want direct services there will be initially a choice between two competing carriers at least, and possibly more later. If whole plane load charters had operated on a regular basis almost certainly the same limitation of choice would have applied because of our small market size. International air services to Australia do not exist separately. Change and pricing on many routes affect pricing on our routes. Allegations that the Government is unduly protective to Qantas are simply not true. What the Australian Government is doing is protecting Australia's rights to participate in international air services. It would indeed be folly to leave arrangements solely in the hands of overseas operators. Whilst the Government has not taken a firm decision on policy in respect to future freight arrangements, we are attracted to the idea of changed regulatory practices aimed at removing the principal complaints voiced to the review committee. I have directed that consultation on how these changes might be introduced between my Department and those interests affected take place. 
Finally I impress upon the House that there is no short cut to introducing lower fare types that will be available universally and which will be capable .of being sustained. It is essential in a country the size of ours that the needs of all classes of travellers all over the Commonwealth be met as competely as possible. This is a most important policy consideration. It is important both to Australians wishing to travel and to Australia's own tourist industry. Within the constraints imposed by the very real difficulties involved in achieving change the foregoing outlines what the Government is seeking to achieve. I commend to all honourable members the report of the review committee and the accompanying documents I have just tabled. In their consideration of the proposals I have outlined I urge honourable members to consider the real benefits which can flow to Australia and to the people of this nation from the successful development of the new fare arrangements. I present the following paper: 
International Aviation Policy- Ministerial Statement, 1 1 October 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr Groom)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 16,583 passengers occupied first class seats, 
8,237 passengers occupied first class seats utilising airline employee or travel industry air fare entitlements, 
1,608,110 passengers occupied economy class seats, and 
118,540 passengers occupied economy class seats utilising airline employee or travel industry air fare entitlements on Qantas flights during 1 977-78. 
Precise figures are not available from the airline to show the split of traffic between airline employee entitlements (not necessarily all Qantas employees) and travel industry entitlements. However, they are estimated to be in the ratio of airline employee, three; travel industry, one for first class entitlements and a significantly higher ratio of airline employee travel for economy class entitlements. 
All international airlines offer reduced fare entitlements under the provisions of their approved tariff of charges. 
Normally such travel is only offered on a seat available basis. 
The airlines derive some revenue from persons using these entitlements. 
International Air Service Flights on Domestic Routes  (Question No. 1802) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Domestic Air Transport Policy Review Report Part1 which was released recently covered, in chapter 15, a number of matters concerning the interface between domestic and international operators and recommended no change in respect to interlining and that prorationing of fares not be introduced. 
Related issues were considered by the Committee that inquired into Australia's international civil aviation policy. 
Copies of the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review Report- Part 1 have already been placed in the Parliamentary Library. I intend to table the Report as soon as sufficient copies are available. 
I expect to release the International Civil Aviation Policy Review Report in the near future. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 5 ) See attached tables. 
Inquiries completed 
Study Highway Corridor Study (Penguin to Burnie)Initiated November 1 977- Report not yet tabled. 
Inquiries not completed 
Study into Maritime Safety Communications- Initiated August 1978- Expect completion August 1979. 
Report on 1973-78 Urban Public Transport AgreementInitiated April 1978- Expect completion November 1978. 
Review of General Aviation- Initiated September 1978- Expect completion September 1979. 
Australian Academy of Technological Sciences study into motor vehicle emission controls in Australia- Initiated July 1 978-Expect completion December 1978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
When selecting members for the Aviation Industry Advisory Council I was concerned that I should receive the broadest range of industry advice from the Council and, given the charter of the Council, that membership should be available to only the most senior members of the industry to enable full, frank and authoritive discussion on all matters submitted for Council consideration. 
As the Council will be concerned primarily with technical and economic considerations relating to the operation of aircraft and the provision of the infrastructure to support those operations, it was not considered appropriate to include consumer representatives on the Council. 
The honourable member may be aware that the question of obtaining consumer views was addressed as pan of the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review. The Committee 's report concluded that consumer preferences and views could best be obtained by surveys of passengers and potential passengers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Air Navigation Regulations at Part XVI define an accident and incident in relation to an aircraft and, in addition, specify the notification requirements to my Department. The definitions are consistent with those contained in Annex 13 to The Convention On International Civil Aviation. 
For the purposes of reporting and investigation, an aircraft accident is considered to be an occurrence associated with the operation of an aircraft which takes place between the time any person boards the aircraft with the intention of flight until such time as all these persons have disembarked, in which: 
any person suffers death or serious injury as a result of being in or upon the aircraft or by direct contact with the aircraft or anything attached to the aircraft; or 
the aircraft incurs damage or structural failure which adversely affects the structure strength, performance or flight characteristics of the aircraft and which would normally require major repair or replacement of the affected components; or 
the aircraft is missing or is completely inaccessible. 
For the purpose of reporting and investigation, an air safety incident is considered to be an occurrence, other than an accident, associated with the operation of an aircraft which affects or could affect the safety of operation. In addition the air safety investigation reporting system accepts any reports, requests, complaints and suggestions which relate, or might relate to the safe operation of aircraft. 
All aircraft accidents, air safety incidents and associated reports which come to the notice of my Department are investigated by the Air Safety Investigation Branch. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) January 1975 to June 1975-108 percent; July 1975 to June 1976-86.86 per cent; July 1976 to June 1977-97.93 percent; July 1977 to June 1978-107.42 percent. 
A policy of full cost recovery has operated since 1 972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Bureau of Transport Economics has recently published an Occasional Paper, Number 20, entitled 'Public Participation in Transport Planning- Australia' which reports the Bureau's work in this regard. 
Transport: Production and Procurement of Rolling Stock (Question No. 2147)  Mr Morris  asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 20 September 1 978: 
Will the Bureau of Transport Economics publish its examination of the economies of the production and procurement of rolling stock by Australian operators, as mentioned on page 27 of his Department's 1976-77 Annual Report. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Bureau of Transport Economics has examined the economics of production and procurement of rolling stock, utilising as a case study the possible standardisation of the Australian urban bus. 
The results of the study suggest that standardisation could reduce bus costs by 5 per cent. A more likely reduction following a practicable standardisation program would be about 3 per cent. 
This study forms part of the BTE's program of background research and no formal report is planned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The track from Tarcoola to Manguri has been laid with new 53kg/m rail and from Manguri to the present railhead with new 47kg/m rail. ANR expect to use second hand 40kg/m and 47kg/m rail, made available from relaying work on the Trans Australian Railway, for track north of Marla. All sidings and crossing loops are being constructed from second hand 40kg/ m rail. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
From June 1975 to 25 September 1978 the total number of staff employed in the former Commonwealth Railways section of the Australian National Railways has decreased by 510. 
Reductions in staff have occurred in four branches as set out below: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The original range speed requirement for the Customs aircraft was 220 knots. This however has now been changed to allow aircraft capable of ISO knot range speed to be considered. 
See answer to ( 1 ) above. 
(4) and (5) Are not within my province and relate to affairs of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. 
The legal opinion came from the Solicitor-General of the Commonwealth to my Department. I am advised that it would be totally improper for me to table that opinion of the Solicitor-General because it carries information about the very grounds on which action ought to take place. I can offer no further help to the honourable member on that point. 
When notification of some travel grant arrangement comes to my Department, particularly if there are complaints about that travel grant, inquiries are pursued. I should say that several inquiries have been made by the Department. In fact, police officers have visited- I use the term 'visited' advisedly- in totally similar circumstances to the visit to ACTU Jetset headquarters on Saturday morning, six other organisations and lodged a letter of request for information to seek to ascertain the validity of the travel grant or whatever was proposed by that organisation under Air Navigation Regulation 106a. Information can be made available on these matters if honourable members want it. 
In respect of the specific matters raised by the honourable member, I will have to look at what has been done. The one he mentioned which is of interest to me is the matter of the Victorian Young Liberals Travel Grant Scheme. That has been notified to my Department and I understand that some investigation is under way in that respect. I make the point that a number of these travel grants can be quite legitimate. Indeed, there is no reason why clubs should not be able to make available legitimate travel grants. The matter comes under question only when the source of those travel grants is unknown. In relation to the ACTU Jetset question, the fact is that  Mr Leibler,  who I think is the managing director of that organisation, has not responded to my letter of 25 September requesting information in respect of these travel grants. There have been allegations by the Australian Federation of Travel Agents - 
I will check the date afterwards and let the honourable member know. In respect of the ACTU Jetset operation, a number of allegations have been made and the Australian Federation of Travel Agents- AFTA- has complained to me that it believes there are kickbacks coming from foreign airlines to ACTU Jetset. I find it difficult to comprehend or believe that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions would involve himself in a kickback arrangement with foreign owned airlines. If he did it would be illegal because that foreign airline or its government would have a bilateral agreement with us to provide an air fare at a certain level. If a cheaper fare can be arrived at it ought not to be available just to a selected few who might secure a ticket through ACTU Jetset; it ought to be made available to 14 million Australians. 
-I know that the honourable member for Newcastle likes to join others in the use of this great word 'raid'. I read one leading article that said 'Nixon does a Murphy'. What a raid- with one policeman and one civilian! No doors were bashed down, no documents were seized, no safes were opened and no papers were taken away. Yet they call it a raid! There is no doubt about the imagination of some people. In my letter to  Mr Leibler  on 2 1 September- I point out to the honourable member for Port Adelaide that it was 2 1 September- I said: 
I refer to your letter of 5 July 1 978 concerning your participation in a joint venture with the ACTU. 
Having now had the opportunity to examine more closely the proposed ACTU/Jetset Travel Scheme I feel obliged to inform you that I have strong reservations concerning this Scheme. In particular I believe the arrangements to be highly discriminatory as they would appear to be available only to certain consumers and retailers and involve unnecessary restriction of passenger choice of airline. 
The Government is loath to allow any development within the marketplace of a protective or privileged nature. This Government's recent initiatives with regard to international aviation policy, as it affects the travel industry, are aimed at obtaining the lowest cost fares for travellers consistent with the preservation of healthy competition within the Australian travel industry. I do not believe that the ACTU/Jetset proposal is in harmony with this policy. 
The response to that letter said that  Mr Leibler  was away and would reply to my letter within the week. Actually, no reply has since been received from  Mr Leibler.  So consultations were held between my Department and the AttorneyGeneral's Department following further representations received at that time by Australian Federation of Travel Agents Ltd, of which Jetset is a member, in the form of a bitter complaint that no action was being seen to be taken against a discriminatory practice of kick-backs by the ACTU Jetset scheme. The advice from the Attorney-General's Department was that the matter warranted further investigation. The advice on how that investigation should be conducted was also given, namely that it was completely proper and consistent with previous practice that the police officer who served the notice should serve ACTU Jetset with a list of questions to be answered in respect of these kick-back and discriminatory practices that were proposed. 
That is exactly what occurred on Saturday morning. These people went inside and asked the girl whether anybody in a responsible position was there to talk to. No one was there. So they left the piece of paper with the questions on it to be answered. I am delighted to know that  Mr Hawke  is prepared to tell us all about the matter. He has made no secret of the fact that he is prepared to tell us all about it. An arrangement was made for these people to return yesterday at 2 o'clock, but we received a call from, I think, a  Mr Grant,  solicitor to  Mr Leibler,  asking that that visit be postponed until about the same time, 2 o'clock, on Wednesday. So it is now proposed that the visit will take place on Wednesday at 2 o'clock. Doubtless, on  Mr Hawke  's word, the information will be given to us. 
With your indulgence,  Mr Speaker  I would like to add to an answer I gave the honourable member for Newcastle. The honourable member asked why television and radio personnel were notified of and present at the visit of one police officer and one civilian at the office of ACTU Jetset Travel Service Pty Ltd on Saturday. I am able to inform him that no radio or television personnel were present. In fact, the Press was not informed until after the visit had taken place. 
One can only ask why the 
Australian Labor Party has brought on this matter of public importance today. The answer is quite obvious in my view. It is that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions so badly overreacted at the National Labour Consultative Council meeting on Monday; that he used his position as the  President  of the ACTU to inject commercial matters of personal interest, and stormed out of the meeting- not quietly, but after having notified the Press of his intention. For those reasons, the Labor Party now believes that it must try to rescue him. It is trying to smooth over what I can only describe as the gross stupidity of the  President  of the ACTU. What he did was notify the Press of his intention. I quote from the Melbourne  Age: 
ACTU staff had warned the media they would walk out of the National Labour Consultative Council. 
No attempt whatsoever was made to do otherwise than use the forum of the National Labour Consultative Council to advance  Mr Hawke  's commercial interest as the  President  of the ACTU. No other explanation that he has given can satisfy that point. The fact is that  Mr Hawke  is the only person in Australia who has brought jeopardy to the activities of the National Labour Consultative Council. It was  Mr Hawke  who deliberately staged the walk-out, who deliberately and directly involved his commercial negotiations and undertakings in the activities of the National Labour Consultative Council. Are we to see  Mr Hawke  do this again in his position on the Reserve Bank Board? Is that the sort of activity that the  President  of the ACTU is going to undertake? It falls far short of the standards that I thought he would have upheld in matters of this nature.  Mr Hawke  's motive for walking out of the National Labour Consultative Council must be questioned. Why on earth did he walk out? Is he signalling that if his scheme is found to be outside the law he will use industrial action. Is that what he is on about? Is he signalling that if his commercial interests are not protected he will seek to intimidate government? Is that what he is on about? Does  Mr Hawke  want one law for himself and one law for every other Australian? 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) An amount of $324,000 has been included in the 1978-79 Budget for works associated with Proserpine Airport- 
$194,000 in Division 655/3/08-Aerodrome Local Ownership Plan- Developmental Grants 
$130,000 in Division 957/ 1/02 -Capital Works and Services- Airport and Airways services. 
These funds are provided for- 
payment of a Development Gram under the ALOP to meet the costs of the transportation from Port Hedland and the erection of an air traffic control tower at Proserpine 
b ) the replacement of airways facilities equipment taken from store and installed at Proserpine last financial year. 
The $100,000 provided in the 1977-78 Budget for Proserpine Airport were fully expended on the provision of airways facilities to meet basic requirements for jet operations. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A list of the lowest published domestic air fares over representative routes of member countries of the OECD are set out in the table below together with the economy fare for the Melbourne-Sydney route. Whilst the question only specified the economy fare on the latter route there are a number of concessional fares applicable. The details are as follows: 
-I will take the last part of the question first. I was distressed to read in the Melbourne  Age  the story that Qantas had acted in this manner and had imposed limitations, apparently on a religious basis, on the carriage of Australian citizens. I sought a full report, through my Department, from Qantas to find out exactly the full implications. I am able to tell the House that the action flows out of the Chicago Convention  on Civil Aviation which gives to each country complete sovereignty over the air space above its territory. In other words, each country has unfettered sovereignty to make arrangements or pass laws relating to the operation of air services into or above its country. 
A number of countries- Australia includedare parties to the International Air Transit Agreement which allows scheduled aircraft to fly through their air space without prior intergovernmental agreement. Syria is not a signatory to the Agreement. Qantas overflies Syria on several of its services between Australia and Europe. A condition of the overflight arrangements is that at least one Qantas service travelling in each direction should land at Damascus each week. Syria has imposed travel restrictions which prohibit either entry or transit to persons holding Israeli passports, or passports containing a declaration that the passport is valid for Israel, or a visa for Israel, whether valid or expired, and passengers of Jewish faith of any nationality. A number of other Arab states have somewhat similar travel restrictions to those in Syria. A number of other countries also impose travel restrictions under their domestic laws. Israel, for example, follows a similar course. It refuses admission and transit to nationals of a country of the Arab League. 
I am explaining to the House, absolutely accurately, the procedures that are involved in this matter. This question raises a serious issue. There can be discrimination against Australian citizens of a particular faith, and that is of concern to the Government. It is for that reason that I have sought from Qantas a fuller explanation. I point out to the House that the measure is not new. It has been in operation now for at least five years. 
-We are checking to find out exactly when it was introduced. The record shows that the measure has been in operation for at least five years. I am unable to confirm when it was introduced. I am not implying for one moment that the Opposition was party to this measure. I am pointing out the fact that this is not new; it has been in operation for a number of years. 
I make the point that Qantas has a heavy responsibility to protect the passengers it carries. It is important therefore that passengers who are not acceptable to certain countries, irrespective of faith, religion, colour or anything else, at least be properly informed of the risks they run if they insist upon being carried by Qantas under such circumstances. 
I will be happy to make available to the House any further information as it comes to hand. 
I am unable to say whether the open slather approach to which the honourable member referred can lead to a further lowering of air fares across the Atlantic. I think it is important to point out that the cheaper air fares across the Atlantic have been negotiated between the British and the American governments. It is not an open slather in terms of setting the price. The price is determined by the two governments. Those airlines which are operating on the route are operating on a point to point basis between London and, say, New York directly. The other on-carriers have certain restrictions placed on them. It is interesting to note that the very basis of our cheap air fare proposals that I outlined in the House last week is quite similar in terms of what we are seeking to negotiate, that is, a point to point fare which all countries and all airline operators agree is the best means of providing the cheapest possible air fare. 
-I think that the  President  of the ACTU finds himself in an extraordinarily embarrassing position. He is trying to direct or be part of a commercial operation called ACTU Jetset Travel Service Pty Ltd and as  President  of the ACTU he is taking part in a number of governmental industrial relations matters. For  Mr Hawke  blatantly to use the second forum in his capacity as  President  of the ACTU as a means of protesting- I suppose he would like to call itagainst his failures in the ACTU Jetset field I think demonstrates what the  President  of the ACTU is all about. It was a blatant misuse of his position as  President  of the ACTU, and he ought not to engage in commercial practices that lead him into these embarrassing positions. I ask the question: What attitude is he going to take to his position on the Reserve Bank Board? Are we going to see a repetition there of these activities? I think that  Mr Hawke  has a duty to decide whether he wants to represent the trade union movement properly, as he ought to do, or whether he is going to carry on trying to get some commercial advantage in his position by tying up with private enterprise and then, as appears to be the case, organising some kick-back arrangement through his organisation and giving it industrial muscle by wearing the cap of  President  oftheACTU. 

 Mr Hawke has a very simple answer to these problems. All he has to do is honour the undertaking he gave to the Press at large that he would tell us by telephone all about where this money is coming from. It is a simple matter. If he can tell us where this money is coming from the matter will be resolved. Is it coming from the members' own dues? If so, it is proper and legal. If all trade unionists are happy to pay a subsidy to those who get air fares and trips overseas that is their business. I would be the first to say 'well done '. If the money is coming through some other arrangement, for example through a foreign owned airline, when  Mr Hawke,  as the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, should have regard for the 10,000 Australian employees of the Australian airline, I think that there are many questions that he needs to answer. I would have thought that  Mr Hawke  would be the first to be demanding some sort of assistance to make sure that Qantas Airways Ltd, which is a very well liked and competent international airline, would be properly supported. I have to express my total disappointment at the approach  Mr Hawke  takes to this question. It seems ambiguous to say the least. 
I have to admit that the honourable member is one step ahead of me. I am not aware of any proposal to close the Ghan railway service at this point. I rather believe that it will continue to operate until the Alice SpringsTarcoola standard gauge link is completed. Having said that, I will make further investigations into the matters raised in the honourable member's question and give him a considered reply. 
I must say that the honourable member for Denison is a great one for promoting the interests of Tasmania. He never ceases doing so. The difficulty I have had with this proposition- it has been put to me for some time- is that I have yet to meet an interested carrier who would like to start up a service between, say, Hobart and New Zealand. That has been the difficulty to date. Knowing the persuasive manner of the honourable member for Denison, it may well be that he could talk a domestic carrier into commencing such a service. I should draw his attention to one further difficulty that lies in the way of such a proposal; it would need to receive the approval of the New Zealand Government. I am able to assure him that I personally would be delighted were he to succeed in convincing someone to start such a service. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report and financial statements of the Australian Shippers Council for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
-The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The Director of the Bureau of Transport Economics advises me that the entry in the 1976-77 Annual Report refers to a series of investigations into the possible use of new techniques, based on the analysis of decisions by individual consumers, to assess the likely impact of specific fiscal measures on modal choice and, more specifically, motor vehicle usage. The work falls under the heading of development of analytical techniques, and no formal report is planned at this stage. 
Distribution of Cables to Parliamentary Advisers at Sessions of the United Nations General Assembly (Question No. 2184) 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Review of Domestic Air Transport Policy, parts I and II. Due to the limited number available, copies of this review have been placed in the Table Office and the Parliamentary Library. Arrangements are being made for a consolidated version of parts I and II to be tabled as soon as possible so that all honourable members may be provided with a copy. 
I must say that over the weekend I read with some amazement some articles suggesting that the air fare proposals will deny to the ethnic groups of this country the opportunity of flying at a cheaper rate back to their home countries. Let me make the position clear. I have announced to the House indicative fare proposals from Australia to the United Kingdom. A team is in Europe at the moment seeking to secure a similar fare structure and arrangement with a number of European countries. I will not list all those countries, but, for example, I mention Germany, Italy and Greece. If we are successful we will secure a range of - 
Qantas happens to be flying to Greece, for your information. 
The honourable member also is under a misapprehension about my approach to this question. Let me make it quite clear. What I am seeking to do is to get some equity into the travel industry. I put out a statement last night in which I said that we really had reached only the tip of the iceberg and that the only cure for the problem was to achieve a cheaper regime of air fares to all points in and out of this country, including all the stopovers in Europe, Asia and America. That is the only real way to cure the problem of kickbacks by airlines. 
In the first place, the honourable member is under a misapprehension. The fact is that club subsidies are legal in discounting of fares. I made the point before that, if a Sydney leagues club- I use that example because such clubs have plenty of money through the operations of poker machines- wishes to use the profits from its poker machines for discounting tickets to members who want to fly overseas, that is perfectly legal. What is not legal is for a discount to come from an airline that has an agreement on a government to government basis on what the air fare structure ought to be; that is the situation. In respect of Qantas, all I can say to the honourable member is that I am not aware what example he is quoting that  Sir Lenox  Hewitt used. However, Qantas is one of the many other companies that are presently under investigation. 
The purpose in setting up the  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney Committee Study was to try to find out and to establish properly what are the major airport needs of Sydney. The honourable member will be aware that it is a joint study. When I say 'a joint study' I mean that the Commonwealth Government and the State Government of New South Wales have joined together in this study because it really does take the two governments to solve the problem of airport needs. Whilst the Commonwealth might be responsible for the development of airport facilities, all States are heavily involved in these matters because they have to provide service facilities, such as roads, and take account of the environmental factors. 
The  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney study has proceeded as fast as possible and has reported on a number of the issues involved in meeting the needs of Sydney. At this point I am not inclined to give the assurance sought by the honourable member, not because I want to create speculation that there might be some decision taken that would allow Bankstown Airport to have jet facilities, but because I have purposefully- I use that word advisedly- not come to any conclusions on any of the suggestions of that nature simply so that when the MANS study is properly concluded and has reported individually to the State Minister and to me on the needs of Sydney we will be able to come to tight decisions without too much emotion. I do not want my answer - 
Now look, you are the one honourable member I am specifically speaking to because you are stupid enough to go out and try to make something of it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since payments began in 1966-67, a total of $310,966.57 has been paid up until 28 September 1978 by Australian National Railways to its employees, under Commonwealth employees compensation legislation, as compensation for loss of hearing due to their employment. 
This amount does not include any compensation payments to employees of the former South Australian or Tasmanian Railways in respect of claims submitted before 1.3.78 as any such compensation would have been paid out under the relevant State employees compensation legislation. As at 28.9.78 no amounts have been paid out to transferred South Australian or Tasmanian Railway employees under Commonwealth legislation as compensation for loss of hearing due to their employment. 
173. 
Employees in the following classifications have been compensated: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The model of Japan Air Lines' High Speed Surface Transport (HSST) system left Australia after the conclusion of the International Engineering Exhibition on 16 September. It was not possible to delay its departure as it was required for an exhibit in the United States. 
My Department holds pictorial and technical information on the HSST which can be made available upon request. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The experimental shipping information system was developed in order to produce statistical information on the movements of ships in and out of, and between, Australian pons. It was based upon vessel movement data collected under the AUSREP ship reporting system. 
Some data was processed for 1976 and 1977, but the results proved to be of limited usefulness because of the incomplete coverage of the AUSREP system. 
No. 
The Port Statistics Act 1977 permits my Department to collect the required information from other sources making the experimental system redundant. 
and (6) No formal review of the system was undertaken. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Departmental approach to the servicing ofnavi gation aids is to carry out this duty in the most economical and efficient manner possible. With the increasingcostsof operating the Navaid vessels an increased usehas been made of helicopters and fixed wing aircraft to carryout servicing which in turn has led to less than full utilisation of the Department's Navaid vessels. In the program forthebal ance of this financial year one vessel.  Cape Pillar,  has been programmed to undertake various duties including coastal surveillance, fisheries management and National Mapping surveys. 
2 ) and ( 3 ) See answer to (1 ) a bove. 
Law enforcement officers will be carried asnecessary Selected crew members are appointed as fisheries andquar antine officers with certain powers under the relevant Statutes. 
The Masters of Departmental Navaid vesselshave been briefed to report incidents ofinterest to theCoastal Surveillance Organisation. They have not, to date, been involved in the apprehension of foreign fishing vessels engaged in illegal fishing activities. 
This is one of the few times in the Parliament that I am caught short for words. I really cannot give any information at all about the mysterious disappearance of the aircraft that has not already been publicly stated. It is quite clear there was a perfectly rational and normal conversation held between the pilot of the aeroplane and the service facilities staff prior to the point of disappearance. That conversation has been recorded and something comparable to it has been replayed on radio and television broadcasts. It remains a mystery. At this point all I can say is that after several days of searching we have downgraded the search. We have one Beechcraft Baron aircraft still searching the area and we have taken the other aircraft off stand by. All I can say is that it is a mystery and looks like remaining a mystery. 
The honourable member has asked a series of questions and I will see whether I can provide a full answer now. If I miss out on providing some of the information sought I guarantee to supply it later. I refer first to ethnic passengers who are concerned to get to ports to which the national carrier does not operate. If, for example, somebody wanted to go home to Sweden and under the new air fares arrangement we were able to arrive at an agreement on a point to point cheap fare basis with Germany- I suppose that Frankfurt would be as close a port as any- that ethnic passenger would be able to get a two sector fare out of Sydney or Melbourne or whatever was the departure point and fly on the cheap air fare from that point to Frankfurt and then continue on to Sweden using whatever service was convenient for him to use. In other words, a two sector fare is available to any passenger leaving Australia and picking up the cheap point to point fare to any destination. That is the first point I make in answer to the question. 
As I said yesterday, what we are seeking to do is arrive on the European range at a cheap air fare regime with all the carriers that are coming into this country or to make some arrangements with their governments in respect of fares. For the carriers who are presently not coming to Australia- I think that this was one of the questions asked by the honourable member- the situation will be as it exists now. A judgment will be made at an airline to airline level whether there is any desire for a mutual exchange of services and whether there is enough traffic on an end to end basis to justify it. If this is thought to be so, the matter then gets into the government arena and a bilateral agreement, if none exists, can be signed by the two countries. That answers two of the questions. I think I missed - 
If Qantas drops out of a service on any route in respect of which a bilateral agreement exists with Qantas, of course we would look to encouraging the national carrier from the other country to remain in service on stream to Australia. I still would be seeking to obtain the new air fare regime with that carrier so that a cheap air fare would exist on that particular route. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the Treasurer, on behalf of the Commonwealth, to guarantee loans raised by Ansett Transport Industries (Operations) Pty Ltd to finance the purchase of its tenth Boeing 727-200 series aircraft. This aircraft is scheduled for delivery in May 1979. The Boeing 727-200 series aircraft has now been in operation for a number of years and it has proved to be a most suitable aircraft for Australian conditions. In comparison to the earlier 727-100 model, it is noticeably quieter, provides greater passenger capacity and is less demanding on energy resources. This aircraft type will still be useful in meeting the airline's needs, even if it were decided, at a later date, to upgrade the aircraft fleet of the domestic airlines by the acquisition of the larger wide-bodied jets. 
The Australian National Airlines Commission, Trans-Australian Airlines, which operates the same number of Boeing aircraft as Ansett, will not require a Commonwealth loan guarantee on this occasion, as it has indicated its intention to finance its tenth Boeing 727-200 aircraft from its own internal resources. Both Ansett and TAA have sought to acquire the additional aircraft to meet the anticipated long-term increase in demand for domestic air traffic and older-type aircraft in the fleet will be progressively disposed of to keep fleet capacity and demand in balance. 
The proposed Government guarantee will be limited to an amount of $US 11.12m or its equivalent. This amount represents 80 per cent of the estimated total cost of the aircraft and associated equipment. The proposal will not involve the Commonwealth in any expenditure. It will merely create a contingent liability for the Government to the extent of the outstanding balance of the loan. Australia's aviation industry has been recently subject to some of the most comprehensive reviews in its history. As honourable members will be aware, I recently tabled the report of the review of Australia's international civil aviation policy. Following Government consideration, negotiations have now commenced which I expect in the near future to lead to greater opportunities for all to use international air travel at the lowest possible cost. 
On the domestic scene the reports of the domestic air transport policy review committee have been released and I am looking for public reaction to the recommendations contained in the reports. These views will be taken into account before decisions are finalised. The domestic airlines have already shown some speed off the mark in their reaction to the reports. Since the release of Part I which covers trunk route services and the two-airline policy we have seen a number of innovations with regard to domestic fares. An example is the introduction of stand-by fares on selected sectors for a trial period in order that their operation, and potential for further extension throughout the airlines networks, may be assessed. A further example is the extension from 1 November 1978 of the advance purchase excursion domestic fares to Canberra and Darwin so that all capital cities and Launceston will be eligible for this concession. I look to a further extension of concession fares wherever it is practicable to do so. 
The first meeting of the Aviation Industry Advisory Council was held in September this year. This body has been established to provide advice on policies, plans and programs relating to industry and to act as a forum for discussion of important matters which are the joint concern of the industry and the Government. Certainly after only one meeting the value of AVIAC has been clearly demonstrated to me and I look forward to the role it will play in developing Australia's aviation industry. 
Honourable members will recall that the domestic air transport policy review committee concluded that the two-airline policy should be continued although with some significant changes. Negotiations are now proceeding with the airlines on the review recommendations with a view to finalising changes to the airlines agreements which will of course be brought before this Parliament for ratification in due course. However the airlines obviously must continue to modernise their fleets to meet customer demand. Adequate forward planning is essential and the commitments to the industry involved in this legislation are an integral part of that process. I am sure that honourable members will agree with me that the Australian airlines are making a significant contribution to the development and welfare of this country, with an air safety record equal to the world 's best. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled: 'National Highway Linking Hobart, Launceston and Burnie: Appraisal of Penguin to Burnie Section, 1978'. 
-The first thing to do is to inform the House that the purchase of Hertz Rent-A-Car Pty Ltd was not conducted by Trans-Australia Airlines, that is, by the Australian Airlines Commission. It was conducted by a subsidiary of TAA with an associated partner, Mayne Nickless Ltd. I am asked: 'So what?' Such a purchase does not have to come to me as Minister for approval. In other words, the decision by TAA to join with Mayne Nickless in this associated purchase of Hertz is a commercial decision taken, as I understand it, on the best commercial lines. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Comments in relation to parallel scheduling were made by the Review Committee in the presentation of its Report. For example in paragraph 12.2.1 the Report states 'Not surprisingly, criticism of parallel scheduling featured in a large number of submissions to the Committee...... '. In addition I have, as Minister received a considerable number of letters on this issue which complain of parallel scheduling. In so far as submissions to the Review Committee are concerned the information is treated as having been provided on a confidential basis. The question of release of the information so provided is a matter for those making the submission. 
Co-ordinative and Consultative Arrangements with the States  (Question No. 2091) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See (1) above. 
-The Deputy Leader of the Opposition has asked several questions. The first question was in relation to the profitability of Australian airlines. I assume he means Qantas Airways Ltd which is the only Australian international operator. All I can say to him in that respect is that the profit and loss account of Qantas for the next year will be tabled in the Parliament within the next couple of weeks. He will be able to judge then whether the operations of Qantas are satisfactory from the Australian people's point of view and from the Australian Government's point of view. 
It is not proper for me to disclose that information until I am able to table the report which will satisfy all the questions that might be in the minds of intelligent honourable members. A comparison will then be able to be made between the operations of Qantas as our international carrier and all those operators who presently are engaged in traffic across the Atlantic following deregulation. I think proper comparisons can be made. As to the allegation or suggestion that Qantas might be engaged in improper practices overseas, I think the  chairman  of Qantas answered this question at a Press Club luncheon recently. I think the words he used were to the effect that Qantas follows the practice of the national carrier in each country in which it operates. I can add no more to the answer to the honourable member than to repeat that statement. 
As to the point that there is an artificial price regime in operation causing heavy discounting by some travel agents in Australia, I accept that immediately as being a matter of fact. One of the reasons I am seeking to secure a cheaper air fare regime into every country into which Qantas flies and by every airline that flies into Australia is to overcome the discriminatory practice that flows out of having a regime that, in my view, is too high and allows operators to give discriminatory kickbacks to some customers and not to others. I hold the very strong view that if a cheaper air fare is available it ought to be available not only to the chosen few who might get the subsidy but also to every Australian traveller. The proposals that are presently under discussion both in Asia and. in Europe with a number of governments put forward that view. I can only say to the House that I am very hopeful that this matter will be resolved by Christmas. 
When I have a baby, it will be better looking than the honourable member. I can promise him that. It is very easy for those who have not studied this question closely- I include the honourable member for Port Adelaide in this category- to believe that it is a simple matter to change the bilateral agreements with governments around the world. I have said from the start that by Christmas 1978 I will be in a position to make statements about what the air fare regime and the bilateral agreements with governments will be. It will be welcome Christmas news to the Australian people. 
I did not receive any explanation from the New South Wales Government as to why there was a delay in forwarding to me the roads program for 1978-79. I can assume only- I do not want to be political about thisthat it had something to do with the New South Wales State election. It may well be that if the increased funds that were made available to New South Wales had been properly presented to the rural, local governments of that State it would have been seen that the Commonwealth was continuing its support of the local government associations and shires throughout New South Wales. 
As to the suggestion that the funding of New South Wales shire councils may not be equitably distributed, I will need to look at the program as submitted by the State Minister, who has the responsibility of sharing the funds around and making that judgment. Part of the federalist policy in which this Government believes is that the 
State should be responsible for spreading the funds around, and if one shire ended up with less funds than it should have as a result of the 6.9 per cent increase to the State, that would be as a result of a judgment by New South Wales. It may well be that some shires have received less and some more than they should have as a result of the 6.9 per cent increase, but I will look at that point later. I do not believe it would be possible for the New South Wales Government to transfer any of those funds out of the rural, local grants area without my approval. I will ensure that as far as is possible all of the funds made available under the local grants Act are distributed equitably among the shires. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Qantas logo of the 'Flying Kangaroo' was introduced in 1947 and has been used with minor artistic variations ever since. Qantas has used a basic aircraft livery of red and white since 1935. Livery design has been varied occasionally, usually to suit a new aircraft type. The last such change was in 1971 with the introduction of the Boeing 747 aircraft and involved some lettering changes, addition of ochre as a second colour and more emphasis on the 'Flying Kangaroo'. Qantas aircraft interiors have been designed to complement the present external livery. 
Logo designs and colour schemes are intended to last indefinitely because they become identified with the airline and due to the high cost of change. 
No review is scheduled. 
A new logo and colour scheme would involve costs of about three million dollars for aircraft (excluding possible redesign of aircraft interiors) and ground vehicles, and $750,000 for buildings. 
A green and gold colour scheme was suggested in 1975, but its introduction was never agreed to or planned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No agreement had been reached with the European aeronautical authorities prior to the announcement of the establishment of the Government's review of Australia's international civil aviation policy, which was aimed at providing the Government with low fare options on routes between Australia and other countries. 
Not applicable. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The present car rental contract with Avis Rent-A-Car System Pty Ltd covers only Commonwealth airports. Locally-owned aerodromes are not included. 
There are approximately 200 aerodromes in Australia accepted under the Local Ownership plan. The day to day operation of these aerodromes is a matter for local management and therefore my Department is not aware of minor contractual arrangements which may be made. The Department has been informed that Avis Rent-A-Car System Pty Ltd, Budget Rent-a-Car System Pty Ltd and Hertz/Kay Rent-a-Car Pty Ltd have contracts in respect of certain of these aerodromes. 
Information is not available of the locations when no contracts exist. However, the number of contracts held, as advised by the latter companies, are: 
Avis- 44 locally-owned aerodromes plus contracts in respect of 1 1 aerodromes operated privately 
Budget- 2 locally owned aerodromes 
Hertz/Kay- 4 locally-owned aerodromes with negotiations in hand in respect of another 5. 
Customs Duty: Payment by Statutory Authorities  (Question No.  2381) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As far as is possible my Department provides experience for its officers throughout the various divisions.  Mr Latham  has been transferred to the Department's Roads Division for six months in accordance with this policy on staff rotation. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The comments in the Auditor-General 's report related to a small accounts section located in the Canberra Central Office of the Department. 
Departmental internal audit had indicated that unsatisfactory practices were occurring. A senior experienced departmental finance officer was already positioned investigating and rectifying when the Audit officers arrived and the situation was discussed with them before they undertook the audit. 
Following the transfer of the Central Office Finance Branch to Canberra the previously outposed Accounts Section was transferred to that Branch on 3 July 1978, where it is under the supervision of senior experienced finance officers. 
All matters raised in the report have now been rectified and appropriate procedures instituted to prevent any recurrence. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I understand that Chrysler Australia is in the process of introducing such a system. 
2 ) I have seen the article, and my Department is seeking further details from Chrysler. 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council is currently examining the question of energy conservation in the transport field. In accordance with general policy, any fuel consumption requirement which might result from this examination would normally be expressed in terms of a requirement to meet particular performance standards rather than a requirement to fit a particular commercial device or system. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There can be no doubt of the fact that the ANL has been a catalyst to other shipowners in the introduction of modern, efficient shipping services, both container and rollon/rolloff, on many of Australia's trade routes. For example, as a partner of the Eastern Searoad Service (ESS) between Australia and Japan, the ANL in 1969 was the first shipping line to introduce a specialised vessel into this trade. Other similar examples would be the Australia-East Asia and Australia-South East Asia Trades. 
It is difficult to quantify the effect that ANL's entry into overseas shipping has had on the cost of freight for Australian exporters. However, it is generally accepted that container and ro-ro vessels have helped to contain freight rate increases in a period of rapidly escalating costs and it is therefore considered that the ANL has contributed to moderating freight costs to Australian exporters. 
The Government has supported the Conference system where it provides the most efficient and economic services to and from Australia. In 1967-68 the Australian Government encouraged and supported the entry of ANL into overseas trades as part of the relevant Conferences, so that the line would participate in the management of those Conferences. It was considered important that, with the advent of new technologies in shipping, Australia should gain a full understanding of the new developments in order to ensure that the national interests were best served. 
Any ANL relationship with overseas shipping companies, either by Joint Venture or Consortium arrangements, has been in the interests of rationalisation of resources to ensure the provision of adequate, economic and efficient services which is consistent with the objectives of Government in the overseas liner shipping field. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The loadings at some work positions exceeded desirable levels for one-man operation for portion of the day. My Department uses such information as an indicator when making associated staffing, facility or airspace adjustments. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No aircraft owned by TAA and Qantas have been returned to their manufacturers for inspection due to breakdown of equipment since I January 1976. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Depanment has not initiated any transfers of special flight service officers from the Victoria/Tasmania Region to other Regions. These officers are engaged on limited duties pending their entry to the Flight Service Training School in November 1978. Arrangements are in fact being made to replace these employees with a similar group of pretraining employees in order to maintain physical staffing levels pending the availability of fully trained personnel from the training school. 
Not applicable. 
-I will have a look at the substance of the honourable member's question after Question Time and provide information I do not presently have. To the best of my understanding there has been a review of the staffing levels of all sections in that area of the Department's activities and there has been an upgrading of the new people going into the various areas of activity on the engineering side. Apart from that I can say little about what the honourable member for Shortland asked. 
-The story about Flick the fire engine is a pretty good beat-up story for, I take it, a Sunday paper. It is a mixture of some fact and a great deal of fiction. Quite obviously the writer has been fed, to use a country expression, a lot of bull by somebody who does not like Flick. 

 - Mr Speaker, you are quite right, but I know that everybody understands it. The newspaper story does say that Flick was a converted haulage vehicle. That is not correct. In fact, the vehicle was purchased in 1968 and built on a Bedford 4x4 chassis of British military design. I understand that the vehicle is in top condition, has a very good speed and has excellent cross country performance, particularly in mud and gradient conditions. It is a fact that the vehicle is planned to be replaced under the present five-year fire service plan. The article refers to the fact that six new appliances which arrived in Melbourne from Great Britain were not satisfactory. In fact, the Department refused to accept them because they did not meet the specifications. I understand that that action was taken at no cost to the Department but at total cost to the manufacturer. The article makes a further claim that the new appliance at the Brisbane Airport, the ultra-large fire tender, will not work because it has only one engine. It claims that it was supposed to have two engines. In fact that is not correct. It was designed to have one engine. It was built according to the latest United States design and is being introduced world wide. The story went on to say that a number of these two-engine appliances went to - 
The two-engine appliances went to Papua New Guinea and are working very well. I point out that despite that fact they are of older design. The foam trailers that the honourable member mentioned were never intended to be towed by the fire tenders themselves. They are to be towed by other airport vehicles and are being used at most airports for the purpose of filling and emptying foam tanks. This article is the typical story of a Sunday paper which has nothing better to write. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is a machinery Bill to amend the Air Navigation (Charges) Act, which imposes charges on aircraft for the use of aerodromes, airway facilities, meteorological services, and search and rescue services which are provided, operated and maintained by the Commonwealth. The purpose of the Bill is to increase, with effect from 1 December 1978, the rates of air navigation charges payable by all domestic operators by 15 per cent per year, resulting in an increase in revenue of just over $2m in 1978-79. 
The 1961 Airlines Agreement provided for eventual recovery of the costs properly attributable to the air transport industry of providing and maintaining the aviation infrastructure. Initially no target date was set for achieving full recovery. In recent years, however, the Government has been concerned about the increasing cost of providing and maintaining the infrastructure and the level of revenues including air navigation charges, and the subsequent gap between costs and revenue in the domestic sector of the industry. For example, in 1974-75 the cost of facilities provided for the domestic sectors totalled $ 1 4 1 .7m, whilst the revenue earned by way of air navigation charges- fuel tax et cetera, totalled $66.8m, giving a recovery rate of 47 per cent. In 1977-78, costs were $172m, revenue $85.9m, and the recovery rate 49.7 per cent. This gap between revenues and costs is in part due to the restrictions in the Airlines Agreement on the level of increase which might be imposed in any year on ANCs payable by the two major domestic airlines. 
Honourable members will recall that the 1961 Airlines Agreement provided, amongst other things, that the Commonwealth could not increase the rate of ANCs payable by the two airlines by more than 10 per cent in any year. Subsequently, the 1973 Airlines Agreement, which terminated on 30 June 1978, provided for a maximum increase of no more than 1 5 per cent per year. 
The matter of a new or revised Airlines Agreement is currently the subject of negotiation between the airlines and my Department. These discussions, of course, are ranging over a broad spectrum of subjects including cost recovery. In respect of 1978-79 the two major airlines have agreed to waive their rights under clause 8 of the 1961 Agreement and to permit a 15 per cent increase in air navigation charges for this year. Further negotiations for a new or revised airlines agreement will take place against the background of the announced intention of the Government to achieve full recovery in the domestic trunk airline sector in 1979-80, and of its 1 978-79 Budget revenue intentions. 
The Bill gives effect to a 1 5 per cent increase in ANCs for both domestic trunk and rural airlines. Provision is made in the Bill also for a 1 5 per cent increase in the rate of ANCs for the commuter and other general aviation sectors of the industry. Both these latter sectors make relatively small contributions towards the cost of the facilities provided for them. In 1977-78, the shortfall in revenue for commuters was of the order of $8m and for other general aviation $49m, giving recovery rates of about 12 per cent and 16 per cent respectively. In these circumstances, the Government also decided that a study should be undertaken into general aviation, to achieve an appropriate level of recovery on a more equitable and efficient basis. The scope of the study will be discussed with the general aviation industry. 
The Bill does not provide for any increase in the level of charges for the international operators. For three years the recovery rate for the international sector has exceeded 100 per cent and it is expected again to exceed 100 per cent in 1978-79. In these circumstances it was considered appropriate that there should be no increase in these rates for the current year. Honourable members will also have noted that, as a result of the different levels of charges for the international and domestic sectors, the Principal Act will be partly restructured to accommodate these amendments. The major changes are to transfer the definition of the weight of an aircraft from paragraph 7 of Schedule 1 to the Act itself. Further, each schedule of the Act will include the calculation of unit charge for the aircraft to which the particular schedules refers. The Bill also contains some formal amendments. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to modify the five year expenditure profile of Commonwealth funds provided to assist the States with urban public transport improvements. It has become necessary following decisions to defer a portion of the funds available in 1978-79 and 1979-80 in the light of wider Budget considerations. As honourable members will recall, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced in his election policy speech last November that the Commonwealth would initiate a new program for urban public transport. The program would provide $300m over five years to assist States with upgrading their urban public transport systems. It was to follow on from the earlier program. Under the Urban Public Transport Agreement between the Commonwealth and the States, about $ 190m of Commonwealth funds had been provided to assist the States with urban public transport improvements over the five years to June 1978. 
The States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act 1978 honoured our election policy commitment. As I pointed out in the second reading speech, the principles of the new legislation had been the subject of extensive discussions between myself and my State government counterparts, as well as between officials. The 1978 Act included: Provision of $200m Commonwealth funds at the rate of $40m per annum over the period 1978-79 to 1982-83, with allocation between States as set out in the Schedule to the Act; provision under section 8 of $ 100m, available at the rate of $200m per annum, for allocation between States on the basis of needs. I would like to remind honourable members that Commonwealth funds of $300m provided under the 1978 Act represent an increase of more than 50 per cent over the funds provided by the Commonwealth to the States under the previous Urban Public Transport Agreement. The 1978 Act therefore reflects this Government's support for urban public transport improvements. 
As honourable members are aware, I have notified the States of 1978-79 approvals. While these approvals cover more than one year for some States, approvals have been restricted to the level of funds set out in the Schedule to the Act. It is the Government's intention to maintain the total urban public transport program at $300m to 1982-83. However, decisions have been taken in the light of Budget requirements, to defer allocation of $25m out of the full $40m otherwise available under section 8 in 1978-79 and 1979-80. The Bill before the House provides for the deferred $25m to be included in an amended Schedule to the Act for the final three years from 1980-81 to 1982-83. The Commonwealth allocation by schedule thus will be increased from $200m at the rate of $40m each year to $22 5 m with yearly allocations as follows: 1978-79, $40m; 1979-80, $40m; 1980-81, $45m; 1981- 82, $50m; 1982-83, $50m. The total amount to be provided by way of schedule allocations to each State over the five years to 1982- 83 is as follows: 

<graphic href="112131197811091_43_3.jpg"></graphic>

The apportionment between States in the amended Schedule is in the same proportions as in the current Schedule to the 1978 Act. The remaining $75m in the $300m program will still be available for allocation between States on a needs basis over the remaining four years of the program as follows: $ 15m in 1978-79; $20m per annum in 1980-81, 1981-82 and 1982-83. This Bill therefore maintains the Government's longer term support for urban public transport, while meeting the current need for financial restraint. It does not impinge upon basic principles incorporated in the 1978 Act. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
in reply- I thank the honourable members who have taken part in the debate. I believe that it has been very constructive. The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  said that insufficient copies of the report of the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review were available to members of Parliament and members of the general public. I am afraid that we will have to take up the printing of the report with the Australian Government Publishing Service. We have not been able to get a full run of the reports printed as quickly as we would have liked. In fact, we had 6 copies of the report photostated and placed in the Parliamentary Library- I draw to the attention of the honourable member that it was not one copy- so that at least Ministers and honourable members could look at it. 
The honourable member for Scullin also raised the question of de-regulation of airlines in the United States of America. It is fair to remind the House that the United States of America owns over 50 per cent of the world 's airlines and flies over 50 per cent of the world's aircraft. In fact, I read somewhere the other day that United States domestic airlines carry more passengers than are carried by all the international airlines put together. So honourable members can get some idea of the volume of their business. One can understand why the Americans, from thenstrong standpoint, consider that de-regulation is the answer to finding a solution to the competitive position amongst international airlines, but I make the point that if one owns 50 per cent of the world's airlines and becomes involved in a struggle about aviation it is likely that one will win. 
Many countries have an international airline that is equally competitive given a fair start. Australia is one of those countries. Qantas Airways Ltd can compete with any airline round the world given an equal opportunity. But, given the mighty muscle of the United States in a totally de-regulated situation, I doubt whether any airline could compete with the Americans. That is why it is really only the United States that is talking about de-regulation. I do not see any other country jumping into de-regulation. For all the talk about the success of the so-called deregulation across the Atlantic, the  President  of the International Air Transport Association pointed out in his address the other day, which I read with some interest, that there has been only a 2 per cent increase in traffic across the Atlantic in the period in which the so-called de-regulation and fare cuts have occurred. 
Certainly there has been a big increase in domestic air fares. That brings me to a point which I think all speakers in the debate raised, that is, the question of the domestic situation. The domestic review points up the fact that there ought to be more competition between the airlines which operate under the two-airline agreement, but it has come to the conclusion that the two-airline agreement will continue to provide the best basis for continued, reliable and efficient service throughout Australia in the years ahead. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  and the honourable member for Scullin rightly pointed out that within the twoairline agreement there ought to be a wider choice of fare type structures and less parallel scheduling, particularly on some routes. Parallel scheduling has been a difficult problem for governments and the airlines down through the years. One of the fundamental reasons is that what is called the cream run, that is, the Sydney to Melbourne run, carries a high volume of traffic early in the morning- 7 o'clock, 8 o'clock, and 9 o'clock- and late in the evening- 5 o'clock, 6 o'clock, 7 o'clock and perhaps 8 o'clock. For that reason the two airlines have to position their aircraft so as to enable them to fly that high volume of demand traffic. Because of curfews at some airports they are limited in the number of hours they can fly to such outposts as Cairns and Darwin and even across to Perth. I have asked the airlines to take a look at what the report recommends and to come to me with some answers about breaking up the parallel scheduling on those routes that it is possible to do so. Canberra is a typical example. I do not believe that it is necessary for Canberra to be serviced by a completely tied and parallel schedule, as at present. I believe that that is something that will flow out of the domestic review. 
I refer again to the fare structure of the domestic airlines. I have asked the airlines to be a bit more innovative and imaginative. They have introduced standby fares, which were extended this week to two new routes, including the Adelaide to Perth route. It is true that there have been reductions of between 30 per cent and 40 per cent. On the basis of the figures which the airlines had they believed that the drain of regular traffic was too great on the standby passengers and they have indicated that they would like to try a period of experimentation at the 30 per cent level. After another couple of months we will have more figures on which to make a judgment on the percentage of the cut for standby fares and the success of the scheme generally. It is true to say that it is beholden upon the two major domestic airlines to be much more innovative than they have had to be in the past. I think that that is something that will flow out of this matter in due course. 
The question of the use of wide-bodied jets was raised by almost every speaker in the debate. I wish to make a couple of points about that. The first is that the introduction of the wide-bodied jets depends very much on the traffic level that the airlines believe will exist in the years ahead. We all have to recognise that it is a very expensive exercise for the airlines to switch from one type of aircraft to another. It is a much cheaper proposition to add another 727-200 series aircraft to the tail of the fleet than to swing across to the wide-bodied jets. Therefore, the airlines have to be very sure that they will not be imposing more expenses upon the travelling public by introducing wide-bodied jets. As most honourable members would know, both airlines are studying the feasibility of the use of wide-bodied aircraft. Doubtless their introduction will come about as soon as a judgment is made about what is the right time for their introduction. Costly facilities have to be made available to match the introduction of these wide-bodied jets. It is not a decision that one ought to take or can take lightly. 
The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  raised the question of offset payments. I point out that my colleague the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  is responsible for offset arrangements and it is he who satisfies himself that the offset arrangements with the Boeing Corporation will be adequate following the purchase of the next Boeing 727 aircraft. A couple of honourable members asked why Ansett Airlines of Australia did not use its own internal financial resources for the purchase of these aircraft when Trans-Australia Airlines does. This is a matter of commercial judgment for the airlines. Under the two-airlines agreement they can both avail themselves of a borrowing program with government guarantees if they wish. It is simply a matter of their making a judgment as to what is the cheaper- the use of their own internally generated funds or borrowing overseas. 
The honourable member for Newcastle asked what the rates of interest will be. I point out to him that the loans have not yet been negotiated. So it is not possible to know what the rates of interest will be. As the honourable member for La Trobe pointed out, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has to satisfy himself in respect of all aspects of the loan, including the rates of interest, before the Government makes any commitment in respect of the guarantee that it gives. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  asked why certain reports were not published. I was out of the House when he made this point but I understand that he was complaining that the submissions that went into the international civil aviation policy review were not made available publicly. 
-We had some difficulty with the submissions that were made in regard to the ICAP review and the domestic review because of the confidential and commercial information contained in them. I invited those who made the submissions to make their submissions public if they so wished. I do not know how many of them have taken up that matter. It is quite within the province of those who made the submissions to make them public, as I am aware some did. That is the fairest way. In fact we published the ICAP review with as much information as possible, at the same time taking out the commercial and confidential information that was given to us to help us to come to proper conclusions. In all fairness, I do not think that it was possible to publish more than has been published in respect of it. I think I have answered most of the points raised by honourable members. I thank those who took part in the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) Refer to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2090  (Hansard,  House of Representatives, 17 October 1978, page 1972.) 
Department of Business and Consumer Affairs: Consultation with the States  (Question No. 21 13) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Successive Governments have adopted the view that commercial cost information supporting tariff increases should be treated as confidential. The annual financial accounts of TAA and Ansett are tabled in the Parliament. 
Nothing. However like any other business it is not practice to make their commercial cost information available. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Auditor-General's office has been advised of the remedial action undertaken since the time of their investigation: 
Interim reply was forwarded to Auditor-General's office on 12 July 1978 indicating that the situation had been under investigation since mid April 1978, that remedial action was in course, and that a final reply would be forthcoming as soon as the required detailed information had been compiled. 
A detailed reply has now been forwarded to the Auditor-General's Office, Canberra, indicating that appropriate remedial action has been taken on every matter raised in the report. 
Action taken included: transfer of the Central Office, Canberra, accounting section to the Finance Branch, where officers with appropriate expertise have been overseeing its operation. all anomalies raised by both Internal and Commonwealth auditors have been rectified. the advice included the internal audit procedures being reported as satisfactory for the Canberra office. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are at present 14 employees and 40 former employees receiving weekly compensation payments under existing Commonwealth compensation legislation because of injuries which have resulted in absences from work for periods in excess of 6 months 
The main types of long term injuries are spinal injuries. For example 35 of the 54 employees and former employees referred to in part (1) of the answer are so incapacitated. 
(a) and (b) Of the 54 employees and former employees mentioned above, one former employee was salaried and the remainder ( 1 4 employees and 39 former employees) were wages staff. 
Department of Transport Aircraft:  VIP  Use (Question No. 2530) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Sydney Harbour Bridge, Westgate Bridge, Melbourne (as from 15 November 1978) 
Sydney Harbour Bridge toll charges apply only to vehicles travelling from north to south and the scale of charges are: for vehicles under 2 ton- 20 cents vehicles over 2 ton- 40 cents 
Charges for vehicles using the Westgate Bridge -60 cents per 2 axle vehicle one way $ 1 .20 per 2 axle dual vehicle one way $ 1 .20 per 3 axle vehicle one way $ 1 .60 per 3 axle dual vehicle one way $2.00 per 4 axle vehicle one way 
(a) and (b) Public road tollways in Australia are: 
Berowra-Calga Tollway, NSW-25.4 km 
Waterfall Tollway (Heathcote-Wollongong-22.9 km) 
Berowra-Calga Toll Charges: 
Vehicles Cars, Panel Vans, Utilities etc up to 2 ton- 60 cents 
Vehicles of tare weight over 2 ton and less than 4 ton-$1.40 
Vehicles over 4 ton- $2.40 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Aircraft of Department of Transport were used for VIP travel during 1977-78 as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Part 2, the final part, of the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review report was released on 19 October 1978 and tabled on 24 October 1978. 
The Federal Highway is what is called a national highway and, from the Commonwealth's point of view, is eligible for funds from national roads grants. So far as priorities are concerned, that part of the Highway which is in New South Wales has to be eligible for funds according to the priorities set by the New South Wales Government. If the New South Wales Government does not determine that the Highway is eligible for funds, then funds are not made available to it. As for the Canberra side of the Highway, the National Capital Development Commission has responsibility for allotting priorities in respect of road development within the Territory. If the NCDC does not feel like allotting funds to the Federal Highway, no funds are allotted. I will have a look at the rest of the question asked by the honourable member and give him a further reply. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The study of which you speak is being funded jointly by the NSW Government, CSIRO and the Commonwealth under the Transport Planning and Research Act program, which is administered by my Department, and involves a total expenditure of about $180,000 over the two financial years 1977-78 and 1978-79. 
Currently, installation of traffic lights is funded under the various road categories of the States Grants (Roads) Act 1 977, although sequencing is a matter for the States. 
The study referred to in ( 1 ) above is designed to provide a method of determining the rate of aggregate fuel consumption of traffic on a given section of arterial roadway and to test the sensitivity of this consumption to traffic management changes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The strategy to be adopted in respect to future major airport development in the Sydney region is one of the most important and most difficult transport questions facing us today. It is a question which warrants full technical investigation and public participation. The function of the MANS Commonwealth/State Committee is to provide recommendations to the Commonwealth and New South Wales Governments on the major airport needs of Sydney to the year 2000. The detailed analysis has not been completed by the Commonwealth/State Committee. I am therefore unable to indicate at this point in time what form the Committee's recommendations to the Commonwealth and New South Wales Governments may take or whether there will be any recommendation relating to development of a second major airport in the Sydney region. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Qantas Airways Limited (Loan Guarantee) Act 1978. The Qantas Airways Limited (Loan Guarantee) Act 1978 was enacted to authorise the Treasurer, on behalf of the Commonwealth, to guarantee overseas borrowings by Qantas Airways Ltd to the extent of $US80m or its equivalent to finance the purchase of two Boeing 747 series aircraft. Qantas sought the Treasurer's guarantee for a borrowing of $US80m under the provisions of the Act. Negotiations for a proposed borrowing were not sufficiently advanced, however, for Qantas to be enabled to finalise the terms of a borrowing before taking delivery of the aircraft. Qantas had funds earmarked for other purposes, but which were temporarily available, to make the payments owing on the aircraft in anticipation of these funds being recouped in due course from the proceeds of the $US80m loan for which a guarantee was being sought. Doubt has arisen as to whether section 4 ( 1 ) (a) of the Act as originally drafted provides for the giving of the guarantee in the circumstances outlined above. The amendment to the original Act provided for in this Bill is intended to put the question beyond doubt. Qantas has very heavy financial commitments to meet before the end of 1 978 and is relying on the loan proceeds. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am aware of the article to which the honourable member refers, relating specifically to problems with the Sydney Distance Measuring Equipment (DME) reportedly experienced by a DC9 aircraft departing from Sydney. 
The Sydney DME was checked immediately by my Department's ground staff and found to be operating normally. Subsequently, its satisfactory performance was confirmed during a flight check by a Departmental flight survey aircraft. 
My Department is currently attempting to determine the reason for the apparently incorrect DME indications in the DC9 aircraft. 
One of the aspects of the cheap air fare proposals has been, of course, the introduction of a cheap air fare regime not only out of Australia but also into Australia. One of the strengths of the proposals that I have been putting forward to the various countries involved has been that the proposals have been put on just that basis. What we are seeking to do is to get a cheap air fare regime from approximately 20 countries- I do not want to list them again- into Australia with the hope that we can encourage a great number of tourists to this country. I am delighted with the way in which the discussions have gone with the Americans this week. When they return to Australia on 4 December I hope that we will be able to conclude negotiations on the cheap air fare package to America that I proposed to them so that- this takes up pretty much the matter about which  Mr Monk  was talking- this cheap air fare package will be available to Americans from about 1 February 1979. That is the date for which we are aiming in relation to the introduction of this cheap air fare package. I am hoping that when the American team returns on 4 December we can wrap that up and be conclusive about it. 
Of course, included in the honourable member's question is his concern that the Australian Government do more to encourage tourists to come to Australia. I remind him of the specific increase in the allocations made to the Australian Tourist Commission in the Budget which was brought down in August. One of the purposes of those increased allocations was that, in the knowledge that we were seeking a cheap air fare regime to Australia, the Australian Tourist Commission would be better based to explore the matter of the number of tourists who might be encouraged to come here. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-(l) Australian Paper Manufacturers Limited; (2) Maryvale to Morwell, Victoria; (3) Transport of paper pulp and paper products. 
-(l) Blue Circle Southern Cement Limited; (2) (a) South Marulan to Medway Junction, New South Wales, (b) Berrima, New South Wales; (3) (a) Transport of limestone and cement, ( b) Transport of cement and coal. (iii)-( 1 ) The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited; (2) (a) Wongawilla to Port Kembla, New South Wales, (b) Kemiro/Nebo to Port Kembla, New South Wales, (c) Iron Knob/Iron Baron to Whyalla, South Australia, (d) Proper Bay to Coffin Bay, South Australia; ( 3 ) ( a) Transport of coal, (b) Transport of coal, (c) Transport of iron ore, (d) This line was used to transport lime sands, but has not been in operation since 1976. 
(1) Cliffs Western Australia Mining Company Proprietary Limited; (2) Robe River to Cape Lambert, Western Australia; (3) Transport of iron ore. 
-(l) Coal and Allied Industries Limited; (2) Stockrington to Hexham, New South Wales; (3) Transport of coal. 
(1) Comalco Limited; (2) Andoom to Lorim Point ( Weipa), Queensland; (3) Transport of bauxite. 
-(l) Emu Bay Railway Company Limited; (2) Melba Siding to Burnie, Tasmania; (3) Transport of general traffic and metal concentrates. 
viii)  -  (1 ) Goldsworthy Mining Limited; (2) Shay Gap to Finucane Island (Port Hedland), Western Australia; (3) Transport of iron ore. 
-(l) Hamersley Iron Proprietary Limited; (2) Paraburdoo to Dampier, Western Australia; (3) Transport of iron ore. 
(1) Mount Newman Mining Company Proprietary Limited; (2) Mount Newman to Port Hedland, Western Australia; ( 3 ) Transport of iron ore. 
-(l) South Maitland Railways Proprietary Limited; (2) Cessnock to East Greta Junction, New South Wales; (3) Transport of coal. 
The above list excludes companies operating railway lines of less than 2 kilometres in length or railway lines within industrial estates, harbour precincts, mines and quarries. Lines operated by railway preservation societies are also excluded. 
In addition, there are approximately 3,000 kilometres of permanent privately-operated sugar cane railways in Queensland, with extra temporary lines being laid during the cane harvesting season. 
No direct assistance has been provided to any private company to operate a railway line over the past5 years. However, income tax depreciation allowances are normally available in respect of railway lines and rolling stock owned by a taxpayer and used to produce assessable income. Special deductions are also available for capital expenditure incurred on certain transport facilities used primarily in relation to minerals mined in Australia. The secrecy provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Act would, of course, prevent the Commissioner of Taxation from disclosing details of any such deductions allowed to particular taxpayers. 
It is a fact that the residents of Adelaide find themselves in a position similar to that of the people of Canberra, Tasmania, my home town of Orbost and a great number of people throughout country areas in Australia in that they do not live adjacent to a city which has an international airport. I can understand the honourable member's concern at the fact that it will cost people from Adelaide more to get overseas when the cheap air fares are introduced than it will cost people from the major capital cities which do have international airports. I draw to his attention, though, the fact that Australia is served very well with international airports, having them in all the major States. I say that without wishing to insult anybody, but certainly we have international airports in the States of Western Australia, New South Wales and Victoria- even the Northern Territory has one. 
I am advised that they are in the more populous States. Perhaps that is a much better expression than 'the major States' which I used. The cost of building an international airport at Adelaide would be of a high order. I would have some difficulty in making such a recommendation to the Government at the moment, having regard to other capital works projects in the aviation field which have priority with the Department of Transport. 
The second part of the honourable member's question related to domestic air fares. I will look at the prospect of encouraging the domestic airlines to introduce a further range of lower air fares equivalent to standby fares, budget fares and discount fares which might tie in with the fares paid by people taking overseas flights. I am afraid that is about all the encouragement that I can give the honourable member at the moment. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Ansett and TAA fare increases approved by successive Government since 1 January 1973 have been: 
Pursuant to section 39 of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act 1956 1 present the report of the Australian Shipping Commission for the year ended 30 June 1 978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) and (b) Unknown. Statistical records of this nature are not maintained for infrequently used aerodromes such as Wollogorang Station, NT. 
Unknown. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to question No. 1660 was published in the  Hansard of  17 October 1978 on page 1978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 1971-218; 1972-181; 1973-220; 1974-233; 1975-188; 1976-243; 1977-220; total 1,503; (b)208. 
(a) 1,141, (b) 292, (c) 340, (d) 83, (e) 1, (f) 49. (Covers 1971-1977 inclusive). 
Note: More than one causal factor present in some accidents. 
139. 
(a) 689, (b) 6 16, (c) 5 1. (Covers 197 1-1977 inclusive.) 
120 (Covers 1971-1977 inclusive). 
(a) 62, (b) 83. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I answered question No. 2056 today. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
No. 
None. 
5 ) While lam generally aware of  Mr Iwasaki  's proposed developments at Yeppoon, no definite proposal in regard to provision of international aviation facilities in the area has been made to me or to my Department 
The effect on traffic in and out of Brisbane airport cannot be estimated until concrete proposals are received from the developers. Whether or not such proposals are made, there is no prospect of the Government delaying work on Brisbane airport in favour of the Iwasaki project. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The basis for the claims is the observation by a combined Departmental/Aviation industry study group of the application, in the USA and Canada, of similar procedures at general aviation airports processing large numbers of aircraft. 
Overseas experience has proved that air traffic can be processed safely and efficiently by the use of contra-circuits and parallel runways at general aviation airports. A positive air traffic control service, coupled with pilot co-operation and circuit discipline, ensures that safety is maintained. Australian flying organisations have strongly endorsed the new procedures and have requested their introduction at other capital city general aviation airports. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) nil, (b) nil, (c) five. 
Yes; within the limitations of the duties these officers are qualified to perform. 
There are practical limitations as to the number that can be employed prior to entering formal flight service officer training. Although there is a current shortage of trained flight service staff at Melbourne Airport, leave relief is manageable but does involve the working of some overtime. These circumstances are likely to continue until about mid 1979 when staff now at the training school will become progressively available. 
Existing shortages in flight service officer staffing result from the cancellation of some training courses in 1975-76 due to inadequate recruitment in 1974. Subsequent recruiting has provided intakes of 13 trainees in 1976-77, 59 in 1977-78, with 160 scheduled for 1978-79. This accelerated program of training is considered adequate to overhaul existing shortages and to service future staffing requirements. However, in view of the lead times involved, the impact of these programs is only now starting to be felt. The pretraining employment of special flight service officers is an additional initiative taken by the Department of Transport to boost staffing levels pending the availability of increasing numbers of fully trained personnel. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Some domestic airlines do so in respect of passengers on their own services, but normally not in respect of transfers from or to other airlines. 
For special exercises undertaken by my Department, the airlines may provide this information on a confidential basis and subject to it being used on an aggregate basis for public purposes. 
This is a matter for the commercial judgement of the airlines but as far as I am aware the airlines extract only sufficient information to meet their internal needs. 
No. 
The present regular collections of statistics together with special studies as required has to date met the normal statistical requirements of the Department. Nevertheless, the question of collecting origin and destination information will be kept under review. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) 24 hours per day, 7 days per week. 
Normally Category 2, but upgraded in the event of airline aircraft being diverted to Essendon from Melbourne Airport due to bad weather. 
Various types of propeller-driven aircraft up to DC4 size, and jet aircraft up to F28 size. There is a curfew on jet aircraft movements between 1 1 p.m., and 6 a.m. 
(a) Average monthly movements are approximately 6,300. 

Simulated engine failures are not permitted in singleengined aircraft, but are permitted in multi-engined aircraft under prescribed operating restrictions which do not permit feathering of propellers. 
Formation take-offs are only permitted by special arrangement. This type of operation takes place only once or twice a month, in daylight, and normally involves only two aircraft. 
Essendon is in no different position from other airports in Australia in that the Department of Transport maintains surveillance to ensure that traffic is compatible with existing facilities and services. 
Essendon is not available, nor will it be made available, for the major airlines, unless weather conditions prevent their aircraft landing at Melbourne and the weather at Essendon is suitable. 
Rescue and fire fighting services are available continuously, and are supplemented from Melbourne Airport as necessary. 
10) Some helicopter pilot training is conducted at Essendon Airport 
Shortage of apron space and facilities. 
-The honourable member may have noticed that in my second reading speech on the Air Navigation (Charges) Amendment Bill I mentioned that negotiations are presently under way with the two domestic airlinesAnsett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines- on the outcome of the domestic aviation review. The point the honourable member raises is part of that review and is presently under negotiation with the two airlines. 
The poor effort put forward by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  today I think is best demonstrated by referring to the poor material that he used, namely, the snippets of gossip taken out of the hundreds of Press briefings that I have given over the period. The selective quotes he used just show the poor case that the honourable member could make out. He said that the people of Australia wanted to see some action taken in relation to cheaper air fares. I agree with that. But certainly they will not see action from the Labor Party or from the honourable member for Shortland because, in the Labor Party's policy, platform, constitution and rules, the word 'aviation' does not appear once. There is no section dealing with aviation or airline policy in the Labor Party's policy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr MillarOrder!  I require that the honourable member for Shortland to withdraw that remark. 
Let me read what does appear, now that we have settled that matter. All that I can find and all the Parliamentary Library can find is an extract from the 32nd National Conference in Perth 1 977-1 do not know whether this is out of date- under the heading 'Research and Planning'. It reads: 
Examine the effects of the existing airlines policy on passenger and freight carriage. 
Therefore, the Australian people will not get any action out of the honourable member for Shortland or the Labor Party because in the whole period it has not brought forward any aviation policy at all, nor has it brought forward in specific terms a policy in relation to international aviation. All that the honourable member for Shortland has sought to do in raising this matter of public importance today is to try to associate the Labor Party in some cheap political way with what will be an effective change in air fare regime policy. It is not making its own efforts but is simply hanging on to the Government's coat tails. The situation is as simple as that. 
The International Civil Aviation Policy Review Committee report was tabled 1 1 October. The Government instituted the review late last year to seek total investigation and policy options. In tabling that report I said that the policy had not been clearly set down and discussed by this House for many years, despite significant changes in the manner of operation of international air services, their dramatic growth and a very radical shift in the pattern of demand. The Government was concerned that the travelling public have available the cheapest possible international air fares within the frame-work of regular scheduled services which meet other demands such as business travel and travel requiring immediate and reliable departure- in other words, meeting demands of all sections of the travelling public in a non-discriminatory fashion. The Government recognised the need to consider carefully the method by which to achieve a reduction in fares on all routes. 
On 9 June this year I announced that a negotiating team would leave to hold discussion with British Government officials on ways and means of seeking cheap air fares on the Kangaroo route which is our most important international trunk route. It is important to recall that these discussions began long before my tabling the International Civil Aviation Policy Review report, and I believe this demonstrates clearly the sincerity and the urgency with which the Government regards the issue. In a public statement that day I said: 
As I have explained on a great number of occasions during the last 12 months the Government is determined to achieve a regime of non-discriminatory cheaper air fares to and from this country. 
I also said that day that negotiations would necessarily take time. They are complex and involve many countries along the route. Both we and the British Government recognise that arrangements between each other are interdependent on arrangements each of us has separately with other governments on the route. It is gratifying to note that British authorities found our proposals attractive in that they provided lower fares and met all consumer demands and maintained regular scheduled services. 
I have already announced the Government's proposed advance purchase excursion fares to London which are $568 return, low season; $870 return, shoulder, and $998 return, peak, from eastern Australia. There is the added benefit of exit from and entry to all five gateways, allowing for maximum utilisation by the Australian public. This meets a major concern of the Government that services should be spread over all gateways to benefit all member States of the Commonwealth. The British negotiations are going very well and I still hold confidently to my prediction that I will make an announcement before Christmas on future arrangements on this route. As part of our continuing negotiations an Australian team will hold more discussions in Britain tomorrow. 
Consistent with our policy it is the Government's intention to seek lower fares in and out of Australia to Frankfurt, Athens, Rome, Belgrade, Amsterdam and Paris. Again I emphasise that the seeking of these cheaper fares is our initiative. It is not a Labor Party initiative, nor is it a European one. It is important to recall in this context that when the current advanced purchase fare of $850 return to London was agreed early last year other European airlines flying into and out of Australia declined to introduce a similar fare structure. At that time they made their own commercial judgment and as a result the present lowest direct fare to London on Qantas Airways Ltd and British Airways is subsequently cheaper than present direct fares to other European destinations. Migrants would appreciate more than anybody else the need for regular scheduled services to other countries of origin rather than the uncertainty of a one class charter operation when they are faced with the need for a quick visit home or a visit to Australia by a relative or friend. The Government's proposals will ensure that regular scheduled services are maintained. 
In pursuit of our policy, discussions have already been held with Germany, Italy, Greece, Yugoslavia, France and the Netherlands, and a second round of discussions with some of these countries has either commenced or will commence shortly. We have strong evidence from the European governments that they are very interested in our policy objectives. Indeed generally the reaction has been very encouraging. We wish to maintain the present network of air services from Europe as far as possible to and from these countries, not only for the benefit of Australians who wish to holiday there and Europeans who wish to holiday here, but also because of the special needs of the migrant community and development of business relations. In all of our negotiations in Europe we have been mindful of these important matters. Again I anticipate being able to make appropriate announcements before Christmas. 
Our policy objectives in Asia are exactly the same as those for the rest of the world. Since tabling the report on 1 1 October- it is now only 23 November- we have already held discussions with Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia. A firm date has now been agreed by the Government in Singapore for talks in early December, and we are hopeful of having similar talks with the Philippines in the second week of December. All of the talks to date have been most encouraging and our proposals have been given a very cordial reception. There has, however, been only a first round of discussions, and each of the governments will need to assess their proposals and make detailed responses. I believe the Asian governments recognise the advantages of our policy of having fares between Australia and their countries as low as possible. It is in our mutual interests. Our policy is also important in that it respects the interests of developing countries. I would emphasise that stop over arrangements will be available for those Australians wishing to visit Asia en-route to Europe. 
There have been consistent allegations that proposals we are putting forward to both European and Asian governments would deny visitors to and travellers from Australia the opportunity to take stop overs in Asia en-route. This is not the case. I have said consistently that there will be provision of stop overs in Asia. It is the Australian Government's wish to ensure that this may be done by a combination of sector fares in a simple way that consumers can readily understand and in a way that they can determine themselves the cost of their travel proposals. Recognising that it may take time for fares between intermediate countries and counties in Europe to be decided the Government has also proposed that there should be retention of excursion fares at current levels as a transitional device to ensure that this very popular travel need is met. Slightly changed conditions may apply to the fare and of course its introduction is dependent upon the agreement of other governments. First indications are that such an arrangement will be acceptable to those governments. 
Additionally I wish to emphasise that there will be arrangements negotiated for maintenance of flexible type first class and economy fares which allow the same travel flexibility as at present. Of course these fares will be priced higher than point to point fares and it will be a matter for the consumer to decide for himself or herself which is more appropriate to their needs. The aim is to develop fare packages which allow consumers to make choices and flexibility in thentravel arrangements and which are cost related. Obviously there will be a need for experimentation by carriers with fare types and the conditions that are attached to fares, but in making changes the Government would expect that its policy objectives of securing the satisfaction of the needs of all consumers, including those for whom price is the most important determinant, are met as fully as possible. 
On 23 January this year, the Acting Minister for Transport,  Mr Macphee,  announced that the Government was seeking consultations with the United States on air fare arrangements. In February we held the first round of those discussions which dealt with cheaper air fares across the Pacific and the proposal at that time to introduce a second American carrier, Continental. The second major round of negotiations was due to resume in Washington on 28 August, but the United States called these talks off. It is true that Pan American filed on two occasions prior to this time a cheaper fare proposal, but this was rejected for two reasons: The limited seat availability of about 2S0 seats out of Australia per week at about $800 return; and a desire by Australia to resolve the question in its totality in public benefit in government to government talks. 
These talks resumed in Canberra on 13 November on an informal basis. On 14 November I announced our proposals. They provided for a new low fare for one-third of the year of $450 return for advanced purchase tickets compared with the current year round APEX fare of $951. 1 also announced our proposals to seek the introduction of a shoulder fare of about $670 and a peak season fare of about $896 return. Both of these fares respectively will also cover one-third of the year. The details are yet to be confirmed and these fares are yet to be formally submitted to the appropriate authorities in both countries. I understand that Qantas filed its proposed fares, in line with my proposals, with the United States Civil Aeronautics Board yesterday. We have been given every indication that the filing will be treated as a matter of urgency. As I have said, and I repeat, I am confident that the new regime across the Pacific will apply from 1 February next year. 
Cabinet has approved the entry of Continental subject to the formal acceptance of my proposed cheap fares package and successful negotiation of other important details. These matters will again be discussed when the talks resume in Canberra on 4 December. In this context it is important to note that agreement has been reached more quickly with American authorities than with the British for a simple and obvious reason, that is, that the end to end services operate on a much less complex basis between the United States and Australia over an ocean. Most nights now operate directly between Australia and United States territory, whereas along the Kangaroo route bilateral discussions are required with a great number of countries. 
This Government is the first government to undertake a complete review of Australia's international civil aviation policy for many years. A report of the review committee provides the House with detailed information on the operation of our overseas air services, information which in its scope has never previously been available to the House. I point out that the Labor Government was in power for three years but did nothing whatsoever about it. It made no effort at all to introduce a change of air fare regime. Nor has the honourable member for Shortland, the Opposition spokesman for transport matters in this House, done anything to produce an aviation policy at all, let alone a policy on cheaper air fares. It was this Government that realised the potential that existed for lower air fares into and out of Australia. It was this Government which established the review and it is this Government which is actively pursuing changed policy arrangements and changed arrangements with other countries which will allow both lower fares and the maintenance of scheduled services from gateway points throughout the Commonwealth. The Australian Labor Party Government did nothing. 
Its most recent transport policy which was adopted at the ALP Perth Conference in 1977, prior to the last election, made absolutely no reference at all to aviation, let alone to international air policy or specifically a case for lowering air fares. The honourable member for Shortland has been reduced to inane carping and meaningless and vacuous calls for public examination and participation, presumably as the only way for him to be seen as taking an interest. The Opposition now alleges that there is substantial capacity for reduction in the level of international air fares. It was Government recognition of this that lead to our establishing the review. It was the Government which recognised the complexities and problems available. It was the Government that made available to this House, to the public, the work of the review committee- in two volumes of several hundred pages. 
When announcing the review the Government emphasised the complexities that change involved. It emphasised the need for agreement by other countries. It recognised that change would have an impact on Australian relations with other States. It recognised that certain classes of consumers were being denied the opportunity to travel. It was cognisant of the tourist industry's request that air fares to this country be loweredand it was cognisant of the fact that benefits from change must be available throughout the Commonwealth. The Opposition alleged that considerable public confusion has been caused by the Government's failure to indicate the complexities involved. I am delighted that the honourable member for Shortland has finally realised there are complexities involved. To state the government was unaware of these, or has caused public confusion, belies the facts. From the time of announcement of the review that has been the underlying theme of all my public statements. I have emphasised the interdependence of satisfying different classes of demand of international air services. If there is value from this debate today it is to further underline to members and the public the fact that determination of international air fares involves the agreement of at least two governments, and usually more. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The Minister's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (5) I refer the honourable member to the answer to Question No. 1794  (Hansard,  23 November 1978, page 3351). 
For the information of honourable members I present the report and financial statements for Qantas Airways Ltd for the year ended 31 March 1978. 
-It is a beauty too, Charlie. It shows how good a government we are. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled 'Transportation of the Australian Wheat Harvest'. Would the Leader of the Opposition repeat his interjection? 
You are a real smartie. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Department has no plans to occupy any space in the Qantas building, Sydney. 
) , ( 3 ) and ( 4) see answer to ( 1 ). 
-The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
by leave- In May of this year the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced new procedures for the formal consideration of parliamentary committee reports. I have pleasure in tabling a document summarising action the Government has taken or proposes to take on the recommendations contained in the last three reports of the House of Representatives 
Standing Committee on Road Safety. These reports are on passenger motor vehicle safety, tabled in May 1976; heavy vehicle safety, tabled in April 1977; and motorcycle and bicycle safety, tabled in June 1978. Before dealing with the reports in detail, I propose to describe briefly what has been achieved and is being done in the field of road safety. 
Throughout the decade of the 1960s there was a continuing increase in road accident casualties, with more than 30,000 people killed and 760,000 injured on Australia's roads. This trend reached a climax in 1970 with a record toll of 3,798 killed and over 91,000 injured. Since 1970, however, there has been a marked departure from this upward trend. In each of the years from 1971 to 1977 fewer people were killed on the roads than in 1970, despite increases of over 1.5 million in population and two million in motor vehicles. Since 1970, some 4,200 more people would have been killed had the trend from 1960 to 1970 continued. These figures show that significant gains have been made in recent years, but there are no grounds for complacency. In 1977, the fatality rate per 10,000 registered vehicles was 5.2. While this compares very favourably with the figure of 7.9 of a decade earlier, it is nevertheless still higher than the 1976 figures for the United States of 3.3, for New Zealand of 3.7 and for the United Kingdom of 3.8. 
As honourable members are aware, most of the direct action possible in the road safety field is the responsibility of the State government, the principal role of the Commonwealth Government being one of support and co-ordination. Co-ordination is achieved through the Australian Transport Advisory Council and its associated committees. Council is known as ATEC and it comprises State and Northern Territory Ministers with responsibility for transport, and the Commonwealth Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for Transport. It is a forum for seeking and implementing national solutions to transport problems. The Council has played an important role in road safety; it is through its work and that of its technical committees that much of the progress made so far in vehicle safety, road safety publicity and roaduser performance has been achieved. The Government attaches considerable importance to this work. 
In 1969, the first safety design rule for passenger cars was introduced. Australian Design Rules, as they are called, have been progressively extended to trucks, buses and motorcycles, and cover matters such as seat belt and braking systems, collapsible steering columns, burstproof door locks, and side impact protection. The Government, through the Department of Transport, provides the technical and secretarial resources to the ATAC committee which develops the design rules, as indeed it does to all the advisory committees of ATAC. The improvement in safety during the 1970s has flowed in no small measure from the Government taking a more active role in identified problem areas. For example, over $27m was provided to the States in the years 1976-77 and 1977-78 for road and traffic engineering improvements to specific locations with high accident records or significant traffic congestion. A further $14m has been allocated for expenditure during this financial year. There can be no doubt that this concentration of funds on low-cost, but highly costeffective, projects has made a substantial contribution to improving safety in Australia's road system. 
Other important examples of the Government's commitment include the establishment of the Office of Road Safety in the Department of Transport and the funding of extensive road safety research and promotion programs. Some $800,000 will be spent by the Office this financial year on research and education to further road safety in Australia. The introduction of legislation by the State and Territory jurisdictions to require the compulsory wearing of seat belts has given Australia a special place in road safety in the eyes of the world. Not only has the legislation been remarkably effective, but also the Australian initiative has encouraged many overseas countries to introduce similar legislation. The Government believes the wearing of restraints to be of key importance, and considers that continued effort should be directed towards maintaining the benefits flowing from this legislation. 
The Standing Committee on Road Safety has also played a significant role, with five reports completed and a sixth inquiry- covering alcohol and drugs- now under way. The  Chairman  and members of the Committee are to be congratulated, and I look forward to receiving the results of the current inquiry. There can be no doubt that foremost in the road safety problem is the role played by the excessive use of alcohol. In Australia about one-half of drivers killed, about one-quarter of pedestrians killed, about onequarter of motorcyclists killed, and about onefifth of passengers killed have blood alcohol concentrations of 50 milligrams per 100 millilitres or greater; that is 0.05 or above. When you apply these proportions to the road toll in Australia in 1977 you find that about 1,000, or one in every three adults killed, has an elevated blood alcohol level. No other single factor approaches the importance of alcohol as a contributor to serious road crashes. 
Recognising the importance of developing effective countermeasures to this problem, the Government joined with the International Committee on Alcohol, Drugs and Traffic Safety to host the Seventh International Conference on Alcohol, Drugs and Traffic Safety in Melbourne in January, 1977. Some SOO delegates attended from universities, governments and research bodies throughout the world. The conference provided an international forum for the updating of knowledge, assessment of new techniques, the development of public awareness as to the nature and size of the problem, and the suggestion of effective countermeasures. The Government strongly supports therefore the Committee in its current investigation into alcohol, drugs and road safety. 
I revert now to the three reports which are the subject of the document I now table. About twothirds of the recommendations contained in the three reports- the recommendations total over 100- relate to the activities of ATAC and its technical committees. Just under one-quarter relate to the Department of Transport and other Commonwealth departments, and the remainder refer to a range of industry and other organisations. To assist in the Government's consideration of the reports, comment was sought from appropriate departments, from the States and Territories, and from a range of other organisations. In summary, the Government supports about 50 per cent of the recommendations and considers that a further 30 per cent require additional investigation before a final attitude can be determined. Action is proceeding on a number of fronts to commission research, to review and to upgrade design and operational requirements, and to encourage initiatives by the States and Territories and industry and other groups. Projects already in progress include a review of the effectiveness of bicycle ways and preparation of a code of safe loading practices for heavy vehicles. New projects are planned to study motorcyclist spinal injuries and the handling and stability characteristics of motorcycles. 
Only 20 per cent of this large number of recommendations cannot be supported. For example, paragraph 247 of the report on motorcycle and bicycle safety recommends investigation of a scheme for the compulsory registration of bicycles. However, the State and Territory registration authorities consider that operational costs and administrative difficulties would far outweigh any benefits which may be derived from such a scheme. Members interested in the Government's attitude to individual recommendations can refer to the document I have tabled. I conclude by congratulating the  Chairman  of the Road Safety Committee the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  who is in the House, and the members of that Committee on their devotion to the work that they do on the Committee. I present the following paper: 
Reports of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety- Ministerial Statement, 24 November 1978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Taking domestic first class fare as the base, the domestic economy class fare as a proportion of that base is: 1 Based on sample of routes and fares. However, it should be noted that in the Benelux countries, Denmark, Britain and Eire there are no domestic first class fares. 
Priority has been directed at consideration of the recommendations impinging directly upon the Two Airlines Agreement. Other recommendations contained in the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review Report are to be considered as appropriate. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
17 houses have been demolished in Conwaytown, Port Augusta. 
Three of the homesites have been incorporated into a stores storage area and are not likely to be offered for sale. 
Services to all of the sites are presently provided by ANR who have advised that it would be necessary for the Port Augusta Council to assume responsibility for the maintenance of roads and effluent drainage and for the Engineering and Water Supply Department to assume responsibility for the water mains before any blocks are sold. ANR have advised the Port Augusta Council and the South Australian Housing Trust of their intention to consider selling the vacant Conwaytown sites when more of the older residences become vacant and are demolished. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Air Transport Agreement currently in force between Australia and the United States of America was signed on 3 December 1946. Amendments to this Agreement were signed and entered into force on 12 August 1957. 
The terms of the Air Transport Agreement ( 1946) are fully published in the United Nations Treaty Series Volume 7 page 201 ff. The terms of the amendments concluded in 1957 are published in the Australian Treaty Series, No. 14, 1957. 
The provisions for termination of the Air Transport Agreement are specified in Article XII of that Agreement as follows: 
It shall be open to either Contracting Party at any time to give notice to the other of its desire to terminate this Agreement Such notice shall be simultaneously communicated to the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation or its successor. If such notice is given, this Agreement shall terminate twelve calendar months after the date of receipt of the notice by the other Contracting Party unless the notice to terminate is withdrawn by agreement before the expiry of this period. In the absence of acknowledgement by the other Contracting Party specifying an earlier date of receipt, notice shall be deemed to have been received fourteen days after the receipt of the notice by the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organisation or its successor. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The terms of reference for the 'Women in Transport' study are as follows: 
Identify and describe the present situation in regard to women in the Department of Transport, their level of employment and their concentration in various employment areas. 
Ascertain the current situation in regard to promotional opportunities for women in the Department. 
Identify the personnel development and training requirements of women (and other minority groups) within the Department by investigation and inquiry. 
Define Equal Employment Opportunity in accordance with the concepts established by the Public Service Board, particularly in relation to the employment of women in the Department of Transport 
Define and recommend an Equal Employment Opportunity strategy for the benefit of women in the Department. 
f) Investigate the need for the establishment of an Equal Employment Opportunity Office in the Department of Transport 
Develop and recommend a statement of functions for the Equal Employment Opportunity Office. 
Develop criteria and monitoring procedures for the evaluation of personnel development and training programs for women in the Department 
Develop criteria for the evaluation of the Equal Employment Opportunity program. 
The study was initiated in August 1977 by the Secretary to the Department as a personnel development exercise in the Department, and follows a pilot study on the same subject carried out in 1 975. 
The study was completed in October 1978. 
As mentioned in (2) above the study was commissioned by the Secretary to the Department. I understand that the Secretary and Senior Officers of the Department have yet to consider the report. The question of its distribution will no doubt depend upon their consideration of it. 
No. 
The Co-ordinating Committee for the study comprised: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Aero Shell Compound 07 is used by Ansett Airlines of Australia, Trans Australia Airlines and East West Airlines for defrosting aeroplanes which have been parked overnight on cold airports. AAA and TAA carry out defrosting during winter at Canberra and Hobart EWA use the method at Tamworth. Qantas use the product in the windscreen deicing system of their Hawker Siddeley HS-125. Aero Shell Compound 07 has been used throughout the world since 1938. 
Not to my knowledge. The compound was however temporarily withdrawn from use by Shell locally between August 1974 and February 1975 because of a possible fire hazard, suggested by the US Department of Transportation's Federal Aviation Administration, involving Aero Shell Compound 07 or similar products coming into contact with silver or gold plated surfaces carrying an electric current such as electric motor slip rings and gold plated connectors in some avionics equipment The risk was found to be negligible so the product was reinstated by Shell and the airlines. 
Aero Shell Compound 07 is a de-icing fluid composed of ethylene glycol, isopropylalcohol and distilled water. It conforms to a British Government Specification DTD406B. It is used for in-flight de-icing of windscreens, propellers, wings, tailplanes, et cetera, on suitably equipped aircraft in a manner similar to motor car windscreen washers. In defrosting parked aircraft it is usually applied by spraying with a stirrup pump a one to one mixture of compound and warm water. 
Not to my knowledge. The compound is applied externally by spraying undiluted in extremely low temperature conditions such as occur in the Northern Hemisphere or diluted with water as previously stated. This has been standard world practice for some 40 years. 
This is not known. It would involve extensive inquiry of the airlines to ascertain this because of manner in which airline personnel are changed around. 
Shell recommends the use of standard wet weather gear. This is primarily because of the non-drying characteristic of the product 
The use of wet weather gear and respirators has been a comparatively recent innovation by one airline since October 1978 and I understand that this was a staff request 
The Air Navigation Act does not confer on me any powers relating to the health of aircraft maintenance workers. I understand the Shell Company maintains a Toxicology Group in London and also a Health and Safety Department in Melbourne under the supervision of a highly qualified medical officer. The Company maintains a continuing surveillance over the use of all its products from a health viewpoint and has for many years liaised with Commonwealth and State bodies concerned with industrial safety matters. 
My Department is not aware of any incidents of ill health directly attributable to exposure to de-icing compounds like Aero Shell Product 07. 
Aero Shell Compound 07 is in widespread use throughout the world but I am not able to specify all those countries. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Percentages carried by Australian flag vessels for the years 1966-67 to 1976-77 from Australian Bureau of Statistics tabulations are as follows: 
The statistics used to prepare the table in question 1 do not provide a breakdown for mineral exports. However, the percentage of Australian exports carried by Tramp/ Bulkships provides an approximate indication. 
The Government considers the use of Australian flag shipping in overseas trades to be a commercial operation. Other than protection for an Australian flag operator to engage efficiently and to a reasonable extent in overseas cargo shipping which is contained in Part X of the Trade Practices Act, 1 974; no specific direct or indirect assistance is given for the operation of vessels in the overseas trades. However, the Australian coasting trade is reserved under the Navigation Act 1912 to Australian licensed vessels. This effectively reserves the coastal shipping industry to Australian-registered and manned vessels. In addition, the Government's shipbuilding assistance arrangements enable overseas shipowners to import ships into Australia for temporary periods only when suitable Australian tonnage is not available, and on a permanent basis only after it has been demonstrated by calling tenders in Australia and overseas that the overseas tender price is less than the Australian tender price after bounty. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Since 1 January 1976 no TAA aircraft has been returned to the manufacturer but ten Qantas Boeing 747 aircraft have been returned. 
(a) VH-EBA, EBB, EBC EBD, EBF, EBG, EBH, EBI EBJ, EBK 
Feb 16-Feb 25 VH-EBA; Feb 25-Feb 29 VH-EBC Feb 29-Mar 3 VH-EBF; Mar 3-Mar 7 VH-EBD; Mar 7-Mar 10 VH-EBG; Mar 10-Mar 14 VH-EBI; Mar 14-Mar 17 VH-EBK; Mar 1 7-Mar 26 VH-EBB; Mar 26-Apr 5 VH-EBH; Apr 5-Apr 13 VH-EBJ-all in 1976. 
each aircraft is currently in service with Qantas. 
The reason for returning the aircraft was to have ten abreast economy seating installed in lieu of nine abreast seating thus increasing the passenger complement by 33. For convenience while the aircraft was laid up for this installation the opportunity was taken to have incorporated some manufacturer's service bulletins. Each aircraft had its own list of bulletins and depended on scheduling. The longer down time for aircraft VH-EBA, EBB and EBH was due to installation of water injection equipment. 
Each aircraft was taken out of service at the completion of a revenue flight to San Francisco and on completion of the work was returned to Australia on a revenue flight from San Francisco.  20® Mile Fishing Zone  (Question No. 2629) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The implementation of the proposed new fare structure for travel between Australia and the United Kingdom will provide a broad range of air fare choices for the travelling public Passengers wishing to avail themselves of point-to-point travel will be able to accommodate their re- quirements on the services of Qantas or British Airways. On the other hand passengers wanting a more complex travel itinerary, such as stopovers or en-route transfers, will have available a wide range of carriers operating services to Australia. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) and (2) Operators of international non-scheduled services are not granted traffic rights as is the case with international scheduled airlines designated by their own governments under Air Service Agreements Australia enters into with the governments of the other countries concerned. Nonscheduledflights, which include charter flights, are approved on the basis of separate application. There is no central register of applications for non-scheduled flights. Applications for non-scheduled flights since 1969 are estimated to number several thousand. 
15 November 1971. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has authorised the commencement of negotiations with the parties to the Airlines Agreements on the basis of the recommendations contained in the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review Report Part 1 . 
September 1978 following completion of the Second Report of the Committee covering Regional and Local/ Commuter air services. 
(4) and (5) Discussions are currently being conducted with Ansett Transport Industries Ltd and the Australian National Airlines Commission. As the matters being discussed are complex and cover a very wide range of issues it is not possible to announce the status of individual aspects until the conclusion of these discussions. 
-The answer to the honourable Member's question is as follows: 
As my Department had the carriage of the International Civil Aviation Policy Review it was inappropriate that a Departmental submission per se would have been made. There was, however, a significant amount of information provided to the Committee on a day to day basis by various Divisions of my Department, Departmental Regional Offices and the Bureau of Transport Economics. 
The Bureau of Transport Economics did, however, make a formal submission to the Review. 
A wide range of issues were covered in the Departmental input and these were reflected by the published report of the Review Committee. 
The BTE provided information on forecasts, characteristics of demand and supply. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The Australian National Railways Commission reviews freight rates at regular intervals. 
Yes. Information about competition is considered when rates are under review. 
Not applicable. 
I seek the indulgence of the Chair to correct an answer I gave to the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  during Question Time. 
-I will take the last part of the question first. There is no relevance or tie between cost recovery and air safety. The fact is that in respect of air safety the Government has acted on the advice of the safety experts in the Department of Transport. They have put forward a submission regarding changes that might be made to facilities affecting air safety. There is absolutely no tie between the program of cost recovery and the level of investment in air safety. In reality, only 4 per cent of the direct operating costs of the airlines are taken up by air navigation charges. There is currently a suggestion in the community that air navigation charges are one of the reasons for high domestic air fares. I think that the 4 per cent contribution puts that suggestion very much to rest. 
Let me deal with the level of capital development that might be charged against the airlines. This is relevant only through the cost recovery program that I have just mentioned. There is no direct correlation between levels of money invested in a particular year and the costs imposed on the airlines. The costs are recouped over a period of years through the air navigation charges. I ought to make this point very clearly to the House: Whilst domestic air fares are said to be high in this country, figures are available to demonstrate that on a cents per kilometre basis the air fares compare more than favourably with those in many other countries. The fact is that air navigation charges are not a significant aspect in the increase in air fares. Following the Government's changes in fuel policy and the increase in the fuel tax that was passed on to the airlines, I think the cost of fuel used by airlines has increased from about 11 per cent to 15 per cent of direct operating costs. But the main operating cost, of course, is the high price of labour in this country. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on the working and administration of the Department of Transport, including those matters on which I am required to report pursuant to section 29 of the Air Navigation Act 1 920 for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
The question should be directed to the Prime Minister. This matter is quite outside my jurisdiction. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The seventeen Qantas Boeing 747 aircraft in service are named after the cities of Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, Perth, Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart, Newcastle, Darwin, Geelong, Wollongong, Townsville, Parramatta, Sale, Albury, Elizabeth and Fremantle. The two Boeing 707 aircraft in service are named the City of Ballarat and Alice Springs. Other names that have been used since Qantas began this practice in 19S9 have been Launceston, Kalgoorlie, Bendigo, Broken Hill, Tamworth, Armidale, Port Moresby, Winton, Longreach, Toowoomba and Swan Hill. 
Qantas management decides on the names to be allocated to individual aircraft as they are taken on to the Australian register of aircraft. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
) to (4) Not applicable. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
-The answer to the first part of the question is yes. The answer to the second part of the question is also yes. The answer to the third part of the question is that the matters were taken into account. As far as the last part of the question is concerned, there is no connection between the financial interests that Ansett had in Associated Securities Limited and its activities as an airline. They are completely disassociated in a financial sense, and if the honourable member would like to take a look at Ansett 's annual report he would see how that is verified. 
The complaints by passengers have been drawn to my attention and they are being studied by the Department. It is not true to say that the new fares prohibit stopovers in Hawaii. If the honourable member has individual cases he had better give them to me so that they can be inspected. The fact is that the group inclusive tours to the West Coast are operating right now carrying stopovers. The off peak reduction in these fares is $325 or 42 per cent, which shows something of the significance of the fare savings made by the introduction of this new fare regime. At present, the old fare regime is still in operation in addition to the new fare regime. 
In fact, the tour operators can organise the fare construction in either of the two cases. It seems to me that the only way to get to the bottom of the question raised by the honourable member is to look closely at the details, and I will be happy to do so. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Agreement has been reached with the United Kingdom on the introduction of lower fares on the Australia/United Kingdom route. Agreement has also been reached with the Federal Republic of Germany and Yugoslavia for the introduction of lower fares for travel between Australia and those countries. 
The negotiations were conducted as formal consultations under Australia's bilateral air service arrangements with these countries. 
In addition to the countries mentioned in (1) the Government also has authorised negotiations to be held with the Netherlands, France, Italy, Greece, India, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, Philippines, Thailand, Japan, New Zealand and our Pacific Island partners. 
Negotiations with a number of countries as mentioned in (3) have already commenced and it is hoped that negotiations with the remaining countries will be commenced in the near future. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Under no circumstances are Departmental staff authorised to travel on Concorde between the United States and the United Kingdom. 
Ministerial staff, on the authorisation of the Prime Minister may travel on the Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom if accompanying myself. 
The additional cost per journey between normal first class fare and Concorde fare is approximately $A 1 30. 
No officers of the Department have sought approval, been granted approval or were refused approval to travel on Concorde aircraft during 1976-77, 1977-78 and 1978-79. 

 Mr M. Ryan, First Assistant Secretary, Land Transport Policy Division, travelled on Concorde aircraft between Paris and Washington in May this year, however  Mr Ryan  paid the difference between Concorde fare and first class fare personally. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The possible merger of TAA and Qantas was considered by the Administrative Review Committee under the chairmanship of  Sir Henry  Bland, and the review of Transport Business Undertakings under the chairmanship of  Sir James  McNeill. Terms of reference of both committees were published at the time they were established. The Administrative Review Committee undertook its work in the first half of 1976 and the McNeill Committee its work in the latter half of 1976. Details of when and where the committees deliberated are not readily available. Both reports including their findings, are confidential to the Government and will not be released. 
The Government has no intention of merging TAA and Qantas. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In respect of Australian National Railways passenger rolling stock the only case of asbestos used as an insulating material is in 14 rail cars where a small interior roof area at each end vestibule has this type of covering. 
In the case referred to in ( 1 ), any air passing through the region of each end vestibule has to pass an oil wetted filter before reaching the passenger saloon. 
Blanket and rope asbestos is used as a means of heat insulation on engine exhaust systems and in other similar applications by ANR. Although the amount of asbestos is relatively small, handling is done wet in accordance with instructions issued by the Commonwealth Department of Health. 
In respect of the case referred to in ( 1) and (2), ANR have advised that action is being taken to replace the asbestos with an alternative material. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, the Department of Transport, Australian National Airlines Commission, Australian National Railways Commission and Qantas Airways Limited employ apprentices. The Australian Shipping Commission while not employing apprentices does offer cadetships. Figures for these are included in part (2). 
(a) 1973-96; 1974-104; 1975-16; 1976- nil; 1977- nil; 1978-55. 
Qantas Airways Limited: 1973-114; 1974-209; 1975-246; 1976-222; 1977-221; 1978-85. 
Australian National Airlines Commission: 1973-13; 1974-46; 1975-44; 1976-45; 1977-54; 1978-55. 
Australian National Railways Commission: 1973-37; 1974-42; 1975-43; 1976-40; 1977-43; 1978-101. 
Australian Shipping Commission (Cadet Deck Officers): 1973-17; 1974-20; 1975-42; 1976-31; 1977-30; 1978- 30. 
the answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
) I am informed that none of the other States adopt similar practice to Queensland with regard to warning interstate traffic offenders. In cases where visiting driver's licences have been cancelled or suspended by the Courts, the driver's home State is notified, so that appropriate action can be taken under reciprocal arrangements existing between all States. 
At the direction of ATAC, which comprises Federal, State and Territory Ministers responsible for Transport, the Registrars of Motor Vehicles in all States and Territories hold an annual conference. The purpose of this conference is to examine differences in administration, legislation and regulation. I will arrange for this matter to be drawn to their attention. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) Total reported incidents: 1969-6,679; 1970-7,324; 1971-7,402; 1972-7,015; 1973- 7,433; 1974-8,416; 1975-7,739; 1976-6,779; 1977-6,451; 1978-6,000; (provisional). 
Incidents involving a reported infringement of prescribed separation standards: 1969-14; 1970-73; 1971-98; 1972-89; 1973-60 1974- 100; 1975-75; 1976-84; 1977-65; 1978-136; (provisional). 
Reported accidents: 
1969-270; 1970-286; 1971-252; 1972-223; 1973-264; 1974-280; 1975-243; 1976-271; 
1977-249; 1978-275; (provisional). 
Hours flown (thousands): 
1969-1,377; 1970-1,431; 1971-1,412; 1972-1,448; 1973-1,549; 1974-1,606; 1975-1,671; 1976-1,794; 
1977-1,870; 1978-2,108; (provisional). 
Australian registered aircraft at 30 June each year 
1969-202; 1970-187; 1971-185; 1972-189; 1973-181; 1974-175; 1975-174; 1976-153; 1977-145; 1978-136. 
1969-2,046; 1970-2,170; 1971-2,120; 1972-2,055; 1973-2,076; 1974-2,229; 
1975-2,154; 1976-2,005; 1977-2,186; 1978-2,377. 
1969-1,311; 1970-1,372; 1971-1,489; 1972-1,558; 1973-1,648; 1974-1,844; 1975-2,145; 1976-2,273; 1977-2,540; 1978-2,873. 
Pilot licences current at 30 June each year. (Includes student pilot licences): 
1969-25,783; 1970-26,405; 1971-28,081; 1972-28,725; 1973-28,102; 1974-31,53 1; 1975-34,628; 1976-34,1 1 1; 1977-40,059; 1978-44,148. 
(a) 1969-617; 1970-681; 1971-749; 1972-843; 1973-928; 1974-1,013; 1975-1,038; 1976-1,029; 1977- 1,021; 1978-1,014. 
1969-512; 1970-562; 1971-655; 1972-725; 1973-743; 1974-781; 1975-783; 1976-742; 1977-711; 1978- 748. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) As the airlines are operating in a commercial environment it would not be appropriate for me to disclose publicly such detailed financial information as asked for in this part of the question. 
In each case the basis for approvals of fare increases were increases in airlines operating costs as validated by cost investigators of the Depanment of Transport. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The objective of the project is to develop a generalised computer simulation model of a multi-purpose port. The model is designed to provide a framework for integrating the structure and operations, information flows and decisionmaking functions of a port. The model will be used by the Bureau of Transport Economics in its program of port studies. 
The project commenced on 1 December 1978. 
The first stage of the project is expected to be completed on 30 November 1979. A second stage is proposed to commence on 1 December 1979, however the decision to undertake the second stage will depend on the progress made in the first stage. 
Payments will be made at the end of each three months period upon certification that satisfactory progress has been made. Any travel required for the study will be paid at cost. 
A simulation model is an essential tool for the type of port studies undertaken by the Bureau of Transport Economics, but none of the models currently available was able to meet the Bureau 's requirements. 
The outcome of the project will be computer model and associated documentation so that, strictly speaking, there will be no findings to publish. However, the Director of the Bureau has advised me that it is his intention to publish a paper describing the model and its applications. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The aim of the study is to investigate the potential legal liability of utility authorities where it is established that poles on the roadside under their responsibility contribute to accident risk and/or severity. Furthermore, the study will seek to clarify the legal liability of an authority if a collision with a frangible (breakaway) pole results in injury due to the falling pole. 
The study commenced in August 1978. 
September 1979 
Payments are made on receipt and acceptance of satisfactory documentation of progress or completion. 
Collisions with poles are particularly severe compared to other types of road accidents and account for over 200 deaths and 4000 injuries a year. One of the countermeasures used to reduce the severity of these accidents is the installation of frangible poles. Concern over legal liability that might arise if a frangible pole caused damage or injury to a third party has mitigated against their wider use. This situation needs to be clarified. 
Yes. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The contract referred to is for the printing of the report of an in-depth study of accidents conducted by the Road Accident Research Unit of the University of Adelaide under the joint sponsorship of the Department of Transport and the Australian Road Research Board. 
2 ) The study commenced in August 1975. 
June 1979. 
Payments are made on receipt and acceptance of satisfactory documentation of progress or completion. 
The study report will provide detailed data on the medical, sociological, mechanical and environmental aspects of injury-producing accidents in a major urban area. This is the most comprehensive study of this nature in Australia since 1964-65 and will result in a comprehensive data base for developing a greater understanding of the factors involved in accident and injury causation. 
Yes. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The study consists of four inter-related projects entitled 
Evaluation of Speed Limit Provision in the National Road Traffic Code 
Review of the Effectiveness of the Australian Design Rule Program 
Characteristics of Rural Crashes 
Analaysis of the Queensland Mass Data File 
These sub-projects have a strong inter-relationship because they involve similar data sources and the outcomes of some will influence others. Specific mass data to be examined include vehicle occupant fatalities and injuries for various vehicle age groups, casualties in urban and rural areas, vehicle travel and occupancy in rural areas, accident rates by vehicle and driver factors. 
The study commenced in September 1 978. 
October 1979. 
Payments are made on receipt and acceptance of satisfactory documentation of progress or completion. 
The first two pans of the study will provide technical information for two of the Committees of the Australian Transport Advisory Council. The Committees involved are the Advisory Committee on Road User Performance and Traffic Codes and the Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design. The third pan of the study will assist the Office of Road Safety in the development of research priorities into road accidents in rural areas. The final part of the study will provide much needed information on the interrelationships between driver and vehicle characteristics and accidents. 
Yes. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The objective of the study is to establish in detail the proper methods and techniques for evaluating the road safety effectiveness of traffic engineering improvements of the type funded under the MITERS category of the States Grants (Roads) Act. 
The methodology to be established must take account of the quality of data that is held by the appropriate authorities and its accessibility. This is a necessary preliminary step to a comprehensive evaluation of safety effectiveness. 
The project commenced in September 1978. 
April l979. 
Payments are made on the basis of accounts rendered with the final 20 per cent to be retained pending satisfactory completion of the project. 
A key function of the Office of Road Safety within my Department is to evaluate, in cooperation and consultation with the relevant State authorities, the effectiveness of various countermeasures used to improve road safety. 
The Office of Road Safety in this instance is interested in assessing the road safety benefits derived by the Australian community through expenditure on measures such as low cost traffic engineering improvements. The information so gained will be of great benefit to future road safety programs. 
The report of the project will be distributed to relevant State authorities for comment and will otherwise be available on request. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The aim of the study is to locate, compile and review Australian data, both published and unpublished, which deal with road users, vehicles and the use of roads, generally referred to as exposure data. 
The study commenced in October 1978. 
June 1979. 
Payments are made on receipt and acceptance of satisfactory documentation of progress or completion. 
The study will identify gaps in currently available exposure data, locate sources of unpublished data and specify further data collection requirements. Without such information, it is not possible to define and understand relative accident involvement or to evaluate the effectiveness of many countermeasures. 
Yes. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Yes. The report is currently in draft form and advance arrangements have been made to have it printed by the Australian Government Publishing Service. 
I expect to table the report during the Autumn 1979 Session of Parliament. 
The report is being prepared by officers of the Land Transport Policy Division of my Department who have been closely involved with the administration of the Urban Public Transport Agreement. 
The report will cover the operation and scope of the UPT Agreement, give details of Commonwealth financial assistance provided and the individual projects approved, and analyse the impact of the program upon the public transport systems in Australia's major urban areas. 
Yes. Extensive discussions have been held with the States during preparation of the report. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
$62,000. 
Yes. 
This equipment was recommended by the Australian Federation of Air Pilots: the recommendation was supported by officers of the Department's Victoria/Tasmania Regional Office. 
No. Hamilton along with several other aerodromes has received priority for the installation of T-Vasis in order to provide better approach guidance at night. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The review is addressed to the basis on which proposed MITERS programs are prepared by the States, the detailed format in which programs are submitted and the procedures adopted by my officers in considering the road safety value of projects included in programs. 
) The project commenced in September 1 978. 
March 1979. 
Payments are made on the basis of accounts rendered with the final 20 per cent to be retained pending satisfactory completion of the project. 
My Department was concerned that the existing administrative arrangements for MITERS programs were not the most effective way of achieving the Government's objective for MITERS, which is to improve road safety. 
Furthermore, although administrative arrangements have been significantly streamlined since 1976, State authorities have continued to criticise the existing arrangements. State authorities have been invited to participate from the outset so that they themselves can help develop procedures which are more suitable to them. 
The study by the Office of Road Safety which was the subject of a separate question by the Honourable Member is seen as complementing the work of the current review. 
My Department will distribute the final report of the review to State road and traffic authorities for their comment before any changes to administrative arrangements are  made. 
As the review deals with administrative arrangements it is not likely to be of interest to the general public and accordingly I see no value in publishing the final report. However I would be happy to make a copy of the report available to the Honourable Member if he so wishes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Following the introduction of a new fares package for travel between Australia and the United Kingdom in January1977, the Australian Government offered the same fares package to European Governments because negotiations between Qantas and the European airlines to achieve agreement were unsuccessful. In the event agreement could not be reached with European Governments prior to 1 1 October 1978 when I announced Australia's new civil aviation policy. Subsequently negotiations to implement revised air service arrangements, including the introduction of low fares, have been completed with the United Kingdom, West Germany, the United States and Yugoslavia. It is hoped that within the next few months agreements for lower fares will be reached with other countries including Greece, the Netherlands, Italy, New Zealand, India, nations in the ASEAN region and our Pacific Island partners. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, but the drop out position was 28° 12' south 164° 13' east. 
(a) Yes 
Yes 
Yes. 
Six days and nine hours. 
Three sorties in an area bounded by 29° 20' south, 32° 00' south, 164° 20' east, 167° 38' east. 
Eight hours fifty minutes under Australian control. Unknown time under New Zealand control. 
Search terminated 1241 GMT on 24 April 1978 as the assessed search area had been thoroughly searched. 
The Australian Coastal Surveillance Centre (previously Marine Operations Centre) notified at 03 12 GMT on 18 April 1978. 
Yes. 
Middleton Reef lies 320 nautical miles west of nearest point of the assessed search area. 
(a) Yes. The date was 3 May and aircraft was en route Norfolk Island to Australia, (b) Yes. The time of arrival of HMAS  Swan  was 0630 GMT on 4 May 1 978. 
The Australian Coastal Surveillance Centre. 
12) The yacht  Josephine  was fitted with two VSBs each operating on 121.5 MHz and 243 MHz. These were still on board when the vessel was located. 
13) See answer to previous question. 
No. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is contained in Table A below. The cost of each individual ship has not been shown as it is considered to be commercially confidential. However, the total building cost of the vessels included in this table is around $337m. 
In addition, five Australian ships are currently under construction in overseas yards. Details of these ships are provided in Table B. The total building cost of these vessels is not yet known. 
The cost of emission controls is causing fairly serious concern throughout the community. There have been representations to me by a great number of members of this Parliament on this subject. It is very difficult to estimate accurately the cost of emission controls but the estimates that have been made have put the figure at somewhere between $80m and $ 100m. That is the annual cost for 1978. Quite clearly emission controls are very expensive. 
What we are not sure about at this time is whether, on the other side of the coin, we are making proper gains that ought to be made having regard to the total level of the costs. Because of the uncertainties on the emission controls, there have been a number of investigations into them and some of these investigations are still under way. The Australian Transport Advisory Council made up of Commonwealth and State Ministers for Transport is meeting in Canberra on Friday. I have written to the State Ministers for Transport putting to them the Commonwealth view that the third stage of ADR 27A ought to be postponed while these investigations take place. I hope that ultimately we will come up with a better system of vehicle emission control so that the public health gain is what is required when measured against the total cost of the emission control program. 
The style of the Opposition in this Parliament is best demonstrated by the speech we have just heard from the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  Here is the world facing tremendous international problems, here is Australia in a part of the world that is being torn by wars in Vietnam, problems involving the overrunning of Kampuchea, problems as regards oil exploration and possible loss of oil supplies from Iran and problems in the Middle East, not to mention the trading initiatives of this Government, about which the Opposition has said nothing and an economy about which the Opposition can make no proposals at all, yet we are served up a speech by the Opposition that is nothing more than scuttle-butt rumour and hearsay. The fact is that last year the Opposition spent its time on personal attacks on Ministers. Indeed it was mainly the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  who during most of the year did most of the scandalising. But he seems to have moved to one side today to let a lesser known member of the Opposition have a go. Well, the lesser known member of the Opposition has failed dismally, as I will prove with all the statistics that are possible. They demonstrate the sober style of travel of the Fraser Government, compared with that of the former Government of which the honourable member was a supporter. 
The reason for the Labor Party bringing forward this discussion of matter of public importance today is that it is bereft of policy contributions on any subject of sense in this place. A look at last year's record of proceedings will show the scandal mongering and scuttle-butting that went on from members of the Opposition. Can anyone remember one positive or constructive proposal that came forward from a member of the Opposition on a matter of public importance in this House in the whole of last year? They cannot because the Opposition spent the whole time doing exactly what the honourable member for Shortland has just been doing- scandalising and scuttle-butting trying to cause trouble and trying to cause mischief. The fact is that in the final analysis, all the statistics, no matter how one might like to deliver them, no matter how one might like to present them, show that the excesses of the Whitlam years were far grander than the caravanserai that the honourable member tried to attribute to the Fraser Government. In three years of government the Whitlam Government outspent, outmanned and outtravelled by 10 times the Fraser Government. The Whitlam style of government shamed the caravanersai of Marco Polo, and that is a fact. 
Let us look at the terms of the matter of public importance which is before us today and try to get it into perspective. It reads: 
The alarming growth in Government expenditure on ministerial travel. 
In bringing forward this matter, what does the honourable member for Shortland do? He tries to make a case about there being increased expenditure on travel during the three years that we have been in government. Let us go back to what happened in the three years in which his government, led by Gough Whitlam, was in power. I recognise, as I guess all members of parliament recognise, that there are demands made on Ministers and on Prime Ministers to travel overseas. They have to attend meetings of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the United Nations and its agencies, and Commonwealth Heads of Government meetings on trade negotiations and the South Pacific Forum. There also have to be exchanges of ministerial visits. It was just as valid for the Whitlam Government to travel for those sorts of reasons as it is for this Government. I am not saying anything new. I said the same thing in this House when I was standing on the other side of the chamber complaining about the excesses of the Whitlam Government. At that time I said: 
In this speech I propose to take up the matter I raised with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at question time this morning, that is, his proposed trip overseas. 
This is the important part: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am aware of the estimates presented to ATAC that vehicle emission controls increased fuel consumption for the vehicles concerned on average by approximately 7 per cent. 
Yes. 
A number of countries have emission controls. In some, notably the United States and Japan the standards are more stringent than in Australia. 
The New South Wales State Pollution Control Commission (SPCC) has produced post ADR 27a estimates of the effect of emission controls. They have estimated that on a per vehicle basis carbon monoxide has been reduced by an average of 57 per cent, hydrocarbons by 50 per cent and oxides of nitrogen by 38 per cent. 
It must, however, be remembered that these controls only apply to new vehicles registered after the introduction of 
ADR 27a in July 1976, and at present these vehicles only make up approximately 20 per cent of the total vehicle fleet. It will therefore be several years before the effectiveness of emission controls on urban air quality can be measured. 
Emission inventories estimating the contribution of motor vehicles to urban air pollution have been prepared for Melbourne by the Environmental Protection Authority in 1973, for Sydney by the NSW State Pollution Control Commission in 1972 and for Adelaide by the SA Department of Public Health in 1974. They showed that the percentage contributions of exhaust emission to air pollution for the various cities was as follows: 
Medical authorities around the World have undertaken research into the effects of various pollutants including those emitted from motor vehicles. This research has established relationships between exposure levels to various motor vehicle pollutants and adverse health effects. The levels of pollutants that are acceptable from a medical viewpoint are under constant review by the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No written statement of allegations has been presented to my Department. However the Department is aware of allegations that Tasmanian produced apples, shipped to the mainland and the subject of assistance under the Tasmanian Freight Equalisation Scheme, are subsequently being exported. The Scheme's guidelines provide that assistance is not payable on cargoes destined for export from Australia. 
Investigations into allegations have been completed. The allegations could not be substantiated. 
Tasmanian Apple and Pear Marketing Authority. 
The allegations highlighted a possible means of abuse of the Scheme. 
It is clear that the amount of $ 100,000 quoted in the article referred to by the honourable member is many times the maximum amount involved, and while not wishing to understate my concern, the amount of assistance which may actually have been involved in the alleged malpractice is minimal compared with the total of $2Sm of freight assistance to be provided this year. 
My Department, in conjunction with the appropriate authorities, has made arrangements to overcome the administrative difficulties highlighted by its investigation of the allegations and will be keeping the situation under review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) An air safety incident involving a Qantas and a Pan American aircraft occurred some 260 kilometres east of 
Sydney Airport on 21 July 1978. The incident was investigated by the Air Safety Investigation Branch of my Department 
Yes. 
The investigation revealed that, following an air traffic control co-ordination breakdown, the Qantas aircraft was given a clearance to descend through the level occupied by the Panam aircraft. The crew of the Qantas aircraft observed the Panam aircraft, which was flying in the opposite direction, and did not act on the clearance until the two aircraft had passed. There was no loss of separation between the aircraft. 
No. 
The term 'near miss' is not precisely defined internationally. Reports of such occurrences however, would be embraced in the air safety incident reporting system conducted by my Department. An air safety incident may simply be defined as an occurrence in which the safety of an aircraft has been or could have been compromised. It is the practice to interpret this definition fairly broadly and, apart from the legal requirement to report incidents, pilots and other operational personnel are encouraged by my Department to submit air safety incident reports concerning any circumstances affecting the operation of aircraft which the originator believes to be undesirable or hazardous. Judgment of what is undesirable or hazardous is, of course, subjective in many cases. Accordingly, records are maintained of air safety incident reports in which an infringement of prescribed separation standards has been reported to have occurred without differentiation between those occurrences in which aircraft were in close proximity and those in which the separation reduction was relatively minor. The following figures have been extracted from those records and refer to all incidents in respect of which it was reported that there was an infringement of separation standards. 
1974-12; 1975-5; 1976-5; 1977-4; 1978-10 (provisional). 
1974-53; 1975-50; 1976-50; 1977-38; 1978-90 (provisional). 
1974-17; 1975-12; 1976-12; 1977-11; 1978-23 (provisional). 
(a)154;(b)44;(c) 8; (d)28. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled: 'Mainline Upgrading- Evaluation of a Range of Options for the Kalgoorlie-Perth Rail Link'. 
-The lack of supply of fuel at airports has now become quite serious. The situation is that the domestic airlines' operations are continuing to deteriorate quite markedly. The Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide airports are completely picketed, and picketing at Brisbane which began last night is becoming quite effective. We now have a tropical cyclone coming in on North Queensland and disrupting services through the northern parts of Queensland. I believe that there is one day's supply of fuel at Adelaide Airport and one and a half day's supply at Brisbane. Tasmania fortunately is functioning satisfactorily. Qantas Airways Limited is still operating normally. It still has several days of supply and is able to tanker supplies in. The situation is becoming quite serious. The dispute is scheduled to go before  Mr Justice  Coldham tomorrow morning in Melbourne. I hope that the unions involved in this dispute will recognise that there are proper procedures for the hearing of this dispute. I hope they also recognise that they are starting to create substantial difficulties for the travelling public. Indeed we are reaching a situation of almost total inconvenience to the travelling public. I hope that the unions recognise this and at least do not disrupt the Australian travelling public any more than they have to this point. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please see reply to question 3156. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please see reply to question 3156. 
Pollution of the Sea  (Question No. 3164) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please see reply to question 3156. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please see reply to question 3156. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please see reply to question 3156. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please see reply to question 3156. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please see reply to question 3 156. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please see reply to question 3156. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. (2 to 4) Not applicable. 
by leave- Some five months have passed since I announced the Government's international civil aviation policy and I think it is now timely to point out to the House the achievements that have been reached to this point. I do not intend to go over in detail the aims of the ICAP. These should now be well known to all honourable members. It should be sufficient to say, in a nutshell, that the policy sets out to combine the best features of charter and scheduled operations in the one air service. That policy is succeeding. In fact its success in the five short months of its operation has been outstanding. It is specifically this success that I want to bring to the attention of honourable members today. 
Implementation of the Policy 
Like all other countries Australia's ability to operate international scheduled air services depends on formal agreements reached on a bilateral basis with other countries. Australia has 27 such arrangements. To make the changes required to implement our new policy we therefore have to negotiate with our bilateral partners. On the Kangaroo route alone this involves negotiations with 13 other governments. Negotiations began in October 1978 to implement the ICAP. On the Australia/Europe routes, which in terms of ethnic ties are by far our most important, we have been able to reach agreement on our policy with the United Kingdom, the Federal Republic of Germany and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I am confident that we will shortly be able to conclude a similar agreement with the Greek Government. Each of these agreements has meant significant fare reductions. We have reached an interim agreement with the United States which has resulted in quite dramatic reductions in fares between Sydney and Melbourne and the American west coast. 
Negotiations began last week on the important Australia-New Zealand route and it was agreed that Air New Zealand Ltd and Qantas Airways Ltd will meet shortly to formulate low fares proposals for consideration by our two governments. Exchanges have also taken place between Australia and Canada on new low fares, and I am hopeful that in the near future we might reach an agreement which will allow early introduction of lower fares to Canada. Arrangements are currently under way to organise a new round of negotiations with the Dutch Government, and I hope that here too we will shortly reach formal agreement. I have also today been informed that Alitalia Airlines and Qantas had very useful discussions in Hong Kong where they reached very near accord on lower fares between Australia and Italy. The matter has yet to be referred to both governments by the airlines. 
Much publicity has been given to the position of negotiations with members of the Association of South East Asian Nations. I am the first to admit that discussions in this area have not, up to now, progressed quite as well as I had hoped. But I am still confident that agreement can be reached between Australia and the ASEAN countries, and I hope in the very near future. Before I go into detail as to the approaches that we have made to the ASEAN countries, let me put to rest- I hope once and for all- what seems to have become a popular misconception about our dealings with South East Asia, that is, that the Department of Foreign Affairs has not been involved in the negotiations. That is simply not true. I say, most emphatically, that in all negotiations with all of our bilateral partners, including negotiations with the ASEAN countries, Foreign Affairs officials have been fully involved. There has been no time when Foreign Affairs has not been involved. Furthermore, officials of my Department consult with Foreign Affairs officials on a daily basis. 
Negotiations began with the ASEAN countries, at the same time as they did in Europe. It was the Government's aim that all countries with which we have bilateral arrangements would have been able to participate in low fare arrangements from 1 February 1979. In our discussions with the ASEAN countries we have offered to negotiate fares including stopovers at a reasonable cost for those who wish to spend time in South East Asia. We have proposed low fares and tour basing fares to South East Asia and have offered to negotiate the levels of those fares. We are prepared to work out with the ASEAN countries the extent of capacity required to cope with the expected traffic demands and to provide some additional landing rights to ASEAN airlines. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and I have been collaborating closely in this matter and I am pleased that we appear to be getting close to arranging a significant round of discussions with the ASEAN countries later this month. I sincerely hope, and will be using my best endeavours to ensure, that that meeting clears away the difficulties which have so far prevented the reaching of agreement with our ASEAN neighbours and enabling them to participate in the benefits already flowing from ICAP. 
The ASEAN problem centres in the main on concern that their tourism from Australia will decline as a result of our new policy, and that their carriers will lose access to Australia-Europe traffic. On the first point, we confidently consider that stopover traffic in South East Asia will not diminish, providing the correct fare levels are struck. And, obviously, setting the correct fare levels is something that must be sorted out at the negotiating table. But let me point out that whilst there have been expressions of concern on the part of some ASEAN countries that stopover traffic will decline, it is a fact that 47 per cent of Australian stopover traffic is destined for Asian regions, not for Europe. On the second point, as I have already mentioned, we have proposed new fares that will allow stopovers in the ASEAN region at levels whch are lower than those currently applying. By this means, we believe, the access previously enjoyed will be retained. 
The new fares 
Let me point out some specifics, in terms of figures, to demonstrate just how successful and how significant the new lower air fares have been. The APEX- Advanced Purchase 
Excursion- fares to the UK, previously the lowest on a cents per kilometre basis, have been reduced by 12 per cent in the mid or shoulder season and 32 per cent in the off peak. This now makes them comparable with the lowest cents per kilometre costs in the world. APEX fares to Germany, the first of their type to Continental Europe, produced reductions of 16 per cent, 21 per cent and 49 per cent for the three seasons. Similar reductions have been achieved in Australia- Yugoslavia fares, which have been reduced by 14 per cent, 20 per cent and 48 per cent for the three seasons, and similar levels of reduction are evisaged for the Australia-Greece fares. On the Australia-USA route APEX fares to San Francisco have been reduced by 6 per cent at the peak, 27 per cent at the shoulder and 53 per cent off peak. 
The implementation of the new fares has caused a massive increase in bookings. Indeed the public response to advance purchase conditions has been overwhelming. As an example, on the Continental Europe route where there had been no advance purchase fares, Qantas alone has estimated that total forward bookings- that is to say bookings for all fare types- in the period March to December 1979 are up by 62 per cent out of Australia and 98 per cent into Australia, compared to the same period last year. On the trans-Pacific route, comparable figures show that Qantas forward bookings are up by 125 per cent out of Australia, and 132 per cent into Australia. Obviously these figures reflect pent up demand, but the indications are that the underlying generation rate is very close to that forecast by the committee which undertook the review of policy for the Government. 
The introductory period has, of course, been a particularly trying period for the airlines in terms of making sufficient seats available to meet the pent up demand. The airlines have coped with this problem by adding additional flights as demand warranted and are now at the stage where not all seats are being taken up on the additional services. Looking specifically at the new APEX fares, Qantas and British Airways together on the Kangaroo route have booked a total of more than 213,000 seats between Australia and United Kingdom. Breaking that figure down, over 100,000 seats have been booked into Australia and almost 113,000 seats into the UK. On the trans-Pacific route, Qantas has so far booked 53,700 APEX and Budget fare seats out of Australia and nearly 51,000 into this country for the period February to December 1979. With total low fare seat bookings now approaching the half million mark, I believe that even our most ardent critics must now concede that our policy is an outstanding success. 
Let me also give the House an indication of the actual fare reductions. In 1971, the lowest available return fare to London was $730.70. Expressed in 1979 dollar terms, the 1971 fare would be $1,644. 1 ask honourable members to compare that with the $568 now achieved. Similarly, the lowest return fare Sydney to San Francisco in 1971 was $580.40, which in 1979 dollar terms would be $1,306. The actual lowest fare now is $430. Put in the simplest terms, the lowest available return air fare from Sydney to London in 1971 was equal to about 8 1/2 weeks of average weekly earnings, whereas today's comparable fare is equal to only about  2Vi  weeks of average weekly earnings. 
There have been claims that our tourist industry will be disadvantaged by the new lower fares. Yet the Australian Tourist Commission predicts a growth of 10 per cent in overseas travellers visiting Australia in 1979 alone as a direct result of the lower air fares policy. Foreign exchange earnings are expected to total some $400m in the current calendar year as a result. And the Tourist Commission is forecasting annual growth rates as high as 15 per cent for the period between 1979 and 1982, with over one million tourists coming to Australia annually by 1983. Taking another estimation, Qantas says that it is absolutely certain that in the first year of the lower fares being generally applied it will have a growth, conservatively, of 20 per cent in the incoming non-business travel market. That would be the greatest annual growth rate in the last 10 years in tourism to this country, and the greatest absolute growth ever. So clearly there is enormous potential for the tourist industry in Australia, and clearly it is all being brought about because of this Government's policies. 
There has also been much said about the socalled open skies policy. The proponents of such a policy fail to recognise that the pre-ICAP situation, in which 17 carriers on the AustraliaUnited Kingdom route had access to all fare types resulted in over capacity on the route and airlines having to keep fares up to remain viable. It must be remembered that the aviation industry is one which is heavily controlled by governments- all governments. So to speak of open competition in such an enviroment pays no regard to the international situation. Other governments will not embrace open skies policies, and, given that, for Australia to declare such a policy would simply be to hand over aviation policy to other governments, allowing them to make decisions for us on such areas as scheduling and pricing. 
This brings me more specifically to the question of charters. As I said at the outset, our policy combines the best of both worlds. It seeks to preserve the best features of scheduled air services, yet allows them to meet the needs of passengers who want fares comparable to those offered by charters. Let me again say that there is no veto on the possibility of charters operating to and from Australia on a regular basis. Once the new fares policy has been fully implemented, and once demand has been fully assessed, then we can again look at the charter prospects. I personally believe that late 1980 will be the absolute earliest that this can again be considered- and if we are to consider any charter operations, then I would expect an Australian charterer also to participate. 
Also let me inform the House of moves towards lower add-on fares within Australia. The Government realises the urgent need to reach agreement with the airlines for equitable add-on air fares for international passengers wishing to travel to, say, the United States, from cities in Australia not presently served by direct connecting international flights. As a result, discussions are underway as a matter of priority between my Department and Qantas and the domestic airlines. I hope that in the near future agreement will be reached that will prove to be of significant benefit to Australians wishing to travel overseas, and to overseas visitors coming to Australia and wanting to see more than just the city in which they land. I am not in a position to say more than that at this stage, but let me again assure the House that the Government is mindful of the need for add-on fares, and is pursuing all possibilities vigorously. 
Achievements of the policy 
In conclusion, I would summarise the very great benefits which flow from the Government's international civil aviation policy as follows: 
The introduction of the fares is satisfying a long awaited consumer demand. 
The low fares are providing the tourist industry with the opportunity to market Australia overseas as never before. 
The aspirations of our ethnic communities to visit their homelands and to have their friends and relatives visit them in Australia are being met. 
The policy has enabled the greatest spread of benefits to the community in a nondiscriminatory manner. This will become more evident with the advent of new low add-on fares in Australia which are currently being negotiated. 
The arrangements already negotiated will permit far greater flexibility than in the past in being able to vary fare types, schedules, service arrangements and capacity to meet demand. 
The pricing of fares over the seasons will enable airlines to smooth peaks and troughs in demand resulting in more economic operation and providing scope for maintenance of fares at lowest possible levels. 
The fares included in the total fare package provide for economically efficient market segregation through pricing which caters for passengers wishing to travel on demand, the provision of stopovers, the establishment of fare levels to cater for those who wish to travel point to point and also provide for the tourist market and for those wishing to visit friends and relations. 
The policy allows for the continued viability of Qantas, an essential element of Australia's ability to negotiate successfully in international civil aviation fields and to control our international civil aviation destiny. 
Discriminatory benefits which resulted from illegal discounting will give way to the broadest spread of benefits. 
The policy respects the rights of each of our bilateral partners to an equal share of the traffic between our two countries. 
The retention of Qantas as a viable and efficient operator provides essential defence capacity for times of peace and of national emergency. 
In conclusion, our policy is working. It is being advanced as rapidly as possible. It is bringing tourists into Australia. It is satisfying consumer demand. It is meeting the promise made to the people of Australia to give them the best possible access to the cheapest possible air travel, and at the same time is boosting our tourist industry by also offering lower air fares to the residents of countries with which we have reached agreement. I present the following paper: 
International Air Fare Situation- Ministerial statement, 6 March 1979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The recommendations made by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report on Oil Spills are at present being closely studied by all those affected. 
Initial reaction is that the report is a good report and the majority of recommendations appear to be acceptable. 
I intend to make a full statement to the House in the near future as is the customary practice of this Government in relation to reports by Parliamentary Committees. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report on investigation and design prepared by the Joint Committee on the Second Hobart Bridge. 
One of the problems of modernday living is that people like to travel by air. Whether the honourable member likes it or not, they are going to continue to do so while fuel is available. Fuel is getting scarce and more expensive, but people are still going to travel while they can. I have some difficulty in imposing regulations on general aviation aircraft that meet certain noise control measures which would prevent them from using Bankstown Airport throughout the day or night. I will have a look at the suggestion of curtailing charter aircraft in particular, to which I think the honourable member referred, to see whether it is a feasible proposition. The major point I make is that people do demand to travel. We need to facilitate that travel even though we experience some difficulties in doing so. On the general question of Bankstown, let me go on to say that the future of Bankstown is, of course, tied up with the future of the  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney Committee study. Until the MANS study is concluded the whole of the settlement of the question of aviation services throughout Sydney remains reasonably open. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide the legislative framework within which the Commonwealth will meet its 1977 election policy commitment to a joint Commonwealth-State program for upgrading State railways which are part of the mainline network. Under this Bill, the Commonwealth will be empowered to provide up to $70m to the States of New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia over the five years 1978-79 to 1982-83. 1 should make it clear at the outset that the nonmetropolitan railway in South Australia and the Tasmanian railway system will not participate in this program as they are now the direct responsibility of the Commonwealth Government. I should add that as far as Western Australia is concerned there have been separate arrangements agreed through the Loan Council to cover the $65m program for the State to upgrade the mainline railway between Kwinana and Koolyanobbing. 
Before turning to the provisions of the Bill I would like to provide the House with a brief comment on our approach to this program. The Government's initiative was based on the fact that studies conducted by the Bureau of Transport Economics and the States showed that the efficiency, capacity and frequency of mainline railways could be improved by strategic investment in critical sectors of the network. I have tabled a number of reports on these studies in the Parliament over recent years; for example, the Melbourne to Sydney Rail Link, and the Melbourne to Serviceton Rail Link. The concept and composition of the program and the arrangements to be used have been extensively discussed with the States at officer level. Final details, of course, remain to be settled by the governments concerned. However, on the basis of my recent discussion with State Ministers on this matter, I do not anticipate any problems in formalising arrangements- 
I should make particular mention of one arrangement which although outside the legislation is a very important development. At the recent Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting it was agreed that the Board of the Australian Railways Research and Development Organisation, which includes the railway commissioners from the participating States, would provide complementary advice to my State colleagues and to me on such matters as priorities for scheduling projects. I regard this as an important joint step in furthering a national approach to national issues. Because assistance is to be provided as interest bearing repayable section 96 grants it will be necessary to conclude agreements in respect of the financial assistance to be provided. On the question of loans I should point out to the House that the State governments have traditionally regarded their railways as business undertakings and have themselves provided capital from State sources on an interest bearing basis. 
Turning to the provisions of the Bill, clause 3 provides definition of terms regularly used in the Bill. What that clause contemplates as a 'main railway line' is a line in the network linking the capital cities of the participating States- for example, Sydney to Melbourne and Sydney to Brisbane. The machinery for declaring a railway line to be a main railway line for the purposes of the Act is contained in clause 4 ( 1). In addition, recognising that considerations of national interest may warrant the provision of assistance to other than intercapital lines, provision is made in clause 4 (2) of the Bill for me to declare other railway lines as main railway lines for the purposes of the Act. Naturally, in exercising authority under this clause, I would be guided by proposals put forward by my State colleagues. Under clause 5 of the Bill the Commonwealth Minister for Transport is empowered to conclude agreements with the States for the provision of financial assistance for approved projects. It is intended that finance provided under this program will be on the same terms and conditions as normal semi-government borrowings. Clause 6 simply states that the financial assistance will be provided to the States in the way set out in the agreements, and clause 7 requires that copies of all agreements be tabled in each House of the Parliament. 
As a principle the implementation of approved projects will be a matter for the States. It will be necessary for me to inform this Parliament, in the usual way, of progress on this program and the expenditure of funds. The agreements will therefore involve the usual clauses relating to accounting for expenditure and reporting on project implementation. Clause 8 of the Bill provides that a total amount of $70m will be provided to the States under this 5-year program. However, honourable members will note that $3m has already been appropriated for 1978-79 in Appropriation Bill (No. 2). Allocations in subsequent years will of course need to be determined by the Government as agreements are concluded and in the light of program schedules and the overall budgetary situation. Thus, like other Budget items, program allocations will come under the scrutiny of the Parliament. Clause 9 provides that payments will be made by the Minister for Finance. Clauses 10 and 1 1 contain the usual conditions applicable to financial assistance programs. This program represents a recognition of the concern which this Government has to work with the States to ensure that the railways are upgraded in order to respond adequately to the national transportation task. I am sure we will see significant national benefits flow from this program. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Everingham)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l)and(2)Yes. 
As stated in my answer to the honourable member's previous Question No. 2478, the distance measuring equipment at Sydney Airport was checked immediately the incident was reported and was found to be operating normally. Both airborne equipments in the DC-9 were subsequently tested. One equipment was found to be faulty and was replaced. No fault was found on the other equipment and it was returned to service. No further incidents involving the Sydney DME system have been reported. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
35 officers, 
35 officers, (c)5 1 officers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (5) Air service negotiations between the Australian and United States aeronautical authorities were held in Canberra from 4 to 1 4 December 1978. 

 Mr J. Rowland (Leader), First Assistant Secretary, Department of Transport.  Mr T.  Grant, Director, Department of Transport.  Mr T.  Brosnan, Director, Department of Transport.  Mr H.  Tscheppera, Acting Director, Department of Transport.  Mr G.  Lund, Foreign Affairs Officer, Department of Foreign Affairs.  Mr I.  Booth, Treaties Section, Department of Foreign Affairs. 

 Mr R. Brown (Leader), Office of Aviation, Department of State.  Mr S.  Rederer, Assistant  Chairman,  Civil Aeronautics Board.  Mr J.  Jones,  Deputy  Chief, International Aviation Division, Department of Transportation.  Mr J.  Horneman, Chief, Pacific and Far East, Bureau of International Aviation, Civil Aeronautics Board.  Mr J.  McMahon, Bureau of Pricing and Domestic Aviation, Civil Aeronautics Board.  Mr M.  Churchill, Commercial Attache, Embassy of the United States, Canberra, Australia. Miss L. Ray, Assistant Director, International Services, Air Transport Association. 
Department of Transport. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The questions pertain to matters currently the subject of negotiation with the domestic trunk airlines. Accordingly it would be inappropriate to comment on the Government attitude at this time. 
The Customs Act defines the control over all imports. This Act is administered by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Regulations under the Act prescribe import conditions that are required to be met. In the case of aircraft, permission is required of the Secretary to the Department of Transport before an aircraft can be imported. I consider these arrangements are satisfactory. 
The Domestic Air Transport Policy Review Committee recommended the Government should continue to control entry of aircraft through Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
and (3) Inquiries by my Department have produced no evidence to warrant legal proceedings in respect of allegations concerning the travel organisation associated with the Young Liberals of Victoria. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) (a) I understand that the TAA in-flight invitation is for the booking of a Hertz car, but that bookings for other car rental firms will be accepted on specific request. (b)No. 
The present Avis contract which expires on 30.6.1979 provides for payment of an annual base amount plus an additional fee in respect of all car hirings at the airports at seven capital cities and Launceston. 
The question of in-flight announcements by TAA is one for the Commission's commercial judgment and does not impinge on the Commonwealth's contractual arrangements with Avis. I have sought and obtained assurances from TAA to the effect that the Airline would do nothing which could be regarded as a breach of the letter or spirit of the present car rental contract resulting in a reduction of revenue to the Commonwealth from that contract. As the honourable member will know, tenders have been called for new contracts for 5 years from 1 July 1979; these will provide for 2 national operators and a third on an airport by airport basis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a)  Mr R.  M. Taylor,  Deputy  Secretary, Surface Operations and  Mr P.  R. Holmes, Director (Class 11), Coastal Services Division attended the International Conference on Tanker Safety and Pollution Prevention in London in February 1978. 

 Mr L. N. Ethenon, First Assistant Secretary, Marine Standards Division and  Mr R.  L. Saunders, Principal Examiner of Engineers. Marine Standards Division attended the International Conference on Training and Certification of Seafarers in London in June/ July 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Minister has received a submission from the Doctors Reform Society on medical facilities at Sydney and other airports. 
The proposals of the Doctors Reform Society are being considered: any action to be taken will depend on the result of this consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) 44 officers worked overtime; (b) 55 officers worked overtime. 
(a) 143 hours 18 minutes, 184 hours 5 minutes; (b) 20.4 days, 26 days. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I have seen the report to which the honourable member's question refers. The apprentices referred to in the report are not, strictly speaking, employees of my Department They commenced their trade training in the Department in 1975 under the Additional Apprentices Scheme administered by the then Department of Labor and Immigration. The object of the scheme, which is now administered by the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs, who pay the apprentices concerned, was to use Commonwealth Government trade training facilities to train apprentices for industry (not to provide tradesmen for Commonwealth Departments, who have their own apprentice programs). All participants in the scheme clearly understood at the outset that Departments providing the training would not be offering positions at the completion of the training period. In the circumstances it can not be said of those apprentices who leave the Department at the completion of their training to take up jobs in industry in accordance with the aims of the Scheme that they were dismissed. Several of those whose training is complete have been placed in industry and my Department has agreed with the relevant Unions and the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs to an extension of the training period to allow further efforts to be made in assisting with the placement of the remainder. The Commonwealth Employment Service is also assisting in this regard. 
See(1) above. 
See(1) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The computer system and associated items will be located at Adelaide, South Australia. 
The computer system will be used in the recording of payroll, freight revenue, costing, stores accounting and train operating statistics. 
Although some of the tasks to be performed are presently carried out manually, the majority are already computerised. 
No. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Periodic provisioning by vehicle of food, mail, etc. to a manned Commonwealth lighthouse. 
1 February 1979 to31 December 1980. 
P. H. Sutton, Tewantin, Queensland. 
Division 655/2/07. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Periodic provisioning by launch of food, mail, etc. to manned Commonwealth lighthouses. 
1 January 1979 to 31 December 1980. 
E. G.&amp;G. B. Dunnett, Gladstone, Queensland. 
Division 655/2/07. 
Foreign Vessels Intruding in Australian Waters (Question No.  3331) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Periodic provisioning by air of food, mail, etc. to manned Commonwealth lighthouses. 
1 January 1979 to 3 1 December 1980. 
Whitaker Pty Ltd, Maryborough, Queensland. 
Division 655/2/07. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Periodic provisioning by launch of food, mail, etc. to a manned Commonwealth lighthouse. 
1 January 1979 to 31 December 1980. 
E. D. Sim, Mossman, Queensland. 
Division 655/2/07. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Periodic provisioning by launch of food, mail, etc. to a manned Commonwealth lighthouse. 
1 January 1979 to 31 December 1980. 
Torres industries, Thursday Island, Queensland. 
Division 655/2/07. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Periodic provisioning by launch of food, mail, et cetera, to a manned Commonwealth lighthouse. 
Note: Reference in the  Gazette  to Fitzroy Street is an error; the service is provided to Fitzroy Island lighthouse. 
1 January 1979 to 31 December 1980. 
Marlin Marine Charters, Cairns, Queensland. 
Division 655/2/07. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Periodic provisioning by launch of food, mail, et cetera, to a manned Commonwealth lighthouse. 
1 January 1979 to31 December 1980. 
R. R. &amp; J. B. Smith, Slade Point, Queensland. 
Division 655/2/07. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Periodic provisioning by launch of food, mail, et cetera, to a manned Commonwealth lighthouse. 
1 January 1979 to31 December 1980. 
R. R. &amp; J. B. Smith, Slade Point, Queensland. 
Division 655/2/07. 
by leave- When I first announced Australia's new international civil aviation policy last October, I gave an undertaking to provide the House with further information. Subsequently, I made a detailed statement on 6 March 1 979. 1 consider that it is appropriate now for me to give honourable members a further report, following the negotiations between myself and my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  with Association of South East Asian Nations Ministers in Jakarta last week. These were meaningful and profitable talks at which positive progress was made. We were all in agreement that there is a need to lower air fares between Australia and ASEAN countries and we all agreed that such lowering of fares should be brought about as quickly as possible. 
Both myself and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were extremely pleased at the positive attitude adopted by all Ministers at the conference, and at the co-operative, good humoured and cordial atmosphere that was maintained throughout the two days of negotiations. Reading some of the Press reports in the weeks prior to the meeting one would have thought that the talks were heading for confrontation. Let me assure the House that at no time was there any indication that such a situation might arise. Indeed, as the joint Press statement said: 
The meeting was held in a cordial and constructive atmosphere, in keeping with the long established tradition of close and co-operative links between the ASEAN countries and Australia. 
I shall now explain just what we have achieved in Jakarta. Most importantly, as I have mentioned, we are all in agreement that lower air fares are necessary. There was general acknowledgement that the lower air fare arrangements we have already reached with other nations should not be jeopardised. It was the consensus of the Ministerial meeting that lower air fares should be negotiated as soon as possible between Australia and each ASEAN member country. Australia had submitted indicative lower fares in discussions between officials late last year. We will now be entering into bilateral negotiations with the five ASEAN countries in the near future to consider the ranges of cheap fares which ASEAN proposed at the Jakarta meeting and which we found attractive and accepted in principle. Considerable detailed work has to be done to establish precise fare levels and conditions. It is most significant to note here that, as the joint statement said, such bilateral discussions will in no way effect the ASEAN collective approach. Accusations have been made recently that Australia, in implementing its new low fares policy, has been trying to split ASEAN unity. This is not the case. It never has been the case. We assured the ASEAN Ministers in Jakarta, quite unequivocally, that we had never held any desire to prejudice, let along split, their unity. They accepted that assurance. The wording of the joint statement, pointing out that we can move to bilateral discussions without affecting the ASEAN collective approach, clearly proves the point that the ASEAN Ministers accept that Australia is acting in a completely even-handed manner in the implementation of its new air fares policy. 
I believe the meeting provided an excellent opportunity for Australian Ministers to reiterate the positive features of the policy we have adopted. We emphasised that the policy allows completely equal participation by the carriers of developing countries in the carriage of traffic between their countries and Australia; offers a means of avoiding disputes over capacity entitlements; provides a stimulus to tourism between Australia and ASEAN; and allows Australia and each of its bilateral partners to sit down to discuss and agree the manner of change in air service arrangements that will permit lower fares. 
Concern had been expressed that our new policy could damage tourism in the ASEAN region. I have consistently held the view that lowering fares between Australia and ASEAN would benefit tourism in the region. Our estimates of traffic growth based on the fare levels suggested by ASEAN last week confirm this view. After allowing for both generation of new traffic and normal growth we estimated that the growth in traffic in the first 12 months after introduction of the new fares would be at least 25 per cent and probably closer to 30 per cent. We have not yet, of course, agreed on what the precise reductions in fares between Australia and the ASEAN countries will be. That is a matter for the bilateral negotiations. But I can tell the House that indications at this stage are that they will be about 30 per cent for lower fare types and in some cases could be even more. By way of comparison, the lower fares we now have in place between Australia and the United States average a 28 per cent reduction on the previous comparable fares. 
There are two other issues which emerged from the Jakarta conference. One is the question of the level of fares which allow stopovers in the ASEAN region on the Kangaroo route between Australia and the United Kingdom-Europe. The other is the question of ASEAN airlines participation in the carriage of traffic on the direct point to point fares between Australia and United Kingdom-Europe. Before I discuss these points, let me say that since we began discussions with ASEAN last year, I have been seeking its proposals on the changed arrangements that Australia had suggested to them. Immediately after I announced our new policy last October, Australian officials visited each ASEAN country individually. In January, we held two days of detailed discussions here in Canberra with ASEAN civil aviation experts, where our proposals were explained in great depth. These discussions in all cases were carried out by an Australian team consisting of officials from both the 
Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Transport. 
We have now received detailed proposals from ASEAN. We now have a positive base on which to work. I have said all along that the sooner we can get to the negotiating table the sooner problems seen by ASEAN countries can be resolved. The ASEAN Ministers put forward to us a proposal for stopover fares at significantly lower levels than those we had advanced. They believe their proposals are better suited to their needs, and are economically viable in relation to the Australia-Europe end-to-end fares. We are now studying these proposals as a matter of urgency. Also, the ASEAN Ministers put forward to us a proposal to enter into the carriage of end to end traffic between Australia and the United Kingdom-Europe, which they consider will not in any way jeopardise our cheap air fare arrangements with our European partners. All Ministers recognised that they should not be jeopardised. We were not in a position to examine fully their proposals during the short time we were in Jakarta. It was agreed, therefore, that they should be put to urgent study. 
We have agreed that officials should report back to their respective Ministers on these two points. I expect that, within one month, an ASEAN-Australia officials meeting will be held to consider the studies now being undertaken on those points. This all amounts to a positive and most satisfactory result to the ministerial meeting. 

 Mr Speaker, I would now like to turn to the question of our relations with ASEAN in so far as our air fares policy is concerned. As I said at the outset, both myself and  Mr Peacock  were delighted at the atmosphere of goodwill and cooperation that existed throughout the talks. There is no doubt that the outcome of the meeting reflected a determination on the part of all the Ministers present to avoid an atmosphere of confrontation and to find a solution at the negotiating table. There is more understanding now between Australia and ASEAN of just where we stand. I think it is appropriate to repeat part of what my colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his opening statement to the conference: 
Over the years we have consistently placed high value on our relationship with the countries of South East Asia. Australia has clearly demonstrated both its unequivocal support for the concept of ASEAN, and its commitment to work closely with the Association. We have always believed ASEAN to be of critical importance to the strength, stability and progress of the region. I reaffirm to you that this policy remains unchanged and that it will guide the approach of the Australian delegation at this meeting. 
The ASEAN Ministers accepted those assurances completely, and without question. This was the first time that we have had formal ministerial negotiations with ASEAN on this subject. We can now work on the proposals that came from the meeting, and I am confident that we are now well on the way to achieving agreement with ASEAN. I present the following paper 
Civil Aviation negotiations with the Association of South East Asian Nations- Ministerial statement, 27 March 1 979. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (3): Austria-22 March 1967; Burma-23 September 1976; Canada- 11 June 1946; Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) - 12 January 1950; Egypt-14 June 1952; France- 13 April 1965; Germany, Federal Republic of-22 May 1957; Greece-10 June 1971; India-11 July 1949; Indonesia-7 March 1969; Ireland-26 November 1957; Italy- 10 May 1963; Japan- 19 January 1956; Lebanon-29 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Periodic provisioning by launch of food, mail, et cetera, to a manned Commonwealth lighthouse. 
1 January 1979 to 31 December 1980. 
Gregson Charter Service, Magnetic Island, Queensland. 
Division 655/2 07. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is alleged that between 5-7 September 1977, 290 Deta Airlines of Mozambique tickets were exchanged for documentation of nine international airlines including Qantas, to a total fare value of £484,000 sterling. These documents were re-written as open-dated first class fares London/Sydney/London. Of the total of 290 re-written documents, 148 were Qantas documents having a fare value of £236,800 sterling. No loss has been incurred by any of the airlines involved. 
The police investigation by Scotland Yard has been discontinued following the advice of senior counsel. 
No. 
-The answer to the honourable members ' question is as follows: 
1 )  Mr J.  Rowland, First Assistant Secretary, Department of Transport 
Professor C. Gannon, Associate Professor of Economics, Monash University. 

 Mr K. Toakley, Assistant Secretary, Department of Transport. 

 Mr R. Elder, Director, Department of Transport 

 Mr T. Brosnan, Director, Department of Transport 

 Mr W. Weemaes, Head, Transport and Resources Section, Department of Foreign Affairs. 

 Mr P. Crone, Counsellor (Transport), Australian High Commission, London. 

 Mr J. Rowland, 1 January 1976, First Assistant Secretary, Sea Transport Policy Division, Depanment of Transport; 8 November 1976, First Assistant Secretary, International Policy Division, Depanment of Transport 
Professor C. Gannon, 1 January 1976, Associate Professor, Economics, Monash University; 16 October 1978, Director, Bureau of Transport Economics. 

 Mr FC. Toakley, 1 January 1976, Assistant Secretary, Policy Co-ordination Branch, Department of Transport; 4 January 1977, Assistant Secretary, International Policy Division, Department of Transport 

 Mr R. Elder, 1 January 1976, Senior International Relations Officer  (Clerk Class 9),  International Relations Division, Department of Transport; 18 November 1976, Director  (Clerk Class 10),  International Relations Division, Department of Transport; 14 December 1978, Director (Class II), International Policy Division, Department of Transport. 

 Mr T. Brosnan, I January 1976,  Clerk  Class 6 (unattached); 26 May 1977,  Clerk  Class 8, International Policy Division, Department of Transport; 11 August 1977, Senior International Relations Officer  (Clerk Class 9),  International Policy Division, Department of Transport; 14 December 1 978, Director (Class 1 1 ), International Policy Division, Department of Transport 

 Mr W. Weemaes, 1 January 1976, Counsellor, Australian Embassy, Brussels; 13 September 1976, Head, Post Liaison and Guidance Section, Department of Foreign Affairs; 1 December 1976, Head, Transport and Resources Section, Department of Foreign Affairs. 
The United Kingdom delegation consisted of officials from the Board of Trade, the Civil Aviation Authority, the Foreign and Colonial Office. 
The Department of Transport. 
and (6) 12-23 June 1978, London; 31 July-5 August 1978 Canberra; 22-27 January 1979 Canberra. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) During the period 1 August 1977 to 31 December 1978, 230 tanker inspections were made by officers of the Department of Transport. On 108 of these inspections no deficiencies were found. The remaining inspections revealed 480 deficiencies. These deficiencies covered both non compliance with the Navigation Act and non compliance with provisions of the 'International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals'. The nature and number of the deficiencies found are listed below in four groups together with the follow-up action in respect of deficiencies in each of those groups. The first three groups consist of deficiencies of various degrees of seriousness under the Tanker Safety Guide. The fourth group consists of deficiencies under the Navigation Act. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following revenues were collected during 1977-78: 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
1 ) Excluding leave and training relief positions current establishment is 5 5. 
(a) Establishment as at December 1976 was51; (b) Establishment as at December 1977 was51; (c) Establishment as at December 1978 was55. 
(a) and (b): 
i ) 1976 21 carriers comprising 1 4 international Regular Public Transport Operators, 2 domestic Regular Public Transport Operators and5 Air Navigation Regulation 203 Regular Public Transport Operators. 
1 977 20 carriers comprising 1 3 international Regular Public Transport Operators, 2 domestic Regular Public Transport Operators and5 Air Navigation Regulation 203 Regular Public Transport Operators. 
1 978 20 carriers comprising 1 3 international Regular Public Transport Operators, 2 domestic Regular Public Transport Operators and5 Air Navigation Regulation 203 Regular Public Transport Operators. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Airworthiness Advisory Circulars are information documents issued principally to maintenance personnel throughout the industry and are used to draw attention to potentially hazardous conditions or mainenance practices. The circular in question contained an article warning against a potential hazard in using PVC tape to tie back lines or controls. It pointed out that proper clips firmly anchored should be used for the purpose. 
Only one specific incident is referred to and concerns a case where PVC tape had been used to tie back a Bowden type engine control cable to structure adjacent to the fuel vapour line. The PVC tape, which had a fold in it, formed a knife edge which chafed the soft aluminium fuel line at two places and had penetrated the wall of the line at one point. 
On 5 June 1978 at Cairns, in Beech 65-A80 Queenair VH-TGC operated by the Royal Flying Doctor Service, the condition noted was found following the detection of a smell of fuel in the cockpit by the pilot. 
It was not a question of the level of leaks being hazardous which gave rise to the article. Fuel leaks at any time can be hazardous and any specific incident is investigated to see what countermeasures should be taken. The Airworthiness Advisory Circular was action decided upon in that particular instance. An another example, my Department has recently approved an airworthiness directive to require the replacement of aluminium fuel pipes in wheel-well areas of Beech Queenair and Twin Bonanza aircraft with fireproof stainless steel pipes. 
Imports of Peas from New Zealand  (Question No. 3355) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) Australian Shipping Commission loans outstanding at 30 June 1978 were sourced from the Australian Government, overseas banks and shipbuilders, and Australian Government loan raisings on-lent to the Commission. 
The Commission's 1977-78 Annual Report, which I tabled on 22 November 1978, contains details of the aggregate value of loans outstanding at 30 June 1978, repayments due on those loans within twelve months and subsequently, and interest paid on them during 1977-78. Detailed disclosure of individual loans could be damaging to the Commission in its commercial operations. 
Foreign currency exchange gains/losses reported by the Australian Shipping Commission since 1 969-70 are: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am advised that research work had begun, under Railways of Australia auspices, into the general problem of freight wagon bogie design and related vehicle/track dynamics and that the work covers a number of bogie types including 2CM and 3 piece bogies. 
I am advised that research work is at an early stage therefore it is not possible to say when the results will be known. The release of information on this technical research is of course the responsibility of the railways systems involved. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please see reply to question 3136. 
Imports from Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Finland (Question No. 3288) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please see reply to question 3 1 56. 
Subsequent to assuming office in 1975, early in 1976, because of the very point that the honourable member for Calare has made we introduced supplementary grants to assist local government authorities with their road programs. 
The honourable member is unceasing in his efforts to promote Tasmania and to overcome some of the problems that that State faces. I am sure the fact that his mother is in New Zealand will do much to assist the relationship between the two countries. The matter raised by the honourable member, the possibility of an air link between Hobart and Christchurch is subject to the negotiations on a cheap air fare regime that are now proceeding between Australia and New Zealand. When those negotiations are concluded I hope to be able to give the honourable member the good news. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yankee Walter fire trucks have not been built for many years. It is assumed that the question refers to the Ultra Large Fire Tenders (ULFT's), MK.3, 6800 litre, manufactured by Walter Motor Truck Company (USA). A total of ten ( 10) of these Ultra Large Fire Tenders have been commissioned since October 1978. Each came into service on the dates listed below: 
One unit allocated to Brisbane commissioned October 1978; One unit allocated to Adelaide commissioned November 1978; One unit allocated to Melbourne commissioned November 1978; One unit allocated to Coolangatta commissioned November 1978; One unit allocated to Sydney commissioned November 1978; One unit allocated to Darwin commissioned December 1978; One unit allocated to Mt Isa commissioned December 1978; One unit allocated to Launceston commissioned January 1979; One unit allocated to Hobart commissioned January 1979; One unit allocated to Canberra commissioned February 1979. 
) (a) The cost of each fire tender was $135,030. 
The total cost of repairs and maintenance since these vehicles were delivered amounts to $60,482 (to 31.1.79). This is labour cost only, as the manufacturer is responsible, under the terms of the contract, for replacement of all faulty materials. 
Departmental records do not separate maintenance from repair labour costs. Repairs and maintenance are frequently performed concurrently making separation impracticable. Of this total amount it is estimated that approximately $48,000 would be attributable to non-scheduled repairs. 
Maintenance is not separately costed as explained in (b). The total cost of maintenance is estimated to be $12,000 approximately. 
The cost of maintenance and repairs for each appliance is given in the following table: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I am informed that the Queensland Government has decided to proceed with upgrading of the Acacia Ridge rail freight terminal. I am aware that assistance has been sought towards this project within the Commonwealth's $70 million five year assistance program. The enabling legislation for this program, the National Railway Network (Financial Assistance) Bill 1979, was introduced into Parliament on 8 March 1 979. 
No. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) The Bureau of Transport Economics has recently completed the series of studies referred to. I tabled the last report of the series, the Perth/Kalgoorlie Rail Link, on 1 March 1979. Copies of all reports have been provided to the railways. The question of implementation of indentified improvements is a matter for the States and in the case of South Australia, the Australian National Railways Commission. The States have submitted elements of improvements identified by these studies for assistance under the Commonwealth's $70 million five year assistance program. The enabling legislation for the program, the National Railway 
Network (Financial Assistance) Bill 1979, was introduced into Parliament on 8 March 1979. No Commonwealth funds have been allocated to projects arising from these studies as yet. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Earthworks and culverts- 
Stage 3 from Maria to Baystone Bore is expected to be completed by March 1979. 
A contract for Stage 4 (from Baystone Bore to Alice Springs) is expected to be let during April 1 979. 
Bridges- Substructure of bridges over the Finke and Hugh Rivers has been completed; and work is currently in progress on the superstructure of the Finke River bridge. Work on both bridges is expected to be completed in early 1979-80. 
Tracklaying- Approximately 180 km of track is expected to be laid, from a point near Cadney Park, to Marryat, 5 1 7 km north of Tarcoola. 
Station facilities-It is anticipated that during 1978-79 cattle yards and loading races will be constructed at Cadney Park, Maria and Chandler, and a loading race erected at Pootnoura. Seven staff houses will also be constructed at Chandler. 
Communications- Work is continuing on the installation of the communication system. 
(a) The latest date to which details of expenditure are available is 10 February 1979, and total expenditure to this date is $74,975,520. 
It is expected that total expenditure will be less than the $145,000,000 authorised by Parliament in the Tarcoola to Alice Springs Railway Act 1 974. 
The accelerated schedule recently announced by the Government anticipates completion of the project in November 1980. 
I apologise to those honourable members who spoke this afternoon in my absence. I was unavoidably away. I thank each member of the House for his contribution. Several matters have been raised. In the first place, the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr 
Morris), in leading for the Opposition, and the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  raised the question ofthe provision of assistance by way of section 96 interest bearing repayable grants as being a repudiation of the Government's 1977 election promise. The fart is that the Government's election policy statements gave no assurance on the form the assistance provided under the program would take. The aspect was a matter the Government wished to determine after consultation with the States. Consultation took place and a decision to offer repayable grants was made last December. 
As illustrated by the honourable member for Shortland, projects being considered for assistance offer extremely high benefits. If the Government seeks to have the railways operate in a commercial manner then it must treat them as commercial undertakings. I reaffirm what I have just said by quoting from the policy statement. It states: 
A contribution of about $70m over five years, beginning 1978-79, will be made to a joint Commonwealth-State program for upgrading State railways which are part of the national mainline system. 
I think that clarifies the first point. The honourable member for Shortland, the honourable member for Newcastle and the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  made the point that they thought the provision of $3m in 1978-79 and $70m overall was inadequate. The $3m for 1978-79 was determined having regard to the time required to consult with the States on the program arrangements and to formalise arrangements, as well as taking into account the overall budgetary context. The fact is that the overall program must be looked at in the context of program objectives to implement strategic improvements to the national railway network, identified by studies, and not to substitute State funds for railway operations or maintenance. In this context the Government considers that $70m can make a significant impact on mainline railway productivity and efficiency. Again, the total program funding must also be assessed in the overall budgetary context. 
Several speakers from both sides of the House raised the question as to how the $3m would be allocated in 1978-79. As I stated in my second reading speech, the development of machinery to provide a national assessment of program priorities is significant. The Australian Railway Research and Development Organisation Board, which includes the State railway commissioners and the  Chairman  of the Australian National 
Railways Commission, will provide complementary advice to Commonwealth and State Ministers on program priorities. This arrangement was agreed to at the Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting on 23 February. The ARRDO board met on 14 March. It called for an official report and that report was agreed to by ARRDO I understand that it will be forwarded to Ministers in the next few days. Obviously, some program proposals from State Ministers will follow very quickly. I am therefore unable to comment on specific projects or on specific State allocations. But the fact is that the Government's approach to the program has been one of cooperative federalism. The Commonwealth has not been arbitrarily imposing priorities on the States. The consultative process accounts for the time taken to implement the program. This is seen as being a preferable approach to the way in which the Opposition might approach the matter by bulldozing the States into programs. 
Several speakers on both sides of the House raised the matter of the declaration or railway lines other than inter-capital lines and claimed that this lacked definition. That matter relates to clause 4 (2) of the Bill, which provides flexibility for the Commonwealth to respond to State arguments for lines other than inter-capital links to be incorporated in the program. As I indicated in my second reading speech, I will be guided by proposals from State colleagues in exercising authority under clause 4 (2) of the Bill. But one of the tests which must be applied to such proposals would be that of benefits accruing to intersystem traffic. Several speakers raised the matter of the energy efficiency of the railways. I do not think there is any dispute among honourable members about the fact that railways are more energy efficient than road transport for long haul bulk freight. The improvements to railway productivity and efficiency which will flow from the program will enable railways more effectively to perform their role in the national transport task and, as a corollary, to produce energy efficiencies. 
The honourable member for Shortland raised the matter of ANRC accounts. Following the South Australian and Tasmanian transfers, the preparation of the accounts for ANRC has been somewhat complicated. The fact that accounts have not been produced has been the cause of considerable concern. Annual reports for 1975-76 and 1976-77 are now with the Government Printer. I anticipate that they will be available to the House by the end of April. I hope to table them when we resume sittings after the Easter recess. The honourable member for 
Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  raised several points. Firstly, he said that we needed a long term plan for the development of railways in Australia. I think he will agree with me when I remind him that the establishment of the Australian Railway Research and Development Organisation- ARRDO as we call it- can be seen as a contribution to this end, with the Commonwealth providing half of the establishment costs. The honourable member for Shortland then raised the point that the program made no provision for terminals. Terminals are not specifically excluded. Again, it is up to the States to put forward such projects. The Acacia Ridge freight terminal would be an example of that. 
The honourable member for Newcastle claimed that the amount of $70m, which is provided for the program, was inadequate. He claimed that this was highlighted by the recent provision of $54m to New South Wales for the Mittagong-Berrima bypass. I might be getting confused, but I think that last night on the adjournment debate the honourable member for Newcastle talked about the Newcastle bypass, as distinct from the Mittagong bypass. I think he was comparing the two road programs. 
That issue is unrelated to this Bill,  Mr Deputy  Speaker; therefore, I do not think I can comment on it. In the light of the controversy last night about whether matters related to or were outside this Bill, I feel I am not able to comment on the matter raised by the honourable member for Newcastle.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the House rejects the amendment moved by the Opposition to the motion that this Bill be read a second time. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I have, of course, become aware of the difficulties caused to the honourable member's electorate and the people in it by the action taken by the truckies on the highways going through the honourable member's electorate. This matter has a long history. It has been discussed several times by Commonwealth and State Ministers at meetings of the Australian Transport Advisory Council at which I put the view quite strongly to the States that this was an inequitable tax and an ineffective tax in that a great number of trucking companies were avoiding it by setting up straw companies. I pointed out that it was quite within the competence of the State governments to abolish that tax should they so desire and that with the increase in general revenue assistance grants from the Commonwealth, the net collections from the tax would be a mere drop in the ocean. The State Ministers argued quite vehemently that they could not do without the tax and that it was necessary. Some of the State Ministers fortunately took the matter on board and obviously have given better consideration to it than the New South Wales Government has done. 
Yesterday I received a call from the Premier of Queensland, early in the morning, quite fairly asking me what implications it would have for the general relationship between States if Queensland were to abolish the road maintenance tax. I was able to say to him, quite fairly, that it would have no effect at all because, in fact, already Tasmania does not have that tax and therefore, no difficulty would be created. I did say to the Premier in passing that I thought some Premiers had been completely lousy and miserable in their approach to this question. I happened to mention that I thought New South Wales, in particular, had brought on itself everything that has happened to it. I also said that I thought it was strange that the New South Wales Premier was very quick to move in with heavy fines against self-employed truckies and yet the unionists have been playing havoc on the waterfront at the coal loaders for months and he has done nothing about it. It is a typical instance of the approach taken by the New South Wales Government. 
As to the financial impact, the truth is that the Queensland Premier- being the statesman that he is- recognised quite quickly that Queensland's road maintenance tax ought to be abolished. I was glad that yesterday the Queensland Cabinet agreed with the Premier. After a conversation with the Prime Minister and one or two other Premiers he proceeded to abolish the tax. The sooner New South Wales faces up to its proper responsibility and abolishes the tax, the better it will be for everybody concerned. 
The honourable member has made representations to me over a period on this matter. Therefore, I am aware of the problems created by the lack of a bypass at Hornsby and the difficulties created for the citizens of that part, particularly in the shopping centre and residential areas. This matter has been the subject of some correspondence between me and the State Minister for Transport, to this point without resolution. I think the best thing I can do in all the circumstances is to take up the invitation of the honourable member. Therefore, I will try to make a visit to Hornsby at some time in the near future. 
-I think all members of Parliament will be pleased at the way in which the security methods at Sydney Airport worked out yesterday. We can only say thank you to those officers of the Commonwealth police force, the State police force and my own Department for effectively handling the issue. Australia, as a member state of the International Civil Aviation Organisation, is required to establish an aviation security program which meets standards prescribed by international agreements. Australia has played a leading role in developing these standards. 
Honourable members may be interested to know that, because of Australia's work in this field, and as a measure of the esteem in which Australia is regarded, ICAO has asked this country to host an international seminar on aviation security. The Australian aviation security program applies at all international and major airports and involves close co-ordination between my Department and the Commonwealth and State police forces. Yesterday's incident demonstrates that our aviation security procedures are effective. 
Yesterday an attempt was made to stop the hijacker prior to his gaining access to the international concourse. It was quickly realised, however, that the life of the hostage was being placed in immediate jeopardy by such action. She was already seen to have a wound on the neck and it was considered that any precipitous action would not only have placed her life in jeopardy but also would have placed at risk any other people in the vicinity because it was not known what weapons or explosives the hijacker carried. 
The rapid passage of the man through the terminal was facilitated with the idea of isolating him and the hostage. As the police were closing in on them, the hijacker ran through the aerobridge into an empty aircraft, which was still in position after having off-loaded its passengers. This action successfully confined the hijacker and the hostage and avoided risk to other persons in the terminal. 
Airport security measures are reviewed continuously in the light of Australian and overseas experience. Following yesterday's experience a further review will, of course, take place. If any further improvements are required they will be put into place. My advice is that the internal security measures adopted at Australian airports compare more than favourably with those at most international airports around the world. 
by leave- Passenger vehicle emission controls have already been debated in Parliament as a matter of public importance. The purpose of this statement is to inform Parliament in clear terms of the Commonwealth Government's views on this matter. In addition to transport portfolio considerations, the statement reflects the responsibilities of, and advice from, my colleagues the Minister for Science and Environment  (Senator Webster),  the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman).  Over the past decade, the Commonwealth, the States and the Territories have had a continuing involvement in the development and implementation of vehicle emission controls. The first Australian Design Rules on passenger car emission controls- ADR 26 and ADR 27- were agreed by the Australian Transport Advisory Council in 1971 with the objective of helping to arrest the deterioration of air quality experienced in major urban areas in Australia in the late 1960 's. These rules came into effect in 1972 and 1974 respectively. 
A more stringent rule, ADR 27A, covering exhaust emissions of oxides of nitrogen as well as carbon monoxide and hydrocarbons and evaporative fuel emissions, was subsequently agreed by ATAC for introduction in 1976. Although it was recognised at the time that the immediate response to ADR 27A would be engine modifications which would increase fuel consumption, this factor was outweighed by environmental considerations and the expectation of further technological development. However, with the deterioration in the world energy situation, fuel consumption has assumed far greater significance. I will comment on this most important issue later. ATAC discussed ADR 27A in July 1977 and February 1978. It was agreed to defer introduction of the third stage of ADR 27A until January 1981 to permit a more detailed examination of the issues involved. Implementation of the third stage was again discussed by ATAC in July 1978 and in February this year. 
At their February meeting, ATAC Ministers had before them a number of studies dealing with the problem of vehicle emission controls. These studies included the interim report by the Australian Academy of Technological Sciences, a report on photochemical smog in the Sydney region which had been prepared by the New South Wales State Pollution Control Commission and a report on emission levels and fuel consumption prepared by the Commonwealth Department of Transport. At the February meeting, the Commonwealth proposed that ATAC abandon the third stage of ADR 27A, in particular because of the fuel penalty involved, and take urgent action on other more effective measures to control vehicle emissions. This latter proposal was based on the view that significant improvements with regard to hydrocarbon emissions seemed to be achievable at lower cost and with advantage from both the fuel conservation and emission control viewpoints. 
The Commonwealth also indicated that it was not opposed to adequate, properly justified controls on vehicle emissions and was not backtracking in respect of improvements secured to date. Nevertheless, the Commonwealth considered that ATAC should review the strategy and approach followed up till now and should examine the lessons to be learned from the wide range of problems encountered with ADR 27A. ATAC Ministers agreed to resume discussions at a special ATAC meeting in Sydney this month following a more detailed examination of the reports referred to. There are a number of issues which must be considered in relation to emission controls in general and ADR 27A in particular. At the outset, however, I must emphasise that the Commonwealth Government is committed to protect the health and the environment of the Australian people. State Governments obviously have a particular responsibility and concern because air quality in major urban areas requires special attention. However, all governmentsState, Territory and Commonwealth- must also, in the national interest, have regard to the effects of proposed measures, not only on health and the environment but also on impacts on the consumer, industry, resources and the economy. 
At this point, some general background would be appropriate on the origins of the problem, its extent and its effect on health. Photochemical pollution- ozone- in general terms, the result of the reaction of sunlight with hydrocarbons and oxides of nitrogen. In urban areas, about 40 per cent of these hydrocarbons and oxides of nitrogen come from passenger cars. The problems we are trying to deal with are localised and appear to be exacerbated by geographical features and weather conditions. Among various atmospheric pollutants of potential health concern, ozone has been widely considered and its levels can be taken as being representative of oxidant levels as a whole. It is also recognised that ozone does have certain health effects depending on the level of concentration. 
Attempts to relate the onset of specific health effects to varying levels of ozone in the atmosphere have been made but the difficulty of associating a particular health effect to a specific air pollutant is immense. The Commonwealth is concerned that any association between health incidents and photochemical pollution should be adequately researched and established before a casual relationship is assumed. It is important that long term air quality goals should not be seen as levels capable of immediate achievement since these goals are generally much more stringent than the prescribed levels which have been adopted by some countries as a basis for legislation. The World Health Organisation level of 0.06 parts per million for ozone must be seen in this context. 
At present, Sydney seems to be the city in Australia with a photochemical problem of significance. It should be pointed out that Sydney's experience with photochemical pollution does not parallel that of Los Angeles, which experiences higher levels. Tokyo does have a photochemical problem similar to that of Sydney but is also subject to a higher level of air pollution from other sources. As far as Sydney is concerned, the trend towards increased photo- chemical pollution experienced in earlier years may have been largely arrested. The situation appears to have improved marginally between 1976 and 1977. The best assessment we can make at this stage is that, even if no additional controls are placed on cars or other sources of hydrocarbons, photochemical pollution in Sydney should remain more or less at current levels until about 1985. After 1985, the situation could be expected to deteriorate unless additional controls are implemented. The trends for other urban areas appear to generally follow this assessment, albeit at a lower level. 
I think it will be evident from the foregoing that we are all facing considerable difficulties because of inadequate data on air quality and trends. I will return to this aspect later. However, the general shape of prospects facing urban areas with regard to air quality is particularly important when the national costs of passenger vehicle emission controls are considered. A variety of estimates have been made, with the magnitude depending on the assumptions used. One recent estimate has put the additional costs of the system currently in force in 1978 at between $80m and $100m per year rising to $150m. These are costs that are met by all motorists in Australia to meet localised problems. Controls must therefore be cost effective and, in the Commonwealth view, a strategy to control photochemical pollution through limitations on hydrocarbon emissions is the preferred approach. Incidentally, this is also the view endorsed by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the course proposed by the New South Wales SPCC. If it does prove impossible to agree on realistic uniform motor vehicle controls, the Commonwealth does not believe that costs of unique control measures which States might wish to implement for particular areas with higher pollution should be imposed nation-wide. 
This latter consideration also raises the question of developing different emission controls for vehicles used in urban and non-urban areas. The Commonwealth, on behalf of ATAC, has requested information from the motor vehicle industry on the costs of what is called a two-car approach. The industry's response will be made available to the States and Territories as soon as it comes to hand. Obviously the two-car concept, including the possibility of additional in-service regulation in areas with higher levels of pollution, has to be closely examined. 
I now propose to comment on some detailed aspects of the third stage of ADR 27a. I think it is important that this Parliament have the basic facts. I turn first of all to the matter of in-service durability of emission control systems. In-service durability is of fundamental importance in controlling photochemical pollution. There is no doubt, on the basis of recent studies, that a significant number of present ADR 27A vehicles are not meeting prescribed standards because of the in-service problems with emission control systems. Overseas and Australian studies have indicated a number of factors which contribute to in-service deterioration. These include the ease with which control systems can be maladjusted, the low incentive to both the service industry and owners to maintain these control systems in accordance with manufacturers' specifications as well as the deterioration of the engines themselves through time. The facilities and skills available to the service industry also need to be looked at. In-service durability must be improved if air quality levels are to be adequately controlled. A critical issue here, which applies to present and future controls, is whether levels should be initially more stringent or whether relatively lower levels can be achieved more effectively over the service life of the vehicle. The Commonwealth considers that the latter approach is more cost effective and should be addressed as a matter of priority. The Commonwealth reiterates its view that levels of control currently achieved should not be reduced or abandoned. However, efforts must be made to overcome problems associated with the present Rule. 
ADR 27a was developed from a rule adopted by the United States of America. Although Australian studies have confirmed that ADR 27a has significantly reduced emissions from motor vehicles, experience has highlighted many problems not apparent at the time of introduction. 
The basis of ADR 27A, which requires every vehicle to meet prescribed standards and has the built-in difficulty of relating test performance to everyday use, is now being seriously questioned. With respect to operations and procedures, the rule is cumbersome and has little practical relevance in assessing vehicle performance inservice. Vehicle certification under the rule is complex, costly and time consuming and this is important when we consider the need for a properly balanced allocation of available resources for the administration of the Australian Design Rule system. Most of the rules relate, of course, to the road safety field. Following its implementation, ADR 27a did increase fuel consumption of vehicles on a comparable weight basis. The Commonwealth does, however, agree that more than sufficient time has been expended on the fuel consumption debate associated with controls in force as of today in Australia. What is important now is to consider fuel consumption in the context of future emission controls. 
Recent events have highlighted the uncertainties surrounding future oil supplies and the essentiality of energy conservation. Australia cannot afford to waste liquid fuel and every opportunity must be taken to reduce consumption. Transport is recognised as an area where significant savings can be achieved and increased vehicle energy efficiency is critically important. Although there is a trend towards smaller, more fuel efficient vehicles, fuel consumption of vehicles generally has to continue to improve. The Commonwealth considers that, given sufficient lead time, manufacturers will be able to increase their efforts to produce vehicles with both improved emission performance and better fuel economy. Fuel consumption of present vehicles has improved with technological development of emission controls, but implementation of the third stage would seriously interrupt this improvement. Technically, the third stage of ADR 27a can be met but at an estimated fuel consumption penalty of 3 to 5 per cent. This could cost the nation an additional 200,000 to over 300,000 tonnes of crude oil a year by 1985. Moves that were judged to be in the community's interest when oil was $2 a barrel must be reconsidered with oil at $14 a barrel and future supplies uncertain. 
Estimates indicate that potential improvements in air quality as a result of the third stage would be marginal. Vehicle exhaust emissions of hydrocarbons could be reduced by up to about 14 tonnes a day in Sydney by 1985. This would represent less than 2 per cent of the total projected emissions in the Sydney area in 1985. In any event, such improvements may well not be realised because the design solution which manufacturers generally indicate they will adopt to meet the third stage is susceptible to maladjustment in service. Even if hydrocarbon exhaust emission requirements were made more stringent relative to other emissions under the third stage, indications are that the fuel penalty would remain. Implementation of the third stage will have little effect on in-service difficulties and there is no doubt that the more stringent initial test required by the third stage has little relevance to durability and in-service deterioration. To proceed further with an unsatisfactory rule simply compounds these difficulties. 
Although aware of the view that every additional control assists in pollution abatement, the Commonwealth cannot support the approach when, on a national basis, the costs far outweight any potential benefits of the third stage of ADR 27a. The Commonwealth therefore believes that all these considerations clearly indicate that there is no need or sufficient justification to proceed with the third stage of ADR 27a. However, this cannot be considered in isolation from more practicable immediate and future arrangements to which I now refer. 
In the foregoing, principal issues and problems associated with air pollution controls have been identified. In developing a framework for future action, it is clear that a number of steps must be taken to improve the implementation, administration and durability of emission control systems in the context of realistic health, environment, transport and energy objectives. The third stage of ADR 27a is of no significance in this broader context. Practical and effective solutions must be found to meet the problems I have described. A program for immediate action and a future strategy are both necessary. Steps can be taken now towards assisting air quality through means more effective than the third stage of ADR 27a in line with the preferred hydrocarbon control strategy. We would propose that, in addition to the further development of controls on other sources, urgent work should commence to investigate more stringent, cost effective evaporative controls associated with the passenger vehicle. 
New South Wales SPCC estimates, based on a 6 gram SHED test for evaporative hydrocarbon emissions from motor vehicles, indicated a reduction of 30 tonnes of hydrocarbons a day in Sydney by 1985. Latest advice indicates that some of these savings may already be accruing with some current model vehicles. Such controls will, of course, also conserve energy. Evaporative controls which reduce vehicle hydrocarbon emissions by 30 tonnes a day in Sydney could, on a national basis, save up to 40,000 tonnes of crude oil each year. 
Much has been said about durability and inservice problems. The Commonwealth proposes that urgent attention be given to improving, as far as practically possible, the durability and inservice performance of ADR 27A vehicles. Although a sufficient period for design maturation of present controls should help, consideration should also be given to in-service retuning programs, to the development of systems less susceptible to maladjustment, to industry and technical training courses and to publicity to increase community awareness. I give one example of the effectiveness of such measures. Overseas experience suggests that a properly organised inservice retuning program could lower hydrocarbon tailpipe emissions in Sydney by up to 26 tonnes a day by 1985. Consideration must also be given to simplifying the administration of the present Rule. 
It is essential to begin the long term task of developing adequate, co-ordinated air quality monitoring as a basis for all measures proposed for implementation. This has been highlighted by many bodies including the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution, the Australian Environment Council, the National Health and Medical Research Council, as well as ATAC. The Commonwealth has been developing cooperative programs with the States, including the establishment of a national air quality data centre, and we will be considering further cooperative arrangements to get the facilities required to develop an adequate data base on air quality. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is also involved in meteorological and associated photochemical work. The Commonwealth, in co-operation with the New South Wales SPCC, is also implementing an emissions study of Sydney peak hour traffic to provide baseline information for future assessment and action. There is a need to upgrade vehicle emission testing facilities and the Commonwealth will give this priority attention, again in co-operation with the States. 
The Commonwealth believes that, at the national level, assessment of air quality data must be examined in the context of agreed air quality guidelines. At present, the Commonwealth and the States face particular difficulties, without guidelines, in the assessment of pollution abatement measures. 
The Commonwealth sees a need to define air quality guidelines for Australia with respect to health. In addition, the Commonwealth sees value in the definition of practicable and realistic air quality objectives for Australian cities which would be based on broader environmental considerations. City air quality objectives which might be defined should be practicable of achievement, take into account all sources of air pollution and be developed in such a way as to minimise differences between States. The basis for an improvement in air quality is better air quality information and the establishment of air quality guidelines and objectives. 
The Commonwealth is of the view that adequate data is essential to facilitate a proper assessment of national emission control measures. The Commonwealth believes that present air quality data, although scant, indicates that action would be required on a number of points to prevent any increase in photochemical pollution levels in our major cities after 1985. The Commonwealth is therefore prepared to give a firm undertaking to examine the upgrading of passenger vehicle emission controls for implementation in 1985. Such controls would, of course, need to take into account projected pollution levels as well as other controls implemented in the meantime. 
Several ideas have been advanced for a 1985 Rule and the Commonwealth proposes that these be examined in detail. ATAC and Australian Environment Council should be in a position, at their early 1 98 1 meetings, to consider requirements for 1985 standards and the development of a new vehicle emission rule to implement such standards. I should make it clear at this point that the Australian Minerals and Energy Council must be consulted in the development of future emission controls in so far as energy implications are concerned. 
Any such measures must be adequately justified and be cost effective. They must be assessed for energy implications. There must also be equitable attention to all sources of hydrocarbon emissions. There is also a need to consider actively alternative or complementary approaches to vehicle emission controls. These would include traffic management and use of public transport to ease traffic densities in areas prone to photochemical pollution. Alternative fuels such as LPG should also be given earlier examination. 
Finally, it will be noted that this statement has not covered lead emissions. Work is proceeding in Commonwealth and State Councils on various lead questions and the Commonwealth believes that this work should be expedited. Although not directly relevant to the special ATAC meeting in April, lead issues will form an important and integral part of future motor vehicle emissions strategies in terms of protection of health and the environment and vehicle and energy costs and efficiency. 
In conclusion, the Commonwealth reiterates its desire for continuing co-operation between the Commonwealth, States and Territories in a proper and balanced assessment of air quality data, air quality guidelines and objectives and emissions standards and controls. I present the following paper: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please see reply to question 3156. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please see reply to question 3156. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please see reply to question 3156. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please see reply to question 3156. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please see reply to question 3 156. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) Air Navigation Regulation 106a, (b) 1 April 1976. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please see reply to question 3156. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable members' question is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
It is proposed that the Counsellor (Transport) based in London will attend as a participant. 
Yes. 
No. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
(a) Yes. There have been a number of discussions involving Qantas and Japan Airlines since 27 January 1977. Details sought in Questions 3 (b), (c), (d) and (e) are provided below in respect of each of these discussions. 
Sixty-Third IATA Meeting (Traffic Conference 3-Asia and Pacific) 3 (b) Agreement was reached for the introduction of an off season Group Inclusive Tour (GIT) fare between Brisbane/Sydney and Japan to operate during April, May, June and July. Fare levels agreed were Brisbane-Tokyo SA800.00 and Sydney-Tokyo SA798.00 3 (c) The following personnel represented Qantas-  Mr P.  Brett, Industry Affairs Manager;  Mr K.  Davison, Tariffs Manager Passenger West and  Mr R.  Girvan, Tariffs Officer. 
The following personnel represented JAL-  Mr T.  Iki,  Deputy  General Manager, International Passenger Marketing and Sales, and  Mr K.  Iwamoto, Staff Assistant, International Passenger Marketing and Sales. 3(d) Manila, 14- 1 7 March 1977. 3 (e) This meeting discussed a wide range of air fares on a number of international routes. Therefore, it is not possible to identify total expenditure attributable to discussions on Australia-Japan fares. 
Qantas-JAL Meeting 3(b) Proposals for new excursion fares were discussed, but the airlines were unable to reach agreement. 3 (c) The following personnel represented Qantas-  Mr R.  Davies, Market Development Officer and  Mr T.  Lawn, Tariffs Officer. 
The following personnel represented JAL-  Mr T.  Iki,  Deputy  General Manager, International Marketing and Sales, and S. Kimaru, Tariffs Officer. 3(d) Tokyo, 21 September 1977. 3 (e) (i) Travel undertaken was on duty travel basis at no charge, (ii) T. Lawn $A76; R. Davies $A76, (iii) T. Lawn $A2 19, R. Davies $A2 30. 
Sixty-Sixth IATA Meeting (Traffic Conference 3- Asia and Pacific) 3 (b) A proposal for a 14/28 day round trip excursion fare from Brisbane/Sydney to Tokyo was adopted. (This proposal was subsequently not accepted by the Australian Government on the grounds that it was directional only and therefore did not adequately meet the requirements of the Australian tourism industry.) Normal first and economy fares ex Japan were reduced by 4 per cent. The off peak season of the GIT fares was extended to include 21 August- 30 September. 3 (c) The following personnel represented Qantas-  Mr D.  Tunks, Commercial Agreements Manager,  Mr K.  Davison, Tariffs Manager Passenger West, and  Mr R.  Girvan, Tariffs Officer. 
The following personnel represented JAL-  Mr H.  Salyer, Vice-President Industry Affairs,  Mr T.  Iki,  Deputy  General Manager, International Passenger Marketing and Sales, and the following tariffs officials;  Mr Y.  Kobayashi,  Mr T.  Miura and  Mr K.Sato.  3 (d) Cannes, 2 1 October-4 November 1977. 3 (e) This meeting discussed a wide range of air fares on a number of international routes. Therefore it is not possible to identify total expenditure involved in discussions on Australia-Japan fares. 
Reconvened Sixty-Sixth IATA Meeting (Traffic Conference 3- Asia and Pacific) 3 (b) This meeting discussed Australia-Japan fares on procedural aspects only. 3 (c) The following personnel represented Qantas-  Mr K.  Davison, Tariffs Manager Passenger West. 
The following personnel represented JAL-  Mr F.  Kanto, Assistant Tariffs Manager and  Mr G.  Iwamoto, Staff Assistant, International Passenger Marketing and Sales. 3(d) Singapore 7- 10 and 2 1 -22 June 1 978. 3(e) This meeting discussed a wide range of air fares on a number of international routes. Therefore it is not possible to identify expenditure attributable to discussions on AustraliaJapan fares. 
Sixty-Eighth IATA Meeting (Traffic Conference 3 -Asia and Pacific) 3 (b) No formal discussions took place on Australia-Japan air fares, although private discussions were held between Qantas and JAL, but with no specific agreement. 3 (c) The following personnel represented Qantas-  Mr P.  Brett, Industry Affairs Manager,  Mr D.  Tunks, Commercial Agreements Manager and  Mr T.  Lawn, Tariffs Officer. 
The following personnel represented JAL-  Mr T.  Iki,  Deputy  General Manager, International Passenger Marketing and Sales, and  Mr G.  Iwamoto, Staff Assistant, International Passenger Marketing and Sales. 3 (d) Miami, 9- 18 October 1978. 3 (e) This meeting discussed a wide range of air fares on a number of international routes, therefore it is not possible to identify total expenditure attributable to discussions on Australia-Japan fares. 
Qantas-JAL Meeting 3(b) The airlines had preliminary discussions on proposals for a new fare structure and fare levels arising from Australia 's new international aviation policy. 3 (c) The following personnel represented Qantas-  Mr J.  Ward, Market Development and Systems Director,  Mr B.  Wild, Western Routes Director and  Mr T.  Lawn, Tariffs Officer. 
The following personnel represented JAL-  Mr T.  Iki,  Deputy  General Manager, International Passenger Marketing and Sales and  Mr T.  Yoshioka, General Manager Oceania Region and  Mr K.  Iwamoto, Staff Assistant, International Passenger Marketing and Sales. 3(d) Manila, 4-5 January 1979. 3 (e) (i) Travel was on Qantas on-duty travel basis at no charge, (ii) J. Ward $A4I, T. Lawn $A41, B. Wild $A41, (iii) J. Ward $A1 1 8, T. Lawn $A 127, B. Wild SA190. 
Qantas-JAL Meeting 3 (b) The airlines resumed their discussions held in Manila in January. No final agreement was reached on new fare proposals. 3 (c) The following personnel represented Qantas-  Mr B.  Wild, Western Routes Director;  Mr J.  Ward, Market Development and Systems Director;  Mr T.  Lawn, Tariffs Officer;  Mr G.  Bowmaker, Route Economics Adviser West;  Mr T.  Swann, Regional Director Orient;  Mr F.  Nicol, Manager, Japan; and  Mr K.  Nonaha, Sales Manager, Japan. 
The following personnel represented JAL-  Mr T.  Iki,  Deputy  General Manager, International Passenger Marketing and Sales;  Mr K.  Iwamoto, Staff Assistant, International Passenger Marketing and Sales; and  Mr Y.  Kondo, Staff Assistant, International Passenger Marketing and Sales. 3 (d) Tokyo, 19-21 February 1979. 3 (e) (i) Travel was on Qantas on-duty travel basis at no charge, (ii) J. Ward SA204, T. Lawn SA153, G. Bowmaker SA157, B. Wild $A204, T. Swann SAI61, F. Nicol and K. Nonaha, NIL, (iii) J. Ward $A399, T. Lawn $A276, G. Bowmaker $A253, B. Wild $A287, T. Swann $A264 and F. Nicol/K. Nonaha SA871. 
4 ) See answer to ( 3 ). 
Any announcement on new fares between Australia anil Japan will depend on progress made during further talks planned between Qantas and Japan Airlines and on the consideration of the results of these discussions by the respective Governments. 
The lowest individual return fare between Sydney and Tokyo is $1,00 1.00. 
7 ) The great circle distance between Sydney and Tokyo is 7826 kilometres. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Since the amendment of Air Navigation Regulation 106a in April 1976, seven travel organisations have been visited by Commonwealth Police. On two of these occasions a Department of Transport Officer was also present. I have not mentioned the names of these organisations because of the adverse effect which public disclosure could have on their operations. 
Two visits were made in 1976, one visit in 1977 and four in 1978. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The term 'pure freight services' is taken to mean those services where freight capacity occupies either the whole or a substantial part of the aircraft's maindeck. On this basis Qantas provides pure freight services into and out of Australia by: 
leasing 25 per cent of the total cargo space provided by the twice weekly Panam B747F freight service on the Australia/US route, amounting to about 20 tonnes per flight and totalling 40 tonnes per week in each direction. 
operating B747 Combi services each with about 30 tonnes of freight capacity once weekly between Australia and the USA, Papua New Guinea and New Zealand, and twice weekly between Australia and Japan. This capacity will be augmented late in 1979 following the delivery of a second B747 Combi aircraft which will service European and US routes. 
a commercial arrangement also exists between Qantas and Lufthansa which permits Qantas to utilise relatively small amounts of freight space on Lufthansa B747 Combi services between Australia and Frankfurt. 
Both the Department of Transport and Qantas have studies underway to determine how Australia's international airfreight services should be provided following the review of Australia 's international civil aviation policy. 
During 1978 202 freight charter flights were operated into Australia and 167 were operated from Australia. The companies which operated these flights were: 
International Aviation Services (UK) Ltd, Transmeridian Air Cargo Ltd, Cargolux Airlines International SA, Japan Air Lines, Trans International Airlines Inc., The Flying Tiger Line Korean Air Lines, British Caledonian Airways Ltd, Ansett Airlines of Australia Ltd, Air Express Ltd, Air Niugini, British Airways, Bush Pilots Airways Ltd, Safe Air Ltd. 
Freight carried inbound by these foreign and domestic carriers included automotive parts, mechanical goods, books, cosmetics, chemicals, horses, musical instruments, pharmaceuticals, toys, tea, computers, clothing, stationery, textiles, cameras, plastics, coffee, shoes, electrical goods, communications equipment, chewing gum, textiles, vending machines, television sets, industrial gas, film supplies, oil drilling equipment, beer cans, seafood and building supplies. 
Freight carried outbound by these foreign and domestic carriers included chilled lamb, horses, livestock, sound equipment, communications equipment, building supplies, frozen beef, vegetables, oil drilling equipment, beer, explosives, computer equipment, photographic equipment, furnishings, household effects and cars. 
Australian domestic airlines may operate international air freight flights using their own aircraft: 
if the freight to be carried meets the appropriate single entity or split charter requirements of the Governments international air freight charter policy, and 
b ) subcharter of the aircraft is offered to Qantas. (Ansett Airlines of Australia Ltd has approval to operate in their own right up to 12 trans-Tasman livestock flights per year). 
Figures on costs for carriage by chaner flights are not available because the Australian Government makes no stipulation on freight rates for such flights; the cost is a commercial matter for negotiation between the shipper and carrier. 
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development  (Question No. 3432) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) (a) Passenger services between Hobart and Wvnyard ("The Tasman") and Hobart and Parattah ("The Rail Car") ceased after 28 July 1978, as their continued operation was in the commercial judgement of ANR not justified. Freight services between Winnaleah and Herrick were withdrawn on1 October 1978, due to the condition of a bridge which was condemned for future use. (b) Scheduled freight services between Ledgerwood and Herrick were replaced from 31 July 1978 by an "as required" service, to improve the viability of this branch line. Between that date and 1 October 1978, a freight train service operated between Ledgerwood and Herrick on an average of three days per week for the transport of wagonloads, subject to a minimum of two tonnes per wagon. After 1 October 1978, the service has operated between Ledgerwood and Winnaleah, for the reason specified in (a) above. Since 26 February 1979 a daily service has operated to Winnaleah due to the commencement of log loading at Derby. Scheduled freight services between Wiltshire Junction and Smithton and Wiltshire Junction and Stanley were replaced from 31 July 1978 by an "as required" service, to improve the viability of these branch lines. Since that date a daily shunting service on both lines to and from Wiltshire Junction has been provided subject to a minimum of two tonnes per wagon. Transport of livestock ceased as from1 October 1978, because of the losses being incurred in carrying this traffic, and the very low utilisation of facilities. 
No additional services have been established, but ANR advise the freight services in most areas have been adjusted to meet traffic demand. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Seven hundred and thirty-two accidents occurred between 1 July 1977 and 30 June 1978 which were charges against my Department's compensation appropriation. 
The principal compensatable accidents involved injuries to the trunk of the body. These included such disabilities as cuts, fractures, burns, scalds, strains, internal injuries and a significant percentage of back injuries. Injuries to leg and hand were also common. 
I am unable to provide details of the amount of compensation paid in each of the 732 cases recorded between1 July 1977 and 30 June 1978. 
The lowest amount of compensation paid during that period, concerned an employee who attended a doctor but had no time off work. The amount involved was $8.60 (medical expenses). A typical middle range compensation case was one where an employee had twenty-four days' compensation leave as a result of a fracture and incurred $ 1 8 1 . 00 medical expenses. Total cost to my Department was $1,710.16. The highest compensation payment made during the specified period was due to the death of an employee. An amount of $30,278.00 was paid including medical expenses prior to death, funeral costs (up to $650.00) and a $25,000 lump sum paid to spouse. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Bureau of Transport Economics Appropriation for 1977-78 was $300,000, Expenditure was $179,629 and commitments totalled for the year $293,354, leaving a carryover of commitment into financial year 1978-79 of $ 1 1 3,725 the majority of which was provided for under subdivision 658.2, Item 04 of my Department's estimates of expenditure for 1978-79. 
The bulk of this carryover amount represented the balance of long term professional studies, and was expected to be expended as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) The funds provided under Division 958 Item 0 1 for the promotion of road safety practices are grants to the States and can be regarded as a small supplement to the funds expended by the States themselves for such purposes. The allocation was held at $ 1 50,000 for 1 978-79. 
On the other hand, direct expenditure by the Commonwealth on the promotion of road safety practices is provided for under Division 655 Item 03. In 1978-79 $800,000 was allocated for Road Safety Research and Promotion. It is from the expenditure of these funds by my Department that the States receive large quantities of educational materials, films, booklets and the like for use in nationally co-ordinated projects. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The commissioning of the new bulk carriers  Australian Purpose  and  Australian Progress  has been delayed due to the depressed world trading conditions and in particular the low level of iron ore cargoes from Australia to Japan which have prevented the introduction of these two vessels into the trade in addition to the  Australian Pioneer  and  Australian Prospector  which were introduced in September 1976 and February 1977. 
In reaching agreement with the Japanese steel mills for the introduction of the second large bulk carrier  Australian Prospector,  it was recognised that the Japanese mills could not guarantee acceptance of the remaining two vessels into the trade before April 1979 although they agreed to review the matter in the meantime. Although the Line has consistently pressed for earlier introduction this has not been possible. 
April 1979. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1973. 
) The Advisory Committee consisted of the following: 

 Mr J. W. E. Huggett, Commonwealth Department of Transport  (Chairman) 

 Mr R. K. Purdham, Commonwealth Department of Construction 
Air Commodore K. Tongue, Commonwealth Department of Defence (Air) 

 Mr A. Tsipouras, Commonwealth Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development 

 Mr P. W. Cleary, Commonwealth Depanment of Administrative Services 

 Mr J. R. Rae, Commonwealth Department of Finance 

 Mr D. A. Speechley, South Australian Department of Housing, Urban and Regional Affairs and representing South Australian Department for the Environment 

 Mr J. W. Hutchinson, South Australian Department of Transport 

 Mr R. Beverley, South Australian Highways Department 

 Mr C. W. Branson, South Australian State Planning Authority 
Cr D. J. Wells, West Torrens City Council 

 Mr R. G. Lewis, representing Glenelg City Council 
Yes: it has completed its inquiries. It did not call for public submissions. 
The Committee met in Adelaide on the following seven occasions since 1 973:  17.4.1973; 9.5.1973; 24.5.1973; 12.7.1973; 30.5.1974; 9.11. 1977 and 2.8.1978. 
Many Working Group meetings were also held. 
No direct submission was made by my Depanment to the Committee but considerable input was made at the Working Group level. 
and (7) The Committee's report has only recently been referred to me and the responsible State Minister. We are considering the recommendations and the question of the public release of the report and I am hopeful that appropriate announcements on the outcome of this study can be made shortly. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following its recent inquiry into Commercial Ship Repair, the Industries Assistance Commission concluded that a very high level of assistance would be needed to make ship repair prices in Australia competitive with overseas. Even then, the time taken for repairs and fear of delays caused by industrial disputes would weigh heavily with shipowners. Consequently, the Industries Assistance Commission recommended against any change in the present financial or legislative assistance given to the industry and rejected requests aimed at a measure of compulsion to use local repairers. 
The Government has considered the IAC report and accepted its recommendations. The decision on where to have a ship repaired should be made by the foreign shipowner, after taking into account all of the commercial factors involved. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Replies to the first two questions are set out in the table hereunder. Ship owners normally regard docking costs to be confidential commercial information. Accordingly, it would not be appropriate to make these available. 
May I say first how delighted I am that the negotiations with the Association of South East Asian Nations proceeded so well over the weekend and reached a satisfactory and successful conclusion? A tribute should be paid to the officers of my Department, led by the Secretary, and the officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs, led by the Deputy-Secretary of that Department. I am delighted that we have proceeded so far with the ASEAN countries. Insofar as the introduction of cheap air fares is concerned, the timing of talks between the Australian Government and the different ASEAN Governments will depend on the timetable that those countries set. It will be necessary now for bilateral negotiations to take place, to discuss further the principles as to cheap air fares that were agreed upon at the Jakarta meeting by Ministers in attendance. Therefore, the matter of the timetable is really more in the hands of the ASEAN nations than those of this Government. I hope that the talks can take place quite swiftly so that Australians will be able to take advantage of cheap air fares to the ASEAN nations and so that tourists from that area will be able to visit Australia. 
As to the question of deviation from international civil aviation policy, I should point out that the main intention has always been to arrive at a policy which allows cheap air fares to be negotiated with a whole host of countries that have bilateral agreements, or with those carriers coming to this country, as well as in relation to the points that Qantas services outside of this country. That is the main purpose of the policy. We have been pragmatic in its implementation. We have tried to meet the various demands and requirements of the individual countries with which we have negotiated. Therefore, international civil aviation policy has not been deviated from in any sense that would endanger the main principles of that policy. 
I put on record that we now have cheap air fares to the United States of America, Canada, the United Kingdom, the Federal Republic of Germany, Yugoslavia and the Netherlands. Now that the ASEAN talks are entering the bilateral stage we will, I hope, succeed shortly in our negotiations with Singapore, Thailand, the Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia. We have reached almost the final point of negotiations with Hong Kong, Greece and Italy and are in the course of discussions with Japan. On that basis, I think that the Australian Government has achieved something of which to be proud. 
One of the problems throughout the negotiation with the Association of South East Asian Nation countries has been, if we were to meet their wishes in allowing access, how we could prevent an open slather situation. This is the very question that the honourable member for Bowman raised. The Australians have proposed to the ASEAN countries, in order to make sure that there is some control over this matter, that any tickets written to the United Kingdom and to the other European carriers will be on Qantas and British Airways paper. This is the method which has been proposed to control that situation. Insofar as charter operators are concerned, please understand that  Sir Freddie  Laker is only one charter operator who may be interested in operating services to Australia at some time. He has certainly already sought to do so. As I have said before, further consideration of charter operator services will not be given until towards the end of 1980 when the international civil aviation policy proposals, the cheap air fares proposals, are accepted by all the countries with which we have been negotiating and there has been time for the situation to have settled down. We can then take a cool look at what is required to add further stimulation to the tourist industry in regard to travel both inward and outward. That will not take place before the end of 1 980. 
Finally, with respect to restrictions of the proposals on any proposed charter operators, I point out to the honourable member that charter services are mostly based on affinity, although ad hoc, non-affinity passenger charter proposals have been agreed to when we have considered them to be an effort to boost the Australian tourist industry. I point out further, that in the last couple of years, as a means of boosting the Australian tourist industry, we have agreed to some 200 charter operators flying passengers to this country. Unfortunately, after they receive approval, not all of them operate services. 
-At the Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting in Sydney a couple of weeks ago New South Wales and South 
Australia indicated that they would be pressing for the introduction of the third stage of Australian Design Rule 27A on the given date in 1 98 1 . It is a fact that the only area affected, as described in the honourable member's question, is a very limited area in the central part of Sydney. I do not think any area in South Australia is affected. At least, statistics have not been given to demonstrate that any area in South Australia is affected. Because New South Wales and South Australia account for approximately 50 per cent of the total Australian market, it has been put to me by one or two car manufacturers that they will be forced to impose the third stage of ADR 27A on all motor cars sold. Therefore the increased cost of meeting that rule will be forced on all motorists throughout Australia. Indeed, the increased fuel consumption which will flow out of the third stage being introduced will be imposed on all motorists throughout Australia. 
Following the ATAC meeting it was agreed to take up with the Federated Chamber of Automotive Industries ways to offset this unnecessary impost on the  motorists of  Australia to meet the needs of the few. The tragedy of the whole question is borne out by the statistics given by the State Pollution Control Commission of New South Wales, which demonstrate that as far as car emissions are concerned, the third stage is not likely to improve the situation even when introduced in 198 1 in the New South Wales area, until there is an evening out in 1985. The tragedy is that all this cost will be imposed on the motorist, probably without any general good at all to the health of the New South Wales community. 
The honourable member must have been out of the House when I answered an earlier question on this matter because as usual he certainly has his facts mixed up. The first point to make is that the matters which were discussed with the ASEAN countries by the delegation that went to Asia were matters upon which the Government had decided some weeks ago. They had nothing to do with the Prime Minister's forthcoming visit to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. In fact I do not think that at that time the Prime Minister had decided to go to UNCTAD. So the principles on which the settlement was to take place were decided some time ago. The third and fourth freedom principles of the international civil aviation policy are the main principles upon which the cheap air fare regime has been based. As I said in answer to a question a while ago, the countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations agreed with us in all our discussions that the cheap air fare proposals should not be prejudiced by whatever result came out of the negotiations. 
One of the difficulties we had was to arrive at some compromise that would allow them part access to the route without prejudicing the cheap air fares. We do not believe that allowing some 350 passengers per week to be carried by ASEAN carriers will prejudice the cheap air fares, but we believe that it will help the ASEAN countries to accept the proposals we have been putting to them in seeking cheap air fares to ASEAN countries. The major principles of the international civil aviation policy upon which the cheap air fares are based stand firm. As far as we can, we have met the wishes of the ASEAN carriers to meet their particular circumstances. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A total of thirtythree (33) consulting persons/firms were paid the amount of $179,629 during 1977-78 for professional services. 
I have had a schedule prepared setting out details of the names, individual amounts paid and the specific purposes for each consultancy which is available for your inspection. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details with regard to vehicles for which certification compliance approval is sought by individual manufacturers from the Australian Motor Vehicle Certification Board are provided to the Board on a strictly confidential basis for the purposes of certification to current standards only. The information which is provided is of commercial importance. It has been the consistent policy of the Board, which was established by State and Commonwealth Governments, not to disclose individual manufacturer details. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are no oil tankers regularly operating in or entering Australian waters that are fitted with inert gas system. The  Ampol Sarel  due to commence operations shortly, is fitted with the system. 
As far as technical officers of my Department are aware there are no other systems either in existence or under development that are suitable for preventing build ups of explosive mixtures in tanker oil storage holds. 
) The fires aboard tankers in Australian waters recorded by my Department in the last 10 years are: 
In coastal waters- 1971  Texaco Southampton;  1978  Mobil Australis, ESSO Gippsland. 
In port- 1969  Leslie J. Thompson;  1973  British Bombadier,  1976  Cellana;  1978  P. J. Adams. 
Only the fire on  Cellana  in 1976 was serious enough to warrant the matter being referred to a Court of Marine Inquiry. 
The Australian tanker berths that are located in the vicinityof residential or industrial areas are: 
Sydney: Gore Bay, Berrys Bay, Ballast Point 
Melbourne: Gellibrand, Coode Island, Holden Dock 
Newcastle 
Hobart 
Port Adelaide: River Berths 
Fremantle: Inner Harbour. 
Most of the smaller ports in Australia have tanker berths in the main harbour or at the town quay and are therefore close to residential areas, industrial areas, or other vessels. 
Australian experience has shown that these berths present no greater danger to persons or property than the terminals which they service. 
) Australia has been active in the establishment of world wide tanker standards by the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organisation and will adhere to the provisions of the 1974 Safety of Life at Sea Convention and its 1978 Protocol in this regard when those provisions come into force. Legislation for that purpose is to be introduced shortly. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I am always prepared to have discussions with State Transport Ministers. However, in the case to which the honourable member refers, the Government decided to defer expenditure of $20m for budgetary reasons. 
My colleague the Minister for Administrative Services advises that since 1971-72 the Queensland Government has made applications for, and received grants of, special financial assistance from the Commonwealth under section 96 of the Constitution. These Grants were paid on the recommendations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission which has taken the losses incurred by the Brisbane City Council 's transport undertaking into account in making its recommendations since 1973-74. 
If the Commission had not taken these losses into account the special grants recommended for payment would have been reduced as follows:1974-75, $24m to $16. 915m; 1975-76, $35.8m to $29. 178m; and 1976-77, $23.7m to $ 14.048m. 
Special grants payable to a claimant State are in the nature of untied general revenue funds designed to supplement the State 's personal income tax sharing entitlements and are not conditional upon the State's undertaking to spend the funds for any particular purpose. Accordingly, the application of these grants to special purposes within the State (including the Brisbane City Council's transport undertaking) is entirely a matter for the Queensland Government to determine. 
Investment in Company Securities  (Question No. 3433) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no Department of Transport staff either permanent or temporary located at the Qantas Office, 20 Macquarie Street, Parramatta, NSW. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is contained in the following table: 
General aviation plays an extraordinarily important part in the provision of transport services throughout the great bulk of the physical area of this nation. Without question, the impact on general aviation of the findings of the Prices Justification Tribunal will be significant. We must remember that general aviation- through commuter services, charter operators and even privately-owned aeroplanes- is really the only satisfactory mode of transport in a great number of areas of Australia. That, combined with the aerial agricultural operations, the air ambulances and the other uses to which aviation is put, demonstrates the importance of the general aviation area to Australia as a whole. My colleague the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs has just related to the House, in answer to a question, how the decision of the Prices Justification Tribunal was arrived at. I certainly will discuss the matter with him to see whether there is something that can be done by the Government in the face of this decision. I heard him say specifically that there is no room for intervention by him, as Minister, under the terms of the Act. Nevertheless, having regard to the seriousness of the situation and the impact, particularly on commuter operators, many of whom have already been to me expressing concern at their financial plight and their capacity to carry on under the impact of the fuel charge, I certainly will talk with him about it. One must recognise that the Prices Justification Tribunal has been set up to be the umpire in these matters, and I guess we have to accept the umpire's decision. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2), (3) and (4) I understand that some vessels in the northwest Australia to Japan ore trade did slow steam in 1 978 and also that the speeds of a number of vessels have recently been increased. 
As ore is bought on FOB basis, the purchaser makes his own shipping arrangements and the detailed information concerning voyage times requested is not available. 
I am informed that the Australian National Line bulk carriers in the trade averaged 27.67 days for the round trip in 1978 which is similar to times they attained in 1977. The ANL vessels have not been slow steaming. 
Slow steaming is a method by which the amount of cargo carried by a fleet can be reduced without having to lay up individual ships. The major benefit is in reduced fuel consumption and the commensurate reduction in running costs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Yes. 
No. Australian National Railways has advised that the apprentice intake is calculated to meet ANR requirements to maintain skilled labour levels. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See columns I and 2 of the table included in the answer to Question No. 3637; 
and (c) My Department does not record details of these matters as the data is not relevant to the operation of the tanker surveillance programme. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am aware that a representative of the Queensland Coast and Torres Strait Pilot Service made a statement similar to the one referred to. 
The only items of equipment mentioned in the statement were the 'gyro compass, radar and sounding machine '. In regard to those items it should be noted that the current international standard, expected to come into force shortly, is contained in Regulation 12 (e) of Chapter V of the Safety of Life at Sea Convention which reads ' Whilst all reasonable steps shall be taken to maintain the apparatus in an efficient condition, malfunction of the radar equipment, the gyrocompass or the echo-sounding device shall not be considered as making the ship unseaworthy or as a reason for delaying the ship in ports where repair facilities are not readily available. ' 
, (4) and (5 ) As the statement did not include particulars of the identity or the nationality of the ships in question, no meaningful answer can be given to these parts of the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. 
Yes. Representations were received on 29 March1979 suggesting that the Federal Government could be of assistance to State Governments in this matter. 
(a) Inquiries were commenced on 30 March 1979. 
Inquiries were conducted by officers of my Department. 
In view of the negative results of inquiries it is not proposed to convey them to the States at this stage. If further information becomes available, advice will be conveyed to the State Ministers of Transport. 
Inquiries are already completed. 
The City Planning Commissioner in New York is currently undertaking a study which may call for the re-introduction of trams on two streets. However, their re-introduction is by no means a certainty. The Greater London Council is not currently considering the re-introduction of trams. 
The honourable member would know that no change can be made to the present arrangements relating to the South Australian section of the Australian National Railways without the approval of the South Australian Labor Government Minister of Transport. Whilst I have received some proposals from ANR and whilst ANR was directed to draw up a 10-year plan, whatever that plan might be, whatever might flow from it and whether or not this Government accepted it, it would need to be agreed to by the South Australian Labor Minister. Therefore, no change can be made to the present circumstances without his agreement. The tragedy of the whole arrangement is that a sovereign government such as the Commonwealth Government, having taken over the second worst railway system in Australia- the South Australian railway system- is now unable to take decisions without a veto being applied by the South Australian Labor Minister. 
I am able to confirm that the domestic airlines have applied for a 10 per cent fare increase. This follows the increase in fuel prices of recent days. I assure the House that the applications will be given the same scrutiny as was given to applications by the previous administration. The same scrutiny will be given in the same way as it given when my predecessor,  Mr Charles  Jones, was Minister for Transport and approved a 47.5 per cent increase in air fares over three years. Let us see whether the effect of this scrutiny comes out at a 10 per cent increase. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  on behalf of the Commonwealth, to guarantee borrowings raised by Qantas Airways Limited to finance the purchase of its eighteenth and nineteenth Boeing 747 series aircraft. The aircraft are scheduled for delivery in November 1979. The Boeing 747 series aircraft was introduced into the Qantas fleet in 1971, thereby beginning Qantas 's fleet rationalisation process, which has just been completed with the disposal of the remaining 707s early this year. The Boeing 747 aircraft has proved to be well suited to Qantas 's major pattern of operations. The use of this type of aircraft made it possible for Qantas to pioneer low fares on the Australia-Europe routes in 1972 and for the introduction of the new low fares to the United Kingdom, United States of America and Europe which I have recently announced. Qantas had indicated that for many years to come the Boeing 747 aircraft will continue to be the main unit of its fleet as a replacement aircraft is not yet on the drawing boards. 
Aircraft 1 8 will be in the combi configuration, which allows a combination of passengers and cargo, and it is intended that this aircraft will be used on the Australia-Frankfurt service, enabling Qantas to offer an improved air cargo service between Germany and Australia. The aircraft will be used also between Australia and the 
United States of America. Aircraft 19 is to be in the normal passenger configuration and is required to cope with the anticipated peak summer traffic to the United Kingdom-Europe and the United States of America, which is expected to occur in 1980-81. Both these aircraft are to be fitted with Rolls Royce RB 211 engines, which have been chosen by Qantas after careful evaluation, because of the increased fuel efficiency associated with the new generation of large jet engines which will enable more efficient operations in the 1980s as petroleum-based fuels become scarcer.  (Quorum formed). 
Qantas also plans to increase by 455 the number of saleable seats across its present fleet of Boeing 747 aircraft by the modification of the in-flight galleys to enable more seats to be fitted in each aircraft, and by modifying the existing engines to give more thrust to cope with the extra pay-load. Qantas expects to achieve additional capacity slightly greater than one extra B747 with this project for a capital outlay that is less than half the cost of a new aircraft and only a small increase in operating costs. 
As in the past, the provision of a guarantee would be limited to 80 per cent of the total purchase price of the aircraft, spare parts and associated equipment. This represents $US94m, or its equivalent in other currencies. The provision of a guarantee would not involve the government in any cash outlay, but would create a contingent liability for the Commonwealth. The arrangements for the loan are to be subject to the approval of the Treasurer and adequate security will be provided to the Commonwealth while any amounts of principal or interest remain unpaid. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report prepared by the Department of Transport entitled 'The transport planning and research program: Report of Progress to June 1978'. The report, which was produced at the request of State authorities, provides an example of the co-operation being achieved between States and the Commonwealth under the Transport Planning and Research (Financial Assistance) Act 1977. 
Pursuant to paragraph 11 of the Third Schedule of the Airlines Agreement Act 1952 I present the annual financial report relating to the operation of air services by Ansett Transport Industries Ltd for the year ended 1 July 1978. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled 'National Highways Linking Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra- Third Report: Canberra Connections, 1979'. 
Pursuant to section 40 of the Australian National Airlines Act 1945 I present the annual report of the Australian National Airlines Commission for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is a small consequential Bill arising out of the Navigation Amendment Bill 1979. Under that Bill the term 'prescribed country' is to be used in various places in the Navigation Act instead of the term 'Commonwealth country'. The Seamen's Compensation Act uses the term Commonwealth country' and defines it as having the same meaning as in the Navigation Act. To be consistent and to ensure that the term prescribed country' is used, the necessary amendments are being made. They are expressed to come into operation at the same time as the main related amendment of the Navigation Act. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is a small consequential Bill arising out of the Navigation Amendment Bill 1979. Under that Bill provisions in respect of the limitation of shipowners' liability are being inserted in the Navigation Act to supersede the old provisions of the United Kingdom Merchant Shipping Acts in respect of that subject that still apply in Australia. This Bill therefore makes the necessary replacement of a reference in the SeaCarriage of Goods Act, that in effect applies the old United Kingdom law, with a reference to the new Navigation Act provisions. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is a small consequential Bill arising out of the Navigation Amendment Bill 1979. Under that Bill references in the Navigation Act to the tonnage of ships are being amended to make the tonnage terms uniform and in line with the terminology introduced when the amendments made by the Navigation Act 1972 were brought into force on 1 December 1976. The new amendments are being deemed to have come into operation on the same date as the 1972 amendments. The Pollution of the Sea by Oil (Shipping Levy Collection) Amendment Act contains a reference to ship tonnage which is being similarly amended, and that amendment also is to be deemed to have come into operation on that same date. As the amendment is one of terminology only, its retrospective effect does not affect levies already paid. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is a small consequential Bill arising out of the Navigation Amendment Bill 1979. Under that Bill effect will be given to the 1974 Safety of Life at Sea Convention in place of the 1960 Convention of the same name and the definition of the Convention in the Navigation Act will be amended accordingly. Australia will become a party to the 1974 Convention. The Lighthouses Act refers to Australia's obligations under that 1960 Convention to establish and maintain marine navigational aids which will instead become obligations under the 1974 Convention when it enters into force for Australia. This Bill therefore amends the Lighthouses Act so that, in effect, the reference to the Convention under which those obligations exist will automatically mean the latest Safety of Life at Sea Convention to which Australia has become a party. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The railway systems of New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, and Western Australia are the responsibilities of the respective States. Enquiries concerning these State owned railway systems should be addressed to the responsible State Ministers. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill contains many amendments that were in the Navigation Bill 1975, which lapsed with the termination of the 29th Parliament. They were again in the Navigation Amendment Bill 1976, which lapsed also with the prorogation of Parliament on 28 February 1977. It also contains a number of other urgent, important measures. The amendments fall into groups for a number of important specific purposes and there are numerous other amendments mainly of a minor nature. Because of the complexity of the subject matter explanatory notes on the clauses are being circulated to honourable members. One particularly important aspect of the Bill is that it contains the legislation necessary for Australia to become a party to no fewer than five international maritime Conventions, four of which are Intergovernmental Maritime Consultative Organisation conventions. I shall deal briefly with each one. 
The first is the International Convention relating to the Limitation of the Liability of Owners of Sea-going Ships 1957. This Convention came into force internationally in 1968, but the relevant law in Australia still consists of the Merchant Shipping Acts of 1894 and 1900 of the United Kingdom. One of the main practical effects of this group of amendments is to increase the amounts to which a shipowner will be able to limit his liability- unless he is held to be actually at fault himself- in respect of claims arising out of the specified occurences to which the Convention applies. The existing very low limits of about $28 a ton for personal claims and $15 a ton for property claims provided for in the Merchant Shipping Acts are to be increased to the equivalent of the Convention limits- about $179 and $57 a ton respectively at the present time. 
In giving effect to the 1957 Convention, Australia, like a number of the European shipping countries, will, at the request of the States, exercise the option provided for in the Protocol of Signatures to exclude the application of subparagraph ( 1 ) (c) of Article 1 of the Convention. This means that shipowners will not be able to limit their liability in respect of damage to harbour works, or for wreck removal. The Bill specifically approves ratification by Australia of the Convention, subject to a reservation making that exclusion. The new section 338, which absolves shipowners from liability in respect of certain property claims, does not introduce any new benefit for shipowners but is a re-enactment of an existing provision in Part VIII of the United Kingdom Merchant Shipping Act, which is being repealed to make way for the new limitation provisions. New section 59B, however, will prevent shipowners from limiting their liability for claims by crew members serving under Commonwealth articles of agreement. This was sought by the unions, and is also a practice followed by many maritime nations. 
The Bill will also enable Australia to accede to the Convention on the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea 1972, which prescribes new 'rules of the road' for ships on the high seas and in all connected waters navigable by sea-going vessels. Those international regulations came into operation on 15 July 1977, and were incorporated in Commonwealth and State regulations and so are observed in practice. However, the Convention could not be acceded to because the Commonwealth and State Acts under which the regulations are made do not enable the regulations to be applied to all the vessels covered by the Convention. The new provisions rectify this aspect. 
The third Convention is the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea 1 974, known as the SOLAS Convention, which consolidates and supersedes the 1960 Convention of that name and the up-dating amendments made over the intervening years. 1'he 1974 Convention, which is the latest of several such Conventions that have been drawn up over the years since the  Titanic  disaster of 1912, lays down more advanced technical safety requirements. It deals with such matters as ship construction and stability, machinery and radio and other equipment, fire protection, detection and extinction, lifesaving appliances and carriage of cargoes of potential danger and requires surveys and inspections to ensure compliance with the standards laid down and the issue of international safety certificates to ships that comply. The Navigation Act already gives effect to the 1960 Convention, and so the Bill makes the necessary amendments to cover the further-improved requirements of the 1974 Convention and the amending 1978 Protocol. The Protocol was adopted at the Tanker Safety and Pollution Prevention Conference convened by IMCO at the request of the United States last year following a number of serious pollution incidents off the United States coast. It introduces a number of additional measures into the Convention, aimed at greater tanker safety. Although neither the Convention nor the Protocol is yet in force internationally, it is the Government's wish that 
Australia should become a party to these instruments as soon as possible and thus contribute to their early commencement. The Bill contains the necessary legislation to enable this to be done. 
The fourth Convention being dealt with by the Bill is the International Convention for Safe Containers which was adopted in 1972 and has entered into force internationally. This Convention lays down requirements for the structure, testing, inspection, approval and maintenance of new and existing containers used in international transport, excluding air transport. Under the Bill approval is given to ratification by Australia and the necessary provisions for that purpose are inserted in the Act. Additional structural safety requirements or tests may be prescribed to the extent permitted by the Convention. 
The other Convention concerned is the International Convention on Tonnage Measurement of Ships 1969, which aims at providing a universally acceptable system for the tonnage measurement of ships, by volume of interior spaces, in place of a number of other systems that each have their particular adherents. The main purposes of such measurement are to facilitate the levying of dues and charges and to enable ships to be compared for size by measurement of interior volume. All the present tonnage measurement formulae have disadvantages, particularly for roll-on roll-off and container ships, and these will be eliminated under the much simpler methods of the Convention, which has received almost enough support to put in operation the procedures for bringing it into force. The Convention is expressed to apply to ships on international voyages excluding ships less than 24 metres in length. For the first 12 years the Convention provisions are mandatory only for new ships and for existing ships that undergo substantial alterations. It will become mandatory for other ships at the end of that period. Whilst, therefore, the Bill contains the necessary provisions to enable ratification by, and application in, Australia, it also leaves the existing provisions to apply as long as they continue to be required. 
In the case of the first four of these conventions the Commonwealth has agreed that it would be appropriate to include saving clauses in the Bill to permit State legislation to apply the conventions within limits appropriate to State responsibilities. In this context I use the word 'State' to include the Northern Territory. The effect of these saving clauses will be that to the extent that a State chooses to legislate on these matters within the limits laid down, the Commonwealth law contained in the Bill will not apply. The scope provided for State law on these matters varies with each Convention and, broadly speaking, is as follows: For the Limitation Convention and the SOLAS Convention State law will be permitted in the case of 'intra-State ships,' that is ships not proceeding on interstate or overseas voyages; for the Prevention of Collisions Convention State law will be permitted in the case of all ships in the territorial sea and internal waters, that is, on the landward side of the 3 mile limit; and for the Containers Convention State law will be permitted in respect of containers in the State. These arrangements reflect the Government's policy of co-operative federalism and they are beneficial from the point of view of the Commonwealth as well as the States. From the Commonwealth viewpoint it is possible for Australia to become a party to the respective conventions once the Commonwealth legislation is enacted and without the need to await complementary legislation by the States. From the States' point of view the benefit of the arrangement is that their legislative powers are not eroded by an unrestricted exercise of the Commonwealth's external affairs power. 
Two important related sets of provisions that have been in the Act since its early days are being repealed and replaced under this Bill. I refer to the provisions dealing with the manning of ships and the qualifications of masters and other officers and of seamen. The new provisions have been arrived at after considerable consultation with the industry and the State marine authorities. 
The old inflexible manning provisions of the Act, designed for the shipping industry of half a century ago, have long been completely inappropriate. New section 14 is being substituted in place of the excessive detail now in the Act, with its precise but outmoded scales of officers and seamen in Schedules I and II. These provisions will enable the Minister to specify detailed requirements as to the minimum numbers and qualifications of officers and seamen to be carried in specified ships or classes of ships, to the extent that it appears necessary in the interests of safety or protection of the marine environment. The criteria to be applied in determining the minimum manning are to be set out in the regulations after further discussions with the industry. The new provisions have been arranged so that the changes can be implemented in two stages. Initially it will be possible to remove the application of the outmoded Schedules and other inflexible provisions, and then, following detailed discussions with the industry, to prescribe and bring into operation the minimum safety manning for ships when all aspects of the regulations have been satisfactorily resolved. Failure to carry officers and seamen as specified will be an offence for which the master and owner will both be liable to a fine of up to $1,000. A ship not carrying officers and seamen as required may be detained, or specified operations restricted, with a maximum penalty on both master and owner of $5,000 for non-compliance. 
Turning to the related area of qualifications, which includes training and examinations, here too the Bill repeals the old outmoded provisions. A new section 15 is substituted which provides broad enabling powers under which standards of competence to be attained and other conditions to be satisfied in order to be 'qualified' for the purposes of the Act will be specified by regulation or by order under the regulations. Amongst other things to be so prescribed will be detailed requirements in respect of instruction, training and the conduct of examinations and the issue of certificates of competency, the recognition of certificates issued by other countries, and the review by an appropriately constituted Administrative Appeals Tribunal of administrative decisions made under those regulations and orders. The power conferred by section 25 of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act will be used to make regulations prescribing the jurisdiction of the Tribunal in these matters. Under these provisions there will be a new structure for certificates of competency designed to meet modern shipping needs and derived from the uniform shipping laws adopted by State marine Ministers and myself in the Marine and Ports Council of Australia following consultation between my Department, State marine authorities and the maritime industry. These provisions of the code are based on international requirements developed through IMCO, which in July 1978 were embodied in an international convention, and will provide the basis for courses of study at the new Australian Maritime College. Certificates issued under the new provisions will be acceptable to the various Australian marine authorities. 
The Uniform Shipping Laws Code which I have mentioned extends to a wide range of matters besides qualifications and the Act contains powers to enable legal effect to be given to those other sections of the code. For some considerable time working groups of Commonwealth and State officials have been drawing up this code, which contains requirements for the survey and manning of commercial vessels to be uniformly adopted in order to overcome the present serious lack of uniformity between the requirements imposed by the various States and the Commonwealth. Under the Bill, therefore, it will be possible to put the code into practical effect. 
A further important feature of the Bill, because it will make a valuable contribution to safety of life and property at sea, is that it gives legal effect to the ship movement reporting scheme, known as AUSREP, that has been operating voluntarily for some time. The scheme ensures that positive action is taken to search for a ship in the Australian search and rescue area if more than 24 hours have elapsed since the ship last indicated that all was well. Also, if a ship is in distress, it enables the Australian Coastal Surveillance Centre of the Department of Transport to know immediately what ships are in the area and which of these would be best suited to assist in the emergency. In addition to improved safety, the system achieves significant economies in the use of search and rescue resources by providing a datum on which to concentrate a search if a ship becomes overdue. 
As it appears that no such legislation exists anywhere else, Australia is the world leader in this important development. Information about the system aroused considerable interest in IMCO, and Australia proposed to IMCO that a uniform ship movement reporting system should be an integral part of any internationally agreed search and rescue plan. This led on to the recent International Conference on Maritime Search and Rescue held in Hamburg, at which the Australian delegation included two experts from my Department responsible for Australian Coastal Surveillance Centre and AUSREP operations. The conference adopted a new Convention on Maritime Search and Rescue providing for a global search and rescue plan incorporating systems such as AUSREP. 
The other subject involving a group of amendments is historic shipwrecks. The Historic Shipwrecks Act 1976 empowers the Minister for Home Affairs to declare particular shipwrecks and related relics of historic significance to be historic shipwrecks', thus bringing them under the protective provisions of the legislation. This requires some consequential amendments of the Navigation Act. 
The Historic Shipwrecks Act requires the finder to give notice of his discovery and does not prohibit salvage operations until the wreck is declared historic, when strict controls come into effect. The finder may acquire salvage rights under the Navigation Act, the United Kingdom 
Merchant Shipping Acts, or at common law, before the wreck is declared historic. The Bill therefore provides that various provisions of the Navigation Act that deal with wreck and salvage matters do not apply to a wreck from the time it is declared historic and while it remains so. As salvage rights or liabilities under the Navigation Act acquired before a wreck is declared historic are to be preserved, the Bill also makes express provision for this purpose. There is provision to ensure that, for reasons of safety of life and navigation, the provisions of the Navigation Act giving the Minister powers regarding removal will still apply to any wreck, whether declared historic or not. The Minister is not to exercise any of those powers unless it is necessary to do so for purposes of safety or environmental emergency. Another provision ensures that his powers to deal with oil pollution threats arising from damaged ships continue unrestricted. The other amendments can best be classified as 'miscellaneous'. Many are of a purely drafting or machinery nature. 
One important amendment extends the references in the Act to the owner of a ship to include a reference to the operator, except in a few special circumstances. This is to ensure that where a duty or liability is imposed by the Act on the owner, responsibility for ensuring that that duty or liability is discharged is imposed on the person who is directly concerned with the relevant operations, for example, a bareboat charterer, as well as on the owner. Conversely, a benefit conferred on the owner will also, in appropriate cases, be available to the operator. Other amendments empower the Minister to make orders in relation to detailed technical requirements to be applied under the Act, so that such requirements can be quickly implemented, or varied without delay, in the light of ship casualties, equipment failure investigations, or technical developments. There are a number of amendments relating to the engagement and discharge of seamen and certain of the conditions of their employment, mainly to cater for modern developments in the industry. 
In addition to the prescribing of penalties at appropriate levels for newly created offences, the opportunity has been taken, where sections are otherwise amended, to update some maximum monetary penalties for existing offences against provisions of the Act and regulations and to increase some general penalties and make consequential adjustments. Other penalties will need to be brought into line later. As was the case with the 1976 Bill, this Bill does not purport to effect a general revision of the Navigation Act. The need for such a revision has been recognised for some time and it is the Government's intention to undertake such a task following the completion of discussions currently under way with the States and industry. Although not a general revision, the Bill now before honourable members provides the framework for a significant updating of Australia's navigation laws in accordance with the latest international standards of safety and environment protection. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I have recently received representations from the Australian Lebanese Association concerning air fares between Australia and the Middle East and drawing attention to the current disparity in cost for air travel from Australia to the Middle East when compared with the cost for air travel between Australia and London. 
) and (4) I am mindful of the importance of the Middle East and the need to introduce low fares to that region. In this regard, it is proposed that fares to the Middle East will be constructed on the basis of point-to-point travel over the gateways of Damascus, Bahrein and Dubai. Passengers wishing to travel to points not currently served on services from Australia would be able to combine these pointtopoint fares with normal add-on fares. In this way, it should be possible to travel to all points in the Middle East at fares lower than those currently available. 
It will be necessary, however, to conclude agreements with at least one additional point in Europe before it will be possible to introduce low fares to the Middle East. I am hopeful that it will be possible to do this in the near future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
12, (b) 35, (c) 15, (d) 7, (e) 5,  (f)  1, (g) 5. Deaths resulting from these accidents were (a) Nil, (b) 6, (c) 2, (d) Nil,(e) l,(f)Nil,(g)Nil. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The table in the answer to Question No. 2479 indicates that the Australian first class margin lies within the range of the first class margins in the EEC sample and falls just outside the range in the US sample. However, there are indications that the US airlines are presently reviewing their fare differentials and proposals have been mooted to reduce the differential between first class and economy in a bid to attract more first class traffic. 
No. 
This along with all the DATPR recommendations is currently under consideration. 
For the information of honourable members, I present an interim report of the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled 'An Assessment of the Australian Road System: 1979, Part 1'. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The incidence of jack-knifing of trailer vehicles cannot be determined from the routinely published accident statistics. Similarly, few special studies have been done. A study of 1,535 accidents involving articulated vehicles in Queensland during 1965-67 found 126 cases or 8.2 per cent which involved jack-knifing. A study in New South Wales of 457 accidents involving vehicles towing caravans during 1972-73 found 29 or 6.3 per cent which involved jack-knifing. Of these 29 only 2 were casualty accidents with a total of 3 injured persons and no fatalities. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On IS December 1978 I announced a number of new initiatives in the upgraded civil coastal surveillance program introduced by the Government in July 1978, including provision for the charter of about ten Australian designed and built Nomad aircraft for surveillance tasks. 
The performance and effectiveness of the chartered aircraft will be evaluated in the context of the review of surveillance programs and resources which is to be undertaken by the Government after accumulation of practical experience with the new program. 
Civil coastal surveillance is not a military problem even though the Defence Force provides a large measure of assistance to civil authorities. 
Birds as Virus Carriers (Question No. 3747) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian National Railways do not propose to sell the land in question at this stage. Since ANR presently provides all services, other than electricity, it considers that it would be inappropriate to sell allotments until other bodies agree to take over provision of services. I understand, however, that this is not likely until more allotments are available. ANR has undertaken to review the matter periodically. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 3 ) In 1 977, the Government decided that while the continued operation of the Tasman Limited was a matter for the commercial judgment of the Australian National Railways Commission, services should not be withdrawn without full examination of the effect of withdrawal including the tourist industry. To this end, the Commonwealth provided a special subsidy of $490,000 to cover losses on operations for the period 1 July 1977 to 28 February 1978. The Minister for National Development was heavily involved in these decisions. During this period operations were closely monitored and a joint State/ANRC promotion campaign was conducted. Despite these efforts patronage continued to decline and operating losses to rise. The ANRC, exercising its commercial judgment, determined to halve services from1 March 1978 and finally to cease services from 28 July 1978. The ANRC's decision to cease services was disputed by the State under the terms of the Railway Transfer Agreement and under that Agreement an independent arbitrator was appointed to determine the dispute. The arbitrator upheld the ANRC decision. 
The Minister for National Development made it abundantly clear, both in comments to the media and in statements he made to the railway workers in the Launceston Railway Yards, that unless the Tasman Limited was supported by the public it would not be possible to keep the tram operating. It is my view that the Minister for National Development was instrumental in providing every opportunity for this service to demonstrate its viability. 
I certainly would like to take up the suggestion made by the Prime Minister that signs be put up setting out the timetable for the construction of the Brisbane airport. Let me say also that a proposed timetable will be laid down which I am sure the Brisbane people will appreciate and approve. Once the environmental studies are out of the way the earthworks will be ready to commence in 1980. There will be significant work on the grounds, I can assure the honourable member, by December 1980, to say the least. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) Following consideration of proposals by some international airlines through IATA, consideration is being given to refund certain payments made in respect of space occupied at Sydney and Melbourne International Terminal Buildings. 
The Government's decision will be announced as soon as practicable. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member should be aware that it is not possible for me to disclose the nature or substance of discussions leading up to the presentation of legislation to the Parliament. 
Appropriation Bills 3 and 4, which were recently introduced, show that additional amounts are proposed to be provided for the Department of Transport, under a number of heads of expenditure. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Transport Planning and Research (Financial Assistance) Act 1977 provides for Commonwealth participation with the States in a transport planning and research program funded on a dollar for dollar arrangement from 1978-79 onwards. The second reading speech for that legislation stated that in 1978-79 and 1979-80 the Government was prepared to contribute its share on a dollar for dollar basis of a total program maintained at the 1977-78 level in real terms. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following investigation of this matter in 1975 by a Committee convened by my Department, the Fishing Industry Research Trust Account made funds available to NSW State Fisheries to investigate the effect of exotic organisms in ship's ballast water on the Australian marine environment. This investigation has been completed and a report is to be made to the Fishing Industry Research Committee. Further action will depend on the findings of that report. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
(a) As the sole operator on the AustraliaMauritius/South Africa route, South African Airways has been granted additional capacity as required to cater for the needs of those members of the community desiring to travel to or from Mauritius and other points in Africa. 
(b) No. However, on 30 March 1978 I announced the introduction of excursion fares to facilitate lower cost air travel to Mauritius and countries in Africa. It was one of the few routes where excursion fares had not been available. 
In period 1975-76 loss of $ 1.8m; in period 1976-77 loss of $ 1.4m. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Preliminary estimates for all overseas arrivals and departures figures on all routes for February 1 979 indicate a 1 3 per cent growth over the February 1978 figure. Similarly there was a 22.5 per cent growth for March. However, lower air fares were only available on some routes in February and March 1979. It will be necessary for there to be further experience with the lower fares to enable a more accurate estimate of likely future growth in overseas travel to and from Australia. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Two senior executives of the Walter Motor Truck Co.,  Mr Wenzel  and  Mr McRae,  visited Australia in late 1978 and  Mr McDougal, President  of the Company was here in early March 1979. In addition the Walter Co. has technical field representatives who have visited Australia, the last occasion being in late April 1979. 
All expenses related to the visits have been borne by the Walter Motor Truck Co. 
Faults have occurred in two main areas, the power divider and the brakes. The Walter Co. used certain commercially available components for these assemblies and it is these items which are not meeting requirements. 
The Walter Co. is providing full parts and back-up service and has also redesigned, manufactured and supplied certain of the components which have caused problems, at no cost to the Department and in accordance with the terms of the contract. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The primary aircraft type to be operated by both companies is the Rockwell Aero Commander AC500S Shrike. 
) (a) Transwest Air Charter ( WA) Pty Ltd from Geraldton to Bigge Island in Western Australia. 
Executive Airlines Pty Ltd from Millingimbi Mission, Northern Territory, to Cape Grenville, Queensland, including the Torres Strait Islands. 
No. 
Contracts with each company are for 2 years expiring in February 1981. 
Since the upgrading of coastal surveillance was announced in July 1978, light twin-engined aircraft have been chartered on an ad hoc interim basis. Prior to July 1978, coastal patrols were primarily carried out by Department of Defence aircraft supported by civil aircraft chartered as required by individual Departments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The search and rescue equipment under this contract was purchased to replenish stocks of droppable kit components depleted through use in Search and Rescue exercises. 
The equipment will be located in the New South Wales, Victoria-Tasmania, South Australia-Northern Territory and Western Australia Regions of the Department. 
Specialist Search and Rescue personnel in the event of aircraft accidents at sea and at remote localities, and for Search and Rescue training exercises. 
The equipment purchased under this contract is identical with equipment purchased on previous occasions for Search and Rescue purposes. 
The equipment will be used in areas and for tasks already covered under the Department's Search and Rescue plan. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The breathing apparatus is for use by fire service staff. While it is marketed as an underwater breathing device it is equally suitable for protection against smoke inhalation, and will be used specifically for fire rescue purposes. 
This particular piece of equipment is to be used at Port Hedland airport, W.A. 
3 ) Airport fire services. 
and (5) The new apparatus is an updated version of existing equipment with modified fittings; it is being progressively purchased to replace superseded breathing apparatus at Commonwealth airports. While existing equipment is quite serviceable, difficulty is being experienced in obtaining spare parts. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The modules are to be used in Air Traffic Control and Flight Service Unit installations throughout Australia. 
Approximately 14 700 units over 3 years. 
Yes. 
The four unsuccessful competitors for the contract were: 
Consolidated Electronic Products Pty Ltd, Thornbury, Vic. 
b ) Universal Electronics Pty Ltd, Brookvale, NSW. 
Australian Transistor Co. Pty Ltd Kew, Victoria. 
Amalgamated Wireless Australasia Ltd, Leichhardt, NSW. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The items purchased under this contract are test equipments required to monitor the operation of video-recording, editing and tape transferring facilities which are being installed in the Department of Transport Film Unit. 
No; USA. 
3 ) Only one offer was received. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The flight service consoles, tables and consolettes are to be used in equipment upgrading programs at the Adelaide Flight Service Centre and the Cairns and Carnarvon Flight Service Units. 
Yes. 
) The unsuccessful competitor for the contract was: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The six foam pump casings purchased under contract C2/78/125 will be held in the Department of Transport's Victoria-Tasmania regional warehouse and issued to the Regional Workshops for reconditioning, as required, of foam pumps fitted to large fire tenders in service at airports throughout Australia. 
To replenish stock in the Regional Warehouse and ensure availability of spares for foam pump reconditioning. 
Australia. 
The four unsuccessful competitors for the contract were: 
Wearwell Bronze Co. Pty Ltd, Thornbury, Victoria 
b ) N. T. Tranter, South Melbourne, Victoria. 
Vickers Ruwolt-Adams Foundry, Moorabbin, Victoria. 
d ) Stephen Firman &amp; Son Pty Ltd, Brunswick, Victoria. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) LP 32 16-Receiving tube, power output pentode, typeEL85. 
LP 3256-Reflex klystron, type 5837. 
(a) Forty-Perth. 
Five- Sydney and Melbourne. 
(a) Britain. (b)USA. 
(a) No other offers were received. 
The only other offer received was for an alternative type of USA manufacture. This equipment is being purchased for evaluation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The video production equipment is for installation in the Department of Transport's Film Unit at Essendon, Victoria. It will be used for the production, editing and tape transfer of films and video tapes for use in personnel training. 
) Daily, subject to operator availability. 
) No other offers were received. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The acetylene cylinders to be purchased under this contract will be used to fuel unmanned marine navigational lights at some 1 50 locations throughout Australia. 
) These are the first acetylene cylinders of this type to be purchased, and consequently cost comparisons are difficult. However, the cylinders have distinct operational advantages, they are of Australian manufacture and are expected to be more economical than the imported product previously purchased. 
3 ) No other offers were received. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The video cassettes will be used by the Department of Transport's Film Unit at Essendon, Victoria in the production and duplication of films for personnel training purposes. 
A total of 70, comprising thirty of 60-minute duration and forty of 30-minute duration. 
3 ) No other offers were received . 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have had my Department investigate the first of the honourable member's questions. Its inquiries have not elicited any knowledge of an ore carrier picking up a heavy growth of foreign marine organisms whilst lying off Fort Hedland. 
The Australian National Line utilizes high quality underwater coatings as a means of combating marine growth fouling, resulting in the Line's vessels being able to operate in Australian waters regularly for periods of up to eighteen months or two years without any abnormal increase in fuel costs due to fouling. 
At the end of the eighteen months or two year cycle the ships are withdrawn for routine drydocking, inspection and refurbishing of underwater coatings and anti-fouling paint. The cost of anti-fouling paint and its application is about $35,000 per vessel when refurbishing is carried out. 
Air Safety: Incident at Mascot Airport  (Question No. 3894) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Air Safety Investigation Branch of my Department has searched its records and there is no evidence of an incident involving two Boeing 727/200 series aircraft having occurred on Sydney Kingsford-Smith Airport in recent months. 
Air Safety: Incident near Melbourne  (Question No. 3895) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Air Safety Investigation Branch of my Department has searched its records and can find no evidence of such an incident having been reported this year. 
Air Safety: Incident near Perth  (Question No. 3896) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 22 April 1979 Boeing 727/277 aircraft VH-RMM and another Boeing 727/200 departed Perth for Melbourne approximately one minute apart, from different runways. The Captain of VH-RMM subsequently submitted an Air Safety Incident Report in which he contended that he should have been given the choice between stepped climb procedures and the radar vectoring system which was employed to effect separation. Safety was not affected. 
The investigation has shown that no action is necessary on the grounds of safety. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The 20 standard gauge passenger car bogies are required for conversion of brakevans which are at present in use on the Marree to Alice Springs narrow gauge line. Following conversion, these brakevans are to be used on the standard gauge Tarcoola to Alice Springs line. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Eleven light twin-engined chartered civil aircraft fly daily searches of Australia 's northern coastline. 
Military aircraft fly regular patrols around the Australian coast and over the routes used by refugee boats. 
Nine RAN patrol boats carry out patrols and are directly available for civil surveillance and enforcement. 
The Department of Transport's vessel  Cape Pillar  is  being utilised as a dedicated surveillance vessel. 
The Bureau of Customs is chartering three aircraft exclusively for Customs purposes. 
Additionally, I recently announced that total coastal surveillance activity is to be further increased by three speciallyequipped Nomad aircraft for patrols of refugee boat routes and northern offshore islands as well as for surveillance of the Great Barrier Reef for illegal fishing activities. 
See(1)above. 
The primary surveillance vehicles listed in the answer to ( 1 ) and (2) above are deployed in accordance with a surveillance program agreed by the Interdepartmental Standing Committee on Coastal Surveillance which is chaired by an officer of my Department. 
The adequacy of Australia's civil coastal surveillance will be examined in the context of the previously announced review which the Government is to undertake following experience with the present program. 
Russian Vessels in Australian Ports (Question No. 3744) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The number of visits made by Union of Soviet Socialist Republics mercantile vessels to Australia in each of the last5 years was: 
1973-74, 85; 1974-75, 152; 1975-76; 290; 1976-77, 257; 1977-78, 170. 
The tonnage of goods transported by vessels of the USSR mercantile fleet in each of the last 5 years was: 
From Australia ( '000 freight tonnes) 
1973-74, 788; 1974-75,918; 1975-76, 1,951; 1976-77, 1,209; 1977-78,595. 
b ) To Australia ('000 freight tonnes ) 
1973-74, 244; 1974-75, 239; 1975-76, 226; 1976-77, 274; 1977-78, 125. 
3 ) The goods transported under parts ( 2 ) ( a ) and ( 2 ) ( b ) above constituted the following percentages of total exports and imports by sea in each of the last 5 years: 
Exports 
1973-74,0.51; 1974-75,0.55; 1975-76, 1.23; 1976-77, 0.72; 1977-78,0.36. 
Imports 
1973-74, 0.79; 1974-75, 0.80; 1975-76, 0.84; 1976-77, 0.97; 1977-78,0.46. 
Two USSR shipping lines operate in Australian liner trades. Baltic Shipping Company has been a member of the Australia to Europe Shipping Conference since 1969 and charges Conference rates. The Far Eastern Shipping Company (FESCO) has operated outside the Conference in the East Asia/ Japan trade since mid 1976 and in the West Coast North America trade since mid 1977. It has been reported that the general guidelines of FESCO are to offer freight rates 1 5 per cent below the relevant Conference rates. However, the percentage differential varies from cargo to cargo and complete information on the level of rate cutting is not available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Charging of batteries to power an unattended navigational aid light. 
) Taylor Island, South Australia. 
Yes; acetylene gas. The main benefit of this alternative power source will be a reduction in equipment operating costs. 
4 ) , ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) Use of solar cells for power generation has been limited due to high power requirements of the majority of navigational aids and the uncertain reliability of solar power sources for operational aids. 
However solar cell application has and is being actively investigated, with one system already installed at Ayers Rock, Northern Territory, providing power to a recording anemomenter, and an experimental Distance Measuring Equipment power support system at Essenden Airport. As mentioned in the Annual Report of the Department of Transport for 1977-78 (page 139) tabled in Parliament on 20 February 1979, design work is progressing for a solarpowered lead light system to operate in the Torres Strait. These installations will be continually monitored and evaluated and the results will be made available to me as part of normal departmental reporting. Appropriate information will continue to be included in the Department's annual reports. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A total of twenty-one (2 1 ) consulting persons/firms are to be paid during 1978-79 for professional services. 
In some cases the amount shown is an estimate as May/June accounts for consultancy work have yet to be received and processed. 
Details of the names, individual amounts paid or estimated to be paid, and the specific purposesfor each major consultancy are listed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following information relates to films used at my Department's Fire Service Training School, Melbourne in the training of recruits and other personnel of the Rescue and Fire Fighting Service. There is no Departmental Reserve Fire Fighting Service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Australian National Line is currently engaged in talks with the Government designated South Korean Line for the Australian trade. 
Yes, the South Korean Government has a stated policy of increasing its participation in its sea transportation, and Australia is one of the areas being given early attention. 
to (7) ANL advises that talks between it and the Korean line are still at a preliminary stage. With regard to the proposed joint service, the terms, frequency, type of vessel and details of partnership arrangements have not yet been decided. 
The ANL advises that it has not considered any alternative policy to the conference system. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Walter Ultra Large Fire Tenders (ULFTs) purchased for use in Australia were supplied to an Australian specification. The Australian type of Walter ULFT has since been introduced into service at airports in America and Canada. 
and (3) The Australian specification calls for a single engine to minimise overall size, weight and cost. Earlier Walter units employed two engines, one being for foam production and one for motion. The Walter Company offered the single engined version to meet the Australian specification. 
The current cost of the earlier Walter design is not known. In view of the additional larger engine and increased overall size and weight, it can be expected that the cost would be higher than the Australian ULFTs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The teleprinter equipment is to be used at the Perth, Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne message switching centres. The equipment for Perth will be used in the Dataflash message switching system, and for Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne in the Technical Alarm Positions of the message switching systems. 
Replacement purposes. 
At least ten years. 
The eight unsuccessful competitors for the contract were: 
Standard Telephones and Cables Pty Ltd, Liverpool, NSW. 
b ) Kenelec Systems Pty Ltd, Burwood, Victoria. 
Datamatic Pty Ltd, Melbourne. 
d ) Anderson Digital Equipment, Mt Waverley, Victoria. 
Amalgamated Wireless Australasia Ltd, North Ryde NSW. 
f) Texas Instruments Aust. Ltd, North Ryde, NSW. 
Datatel Pty Ltd, South Melbourne. 
Sagem, Department of Transmission, 2 Rue Ancelle, 9252 1, Nevilly, France. 
No offers were received for equipment of Australian manufacture. The equipment to be supplied is manufactured in West Germany. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Mobile air traffic control vans will be stationed in New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia-Northern Territory and Victoria-Tasmania Regions of the Department. They are required to provide aerodrome control facilities for air displays, and for emergency and/or other situations which require the urgent or temporary use of air traffic control facilities. 
Yes. 
Four. 
The three unsuccessful competitors for the contract were: 
a ) R. and J. De Coite, Ferntree Gully, Victoria. 
All Purpose Caravans Pty Ltd, Rosewater, SA. 
Perford Caravan Co. Pty Ltd, Coorparoo, Queensland. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Sikorsky S6 1 helicopter was hired to provide specific flying training for a departmental Senior Airways Surveyor. 
No regular operation is involved. Under this contract, the aircraft operated from Proserpine Airport, Queensland. 
) Total flying time under this contract was 1¾ hours. 
As indicated in (2) above, this contract involved ad hoc short-term hire necessary to provide the training required by the Senior Airways Surveyor to maintain his aircraft type rating. 
and (6) Ansett Airlines of Australia is one of many companies which contract to provide aircraft to meet the flying training and type endorsement requirements of departmental flying personnel including Airways and Airworthiness Surveyors, Pilots and Examiners of Airmen. The awarding of such contracts is based on required aircraft type, availability and cost. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The establishment (a) and number of officers (b) of the Department of Transport who perform duties associated with airport security were, at both 31 March 1979 and 30 April 1979: 
For the information of honourable members I present a report of the Bureau of Transport Economics entitled 'The Long Distance Road Haulage Industry'. This report was distributed to honourable members during the adjournment. 
I must pay tribute to the honourable member for Denison for the consistent way in which he brings forward the problems of the electorate he represents and of Tasmania as a whole.  His  actions are in stark contrast with those of the members of the Australian Labor Party in this House. I have not had one question from them on Tasmania's behalf since I have been Minister for Transport. They prefer to follow the dirty path of smirching by innuendo that they have been following today. It is typical of members of the Labor Party to do so. The honourable member for Denison asks constructive questions about matters affecting the people of his electorate. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The total number of seats available to Apex passengers on British Airways and Qantas services to the UK is on average 4,450 per week. These seats are available for travel from all Australian gateways served by these two airlines. 
The seats are allocated having regard to anticipated demand from the various gateways. In order to maintain a flexible arrangement to cater for fluctuations in demand from these gateways, the allocations vary from time to time. 
Lead Levels in Petrol (Question No. 3724) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The information requested is of a detailed commercial nature and it has been made clear on a number of previous occasions, as the airlines are operating in a commercial environment, it would not be appropriate to disclose such information. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Lighthouses Amendment Bill, the Pollution of the Sea by Oil (Shipping Levy Collection) Amendment Bill, the Sea-Carriage of Goods Amendment Bill and the Seamen's Compensation Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of all these Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Instructions given to the Bureau of Transport Economics concerning Division 658.02, Item 05 were the same as  given to all Departments and Authorities in relation to reparation of estimates for 1978-79. They were that estates should be prepared, having regard to the Govern.ments policy that restraint should be exercised. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) Aircrew employed by designation 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:- 
The information necessary to provide an answer to that part of the honourable member's question is not available. 
I have been rather staggered to read some of the Press reports following the announcement by the Treasurer last night that air navigation charges would rise by 25 per cent. One usually well informed writer seems to have become a little carried away in his newspaper which happens to be the  Daily Telegraph.  The article he wrote is headed 'Steep rise in air fares tipped.' I will not name the writer; I will be kind to him. The article states: 
The cost of air travel will soar as a result of big increases in air navigation charges to airlines. 
That article is typical. Most of the reporters did not put their names to their articles. The writer of the article to which I have referred was the only one I could find who did. To get the matter in perspective, let me give some examples of what an increase of 25 per cent in air navigation charges will mean to the travellers of this country. I ask honourable members to understand that air navigation charges add up to less than 5 per cent of the total costs of an airline. Therefore, they are not overly significant although some people would like to make them so. On the Sydney-Perth route- that is about as far as one can travel from one side of the country to the other- the one way economy fare is $241.50. The increase in air navigation charges would be $2.42. On the Melbourne to Hobart route the charges would be 60 cents. From Canberra to Sydney they would be 33 cents. I give those examples to show the steep increase in air fares as tipped by certain newspaper reporters this morning. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend further the States Grants (Roads) Act 1977 by providing an additional $3 8m in Commonwealth grants to the States for roadworks in 1979-80. The Bill also provides for an increase in quotas for State road expenditure from their own resources. Honourable members will recall that the States Grants (Roads) Act 1977 originally provided for grants totalling $475m to be made available to the States in each of the three years 1977-78 to 1979-80. When the Act was introduced in 1977I announced that it was the Government's intention to adjust the grants for 1978-79 and 1979-80 so that they would be maintained at a level equivalent in real terms to the 1977-78 amounts. Accordingly, the Act was amended last year to provide an additional $33m in grants for both 1978-79 and 1979-80 bringing the total in each of these years to $508m. The Bill now before the House provides for the level of the grants for 1979-80 to be increased to $546m, an increase of almost 7.5 per cent over the amount provided in 1978-79. 
The Bill gives effect to the Government's decision on roads assistance which of necessity had to be taken and announced earlier this year. The States have often emphasised the need for early advice of Commonwealth funding levels in order to assist the development of their annual road programs. The additional moneys which were provided last year were in general allocated among road categories pro rata to the original allocations. This Bill also provides for a pro rata allocation of the increased funds for 1979-80. This will effectively ensure that the priorities inherent in the original allocations are maintained. 
In line with the Government's view that road funding is a responsibility of all three levels of government, each State will be required to fund an increased quota of road expenditure from its own resources in order to qualify for Commonwealth assistance. The Government has decided that State expenditure quotas for 1979-80 should, as in 1978-79, be increased by the same percentage as the Commonwealth grants. I should emphasise that the quotas represent minimum expenditure requirements which the States are free to exceed according to the priority which they attach to their road programs. The details of the legislation are quite straightforward. The Bill provides for the repeal of the schedules to the States Grants (Roads) Act 1977 and for their replacement with new schedules setting out the increased Commonwealth grants by road categories and the increased State quotas. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am aware of the newspaper report to which the honourable member refers. At the meeting to which the press report refers I drew attention to the report of the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review Committee which made a number of recommendations directed towards increasing the extent of competition with the domestic aviation industry. The Review Committee concluded that such recommendations, if implemented, may have the effect of reducing the amount of parallel scheduling currently evident. I expect to be in a position to make an announcement on the Government's policy during the Budget Session of Parliament. 
I also indicated at that meeting that domestic air fares would be higher on a cent per kilometre basis than international air fares. The reasons are essentially related to the size and distribution of Australia's population. Compared to domestic flights, international flights are generally much longer with only a few intermediate stops, catering for higher volumes of traffic on relatively few routes, thus permitting the use of wide bodied aircraft with resultant economies of scale. In addition charges such as fuel tax are only paid on domestic operations. 
Cabin Staff on Domestic Aircraft  (Question No. 3740) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 3 ) Details of the Department of Transport 's expenditure for 1977-78 and estimated expenditure for 1978-79 under sub-division 655.3, Item 07 (Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1978-79) and the basis of the determination of the amounts are shown at page 65 of the Department's Estimates of Expenditure and Receipts 1978-79 Supplementary Explanatory Notes which are available from the Parliamentary Library. 
Details of the subsidised services for both years are as follows: 
Queensland 
BPA Ltd- Cape York Peninsula Station Services; Gulf Country Station Services; Rockhampton- Longreach. 
Other (Helicopter Operators Pty Ltd)- Mt Isa Southwest Station Services. 
Western Australia 
Civil Flying Services (WA) Pty Ltd- Murchison Services. 
Trans- West Air Charter (WA) Pty Ltd-Pilbara Services. 
MacRobertson Miller Airline Services- Kimberley Services. 
Ord Air Charter Pty Ltd- East Kimberley Services. 
Northern Territory 
Connair- Connair Network. 
Other (Chartair)- Alice Springs Station Services. (Tillair Pty Ltd )- Katherine Station Services. (Tennant Air Pty Ltd)- Tennant Creek Station Services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) Port Moresby Airport. 
The departmental specification called for masts in varying lengths from 2.0 m to11 . 5 m to be used in differing levels of terrain. Essential requirements of the specification related to weight and construction. Each mast was to be constructed in such a manner to ensure crumpling or collapsing on impact in the event of contact with aircraft; and be capable of being raised and lowered manually to facilitate maintenance and lamp alignment. A total of 103 masts is to be purchased under this contract. 
No. However, two local manufacturers offered designs for masts, both in the development stage. The design included in one of these offers was technically unacceptable. In the case of the second offer, only the design for masts 7 metres in height and less would fully meet the technical and safety criteria specified. 
Because of the need for compatibility for interchange and maintenance it was decided to accept the offer of thelowerpriced technically acceptable operationally proven imported masts. 
While the question of availability of similar masts is one for the industry, no such collapsible approach light masts have ever been required in Australia by the Department of Transport. 
The two unsuccessful competitors for the contract were: 
a ) Harbour and Marine Engineering Pty Ltd, 203 Poath Road, Hughesdale, Victoria 3 166 
Triodetic Australia Pty Ltd, 10 Yamma Street, Sefton,NSW2162. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Number of services operated out of Australia each week by each international airline as at I June 1 979 is shown in Table 1. 
Number of seats normally provided for (a) first class and (b) other passengers on various aircraft types operated out of Australia by each international airline is shown in Table 2. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. F27 type aircraft are able to regularly operate under all-weather conditions but executive type jet aircraft (e.g. HS 125, Mystere, Gulfstream 2) may only operate infrequently on a concessional basis. 
Transfer to local authorities of aerodromes which primarily serve a local need is in accord with the Commonwealth's Aerodrome Local Ownership Plan. The local council agreed in principle on 19 February 1979 to accept ownership of the aerodrome subject to several conditions currently being negotiated. 
The main 12/30 runway is 1676 m x 45 m and will be reduced in width to 30m. This alteration has been agreed by the local council. The secondary 06/24 runway is 9 1 4 m x 18 m and no alteration to it is proposed. 
Refer to (I). 
Those aircraft currently using Cloncurry will be able to continue under the same conditions as at present. 
No. 
Pre-term Foundation  (Question No. 4003) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information at this level of detail is not collected by my Department. It would appear that a very large collection task could be involved before any meaningful comparisons could be made. I would therefore suggest that the best course for the honourable member to follow would be to approach the manufacturers or importers direct to seek the information requested. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 understand that the specific points (a) to (f) mentioned in the honourable member's question, as well as many other points, were amongst the matters considered by the Advisory Committee in accordance with its terms of reference. 
No. 
As soon as I have completed my consideration of the report it is my intention that it should be jointly released by me and the South Australian Minister for Transport. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The railway systems of New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, Western Australia and the metropolitan system of South Australia are the responsibilities of the respective States. Inquiries concerning these State owned railway systems should be addressed to the responsible State Ministers. 
The following information is provided in respect of the Commonwealth Railways for the financial years from 197 1-72 to 1974-75. The item 'Loan Repayments' is not applicable to the Commonwealth Railways over these years. It will be noted that figures are provided for 'Funds Provided by Commonwealth, Less Accumulated Losses' instead of under the heading 'Outstanding Debt'. This is to achieve consistency with the financial statements and to avoid minsinterpretation. 
-The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) Surveillance flights over the Great Barrier Reef area are carried out by both Defence Force and chartered civil aircraft. Routine surveillance flights by RAAF Long Range Maritime Patrol Aircraft vary in frequency according to anticipated requirements. In June 1979 there were five flights and in July 1979 four flights. Civilian aircraft are chartered as required to re-locate foreign fishing vessels and to meet other response requirements. 
Four RAN Attack Class patrol boats based at Cairns carry out regular patrols and are allocated to civil surveillance and enforcement. Civilian surface vessels are chartered as required for specific response activity, mainly related to foreign fishing vessels. Additionally the Department of Transport's 'Cape Pillar' is programmed from time to time to patrol northern waters and carry out surveillance tasks. 
Yes. In addition to the above, a further initiative I announced late last year is the impending charter of a speciallyequipped Nomad aircraft to be based on the Central Queensland coast and dedicated to surveillance of the whole of the Reef area. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No, I did not visit Coober Pedy. As was explained in a supplementary press release of 24 May 1979, due to wet weather it was not possible for the light aircraft to land at Coober Pedy. Yes, I did see the Stuart Highway, together with  Mr S.  E. Calder, D.F.C., M.P., and  Senator D.  S. Jessop, by road, between Woomera and Lake Hart. 
Yes. By telephone on 24 May 1979, and also by follow up letter of the same date. 
VIP Aircraft (Question No. 4129) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Pratt &amp; Whitney JT8D engines installed in Australian registered DC9 aircraft are removed from the aircraft and inspected using a Continuous Maintenance Planning Schedule which is set by the airline operator and approved by my Department. At the present time engines are removed from aircraft for maintenance at a maximum of 8,000 cycles in the case of Ansett Airlines and 7,000 cycles in the case of TAA. Under the programme engines undergo a test cell calibration after each scheduled removal. The DC9 aircraft was first introduced into service in Australia in April 1967 and at that time engines were removed from the aircraft for maintenance at a maximum of 4,000 hours in the case of Ansett Airlines and 3,500 hours for TAA. The type of inspections, tests and the time intervals at which they are carried out on the engines, are covered in airline operators Overhaul Special Inspection Periods (OSIP) and Component Time Limits (CTL) which are approved by my Department, and in the aircraft and the engine manufacturers Maintenance and Overhaul Manuals. 
On no occasion have the engine attachment bolts failed on DC9 aircraft in Australian operations. 
) This circumstance is conjectural and I would comment the 632 DC9 aircraft in service have flown some 19 million hours without an aircraft loss from this cause. 
DC10 Aircraft (Question No. 4156) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The DC 10 aircraft is not on the Australian Register consequently my Department does not receive all defect information on the aircraft type from either McDonnell Douglas or the US Depanment of Transportation's Federal Aviation Administration. 
and (3) My Department is informed by the US Federal Aviation Administration on pertinent details of significant defects with the DC 10 where the authority issues formal airworthiness directives. 
Under the international Convention on Civil Aviation, the authority of the country of registry is responsible for the surveillance of in-service defects found in aircraft. However my Department is not aware of defects in DC 10 aircraft as described in your question. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In my answer to part (I) of the honourable member's question No. 3893 I gave him the details regarding (a) establishment. The answer to (b) number of officers available for duty is the same as that given to part ( I ) (b) of question No. 3893 regarding number of officers in service. 
The specified duties of the officers referred to in the answer to part (2) of question No. 3893 include reference to aviation security, and these officers are available for full-time aviation security duties if particular circumstances warrant. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) As indicated at page 97 of the  Gazette,  the value of contract LP353 1 was $2, 100. 
The contract was awarded to Ansett Airlines of Australia in pursuance of the arrangements outlined in parts 5 and 6 of the answer to question No. 3866. As tenders were not invited there were no unsuccessful tenderers. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Dataflash is being developed to form part of my Department's aeronautical message switching network. This network carries aeronautical messages, in digital form, between air traffic service centres throughout Australia. The Australian network forms part of the international Aeronautical Fixed Telecommunications Network. The first Australian Dataflash system will be installed in Western Australia. 
Dataflash is an automatic message switching system, using microprocessor control techniques to decode the digital address contained within the message and switch the message through the network by the optimum route. 
Dataflash is based on packet switching principles and provides a high level of message integrity with short message transit time. 
) The maximum utilisation rate of the Dataflash system will be an average of 1,800,300 character messages per hour. 
The installed capital cost of the Western Australian Dataflash system is estimated to be $350,000. 
The direct maintenance cost of the Western Australian Dataflash system is estimated to be $60,000 per annum. 
The direct operating cost of the Western Australian Dataflash system is estimated to be $358,000 per annum. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
to (10) These are all questions which relate to the activities and responsibilities of State and Territory authorities. They are not matters for which I am responsible or upon which my Department is informed. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Discussions are currently being held between officers of my Department and the two major airlines on the recommendations of the Domestic Air Transport Policy Review Committee. A working group has been established to investigate more fully all the recommendations relating to fares, including the particular one referred to by the honourable member. A decision will be made following completion of the detailed evaluation as was recommended by the Review Committee. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) The Domestic Air Transport Policy Review (DATPR) Committee examined the possibility of merging Qantas and TAA. It concluded there are no compelling reasons for a merger between TAA and Qantas. The Government endorses that conclusion and has no intention of merging these two airlines. 
TAA and Qantas will not be amalgamated by this Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) Planned flying is divided into sequences of flights called flying blocks. There are also planned reserve blocks to provide back-up pilots in the event of unexpected changes. Pilots bid for flying blocks and reserve blocks in order of seniority. Flight engineer flying is divided up equally amongst all available flight engineers, in composite blocks which include both flying duty and reserve duty. 
(a) Reserve blockholders are utilised to provide back-up flight crew in the event of schedule changes, sickness, fatigue or other non-availability of aircrew. Reserve blockholders are rostered for duty in the same way as flying blockholders, and must be available to fly within two hours of callout. 
Flying blockholders are utilised to operate the companies aircraft in accordance with the published timetable. 
Flight crews are based as follows: 
Ansett- Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Proserpine 
TAA- Melbourne, Brisbane, Mackay, Darwin. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An air safety incident involving an Ansett Airlines of Australia Fokker Friendship and an Argosy aircraft operated by IPEC occurred over Bass Strait on 24 November 1978. The incident was investigated by the Air Safety Investigation Branch of my Department. Investigation indicated that a breakdown of co-ordination occurred between Air Traffic Controllers in Launceston with the result that the separation between the two aircraft temporarily became less than that prescribed in the applicable standards. Appropriate action was taken with the controllers concerned. 
Town Planning in National Parks (Question No. 4281) 
Very well, I shall say 'as the honourable member for Robertson has about the governing of this country'. I have no doubt that when TAA has completed its feasibility studies it will come to the Government with a proposal in the due process of time. I will welcome it 
in reply- I wish wish to thank the House for its co-operation in dealing with this Bill at short notice last night. I thank the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  for his co-operation in allowing the Bill to proceed last night, and the  chairman  of my own committee, the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  and the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  who were also prepared to speak at very short notice last night. I would also like to thank all the members who spoke in the debate. As the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  has said, in the main it was a bipartisan approach to this very important question of the maritime industry in Australia and laws relating to it. 
A number of interesting questions were asked of me during the course of the debate. Out of courtesy I would like to respond particularly to some of them. The honourable member for Shortland expressed concern about dropping an amendment to section 100 of the Act. He made the claim that part of the section clearly contravenes International Labour Organisation conventions. The only provision referred to by ILO was the offence in paragraph 8 (c) of section 100 which states:  conspiring with another seaman to impede the navigation of his ship or the progress of a voyage of his ship. 
The only ILO convention that the provision is said possibly to infringe is Convention No. 105 - Abolition of Forced Labour. The ILO has suggested that such a conspiracy should be an offence only at sea. The 1975 Navigation Bill proposed to make that amendment. The Government has given due attention to the ILO comments and has decided that no amendment to paragraph 8 (c) of section 100 is required. In fact, my own committee insisted on this when we proposed to insert the 1975 amendment in the 1976 Bill. I will give the reasons for this. The Government dropped the amendment because of a combination of factors on which the ILO committee relies and which we believe will never and can never occur in practice. 
These factors are, firstly, that a seaman who engages in a strike will be prosecuted under 8 (c). Secondly, the court will convict him of conspiracy to impede the ship's navigation. Thirdly, the court will sentence the seaman to imprisonment. Fourthly, in the course of serving his sentence, the seaman will be compelled to work. The section is not directed at seamen who engage in strike action. This is borne out by the fact that despite the many strikes that have taken place the section has never been used in such cases. The section is directed at a conspiracy to impede navigation. Such a conspiracy could arise out of a variety of situations unrelated to a strike or a labour dispute. For example it could arise out of malice, or as a result of a bribe by a competitor to the shipowner, as an act of terrorism or for political reasons. In any of those cases the section should be available to be used and a prosecution could be expected to succeed. In the Government's considered judgement it could not be successfully used in a strike situation or as a means of labour discipline. There is therefore no possibility of a breach of the convention arising out of the use of the section. 
The honourable member for Shortland also raised the question of the Crimes At Sea legislation. In his speech he said that he thought Australia was still placing legal reliance on ancient British Acts of Parliament illustrated by the Privy Council cray-fishing boat decision. Apparently he has missed out on the fact that legislation to deal with these matters was introduced by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and was enacted earlier this year in the autumn sittings. The Crimes At Sea Act 1979 received royal assent on 22 March 1979. The Navigation Amendment Bill makes consequential adjustments to the Navigation Act. Clause 73 removes Navigation Act provisions now covered by the Crimes At Sea Act. That Act will come into force on a date to be fixed by proclamation. Clause 73 of the Navigation Amendment Bill is intended to commence on that same day. 
The honourable member for Shortland also raised a series of questions concerning tanker safety. The Government's policy is that the most effective way to deal with the question of tanker safety is at the international level, particularly in relation to foreign tankers. This Bill demonstrates the importance the Government places on the question of tanker safety. The honourable member for Shortland seemed to gloss over this point. This is all that he said: 
Worthy of special note are the provisions of SOLAS or Safety of life at sea. The provisions of this convention were aimed at greater oil tanker safety. 
Under the Bill, Australia will not only be in a position to adopt the 1974 SOLAS convention which comes into force internationally on 25 May next year; additionally, it will be able to adopt the 1978 amendments to SOLAS which were developed at the International Conference on Tanker Safety and Pollution Prevention only last year and will come into force when there are 15 parties to the convention. At present there are only three parties- the Bahamas, Uruguay and Kuwait. The Bill will therefore place Australia in the forefront of the countries that are prepared to give effect to the latest international tanker safety measures. 
The next initiative to be taken will be the adoption of the 1978 Convention on Standards of Training Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers, which will affect both Commonwealth and State legislation and is currently under close examination in the Marine and Ports Council of Australia with a view to signing the convention before the end of November. That convention establishes for the first time international standards for personnel and will enable Australia to inspect and enforce the required qualifications standards on foreign ships visiting Australia. It contains additional measures for watchkeeping and qualifications for the crews of oil tankers and chemical and gas carriers. Again, it is the Government's intention to become one of the early parties to that convention. The tanker surveillance scheme initiated by the Government is a further measure to improve tanker safety. 
The next matter raised by the honourable member for Shortland was the Australian ship reporting system. I too pay credit to my predecessor, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  for the way in which he introduced and pushed ahead with this system following the tragic loss of the  Blythe Star  off Tasmania on 1 3 October 1 973. There was a court case and it was found that when the ship was reported missing no one knew whether the ship intended to take an east-about or west-about route on its voyage from Hobart to King Island. This impeded search and rescue operations. The Government has taken that initiative further as a government and has sought some international initiatives that I mentioned in my second reading speech, so that the Convention on Maritime Search and Rescue 1979 adopted at Hamburg earlier this year provides for the global search and rescue plan to incorporate national ship reporting systems similar to the one pioneered by Australia. So the initiative taken several years ago by the honourable member for Newcastle now has some international repercussions of great importance to the maritime industry. I must part company with the honourable member for Shortland when it comes to praising the honourable member for Newcastle solely for the establishment of the Maritime Training College. I guess it comes to the old adage that success has a thousand fathers. So that it is historically on the record, I point out that in addressing the annual meeting of the Missions to Seamen in Melbourne on 15 June 1971 when I was Minister for Shipping and Transport, I stated: 
In some countries nautical academies have been established but mainly they have been for officers only. I believe the time has come when such a facility should be provided in Australia, but it seems to me that it should provide for the training of all seafarers, men and officers. 
In August 1971, following that speech, the then Minister for Education put in hand a feasibility study into the establishment of a national maritime training school. The study was carried out by P.A. management consultants and submitted to the Wark Committee on Advanced Education. In early 1972 our Government established an interdepartmental working party to examine the recommendations flowing from the feasibility study. We kept that initiative right up to the election in 1972. It was part of the policy. I am delighted, and pay tribute to the honourable member for Newcastle for picking up that initiative and progressing with it during his term as Minister. But as the honourable member for 
Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  rightly pointed out, it is this Government that is finishing this job off, as it has had to do with many other matters. We part company on that particular aspect. 
The honourable member for Shortland also raised the question of Australian flag participation in overseas trading. He seemed to be trying to make the point- I thought he failed- that this Government is opposed to Australian flags operating in foreign trades. I say to the House, not in order to skite but simply as a matter of record, that no Minister for Transport or Minister for Shipping and Transport has seen more ships carrying the Australian flag entering the foreign trade than I have. I have put more ships into the foreign trade than any other Minister. It ought to go on the record just to prove that what the honourable member for Shortland is trying to say is not true. 
The honourable member for Shortland opens his mouth and lets the flies in. Let us talk about the four ships. What did the Labor Party do when it was in power? It ordered four bulk carriers, the most expensive bulk carriers that the world, let alone Australia, has ever known. There were no contracts for them to carry anything. That was the first thing we found out when we came into government. There was no effort or endeavour before these ships were ordered even to see whether there was a contract for them or any work for them. It was left to muggins me then to negotiate to get the ships into the trade. Of course, I could have sold them- that might have been the easy way outexcept that they cost about $80m. When we came to office I found out that the Labor Party had made such a mess of the matter that their market value was about $30m. I will also take the credit for putting those into the trade. Let me list the ships that this Government has seen going into foreign trades carrying the Australian flag and the ships ordered by this Government for foreign flag trades. They are: the  Australian Endeavour;  the  Australian Enterprise;  the  Matthew Flinders,  which is now called the  Australian Explorer,  the  Allunga;  the  Australian Exporter,  the  Australian Emblem;  the  James Cook;  the  A nro Australia;  the  Ampol Sarel;  a number of Howard Smith Ltd Vessels; and others. For the honourable member for Shortland to try to claim that this Government is opposed to entry of the Australian flag into foreign trades is quite wrong. 
The point comes out quite clearly that the sorts of conditions that we as a government expect can be met; that is that the vessels ought to go into foreign trades in a completely economic sense and not in some sort of subsidised manner for some ideological reason only. The fact is that the Australian seamen on the Australian ships that are in trades do this country a great service and do it well. But the ships must go in on a completely economic basis, otherwise this industry will be like some of the railway systems that State Labor governments run- it will be propped up forever. 
The honourable member for La Trobe referred to the inadequacy of the prescribed area of 2.5 nautical miles to keep ships away from offshore rigs. We are doing our utmost to keep ships away from these rigs. I should point out that the present enforceable international limit is only 500 metres. That was part of the continental shelf convention of 1958. Australia pressed for an increase of 2,000 metres at the Law of the Sea Conference in New York some three years ago but no other country would support us. Our international efforts are also being maintained at Intergovernmental Maritime Consultative Organisation meetings but there is little evidence of support there. The limit of 2.5 nautical miles referred to by the honourable member for La Trobe is a voluntary limit in Bass Strait, adopted by the Government at my behest. It has been well publicised and in our view is quite successful. I have before me a brochure. I cannot incorporate the brochure in  Hansard,  but it is a very - 
Yes, it is beautiful. It displays a map. The honourable member will notice the electorate of Gippsland on it if he looks closely. It displays a map of Bass Strait which points out where all the oil rigs are and shows the restricted area around those rigs. We have distributed this map around all of the shipping companies, international and otherwise. Mostly they are obeying the voluntary scheme or following the code we have laid down. In 1978 there were only 25 incursions. In other words, of all the ships that sailed into Bass Strait- it is a busy seaway- 99 per cent obeyed the voluntary limit. 
The honourable member had better take that up with somebody else. The number of incursions is reducing. We are keeping the matter under constant review and watching it very closely. My Department and a number of other departments and organisations are on a committee that watches it very closely. We cannot forget that the freedom to navigate high seas is an internationally jealously guarded freedom. Australia has no power to take unilateral compulsory action against foreign ships on high seas. Of course, such action would also be against our interest as a trading nation. The present voluntary scheme is succeeding and is being constantly reviewed. 
The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  referred to the wide powers given to the Minister to make and change orders. I think I should point out that these powers were recommended by the Summers Maritime Industry Commission of Inquiry. I was pleased tonight to hear somebody pay tribute to Mel Summers for the work he did in producing the voluminous reports that led to a lot of the changes that have been made. The Summers' Commission recommendations were made to cope with rapid technological changes. The powers are limited by the Bill. In particular, all orders have to be tabled in the Parliament and are subject to disallowance. For the honourable member who is concerned about this matter, the honourable member for Hughes, clause 9 1 applies section 48 of the Acts Interpretation Act to achieve just this. So he should not think that the Minister has limitless powers in these matters. As is proper, the Parliament has proper control. 
I thank the honourable member for Denison for his complimentary remarks. Unless in the last few days or very recently there has been an enactment of which we are not aware, he is quite right in pointing out that Tasmania has not yet legislated to increase penalties for oil pollution. The Commonwealth and the other States have done this. They have lifted the maximum penalty to $50,000. The maximum penalty in Tasmania is still $2,000. 1 think the honourable member for Denison has done a service to the community in pointing out the failure of the Tasmanian Government to meet its obligations. 
The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  raised the question of compensation for injured seamen. I am not responsible for the Seamen's Compensation Act. It is administered by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  The honourable member did not say whether he had made representations on the matter to the Minister but I shall have his concern drawn to her attention and see that he gets a response from her. Finally, the honourable member for Batman had to spoil the debate by getting ideological and dragging out the old red herring of Omega being used for military purposes. I do not know how he can stand in his place and say that when even the Labor Party has as part of its policy recognition of the establishment of the Omega navigational aid. He is talking against party policy in the first place, but perhaps he is unaware of that. At least there are some sensible people in the Labor Party who recognise the value of Omega as a navigational aid. 
They do use it. I was in an aircraft in Papua New Guinea the other day that was fitted with an Omega navigational aid. The Papuan New Guineans were very pleased indeed with the service it gives in flying around the country. Indeed, it is being used more and more for peaceful purposes. The honourable member for Batman might not like to know that, but it happens to be true. He raised the old furphy of Omega being used by submarines carrying ballistic missiles. He must know, despite the odd-ball document that he read from, that much more sophisticated systems are available and used by submarines carrying ballistic missiles. Submariners are not interested in Omega other than as a general navigational aid. It is of no more benefit to anybody than other navigational aids around the Australian coast that do not have the magical name of Omega or radar or anything else of that nature. I was sorry to see him trying to drag out the old red herring by claiming that Omega will be used for military purposes. The whole world knows that Omega is a very successful and important addition to modern maritime nations, to ships sailing at sea and to aircraft around the world. I conclude by again saying thank you to honourable members for their contributions. The debate has been a very useful one. The totality of these Bills will advance the maritime industry significantly in the years ahead. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)and(2)- 
The Leader of the Opposition yells out 'scandalous'. There is nothing scandalous yet. Just wait; be patient. 
Wait until I finish, if you do not mind. I can assure the Leader of the Opposition that there will be nothing scandalous about this matter by the time it is completed. It is a fact that in issuing the tender documents the Department of Transport left out the words in the first issue - 
Just be patient. Contain yourself. Sit back and relax and enjoy the day. The Department left out the words 'without the approval of the Secretary' in respect of any proposal to sell or change the tender situation of car rental arrangements. The matter has been drawn to my attention by a number of interested parties in the car rental field. The matter is presently before me for consideration. There are two options available: To recall tenders at those airports at which concessions were granted to Thrifty Rent a Car- I point out that that probably would involve a considerable loss of revenue for the Commonwealth- or to allow the normal commercial process to take place. Because questions of commercial equity are involved I am getting legal advice on the correct position before deciding the issue. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
2 ) ( a ) and ( b ) There is no substance to the report. 
Discussions are proceeding with the two major operators with a view to entering into a revised Airlines Agreement governing the Two Airline Policy which is predicated on a privately owned and Government owned airline. 
Yes. However, these people have been informed there is no intention to sell or amalgamate TAA. 
Fire in Mascot Drive  (Question No. 3739) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(i) A contributing factor to the fuel tanker accident was the alignment of the road in that area. A project to realign a portion of Qantas Drive will be undertaken as soon as possible after the necessary property matters have been finalised. 
The fire hazard that was created on the airport as a result of the accident was due to the following reasons. 
The entry of fuel from the accident site into the airport area could not be prevented without fuel traps on the drainage line. 
Without flame traps on the drainage line within the apron area, burning fuel was able to flow from the point of entry near Qantas Drive, through the apron area to the outlet in the nearby ponding area. 
Fuel entering the drainage system became distributed on the top of retained water in the pipes, thereby affecting a large area of the airport. 
The close proximity of some of the grated inlet pits (from which fire issued) on the drainage line, to airport facilities exacerbated the hazard, e.g. one grated inlet pit was situated inside a Qantas maintenance hangar. 
Because of the high costs involved in providing complete protection, the study recommended that only a limited level of protection should be provided and the remaining risk accepted. 
This would involve a detailed investigation of each airport to determine: 
1 ) the potential hazard that would be created by an accidental spillage of fuel in any area of the airport that is exposed to this type of incident (including access roads used by fuel tankers) 
likely probability of such an event based on, e.g. intensity of fuelling activity, number of fuel tanker movements, complexity of access road system, etc. 
The results of this investigation could then be used to determine the degree of protection that should be provided at each airport. The installation of flame traps, fuel traps or any other necessary modifications to the drainage system could then proceed. 
This option would not entirely eliminate the possibility of a repetition of a Sydney type incident but it would ensure that the potential hazard would be within acceptable limits when considered in relation to the costs involved. 
The Regional Offices of the Department are being made aware of the potential dangers that may be involved. 
Investigations of aerodromes within each region are to be conducted to ascertain whether any shortcomings or fire hazards may exist in the drainage system in this respect. 
Airport Planning staff of the Department have been made aware of the potential dangers and particular attention to this aspect will be paid when new drainage systems or additions are being designed. 
) The Aerodrome Emergency Plan for each aerodrome is being revised to include details of the aerodrome drainage system showing any areas that may be susceptible to fire hazard by fuel spills in other areas (and would include any fuel spill 'Contingency Plans' that may be necessary for the aerodrome). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Decision on the granting of concessions on domestic carriers to selected groups is a matter for the commercial judgment of the airlines. It is not appropriate, in my view, for Governments to interfere in such matters. One of the major problems in providing special concessional fares to select groups is that other groups could justifiably claim discrimination if they were not similarly assisted. The Government has therefore pursued a policy of encouraging the development of a wide range of fares designed to satisfy the varied travelling needs of the whole community. Arrangements for both international and domestic air travel aim to avoid the development of practices that lead to discrimination concerning the price paid by selected groups of customers. Any reductions in domestic and international fare levels, where possible should be available to all. 
You will be aware that I recently announced a major new domestic concessional air fares package with savings between 30 and 40 per cent of the domestic return economy fare. Both the new domestic concessional fares package and the new low international air fares combine the best features of scheduled air services. In the case of international services it still allows the airlines to meet the needs of passengers who want access to fares comparable to those that could be offered by charter operations. The domestic and international concessional fares, which are designed for people who are flexible in their travel arrangements, are of considerable benefit to pensioners. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Hangar No. 4 annex, at Essendon, a two storey brick structure with concrete roof overlayed with iron, is used for general office accommodation and the design of the building is such that wide variations in temperature are experienced during the year. 
On occasions staff have been sent home due to the temperature, being beyond the accepted limits for office accommodation. ' 
Alternatives such as individual heaters and fans and weatherwall' type airconditioners have been considered but Department of Housing and Construction recommended a reverse cycle split unit system as being the most cost-effective method of controlling the interior climate. It is not full ducted air .conditioning. 
Prior to Department of Transport occupancy, the area was used by Ansett Airlines, and some 'weatherwall' airconditioners were installed, but removed when that company relinquished the area. No climate control is at present installed in the area. 
No. 
) The Department of Housing and Construction advises that the unsuccessful tenderers are Ansell and Fidian, 60 Southey Road, Boronia, Victoria and A.A. Electrics, 28 Douglas Street, Rosanna, Victoria. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Internationally it is primarily the responsibility of the flag state to determine proficiency standards for personnel serving on board its ships, wherever the ships may be. This is reflected in two International Conventions to which Australia and the other countries mentioned are parties: 
Article 10 of the Geneva Convention on the High Seas 1958, which provides that every State shall take such measures for ships under its flag as are necessary to ensure safety at sea with regard inter aiia to the manning of ships. In taking such measures each State is required to conform to generally accepted international standards and to take any steps which may be necessary to ensure their observance. 
Regulation 13 of Chapter V of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea 1960 (which is repeated in the 1974 Convention of the same name, due to come into force on 25.5.80) which provides that the Contracting Governments undertake, each for its national ships, to maintain, or, if it is necessary, to adopt, measures for the purpose of ensuring that, from the point of view of safety of life at sea, all ships shall be sufficiently and efficiently manned. 
By reason of those provisions, Australia, in common with other maritime countries has not sought to regulate closely the manning or the proficiency of persons on board foreign ships entering Australian waters. Subject to the exception in the case of Commonwealth countries, supervision of the manning and proficiency standards of foreign ships in Australia is carried out by Consular officials of the flag state, which is the world wide practice. Where the Department of Transport receives a complaint or has reason to suspect that a particular ship is unseaworthy by reason of inadequate manning the matter is taken up with the flag State. In cases of serious crew deficiencies it would also be possible to detain the vessel under section 207 of the Navigation Act if the deficiencies either in relation to numbers or qualifications of the crew members were such that the vessel could be deemed to be unseaworthy 
For the reasons mentioned above comprehensive information as to the proficiency standards and minimum numbers of personnel required aboard ships registered in Liberia, Panama, the United States of America, and Sweden is not available to the Depanment of Transport. Moreover, under the laws of some countries, for example, the United States of America, an individual determination as to the minimum number of certificated and non-certificated personnel is made for each ship, depending on factors such as the nature, trade and construction of the ship. A comprehensive answer cannot therefore be provided in relation to ships of those countries. 
Different arrangements apply in the case of Commonwealth countries where, by mutual agreement, Australian mercantile marine officers perform functions similar to those carried out by the consular officials of foreign countries. 
In this connection certain information is available and for the honourable member's information set out below is the crew list in respect of two sister ships registered in Australia and the United Kingdom respectively when engaged in similar international voyages. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My attention has been drawn to the article in the  Financial Review  of 16 May 1979. I am advised that on or about 9 May this year a  Mr Lonergan  left with my Department an unsigned and undated document concerning regulation of air fares. 
I am advised the document concerns the possibility of airlines entering into an arrangement with a third party to adhere to approved air tariffs. This document, like any other suggestion from the public, is being considered by my Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The practice is continuing. 
TAA advise that it has not received any complaints about the practice. 
Government business undertakings with flight staff superannuation funds are limited to TAA and Qantas. In Qantas' case its Staff Superannuation Guaranteed Minimum Benefit Funds have been progressively invested outside the business with the Commonwealth Trading Bank as Trustee since 1 977. Provision exists in the Trust Deed for the Trustee to lend Qantas 70 per cent of the funds so invested. Since the funds were invested with the Trustee, Qantas has not availed itself of the borrow back provisions of the Trust Deed. 
IPEC Aircraft  (Question No. 4127) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Yes, my attention has been drawn to an item in the  Daily Commercial News  entitled 'Support for Ipec'. Both the DC3 and Argosy aircraft type meet the operational requirements prescribed for the type of operations proposed by IPEC. 
It is estimated by the Bureau of Transport Economics that in 1975-76 air freight consignments were 0.1 per cent by weight of total interregional movements. The Domestic Air 
Transport Policy Review Committee noted that 'This low percentage in terms of weight is fairly typical for most countries. In terms of the value of the goods the percentage of the freight task is much higher'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Cushman golf cars have been operating in Australia since 1966 and Cushman industrial vehicles since 1968. Industrial vehicles are used for personnel and material transportation. 
The industrial vehicles are used by many organisations, including: 
Department of Defence 
CSIRO 
Ford Motor Company 
Ansett Airlines 
South Australian Education Department 
Hospitals in South Australia and Western Australia 
North Broken Hill Mines 
I have not been advised that the vehicles have performed unsatisfactorily. 
The new range of Cushman industrial electric vehicles was released on the Australian market in April/May of this year. The Department of Transport has made no assessment of the new vehicles. 
I am not aware of any plans to introduce, on a trial basis, electric vehicles from the Cushman range, into the service of the Commonwealth Government apart from those already in use. Since the mid 1970 's however, a number of electric vehicles have been tested and evaluated by several Commonwealth Government Departments, including: 
Department of Administrative Services: 
Enfield 8000 electric car 
Battronic 10 passenger bus 
Industrial electric vehicles 
Department of Housing and Construction: 
Otis P500 delivery van 
Smith Cabox 
Battronic Mini Van 
Department of the Capital Territory: 
Crompton Electricar 
Australia Post: 
Electrodrive battery electric scooters 
Former Department of Manufacturing Industry: 
Maximove electric industrial truck 
State Governments have undertaken research connected with the use of electric buses and cars, and have been assisted in this activity by the Commonwealth Government under the Transport (Planning and Research) Act In addition, consideration of electric vehicles is on the approved work program of the Australian Transport Advisory Council's Energy Working Group which comprises Commonwealth, State and Territory representatives. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The major receipts in respect of the operation of the airways system including airports and airways facilities, meteorological costs, et cetera, stem from air navigation charges and aviation fuel tax. Air navigation charges are levied on a route or annual charge basis and neither these charges nor fuel tax are allocated to individual airports or facilities but are offset against total system costs. 
Revenue from these two sources for the years in question were as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Statements I have made to the Parliament concerning Air Navigation Regulation 106a and illegal air fare discounting may be found in relevant copies of  Hansard. 
In addition, I have from time to time issued press releases on a number of subjects including the question of tariff enforcement. Copies of all such releases are freely available from my Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)I have stated previously that problems arise with evidence that is found to be of a hearsay nature and which, without further corroboration, does not justify legal proceedings. In this context therefore the naming of organisations that are under investigation would be inappropriate. 
and (3) Prior to this visit which was undertaken in a normal and proper manner following advice from the Crown Law Authorities, the ACTU Jetset organisation was mentioned by name in a question without notice in Parliament on 2 1 September 1978. In view of this, I thought it appropriate to confirm that the alleged travel scheme arrangements of that organisation were under investigation. 
I am not aware of any adverse effects as a result of my answer at the time. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)and (2) Refer to answers to question No. 4197. 
I am advised that my Department has not instituted legal proceedings. 
I am advised that the type and number of possible malpractice allegations which my Department pursues vary widely over time and it is difficult to give a representative figure. However during July/ August 1979 allegations in respect of some six separate organisations were investigated or are being considered. 
and (6) For the reasons which I have mentioned in answer to questions Nos 3 1 1 7 and 3 1 1 8 it would be inappropriate to disclose the names and proprietors of organisations under investigation and the current status of the investigations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1), (3) and (5) Negotiations on reduced air fares between Australia and the ASEAN nations, in the period since announcement of Australia's revised international civil aviation policy on11 October, 1978 have been held with ASEAN as a group. Preceding the negotiations, discussions on Australia's revised policy were held with the ASEAN countries individually and also with ASEAN as a group. Suggested reduced levels of air fares were tabled by Australia during the exploratory discussions with individual ASEAN countries. The Department of Foreign Affairs participated in all of the discussions and negotiations with ASEAN countries; the first of these being on 23-25 October 1978 in Jakarta. The Department of Foreign Affairs was also involved in inter-Departmental discussions leading up to negotiations with ASEAN and other countries on reduced air fares. 
Dates of and participants in the various exploratory discussions were as follows: 
Indonesia (Jakarta. 23-25 October 1978) 
Australian delegation-  Mr A.  F. Rain bird (leader),  Mr T.  Brosnan. MrC. S. Heseltine. 
Indonesian delegation-  Mr G.  Risakotta (leader).  Mr Karnaen  Somadinata,  Mr Mochta  Usman,  Mr Achmad  Kartohadiprodjo. MrSancha Bakhtiar, MrIsbandi. 
Thailand (Bangkok, 30 October-3 November 1978) 
Australian delegation-  Mr A.  F. Rainbird (leader),  Mr T.  Brosnan,  Mr C.  S. Heseltine. 
Thai delegation-  Lt  Cdr Aree Satayamana (leader), Air Vice Marshall Surayute Nivasabute,  Dr Chitti  Wacharasindhu.  Dr Srisook  Chanthrangeu,  Mr Chuay  Kannawat,  Mr Surapong  Poshyananda,  Mr Nikorn  Maneelert,  Mr Vichit. 
Malaysia (Kuala Lumpur, 6-11 November 1978) 
Australian delegation-  Mr A.  F. Rainbird (leader),  Mr T.  Brosnan.  Mr C.  S. Heseltine. 
Malaysian delegation-  Mr M.  Thilagadurai (leader),  Mrs Zaharaah  Shaari,  Mr Adnan  Shamsuddin,  Mr Yusof  Hashim,  Mr Bernard  Thomazios,  Mr Bashir  Ahmad. 
d ) Singapore (Singapore, 4-8 December 1 978 ) 
Australian delegation-  Mr A.  F. Rainbird (leader),  Mr T.  Brosnan,  Mr C.  S. Heseltine. 
Singapore delegation-  Mr Lim  Hock San (leader),  Mr Lim  Liang Poh, Miss Leong Wai Leng,  Mr Warren  Khoo,  Mr Thirunagaran,  Miss Low Poh Gek, Miss Emily Nathan, M r Khong Teck Kim,  Mr Goh  Chin Ee,  Mr Lim  Chin Beng, MrSyn Chung Wah,  Mr Mun  Theam Kong. 
Philippines (Manila. 18-20 December 1978) 
Australian delegation-  Mr A.  F. Rainbird (leader),  Mr T.  Brosnan,  Mr C.  S. Heseltine. 
Philippines delegation-  Mr Leon  Tiansay (leader),  Mr Nestor  N. Gatbonton,  Mr Pacifico  V. Agcaoili. 
Note: Several other officials together with representatives of Philippine Airlines whose names are not available also participated. 
Notes 
Representatives of Qantas Airways Limited also participated in the discussions with the above countries. 
Canberra based Australian officials only are listed. 
Fourth ASEAN-Australia Forum (Canberra, 30-31 October 1978) 
Australia's revised international aviation policy was briefly discussed as part of a much broader agenda. The following participants in the Forum discussion also took pan in subsequent discussions between Australia and ASEAN on the policy and/or in negotiations with ASEAN on reduced air fares: 
Australia-  Mr A.  R. Parsons,  Mr J.  H. Rowland,  Mr E.  R. Pocock,  Mr D.  A. Buckingham. 
ASEAN 
Malaysia-  Mr Kassim  Hussein,  Mrs Hew  Kuan Wai,  Mr R.Gopal. 
Indonesia-  Mr Karnaen  Somadinata,  Mr D.  R. I. Mardanus. 
Philippines-  Mrs Rosario  G. Manalo,  Mrs R.  V. Tirana. 
Singapore-  Mr Tan  Boon Seng, MrC. M.See. 
ASEAN-Australia Meeting of Aviation Experts (Canberra, 8-10 January 1979) 
Australian delegation-Mr J. H. Rowland (leader),  Mr A.  F. Rainbird,  Mr E.  R. Pocock,  Mr T.  Brosnan,  Mr C.  S. Heseltine,  Mr A.  P. Godfrey-Smith. 
Note: Representatives of Qantas Airways Limited also participated. 
ASEAN delegation 
Malaysia-  Mr Mohammed  Noor Hassan (leader),  Mr Hamzah  Abdul Majid,  Mr Bahruddin  Musa,  Mr Zainal  A. B. Mokhtar,  Mr Adnan  Shamsuddin,  Mrs HewKuan  Wai,  Mr R.  Gopal,  Mr Bernard  Thomazios,  Mr Bashir  Ahmad,  Mr Michael  Wong. 
Indonesia-  Mr Karnaen  Somadinata (leader),  Mr Soepari  Tjokrohartono,  Mr D.  R. I. Mardanus, MrSoekro Poerwodipoero,  Mr Udin  Saifuddin. 
Philippines-  Mr Nestor  N. Gatbonton (leader),  Mrs R.  V. Tirana,  Mr Pacifico  Agabin,  Mr Romula  G. Buhat. 
Singapore-  Mr Lim  Hock San (leader),  Mr Pek  Hock Thiam,  Mr Lee  Chiong Giam,  Mr Chew  Choon Seng,  Mr Stanley  Kuppusamy,  Mr Teh  Ping Choon. 
Thailand-  Dr Chitti  Wacharasindhu (leader),  Mr Suttiswat  Kridakon,  Mr Bunthan  Manklang,  Mr Wichitr  Wayurakul. 
h ) Indonesia (Jakarta, 7-8 June 1 979 ) 
Australian delegation-  Mr A.  F. Rainbird (leader),  Mr W.  E. Weemaes, MrT. G. Brosnan. 
Notes 
Canberra based officials only are listed. 
Representatives of Qantas Airways Limited also participated. 
Indonesian delegation-  Mr Karno  Barkah (leader),  Mr G.  Risakotta,  Mr A.  A. Gde Ohe Djelantik,  Mr Karnaen  Somadinata,  Mr Haryono, Mr A.  Kartohadipradjo. 
Dates of and officials participating in the negotiations with ASEAN on reduced air fares were as follows: 
ASEAN-Australia Ministerial Meeting on International Civil Aviation Policy (Jakarta, 20-2 1 March 1979) 
Note: Australian and ASEAN Ministers who participated are not listed. 
Australian officials-  Mr C.  C. Halton,  Mr A.  R. Parsons,  Mr A.  T. Griffith,  Mr J.  H. Rowland,  Mr M.  E. Lyon,  Mr A.  F. Rainbird,  Mr W.  E. Weemaes,  Mr T.  Brosnan,  Mr T.  Grant,  Mr C.  S. Heseltine,  Mr D.  A. Buckingham. 
Notes 
Representatives of Qantas Airways Limited also participated. 
Canberra based officials only are listed. ASEAN officials 
Malaysia-  Mr Mohammed  Noor Hassan,  Mr A.  Talalla,  Mr Kassim  Hussein,  Mr Abdul  M. Mohamed,  Mr Mohamed  Bin Haron,  Mr Kamarudin  Ahmad,  Mrs Hew  Kuan Wai,  Mr Bernard  Thomazios,  Mr Michael  Wong,  Mr Samsudin  Bin Marsop,  Mr Mohd  Rose Abd Rahman,  Mr Harith  Ibrahim. 
Philippines-  Mrs Rosario  G. Manalo,  Mrs R.  V. Tirana,  Mr Nestor  N. Gatbonton,  Mr Pacifico  Agabin,  Mr Fructuoso  Calagui,  Mr Saviniano  M. Perez,  Mr Julio  M. Bacareza,  Mr Rene  Guerrero. 
Singapore-  Mr Sim  Kee Boon,  Mr Tan  Boon Seng,  Mr Tan  Song Chuan,  Mr Lee  Chong Giam,  Mr Barry  Desker,  Mr Lim  Hock San,  Mr Tan  Guin Kheng,  Mr Jack  Choo Eng Kang,  Mr Lim  Chin Beng,  Mr Stanley  Kuppusamy,  Mr Teh  Ping Choon. 
Thailand -  Dr Chuay  Kannawat,  Dr Chitti  Wacharasindhu,  Mr Apinain  Pavanarit,  Lt Col Smaru  Thamajaree,  Mr Wichitr  Wayurakul. 
Indonesia-  Mr Kardono, Mr Umarjadi  Njtowijono,  Dr Suhadi  Mangkusewondo,  Mr S.  Naesoetion,  Mr A.  A. Gde Oke Djelantik,  Mr Usodo  Notodirdjo,  Mr K.  Algamar,  Mr Saniuoso, Mr G.  Risakotta, Miss Cri Murthi Adi,  Dr Suhono  Sumobaskoro,  Mr Salman  Hardani,  Mr Sugita 
Pradjanata,  Mr Achmad  Kartohadiprodjo,  Mr J.  Soekardjo,  Mr Mochtar  Usman,  Mr Hassan  Alaydrus. 
Meeting of ASEAN-Australia Officials on Australian International Civil Aviation Policy (Kuala Lumpur, 2-7 May 1979) 
Australian delegation-  Mr C.  C. Halton (leader),  Mr A.  R. Parsons,  Mr A.  T. Griffith,  Mr J.  H. Rowland,  Mr M.  E. Lyon,  Mr A.  F. Rainbird,  Mr W.  E. Weemaes,  Mr D.  A. Buckingham,  Mr T.  Grant,  Mr J.  M. Weber,  Mr C.  S. Heseltine. 
Notes 
Representatives of Qantas Airways Limited also participated. 
Canberra based officials only are listed. 
ASEAN delegation 
Malaysia-  Mr Mohammed  Noor Hassan (leader),  Mr Hamzah  Bin Abdul Majid,  Mr Mohamed  Haron,  Mr Zaimal  Lembang,  Mr Yusof  Hashim,  Mrs Zaharah  Shaari,  Mr Adnan  Shamsuddin,  Mr Khairil  Anuar Abdullah,  Mr Bernard  Thomazios,  Mr Ng  Choong Leong. 
Indonesia-  Mr G.  Risakotta,  Mr Mochtar  Usman,  Mr Sudarsana, Mr Sumantri  Mochamad Usman,  Mr Soerjanto, Mr Haringun,  MrSugita Pradjanata. 
Philippines-  Mr Saviniano  M. Perez,  Mr Rolando  S. Gregorio,  Mr Victoriano  Dungca,  Mr Pacifico  Agabin,  Mr Jorge  V. Arizabal,  Mrs Leticia  T. Villanueva,  Mr Jose  Ma Estrada,  Mr Fernando  A. Liwanag,  Mrs Ianthe  T. Aquino. 
Singapore-  Mr Sim  Kee Boon,  Mr Tan  Boon Seng,  Mr Lim  Hock San,  Mr M.  Kishore,  Mrs Cherry  Tan,  Mr Khong  Teck Kim,  Mr Lim  Chin Beng,  Mr Stanley  Kuppusamy, MrMunTheam Kong,  Mr Teh  Ping Choon. 
Thailand-Dr Chuay Kannavat,  Dr Chitti  Wacharasindhu,  Mr Rovngroj  Sriprasertsuk,  Mr Apinan  Pavauarit,  Mr Wickitr  Wayurakul,  Mr Hans  Henrik Lau,  Mr Narathorn  Wongviscs,  Mr V.  Bunyakstu. 
)  Mr C.  C. Halton- Secretary, Department of Transport. 

 Mr A. R. Parsons First Assistant Secretary, South East Asia and PNG Division, Department of Foreign Affairs.  Deputy  Secretary, Department of Foreign Affairs. 

 Mr A. T. Griffith First Assistant Secretary, External Relations and Defence Division, Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. First Assistant Secretary, International Security and Intelligence Division, Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. Special Advisor, Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet. 

 Mr J. H. Rowland First Assistant Secretary, Sea Transport Policy Division, Department of Transport. First Assistant Secretary, International Policy Division, Department of Transport. 

 Mr M. E. Lyon Assistant Secretary, PNG Branch, Department of Foreign Affairs, First Assistant Secretary, Defence Division, Department of Foreign Affairs. First Assistant Secretary, South East Asia and PNG Division, Department of Foreign Affairs. 

 Mr A. F. Rainbird Assistant Secretary, Policy Division, Department of Science. Assistant Secretary, International Policy Division, Department of Transport. 

 Mr E. R. Pocock Minister Australian Embassy, Paris. Assistant Secretary, Economic Division, Department of Foreign Affairs. 

 Mr W. Weemaes Counsellor, Australian Embassy, Brussels. Head Post Liaison and Guidance Section, Department of Foreign Affairs. Head, Transport and Resources Section, Department of Foreign Affairs. 

 Mr A. P. Godfrey Smith; First Secretary, Australian High Commission, Kuala Lumpur. Foreign Affairs Officer 3, South East Asia and PNG Division, Department of Foreign Affairs. 

 Mr C. S. Heseltine First Secretary, Australian Embassy, Madrid. Foreign Affairs Officer 3, Transport and Resources Section, Economic Division, Department of Foreign Affairs. 

 Mr D. A. Buckingham Foreign Affairs Officer 2, Economic Research Section, Department of Foreign Affairs. Foreign Affairs Officer 3, Special duties including secondment to Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. Foreign Affairs Officer 3, ASEAN/Malaysia/Singapore Section, Southeast Asia and Papua New Guinea Division, Department of Foreign Affairs. 

 Mr T. Brosnan  Clerk  Class 6 (unattached), Department of Transport. Senior International Relations Officer (Class 8 ) International Policy Division, Department of Transport. Senior International Relations Officer (Class 9) International Policy Division, Department of Transport. Director (Class 1 1 ), International Policy Division, Department of Transport. 

 Mr T. Grant Senior Research Officer Grade 2, Bureau of Transport Economics. Executive Officer (Class 9) Strategic Planning and Resource Allocation Division, Department of Transport. Member ICAP Review Study Group. Director (Class 1 1 ) International Policy Division, Department of Transport. 

 Mr J. Weber Superintendent of Air Transport (Class 7), Air Transport Policy Branch, Queensland Region, Department of Transport. Senior International Relations Officer (Class 8), International Policy Division, Department of Transport. Senior International Relations Officer (Class 9), International Policy Division, Department of Transport. Acting Director (Class 10), International Policy Division, Department of Transport. 
Indonesia- 

 Mr Kardono; Director General of Air Communications, Ministry of Communications. 

 Mr Umarjadi Njotowijono Director General, ASEAN;Indonesia. 

 Dr Suhadi Mangkusuwondo; Director General of Foreign Trade, Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives. 

 Mr S. Nasoetion Head, Research and Development Agency, Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives. 

 Mr A. A. Gde Oke Djelantik Director, Directorate of Economic Services, Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 

 Mr Usodo Notodirdjo; Head, Bureau of Economic Affairs, ASEAN;Indonesia. 

 Mr K. Algamar Secretary, Directorate General of Foreign Trade, Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives. 

 Mr Sanitioso Head, Bureau of Legal Affairs and Foreign Relations, Ministry of Communications. 

 Mr G. Risakotta Director of Air Transportation, Ministry of Communications. 
Miss Cri Murthi Adi Director, Directorate of Tourism Marketing Development, Ministry of Communications. 

 Dr Suhono Sumobaskoro Director of the Board, Garuda Indonesian Airways. 

 Mr Salman Hardi Director, Garuda Indonesian Airways. 

 Mr Sugita Pradjauata; Head, Economic Bureau, Garuda Indonesian Airways. 

 Mr Achmad Kartohadiprodjo Head, Legal Bureau, Garuda Indonesian Airways. 

 Mr J. Soehardjo; Manager, International Relations, Garuda Indonesian Airways. 

 Mr Mochtar Usman Senior Official, Directorate General of Air Communication Ministry of Communications. 

 Mr Hassan Alaydrus Senior Official, Directorate of Asia and Pacific, Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 

 Mr Karnaen Somadinata Chief of SubDirectorate, International Air Transport, Ministry of Communications. 

 Mr Sancha Bakhtiar Head, International Operations Division, Merpati Nusantara Airlines. 

 Mr lsbandi Merpati Nusantara Airlines. 

 Mr Soepari Tjokrohartono Minister, Indonesian Embassy, Canberra. 

 Mr D. R. I. Mardanus Minister Counsellor, Indonesian Embassy, Canberra. 

 Mr Soekro Poerwodipoero Second Secretary, Indonesian Embassy, Canberra. 

 Mr Udin Saifuddin Chief of the SubDirectorate of Marketing Analyses, Directorate of Marketing, Department of Communications. 

 Mr Sudarsana Senior Official, Bureau of Economics, ASEAN National Secretariat, Department of Foreign Affairs. 

 Mr Sumantri Mochamad Usman Communications Attache, Indonesian Embassy, Kuala Lumpur. 

 Mr Soerjanto Legal and Foreign Relation Bureau, Ministry of Communications. 

 Mr Haringiui Indonesian Embassy, Kuala Lumpur. 

 Mr Karno Barkah Directorate General of Air Communications, Department of Communications. 

 Mr Harjono; Department of Foreign Affairs. 

 Mr A. Kartohaliprodjo; Garuda Indonesian Airways. 
Malaysia- 

 Mr Mohammed Noor Hassan; Secretary General, Ministry of Transport. 

 Mr A. Talalla  Deputy  Secretary General (Economics), Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 

 Mr Kassim Hussein Director General, ASEAN;Malaysia. 

 Mr Abdul Majid Mohamed Minister, Embassy of Malaysia, Jakarta. 

 Mr Mohamed Bin Haron UnderSecretary (Economics), Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 

 Mr Kamarudin Ahmad  Deputy  Director, Ministry of Trade and Industry. 

 Mrs Hew Kuan Wai Principal Assistant Secretary, Ministry of Transport. 

 Mr Bernard Thomazios Director of Marketing, Malaysian Airline System. 

 Mr Michael Wong Tariffs Controller, Malaysian Airline System. 

 Mr Samsudin Bin Marsop Trade Attache, Embassy of Malaysia, Jakarta. 

 Mr Mohd Rose Abd Rahman Second Secretary, Embassy of Malaysia, Jakarta. 

 Mr Harith Ibrahim Special Assistant to  Deputy  Prime Minister. 

 Mr M. Thilagadurai Ministry of Transport. 

 Mrs Zaharaah Shaari Principal Assistant Secretary, Ministry of Transport. 

 Mr Adnan Shamsuddin Director of Air Transport, Department of Civil Aviation. 

 Mr Yusof Hashin Principal Assistant Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 

 Mr Bashir Ahmad Marketing Manager. Malaysian Airline System. 

 Mr Hamzah Abdul Majid Director General. Department of Civil Aviation. 

 Mr Baharuddin Musa Director General, Tourist Development Corporation. 

 Mr Zamal Abidin B. Mokhtar Deputy High Commissioner, Malaysian High Commission, Canberra. 

 Mr R. Gopal Second Secretary, Malaysian High Commission, Canberra. 

 Mr Zainal Lembaig ASEAN Malaysia, Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 

 Mr Khairil Anuar Abdullah Director (Econometrics), Economic Planning Unit, Prime Minister's Department. 

 Mr Ng Choong Leong Fleet Planning Manager, Malaysian Airline System. 
Philippines- 

 Mrs Rosario G. Manalo ; Director General, ASEAN-Philippines. 

 Mr Marcellino Lilagan Charge d 'Affairs, Embassy of the Philippines, Jakarta. 

 Mrs R. Tirana Counsellor, Embassy of the Philippines, Canberra. 

 Mr Nestor N. Gatbonton Senior Executive Assistant II, Civil Aeronautics Board. 

 Mr Pacifico Agabin Vice  President  for International Relations, Philippine Airlines. 

 Mr Fructuoso Calagui Second Secretary, Embassy of the Philippines. 

 Mr Saviniano M. Perez Special Technical Assistant to the Minister, Ministry of Public Works. Transportation and Communications. 

 Mr Julio M. Bacareza Commercial Attache, Embassy of the Philippines, Kuala Lumpur. 

 Mr Rene Guerrero Foreign Trade Analyst, Embassy of the Philippines, Jakarta. 

 Mr Leon Tiansay Member, Civil Aeronautics Board. 

 Mr Pacifico U. Agcaoili Executive Director, Civil Aeronautics Board. 

 Mr Romula C. Buhat ASEAN Philippines, Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 

 Mr Rolando S. Gregorio Principal Assistant, ASEANPhilippines, Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 

 Mr Victoriano Dungea Vice  President  (Marketing), Philippine Airlines. 

 Mr Jorge V. Arizabal Third Secretary, Philippine Embassy, Kuala Lumpur. 

 Mrs Leticia T. Villanueva Assistant Commercial Attache, Philippine Embassy, Kuala Lumpur. 

 Mr Jose Ma Estrada Director, Tariffs and Regulatory matters, Philippine Airlines. 

 Mr Fernando A. Luvanag Senior Tariffs Analyst, Philippine Airlines. 

 Mrs Iantha T. Aquino Market Planning Analyst, Philippine Airlines. 
Singapore- 

 Mr Sim Kee Boon Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Communications. 

 Mr Tan Boon Seng Director General, ASEAN, Singapore. 

 Mr Tan Song Chuan  Deputy  Director, Department of Trade. 

 Mr Lee Chiong Giam Director, Regional and Economic Division, Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 

 Mr Barry Desker Counsellor, Embassy of Singapore, Jakarta. 

 Mr Lim Hock San  Deputy  Director, Department of Civil Aviation. 

 Mr Tan Gim Kheng First Secretary, Embassy of Singapore, Jakarta. 

 Mr Jack Choo Eng Kang First Secretary, Embassy of Singapore, Jakarta. 

 Mr Lim Chin Beng Managing Director, Singapore Airlines. 

 Mr Stanley Kuppusamy International Relations Manager, Singapore Airlines. 

 Mr Teh Ping Choon Market Development Executive. Singapore Airlines. 

 Mr Lim Liang Poh Ministry of Communications. 
Miss Leong Wai Long Ministry of Communications. 

 Mr Warren Khoo Attorney General 's Chambers. 
MrThirimagaran- Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 
Miss Low Poh Gek Singapore Tourist Promotion Board. 
Miss Emily Nathan Department of Civil Aviation. 

 Mr Goh Chin Ee Department of Civil Aviation. 
Mr Syn Chung Wah Singapore Airlines. 

 Mr Mun Theam Kong International Relations Manager, Singapore Airlines. 

 Mr Pek Hock Thiam Director, Air Transport, Ministry of Communications. 

 Mr Chew Choon Seng Regional Director, Southwest Pacific, Singapore Airlines. 

 Mr M. Kishore Counsellor, Singapore High Commission, Kuala Lumpur. 

 Mrs Cherry Tan Assistant Director (Air Transport), Ministry of Communications. 

 Mr Khong Teck Kim Senior Operations Officer (Air Transport), Department of Civil Aviation. 

 Mr C. M. See Singapore High Commissioner to Australia, Canberra. 
Thailand- 

 Dr Chuay Kannawat Director General, Economic Department, Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 

 Dr Chitti Wacharasindhu  Deputy  DirectorGeneral, Department of Aviation, Ministry of Communications. 

 Mr Apinan Pavanarit Chief, Social, Cultural and Information Division, ASEAN;Thailand. 
Lt. Col. Simaru Thomojaree- Secretary to the Minister of Communications. 

 Mr Wichitr Wayurakul Director International Relations, Thai Airways International Ltd. 
Lt. Commander Aree Satayamaua- Deputy UnderSecretary of State, Ministry of Communications. 
Air Vice Marshall Surayute Nevasabute- Director, Royal Thai Air Force Directorate of Civil Aviation. 

 Dr Srisook Chanthrangai Chief, Transport and Committee Services Division, Ministry of Communications. 

 Mr Surapong Poshyananda Secretary, International Economic Division, Economic Department, Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 

 Mr Nikorn Maneelert Vice  President,  Traffic Planning and Foreign Relations Department, Thai Airways International Limited. 

 Mr Vichet Director, International Relations Department, Thai Airways International Limited. 

 Mr Suttiswat Kridakon Counsellor, Royal Thai Embassy, Canberra. 

 Mr Bunthan Manklang Second Secretary, Royal Thai Embassy, Canberra. 

 Mr Roungroj Sriprasertsuk Director, of Air Transport Control Division, Department of Civil Aviation. 

 Mr Hans Henrik Lau Director of Sales, Thai Airways International Ltd. 

 Mr Narathorn Wongvises Market Research Department, Thai Airways International Limited. 

 Mr V. Bunyaketu International Relations Department, Thai Airways International Ltd. 
-In the final part of the honourable member's question there is an assumption that is not yet proven and at this point I do not propose to enter into a debate on it in this place. I sought legal advice from the Attorney-General's Department about the accuracy of the tender forms and the implications involved in them, and until such time as I receive that advice I shall not be in a position to make any decision about them; nor do I propose to make any further comment on them. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I ) Flight cancellation/substitution practices of the two major domestic airlines broadly fall into two categories: 
alterations on the day of operation which the airline is forced to take by circumstances beyond its control such as bad weather and unplanned maintenance requirements. 
b ) alterations made prior to the day of operation. These cancellations-substitutions are made by the airlines in consultation under the Rationalisation provisions of the Airlines Agreements Act. The alterations are made to relate capacity to traffic demand in order to achieve viable passenger load factors and to provide an acceptable industry frequency on each route. This policy results in the cancellation of some flights in low traffic periods and the scheduling of additional services in traffic peaks. 
The policy enables considerable economies of operation to be achieved, with the benefits being passed on to the travelling public. TAA have advised me that in the three years to March 1 979, the policy enabled seat occupancy to be raised by an average of three percentage points over what had been achieved in the past. Without this saving, tariffs over this period would have had to be increased by a further two and a half percent per annum. 
(a) Minor savings may arise in crew costs. 
b ) Savings do occur in operating costs, e.g. fuel, Air Navigation Charges and engineering. 
There are no significant effects on the costs of employing clerical staff. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have seen the item in the Melbourne  Age  of 5 June 1979. The safety record of aviation in Australia does not indicate that there is any substance in the report. 
Whilst the report does not specify the particular regulations it may be that the reference is to NOTAM 8/79 which relates to revised requirements for flight notification and reporting procedures. These requirements were developed with appropriate consultation with the aviation industry. They apply to all aircraft operating outside controlled airspace. They were first introduced by NOTAM 32 in November 1978 and following revision were re-issued in NOTAM 8/79 in April 1979. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the main airport planning and design is carried out in offices located away from the airports but some minor planning and design functions are carried out by some of the officers located at airports. As the amount of time spent on this function is small, in comparison  to  the time spent on maintenance and operation functions, those staff who sometimes perform planning and design functions have been included in the answer to question (c). 
b )  Major airport  construction works are the responsibility of the Department of Housing and Construction and the numbers on any construction site vary with time and project size. Some construction is carried out from time to time by Department of Transport staff employed on airport, but as stated above these staff are not really employed to carry out these works. As it is difficult to segregate the time spent on such activities they are included in the following answer to question (c). 
The number of persons at major Commonwealth airports employed by the Department of Transport on duties which are primarily associated with airport maintenance and operations are as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Transport maintains detailed records of the capital, maintenance, operating and administrative costs of each location on a functional basis. 

 Major revenues stem from air navigation charges and fuel tax and are not allocated on a location or functional basis. Other revenues from rentals, business concessions, et cetera, are recorded on a location basis. 
Annual accounts are prepared covering all costs and revenues on a total system basis including all airports and airways facilities. Total costs and revenues including direct expenditure, depreciation, interest, et cetera, for years 1 976-77 and 1 977-78 are as follows: 
Accounts for 1 978-79 are not yet finalised. 
Returns on Commonwealth investment at individual airports are not calculated but the above figures show that the Commonwealth recovered 58.53 per cent of total costs of provision of the airport and airways system in 1976-77 and 6 1.02 per cent in 1977-78. 
The Government's objectives in relation to the recovery of the properly attributable costs of providing and operating the infrastructure required for the safe and efficient operation of aircraft is directed to the ultimate full recovery of these costs from sectors of the industry and not on an individual basis. 
-I must say that I enjoyed the visit with the honourable member for Berowra to look at the Hornsby by-pass. It brought home to me the importance of that arterial road in a national and commercial sense. Certainly it is true that the visit opened my eyes to the difficulties faced in getting the situation corrected. The honourable member will be pleased to know that as a result of that visit and the representations he has made I have decided to declare that part of the road from Berowra to Pearce 's Corner as part of the national highway. This decision is completely due to his representations. I have advised  Mr Cox  of this and the road can now become eligible for national highway funding and can be developed to a dual carriageway. 
Following the conclusion of arrangements with 11 governments around the world for the introduction of cheaper air fares to and from this country to their countries a marked increase has occurred in the number of passengers who are flying in and out of the country as tourists. I am delighted to inform the House that for the month of June for the first time the numbers of visas issued for people to visit Australia exceeded the number of visas issued for people to go out of Australia. One hundred and fifty-six thousand visas were issued for people to come in and 153,000 were issued for people to go out. There is no doubt that not only have the people of Australia welcomed the cheap air fares regime, but also that people in overseas countries are recognising now that Australia is a good place to visit. 
-I know the Labor Party would mess the country up if it got back into power and probably people would stay away. Members of that Party can relax because they will not get back into power. I am delighted to be able to tell the House that not only is the tourist industry in Australia obviously now getting a large boost from the number of people starting to come into the country, but also indeed the Australian people themselves are able to gain some benefit from the introduction of the cheaper air fares regime. 
-On 27 April at an Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting the New South Wales Minister for Transport and the South Australian Minister of Transport both informed other State Ministers and me that they proposed to proceed with the implementation of the third stage of Australian Design Rule 27A despite the fact that the majority of States believed that it was not in the best interests of motorists, environmentalists or anybody else, and certainly not in the best interests of fuel consumption. 
It is a fact that at the Premiers Conference the Premier of New South Wales and the Premier of South Australia agreed to have another look at the decision taken earlier by their Ministers. I do not know what happened in New South Wales, whether the Premier ran away from the State Minister and was not prepared to face up to him in Cabinet or what, but there has been no response following the Premier's own statement at the Premiers Conference that he would have another look at the matter. In fact New South Wales has gone ahead and declared that it proposes to implement the third stage of 27A, which certainly is an abrogation of the undertaking given to the other Premiers by the New South Wales Premier at the Premiers Conference. 
So far as South Australia is concerned, all I can say is that the South Australian Government, as I understand it, has not yet replied to the Prime Minister on its agreement to have another look at the question. The matter, therefore, is still open. In the light of information that is coming to hand about other and better ways of improving the environment I hope that the South Australian Premier will declare his hand before he goes to the polls in a couple of weeks' time. The people of South Australia rightly would have an interest in this matter. 
I also tell the House of an experiment undertaken a few weeks ago by the honourable member for Mitchell,  Senator Collard  and the honourable member for Indi. They drove a petrol engined car, a liquefied petroleum gas powered vehicle and a diesel car on a test, under tight controls, from Sydney to Canberra and back to Sydney. The experiment proved that the carbon monoxide emissions from the petrol engined car were 21.87 grams per kilometre. The emissions of carbon monoxide from the LPG vehicle were only 1.12 grams per kilometre and from the diesel car 0.45 grams per kilometre. 
In the light of that sort of information I would have thought that a responsible Premier such as the Premier of New South Wales- he claims to be responsible- would be more careful before involving the people of New South Wales and the car industry in bringing cars onto the road that will increase fuel consumption throughout Australia. In the light of that I hope that the Premier of South Australia will show a little responsibility in this regard. 
The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  has followed the usual course that he takes in matters of this nature. I think he holds the view that, if he can use the Parliament to heap enough abuse on everybody when he takes this sort of action, some of that abuse will stick. He is the greatest exponent of the conspiracy theory that this Parliament has seen for a long time. He likes to use very illustrative and colourful language in the hope that he will get a bit of a run in the newspapers. I am indebted to the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  for saying a few words on the matter. In speaking to me he said that the honourable member for Shortland had embarked on a litany of hate. I think that that is quite true. The Australian Labor Party has never loved Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, and it shows its usual ideological difficulties - 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2). International airliners and the major interstate domestic carriers use aviation turbine fuel. Statistics on the consumption of this fuel are collected by the Department of National Development. Due to commercial-in-confidence reasons I understand that a breakdown by domestic airliner and international airliner usage is not available. 
Figures on the level of total aviation turbine fuel consumption measured in kilolitres and the percentage change in consumption over the same month in the previous year (obtained from the Department of National Development) are shown below. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. . 
No.  
Rail Link from Alice Springs to Darwin  (Question No. 4391) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answer to question No. 3736. The decision to change from the Walter 'standard design' to meet the Australian specification, was made by the Walter Motor Truck Co. The Australian specification was authorised by the Senior Assistant Secretary, Airways Engineering Works and Services Branch of the Ground Facilities Division. 
The Australian specification was not written around a particular manufacturer's product. It specifies the essential design parameters and features to meet Australian operational requirements and conditions at lowest cost. It calls for a single engine to minimise overall size, weight and cost. 
USA- Grumman Aircraft Aerodrome, Long Island N.Y. Commissioned December 1978.; Canada- Information in answer to question 3736 was premature. The Walter offer to supply I 5 Australian type ULFT's is still being evaluated. 
(a) At the time offender in 1976, the Walter Motor Truck Co. alternatively offered to build and supply 6800 Litre ULFT's to its 'standard design' at $US1,S00 higher cost per unit than for the design to the Australian specification. 
Not available. However the Walter Motor Truck Co. recently advised the Department that this price differential would have increased to $US3,000 per unit by 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) Tenders were called, closing on 27 January 1976. 
b ) Order was placed on 29 June 1977. 
The value of the contract was US $1,525,840 firm. 
The unsuccessful tenderers were: 
Wormald Bros (New Zealand)- Top Hamper only- (a) New Zealand, (b) New Zealand; 
Mack Australia- Chassis only- (a) Australia, (b) Australia; 
Wormald Bros (International)- (a) Australia, (b) Australia; 
Presha Engineering- (a) Australia, ( b ) Australia; 
Oshkosh Truck Corporation-( a) USA, (b) USA; 
HCB Angus-(a) England, (b) England; 
Chubb Fire Security Ltd- (a) England, (b) England; 
Gloster Sons- (a) England, (b) England; 
Carmichael &amp; Sons Ltd- (a) England, (b) England. 
Ten 6800 Litre units were purchased. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
10 Walter Ultra Large Fire Tenders (6800L capacity) have been purchased. 
A further 6 Walter Ultra Large Fire Tenders (6800L capacity) have been ordered. 9 Walter/Wormald Ultra Large Fire Tenders (9100L capacity) have been ordered. 
First 10 6800L units- see answer (3) below. 
Next 6 6800L units- 2 are in Melbourne en route to South Australia, 3 are in Brisbane awaiting unloading, 1 is in transit from USA due in Melbourne 3 1 August. 
First 9100L unit- due to finish construction at Wormalds Port Melbourne works December 1979, balance for delivery during 1980. 
, (4), (5) and (6) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (8) The comments of the Combined Maritime Unions Committee reported in the  Daily Commercial News  on 5 June 1979 have been noted. I am unaware of  Mr Barton's  final proposals for the Tiger Line service. It would not be possible to assess the overall effects of these proposals on employment until they are finalised and until the likely market reaction to them has been calculated. The report did not contain any substantiation of the figure quoted. 
Both the Australian National Line and Union Bulkships have indicated that the level of their Tasmanian services would need to be reviewed if the Tiger Line proposal came to fruition. 
Details of vessels regularly operating between Tasmanian ports and the mainland appear in the following table. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
The responsibility for construction of roads in Australia rests primarily with the States, and it would therefore be appropriate for the honourable member to direct his inquiry to the State Transport Ministers. With regard to road construction in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, I suggest that the honourable member direct his inquiry to the Honourable R. Steele, Minister for Transport and Works, Northern Territory, who is responsible for road construction in the Territory, and to the  Hon.  R. J. Ellicott, Minister for the Capital Territory, who has responsibility for road construction in the ACT. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1975-0; 1976-2; 1977-3; 1978-6-includes 1 still to be completed and 1979-3-includes 3 still to be completed. 
Total 14-includes 4 still to be completed. 

Road Safety Surveys ( Restraint Devices )- 3 surveys 
1976-Reark Research Pty Ltd; 1977-Reark Research Pty Ltd and 1 978-Reark Research Pty Ltd. 
All related to availability and use of restraint devices in passenger vehicles. 
Collect information on fitting rates and wearing rates of both adult and child restraint devices: to assist in evaluation of Australia's compulsory seat belt wearing legislation to evaluate the introduction of Victoria's 'child restraint' legislation to evaluate a radio and press publicity campaign aimed at increasing the use of restraints by children and evaluation of compliance with legislation requiring retrospective fitting of seat belts to older cars. 
$ 1 4,76 1 ; $25,64 1 and $20,460. 
Road Safety Survey (Blood Alcohol) 
1979- Road Accident Research Unit of University of Adelaide. 
survey levels of blood alcohol in the general driving population: when combined with data from road accidents, relative risk of accident involvement can be calculated. 
survey is still in progress but total cost estimated at $48,000. 
Caravan Safety Survey 
1979- internal Departmental Survey. 
A questionnaire survey to provide information for a study on the safety of caravan towing in Australia. 
Nil (other than in normal Departmental expenditure). 
Aviation Safety Digest Publication Survey 
1976- internal Departmental survey. 
Questionnaire to cross section of the pilot population to survey acceptability and effectiveness of publication 'Aviation Safety Digest'. 
Nil (other than in normal Departmental expenditure). 
Deloraine Bypass Survey 
1979- internal Departmental survey. 
To assess community attitudes to two alternative road bypass routes around Deloraine, Tasmania. 
Nil (other than in normal Departmental expenditure). 
Australian Airport Noise Survey 
1978- no companies have been commissioned. The survey is being managed by an interdepartmental working group consisting of representatives from the Department of Transport, Department of Health, Department of Defence and the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Interviews of people residing near airports being carried out by private individuals normally hired by the ABS for taking census information. 
The extent of community disturbance by aircraft noise around Australian airports. 
To date about $5,000 has been paid to individual interviewers. 
Non-urban Travel in Australia Survey 
1977- conducted by Roy Morgan Research Centre Pty Ltd. 
To obtain information on non-urban travel undertaken by each selected household during the previous week and on the longest journey undertaken during the previous twelve months. A secondary purpose was to assess the potential of omnibus-type surveys as a source of up-to-date and reliable information for transport planning purposes. 
Cost: $15,264. 
National Travel Survey, 1 977-78 
1978- conducted by the Bureau of Transport Economics (BTE) with assistance from Beacon Research Company Pty Ltd. 
To obtain information on non-urban travel in Australia. Questionnaires were mailed by the BTE to approximately 100,000 households over a twelve-month period. In order to monitor the reliability of results obtained from the mail survey, a separate personal home interview survey was conducted by Beacon Research Company. They conducted interviews with a relatively small sample of nonrespondents and respondents to the mail survey. 
Home interview survey cost $42,120 (other expenditure, including the mail survey and computer time paid as normal Departmental expenditure). 

 Major Airport Needs of Sydney (MANS ) 4 Surveys 
1977- Department of Transport- (carried out by private individuals under contract). 
Incidence Survey establishing extent by which identified groups gain or lose by effects of proposed Kingsford Smith Airport ( KSA) development options. 
$4,688. 
1978-Planning Workshop Pty Ltd, North Sydney. 
Economic and Incidence Analysis of data collected in Incidence Survey showing final impact of economic considerations on elements of the community. 
$6,000. 
1978- Centre for Human Services, Marrickville. 
Hire of single decker media bus with two operators, public address system, notice boards, pamphlet displays and video equipment to assist in obtaining public reaction to Study during Public Participation Program. 
$3,150 
1978-MSJ Keys Young Planners, Surry Hills, N.S.W. 
Preparation, administration and report on Study's Briefing Workshop held on completion of Public Participation Program. Interested parties attended seminars and discussion groups. 
$ 16,450. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have not seen the particular news report to which the honourable member refers. 
to (4) As agreed between ASEAN and Australian Ministers in March 1979, ASEAN and Australian officials met (Kuala Lumpur, 2-8 May 1979) to give further consideration to issues arising from Australia's revised international civil aviation policy. Officials agreed to recommend to ASEAN Economic Ministers and Australian Ministers a settlement on a package basis intended to meet the common objectives ofthe ASEAN countries and of the Australian low fare policy. My understanding is that ASEAN Economic Ministers have yet to consider the package developed between ASEAN and Australian officials. 
There have been indications from the Singapore authorities, which have been reported in the media, that some aspects of the package negotiated by officials at Kuala Lumpur do not meet their wishes. It is, however, for ASEAN as a group, rather than for an individual ASEAN country, to advise whether or not ASEAN is willing to accept the package settlement. In the circumstances, no talks are presently planned with ASEAN countries individually, but should Singapore or any other ASEAN country request talks with Australia, such request would receive the Government's close consideration. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, provided the increased demand for lower octane petrol came from vehicles which are at present being run unnecessarily on high octane petrol. 
I am advised that nominally identical motor vehicles in the Australian fleet have substantially different fuel octane requirements. However, in general, vehicles will perform satisfactorily, other factors remaining unchanged, if they are run on a grade of petrol at or above the minimum octane stipulated by a manufacturer. They will perform with maximum efficiency when they are run on a grade of petrol which matches the minimum octane specified by a manufacturer in the sense that they are maximising the use of the available octane quality ofthe fuel. They will perform unsatisfactorily when they are run on a grade of petrol which has an octane rating which is less than the minimum specified by a manufacturer. The energy savings which result from matching octane ratings and engine requirements accrue in the refinery system. 
The latest year for which actual data is available on vehicle sales is 1978. While detailed data is not readily available on ail models available in Australia, data from the motor industry in aggregated form is outlined below. This indicates the percentage of new passenger cars and derivatives and new petrol engined commercial vehicles in each category. Vehicles which will not operate satisfactorily on standard grade or the new intermediate grade will require higher octane super grade. 
I have no information on plans by individual Australian motor vehicle manufacturers to modify their products, where appropriate, to enable them to operate efficiently on lower octane rating petroleum fuels. 
The Committee on Motor Vehicle Emissions (COMVE), a technical advisory group of the Australian Transport Advisory Council (ATAC), is assessing optimum economic octane ratings relating to varying lead levels in petrol. Studies when completed will assist the devleopment of future policies in this important area. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2), (3) and (4). No action is proposed at this stage to implement the recommendations relating to further studies and investigations as set out in the Bureau of Transport Economics Occasional Paper Number 26 entitled 'Usage Patterns of Urban Cars-Their Effect on Fuel Consumption and Emissions'. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The findings of the Loder Committee in 1965 were that there was no justification for the construction of a railway from Alice Springs to Tennant Creek or Larrimah unless major mineral development were to occur. 
Since then the Darwin and Northern Territory Freight Transport Study was carried out by the Bureau of Transport 
Economics in 1977. The study concluded that the least cost method of meeting the Northern Territory's transport requirements was to upgrade the Stuart Highway and that a rail link between Alice Springs and Darwin could not be justified. 
The Government does not propose to extend the Tarcoola-Alice Springs rail link to Darwin at this stage. However, in a joint statement with the Northern Territory Minister for Transport and Works I recently announced that a study would be undertaken into the benefits and costs of a standard gauge rail link between Darwin and Alice Springs, and that in addition to economic aspects, the study would examine defence considerations, social impacts and the overall effects of such a railway on the future development of the Northern Territory. 
Agreements on Social Security  (Question No. 4414) 
It seems to be the fate of the Minister for Transport in this place to be faced by Opposition spokesmen who believe in the conspiracy theory. Normally I am faced by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  He has been replaced today by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  who has been carried away with the conspiracy theory also. The whole basis of his allegations falls to the ground because Avis Rent-a-Car System Pty Ltd has not achieved any coup. The fact is that nothing has been finalised or decided that gives Avis the sort of run suggested by the honourable member for Robertson. So, the whole of his matter of public importance is a waste of the Parliament's time. 
On 29 August I told the Parliament that I was seeking legal advice on the position in regard to the current tender document situation. I said that I would not be in a position to make any further comment until I had received that advice. That is still the position today. I have not received detailed advice from the Attorney-General's Department. I am still awaiting such advice. I again make the point that nothing scandalous has occurred, in spite of the neat little dropout by the honourable member for Robertson of some of the words in the  Hansard  record of my answer the other day- a typical tactic. Nothing scandalous or underhand has occurred in the matter. 
I am accusing the honourable member of quoting selectively out of  Hansard.  For the information of the House, I lay the  Hansard  on the table. 
Let me explain the history of the matter. It became obvious during the last few years of the previous Avis monopoly contract that it was undesirable that the monopoly situation should continue. That was so for several reasons, not the least of which was the considerable growth of other firms in the industry. The Avis monopoly ran for 10 years and expired on 30 June this year. The consideration of new conditions began in 1977- two years before the expiry of the Avis contract- and involved exhaustive discussions with all major firms in the car rental industry, the tourist industry, the airlines and other Commonwealth departments such as the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, the Department of Industry and Commerce, the Department of Finance and the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. So, no hasty or ill-conceived decisions were made. 
After all those considerations, my Department arrived at a proposal, which was put before me in August 1978, for one national operator and one airport by airport operator. My Department having arrived at this proposal, all the car rental firms in Australia- 168 firms- were circularised and invited to comment on the proposed terms. Further discussions were held with the major firms in order to ascertain their reactions. These moves coincided with moves by Trans-Australia Airlines to acquire a controlling interest in KayHertz Rent-a-Car. These negotiations, together with industry reaction to the original proposal, resulted in reconsideration and finally Government approval to call tenders for two national operators and one airport by airport operator. 
These terms were overwhelmingly welcomed by the industry as leading to greater competition within the industry as a whole. 
The point to be stressed is that throughout all this period no ill-conceived or off-the-cuff decisions were made. Right from the outset the whole car rental position was considered and discussed most carefully and thoroughly. The primary consideration at all times has been service to the public, equity to the industry and Commonwealth revenue. It is interesting to note that at the time of the announcement of the final tender conditions, in January this year, the Department received a letter from  Mr Bob  Ansett of Budget Rent-a-Car System Pty Ltd congratulating the Department on producing 'a very fine document'. I should further point out that consideration was also given to the recommendations of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism when the decision was made to opt for two national operators on all of the 58 Commonwealth airports. 
In calling tenders in this way it was recognised that a single operator could submit the highest tender for each individual airport and in this way acquire a national operation- a point that seems to be lost on the honourable member for Robertson. The acceptability of this arrangement was clearly set out in the tender specifications. The only advantages to be gained by the highest bidder for the national operation was the first choice of desk sites in terminals and car parking spaces outside terminals. Tenders were to be based on a percentage of gross turnover, with a guaranteed minimum payment. The main contenders were, of course, the three so-called national companies- Avis Rent-a-Car System Pty Ltd, Budget Rent-a-Car System Pty Ltd and KayHertz Rent-a-Car. Each of these companies has access to very considerable financial resources. Avis is wholly owned by Ansett Transport Industries Ltd; the Australian Guarantee Corporation Ltd has a 70 per cent shareholding in Budget; whilst TAA/Mayne Travel Industries Pty Ltd holds 77½ per cent of the shares of Hertz. In the event, Hertz submitted a significantly higher bid than Budget and Avis. The total guaranteed amounts bid for the five-year concession were: Hertz, $8,014,435; Budget, $3,167,060; and Avis, $3,1 13,592. 
These tenders were considered by a departmental business board. The board consists of senior officers of the commercial and finance branches of my Department. This might be of interest to the honourable member for Robertson: The procedure is that the board compiles a schedule of tenders and amounts tendered, and conducts interviews with tenderers. Based on the information thus provided, the board makes recommendations. The  chairman  of the board has delegations under the Airport (Business Concessions) Act to award contracts for up to 20 years without further reference to me. However, in this instance, because of the obvious public interest in the matter the board did not exercise its delegations but made recommendations to me as to which tenders should be accepted. 
Furthermore, in this case the recommendations which came before me were considered by a number of other senior officers of my Department before actually being placed before me. So it can be readily seen from the wording of this matter of public importance, which questions 'the handling of the car rental concessions at Commonwealth airports by the Minister for Transport', that the honourable member for Robertson is completely ignorant of the procedures in the matter. I do not handle car rental concessions. They are a matter for the tender board, and I act upon recommendations put to me by that board. In considering these bids, the contract board, whilst concerned at the apparent magnitude of the Hertz bid against the background that the company did not have a previous record of profit making, had to take account of financial assurances given by its major shareholders. As a result, the first national contract was awarded to Hertz. 
Because of the marginal difference between the two next highest offers the Board gave considerable thought as to whether it should award the second national position to Avis, in view of that company's proven record as a most satisfactory airport contractor and the likelihood that, if it held its existing airport market dominancethat is an important point- its actual payments over the five year period could exceed the guaranteed minimum bid. Despite these considerations the contract board finally recommended to me that the higher bid, that of Budget, should be accepted. I believe this clearly demonstrates the impartiality of the contract board, despite the allegations of the honourable member for Robertson. I might add that had Avis been awarded the second contract, all of the 46 airport by airport contracts for which it had tendered would have been won by Budget, there would then have been three national operators at airports- and Budget, apart from submitting relatively high bids for individual contracts, had offered a premium if awarded contracts at all airports. 
The contract board was concerned with the question of service to the public as well as with protection of Commonwealth revenue and made thorough inquiries concerning all tenderers. In any event, with one minor exception, all contracts were awarded to the highest tenderers. Because the Government believes that normal commercial forces should be allowed to operate wherever possible I have no desire to exercise more control than necessary through the Airports (Business Concessions) Act. In this instance all tenderers clearly understood that there would be three operators at all major airports, with the probability that these would be the three largest firms. Tenderers exercised their commercial judgment in the full knowledge of these facts and, in the event, placed vastly different values on the rights available. 
Great play has been made on the difference in wording between the paragraph in the original tender schedule relating to transferability of rights and in the authorities issued to Budget and Hertz. The conditions outlined in the tender schedule were taken almost entirely directly from the then existing authority held by Avis Rent-a-Car which provided that authorities could be transferred with consent. Some words were omitted- I told the House that previouslyfrom the paragraph in question. My Department has advised me that they were omitted in error. As I have said already, I am awaiting legal opinion on this latest position, but I venture to suggest that one of the underlying reasons for the great concern being shown by some parties for what is essentially an application for approval for a normal commercial transaction, could be connected with the vastly different amounts tendered by the successful national operators. 
One other point that I would like to stress is that even now continuous consultation and discussion is being held with interested firms in the industry. Interested parties are in daily contact with my Department and I have also made myself personally available for discussions. Once again, let me stress that nothing has happened that is scandalous or underhand. Nothing of that nature will take place. The outcome of these tenders has led to a significant increase in Government revenue which directly benefits the air traveller by offsetting costs of operating airports. The increased competition within the car rental industry induced by these contracts has already led to a significant lowering of car rental charges. So we have observed the highest standards of propriety. We have benefited the airlines, the air travelling public and the users of rent-a-cars. Yet the Opposition adopts the ridiculous attitude of trying to knock the Government down on this issue. I repeat, in case the honourable member has missed the message, that Avis has not achieved any coup. Therefore, the whole matter of public importance falls to the ground. Nothing has been finalised or decided yet. When I get proper and authoritative legal advice from the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  proper and appropriate decisions will be made. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The information available to my Department in respect of overseas aircraft accidents is in many cases not comprehensive enough to provide completely accurate data in the form requested. In particular the precise distance from take-off or landing is often not reported nor can it be reliably deduced from the information given. Further, passenger capacity is rarely stated, and this can vary widely for a given aircraft type depending on the particular seating configuration in use. Within these limitations the following tables present as accurate a picture as can be gained from available sources of information. They relate to major accidents in which the aircraft was severely damaged or destroyed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (1)to(3)Since 1976: 
Qantas for commercial reasons has withdrawn its service from Tahiti and suspended its service to Mauritius and South Africa; 
Air New Zealand services between New Zealand/Singapore/Hong Kong no longer operate via Australia; 
Air India suspended one of its services to Australia for operational reasons; 
Olympic Airways suspended its services to Australia for commercial reasons. 
It is not possible to provide the number of seats that resulted from the withdrawal or suspension of these services because airlines operate multiple destination flights and do not specifically allocate seats on their services to any one destination. It should be recognized, however, that as a result of compensating and/or additional services introduced by these or other international airlines since1976, the number of seats available on most of the routes affected by the changes mentioned above would, in fact, have increased during the period. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
and (4) No. 
Because of considerable difficulties experienced with slippery floors TAA's architects were instructed to research the Australian market prior to inviting tenders with the result that only the American Oleon tile and the Japanese Nittai tile were included in the tender documents. The main criteria employed in selection was the non-slip quality of the tiles and manufacturing tolerance. 
Because of the importance of this kitchen to TAA's operations a short overseas fact finding tour was conducted to study certain kitchen designs and their operation. The use of a particular type of floor tile was only one of many recommendations resulting from this tour. 
A visit to Japan was not considered necessary nor economically justifiable as an appropriate range of kitchens was available for inspection in the USA. (See answer for question 6.) 
The description of the Nittai tile in the tender document, supplied by the architects, included the manufacturer's identification data prefixed by identification letters of a local tile importer. 
TAA tendered for the supply of American Oleon tiles only. 
Tenders were called to obtain the most suitable product on the best terms and conditions available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. Details of financial assistance to each State over the last five years are provided in the table below. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) The contract is basically in accordance with the advertised terms and conditions; it is a lengthy document and I am arranging for a copy to be made available to the honourable member. Significant provisions of the agreement are: 
Contractor to provide Aero Commander 'Shrike ' primary aircraft crewed by a pilot holding a commercial licence with Class 1 Instrument Rating, and two adult observers. Cessna 310R aircraft may be used as a back-up; 
Operations to comply with the requirements of the Air Navigation Act, Orders and Regulations; 
Flights to be carried out daily; 
Contract price is the total of a daily standing charge of $252.08 for each of four sectors plus the cost of hours flown at rates of $70.96 per hour for the Shrike' or $75.1 8 for the Cessna 3 10R; 
v) Prices are variable in respect of variations in costs of labour, fuel, spare parts, etc; 
Normal default and termination provisions. 
b) Geraldton to Bigge Island in West Australia. 
The contract expires on 28 February1 981 . 
I am advised that Trans- West Air Charter (WA) Pty Ltd is a subsidiary of Westralian Aviation (Services) Pty Ltd, a company wholly owned by Z.F. Australia Pty Ltd, which is owned by Zung Fu Co. Ltd, Hong Kong. The ownership position was the same as on 1 July1979 and 28 February1979. 
In February1976,I advised Westralian Aviation that Trans- West Air Charter (WA) Pty Ltd could continue to hold the air service licences it then held, in the event that Z.F. Australia Pty Ltd acquired the50 per cent shareholding in Westralian Aviation it did not already hold. 
Prior to that time Airfast Helicopters Pty Ltd held50 per cent of the shares in the Westralian Aviation Group and Z.F. Australia Pty Ltd held the remaining50 per cent. When Airfast Helicopters was placed in the hands of Receivers, Australian buyers for that Company's shareholding in the Westralian Aviation Group could not be found. The Group was the largest organisation in Western Australia in charter work, aircraft sales, aviation engineering and flying training and, if it were allowed to fail, it was considered that a period of industrial instability could result. Other operators did not have the financial resources to provide replacement services and facilities quickly and the Group's employees' jobs would probably be lost. In these circumstances I agreed to the acquisition of Airfast 's shareholding in the Group by Z.F. Australia. I advised solicitors for the Westralian Aviation Group that its ownership position would be monitored. 
Since 1976 my Department has frequently approached Trans- West Air Charter (WA) Pty Ltd for advice on the progress of its attempts to acquire Australian equity. The most recent approach was made in March 1979. The Company advises that it had not been successful in its endeavours to attract Australian equity. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Expenditure incurred by the Australian National Railways Commission on the operation of the North Australia Railway was as follows: 
General maintenance 1 976-77- 1 978-79- nil. 
Rehabilitation of rail tracks, bridges and facilities 1 976-77- 1978-79-nil. 
Certain costs, however, were involved with closing down operations, following cessation of services as from 30 June 1976. 
The number of persons engaged on duties associated with the North Australia Railway during the period 1 976-77- 1 978-79 was as follows: 1 July 1976-182, 1 July 1977-32, 1 July 1978-Nil. 
No persons are currently employed by the North Australia Railway. 
The preparations necessary and the time period required to recommence freight operations on the North Australia railway would depend upon the expected volume and frequency as well as the degree of reliability and safety of the service. Factors involved in recommencing freight operations have not been examined. As the Honourable Member will be aware, the Bureau of Transport Economics, in its Darwin and Northern Territory Freight Transport Study, concluded that the Alice Springs to Darwin corridor is best served by road. However, I have agreed with the Northern Territory Minister for Transport and Works that a joint study be undertaken into the benefits and the costs of a standard gauge rail link between Darwin and Alice Springs. The study will embrace broader considerations than the immediate economic evaluations. 
International Airport at Cairns  (Question No.  4495) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Commonwealth Department of Transport investigated alternative sites to the present airport in 1 975-76 but no suitable site within a reasonable distance of Cairns was found. Apart from these investigations, I am not aware of any Federal or Queensland State Department having been involved in feasibility studies for a new international airport at Cairns. 
The investigations in 1975-76 included the Yarrabah Aboriginal Reserve but this location was found to be unsuitable. 
The existing airstrip at Yarrabah Reserve is an Authorised Landing Area (ALA) authorised for use by light aircraft under my Department's general requirements applicable to ALA's. My Department does not have direct control over the airstrip which is the responsibility of the landholder concerned. Whilst my Department will advise those responsible for ALA's it is not responsible for proposing changes such as the re-alignment of flight strips. 
-Naturally enough, with increased use of liquefied petroleum gas there will be increased movements of bulk LPG on our roads. In fact, following the Spanish disaster last year, the Australian Transport Advisory Council held a meeting on this question and moved to re-, vise the code applying to the transportation of dangerous goods. That code has been revised and circulated for public comment. That is where the matter lies at the moment. I should point out to the honourable member that the special routing that obviously he desires for trucks going through Dandenong is a matter for the State. I will draw the attention of the State Minister for Transport to the honourable member's concern in that area. Regulation in respect of these vehicles also is a matter for the States. Some difficulty has been recognised by the industry at large about the different approaches being taken by some States. As a result ATAC has agreed that I, as the Federal Minister, should organise a national seminar to try to get the industry and the States to agree on the sorts of regulations that ought to apply to the carriage of LPG. The question of the use of LPG in motor vehicles is really a separate matter. The Safety Standards Association has been involved in looking at this matter and is well on the way to developing uniform nationwide regulations for LPG powered vehicles. The honourable member has raised a very important matter. I assure him that every consideration is being given to the problems associated with it. 
I welcome this question. The fact is that I have written to the Minister for Planning and Environment in New South Wales, who has equal responsibility with me for the report of the  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney study, informing him that I think 14 December is an appropriate date for the study to report to both the New South Wales Minister and me. 
-The date suggested is 14 December 1979. 
We are clever today, are we not? The fact is that the MANS study has been very thorough both in its activities and its public participation and is studying all the questons relevant to coming to a decision about and a conclusion as to what will be the future airport needs of Sydney. I look forward to receiving the report on 14 December. I also look forward to consultations with my colleague, the New South Wales Minister for Planning and Environment,  Mr Landa,  so that the two Governments can settle down and rationally provide a proper solution to take away all of the concerns of the people of Sydney- that is those who might be affected by any changes- and also to get a proper development so that the future needs of Sydney are properly planned. I hope that the honourable member who is taking an interest in this matter will also encourage his State colleagues- being in the same political party- to settle down at the table so that we can get this matter resolved once and for all and we will not dillydally any further. 
-I shall take the last part of the honourable member's question first. No, I am unable to give him that information. I will see if I can obtain it from the New South Wales Government and provide it for him. It is a fact that the New South Wales Government has passed regulations to gazette something equivalent to the third stage of Australian Design Rule 27A. This will have the effect of increasing the fuel consumption of motor cars by up to 5 per cent. Indeed, it is quite regrettable that the New South Wales Government has gone against the recommendation accepted by the majority of the States in the Commonwealth at the last Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting on this matter. I am convinced, as are other State Ministers for Transport, that there are more cost effective ways of improving the current pollution control situation. These include more stringent evaporative hydrocarbon controls at minimal cost. Also they provide an energy saving, overcoming in-service problems with present vehicles to improve emission and fuel performance with proper attention to other sources of hydrocarbons. I think New South Wales has made a serious mistake in implementing these regulations. It will be a costly mistake in terms of fuel consumption. 
The previous South Australian Government unfortunately followed the party line taken by New South Wales in this matter. I am hopeful that as a result of discussions with the new Minister for Transport, he might be able to convince his Government of the wisdom of moving back from the position adopted by his predecessor. I look forward to those discussions at an early date because I think the new South Australian government will take a more flexible attitude when compared with the dogmatic approach taken by the previous Administration. The interesting thing about Sydney is that I am informed that there was a marginal improvement in the air quality between 1976 and 1977. This information comes as a result of monitoring the air quality of Sydney. Therefore, it seems to me that New South Wales is quite unwise to impose this further cost on the motor car user when such doubtful benefits- if any at all- are to be gained by its action. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) The Commonwealth Government was not involved in the letting of the contract, and therefore does not have details of the information requested. The matter of course was one for the airlines to decide, having regard to the commercial nature of their operations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l)Yes. 
and (3) See parts (3) and (4) of answer to Question No. 3897. 
and (5) No. 
The contract is for the period 1 March 1979 to 28 February 1981. 
The contract includes normal penalty provisions, including provisions for cancellation, to protect the Commonwealth should the Company default in its contractual obligations. 
Other offers for the sectors or parts of sectors comprising the coastline segment included in the contract awarded to Trans- West Air Charter (WA) Pty Ltd were made by the following: 
I have read with some interest an article on this very question. It seems to me that there is a bit of confusion about it. In the first place, the article refers to an application by British Cargo Airlines, formerly IAS Cargo Airlines, which in the last couple of years was given a right by me to bring back split charters from the West on the return voyage for the carriage of Western Australian lamb. It is now claiming that it can obtain markets in Syria if it is likewise able to bring back split charters on its aircraft as return freight. I should point out that the proposition really boils down to this: The cargo carrier wants to take the freight away from the scheduled carriers that now operate in this country. I have said to British Cargo that millions of tonnes of freight come into this country and that it is welcome to develop any freight carriage proposal in respect of that freight. But if it takes the split charter cargo already scheduled to be carried by the scheduled carriers, all it is asking to do is to increase the passenger costs of the travellers on those aircraft because when the scheduled carriers lose freight, which is an integral part of their total operation, and the costs go up because of it, they will have to increase the fares to passengers on the routes to offset it. 
I have also said to the people who came to see me that there are plenty of routes into this country and points of destination from which they can pick up cargo without any inhibitions and without having any effect on the scheduled carriers. Therefore, I did not think the proposition was fair to the passenger carriers. It is only a prospect in this particular case. I understand that one other cargo carrier is prepared to carry lamb, if the agent will give it consideration, based on the proposition I have just put. The end result is that I have had to say no to British Cargo on this issue. In my view it does not inhibit the cargo carrier at all from picking up its share from the millions of tonnes of freight available to it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, if the country of registration of the aircraft is a Contracting Party to the Warsaw Convention. There are 110 Contracting Parties to the Warsaw Convention out of the 144 Contracting States of the International Civil Aviation Organisation. Of the remaining States some are Contracting Parties to the Hague Protocol which amended the basic liability cover of the Warsaw Convention from US$8,300 ($A7,500) to US$16,600 ($A15,000) for death or injury caused to a passenger. 
The figure of$A45,000 is the amount payable under the provision of the Australian Civil Aviation (Carriers Liability) Act. All international airlines on commercial operations to or from Australia have liability cover for death of a passenger of US$58,000 ($A45,000) or such higher sum as is specified in the contract of carriage. 
3 ) I am unaware whether compensation has been paid in respect of all people killed in the Teneriffe airline crash. 
Commonwealth employees working on airports, such as air traffic controllers, are responsible for assuring the safe, orderly and expeditious movement of air traffic. Thus, they have a duty to exercise reasonable care, the degree of which may vary according to the dangers which may reasonably be foreseen in any given situation. If failure to exercise this duty of reasonable care causes an accident involving injury to or death of passengers, the Commonwealth may be liable in tort for damages by reason of the Commonwealth assuming the responsibility of operating air traffic control services at airports established and operated by it. 
5 ) Since 1 975 there have been nine occurrences involving less than standard separation between light aircraft and airline aircraft within the Sydney Control Zone. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l)-(3) A study of urban residential streets was undertaken by the former Commonwealth Bureau of Roads following a reference from the then Minister for Urban and Regional Development on 23 April 1974. The Director of the Bureau of Transport Economics has advised me that many of the findings of this study have been progressively and widely disseminated. However, the case studies and associated work are now quite dated and the BTE does not consider the cost of bringing the various papers to a standard appropriate for publication to be warranted. Bona fide researchers may have access to the main working papers through the Director, Bureau of Transport Economics. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Japan's legislation prohibits the discharge of contaminated ballast water in ports and in waters within 10,000 metres of port limits. A very complex system of regulations deals with the discharge of ballast contaminated by oil and other contaminants into coastal waters. 
The Federal Republic of Germany has no specific regulations except those internationally in force relating to oil. Individual ports prohibit the discharge of polluted ballast water but provide a collection service. 
Canada does not prohibit the discharge of ballast waters, but has regulations prohibiting the discharge of ballast water contaminated by oil and certain chemicals. This discharge prohibition is however restricted to certain specified waters. 
The United States allows the discharge of clean ballast water. US regulations are complex but the present prohibition of discharge is restricted to oil contaminated ballast water. 
The United Kingdom has no legislation prohibiting or controlling the discharge of ship's ballast water except for ballast water contaminated by oil. 
The section of highway between Liverpool and Mittagong has seen considerable progress over the last two or three years. No doubt this is due to the increased funding which the Commonwealth Government has been able to make available to assist in development. In fact, I am informed that when that section is completed there will be some 65 kilometres of four-lane carriageway in that area. I am advised that that is 1 5 kilometres shorter than the present Hume Highway route. I am also advised that the travelling time between Liverpool and Mittagong will be halved. In addition, I am informed that there will be a saving of some $4m in motor car and motor truck costs. That demonstrates the value of the national highway program which the Government is supporting so strongly. 
As to the question of the completion date, let me assure the honourable member that funds have been made available to New South Wales at a rate to ensure completion of the work by the end of 1 980. 1 do not know why suddenly there is talk about 1981 being the completion date. I will certainly take that up with the State Minister for Transport to ensure that there are no misunderstandings about that matter. I repeat that the funds have been made available at a rate to ensure completion by 1980. As to road accidents, the construction of divided carriageways will certainly reduce the prospects of head-on collisions. 
We look forward to a reduction in the number of road accidents on that stretch of road. 
Pursuant to section 8 ( 1 ) of the Poultry Industry Assistance Act 1965 I present the annual report on the operation of the Act 1978-79. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Wine Overseas Marketing Act 1929 1 present the Wine Board annual report for 1978-79. 
Pursuant to section 16 of the Pig Industry Research Act 1971 I present the annual report of the Australian Pig Industry Research Committee 1979. 
-In relation to the second part of the honourable member's question, at this point it would be improper of me to confirm or deny that I am prepared to proceed. The Government is looking at the facts of the matter. We have been in touch with the Queensland Government to try to establish the facts before coming to an ultimate decision as to the procedure and the signing of the document on Wednesday week. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Official statistics are not available for per capita tobacco consumption in Australia. (b)Great Britain 
Pursuant to section 17 of the Meat Research Act 1960 I present the annual report of the Australian Meat Research Committee 1979. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)1 refer the honourable member to the answer to Question No. 4299  (Hansard,  1 1 September 1979, pages 972 and 793), provided by the Minister for Administrative Services. 
I am pleased to say that at least one member of the Opposition is prepared to ask a question on primary industry matters. I can understand why the former Minister, who is sitting in the House, used to be bored to tears with the Opposition from day to day. As far as wheat stabilisation is concerned, one outstanding matter has been delaying introduction of the Bill; that is, that the States and the Commonwealth have not yet reached agreement on the question there being a ceiling on the price for industrial and stockfeed wheat. I understand that the Minister for Agriculture in New South Wales is at the heart of this delay. Perhaps the honourable member for Riverina can enlighten us on that. In point of fact, complementary legislation is required in all the States, and therefore it is necessary to get all the States to agree on the form that the legislation will take. As soon as that is done the Bill will be introduced into the House. Regarding the comment that there is no full time Minister for Primary Industry, let me assure the honourable member that as Minister for Primary Industry I will be as active as the portfolio demands and the best test of that will be for the honourable member to keep on asking me questions. 
Clearly the honourable member does not know all the facts in relation to this matter. 
You will get a simple answer. 
That is all you need; a simple answer for Simple Simon. Clearly the honourable member does not know all the facts in relation to this matter. The fact is that the Japanese have been fishing these waters - 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2). The honourable member would be aware that it is not the normal practice of Ministers to provide information about representations made to them on specific issues. Nevertheless, I can advise one such representation was made by ESOP Advisers Pty Ltd of G.P.O. Box 4359, Sydney, which has publicised its interest in the purchase of TAA. Its representation was received on 2 1 May 1 979. 
Lead in Petrol (Question No.  4620) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
As you may be aware, the issue of the effect of lead additives in petrol on health is the direct concern of my colleague, the  Hon.  R. J. D. Hunt, Minister for Health, and of his State counterparts. The National Health and Medical Research Council (NH &amp; MRC), which advises the Commonwealth and State Governments on all matters of public health, is currently giving priority attention to lead issues, particularly to the levels of lead which are of health concern. I understand that the NH &amp; MRC may be presenting a report on this matter towards the end of this year. 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council (ATAC) Committee on Motor Vehicle Emissions (COMVE) is studying the cost effectiveness and energy implications of reducing or eliminating lead in petrol, fuel economy, and vehicle emission control standards to assist the development of appropriate future policies. 
Lead issues will form an important and integral pan of future motor vehicle emissions strategies in terms of the protection of health and the environment and of energy costs and efficiency. I can assure you that the Government is committed to the protection of the health of the Australian people. It will give proper consideration to the range of advice available on lead matters. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) See my answer to Question on Notice No. 4123 Part (3). It was of course not possible to table the Ansett Transport Industries Ltd report on its airlines activities for 1977-78 until Parliament was sitting. At that stage it was anticipated that the report of the Australian National Airlines Commission would also be available shortly. As events occurred this did delay the presentation of the report somewhat but nowhere near 6 months. 
There is no established practice in relation to the tabling of these reports. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (I), (2) and (3) My Department has no current application for the erection of an international hotel at Mascot, but I understand that there have been recent press reports of a proposal to construct such a building in Marsh Street, Arncliffe, on vacant privately-owned land near the International Terminal area of Sydney airport. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
1 have asked my Department to bring the matter to TAA 's attention. 
Income Tax Collections from Companies  (Question No. 4642) 
There is nothing in the airlines agreement that will prevent either airline making a decision unilaterally on wide-bodied jets and seeking to change its aircraft to a particular type of wide-bodied jet. Trans-Australia Airlines has lodged a deposit for four A300B4 series - 
If you look at  Hansard  you will find that you asked an entirely different question about an entirely different aircraft. 
Through the years, governments have not hypothecated fuel tax to road expenditure programs. That principle was followed by the Labor Party during its period in office and has been followed continuously by this Government. In other words, there is no link between the amount of money raised from the sale of fuel and the amount of money made available to the States for roads. The determination of the level of road funds is made against the demands on all other aspects of government expenditure. It is worthy of note that in the last few years there has been a continuing increase in road funds for the States. In fact, we have ensured that the States have been able to maintain expenditure in real terms on road programs in this triennium. I do not think this Government's efforts on road expenditure can be criticised in the manner in which the honourable member suggests. 
I will see that that discussion takes place. As a matter of statistical evidence, let me inform the House as to the level of road funds made available to Queensland under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act. In 1974-75 the total grant to Queensland was $70.3m of Commonwealth funds. For 1979-80 the total level of funds will be $1 14.94m. So, it can be seen that Queensland is getting its proper share of funds made available under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act. The other comment I would make is that I have had many a fight with my burly colleague, the Queensland Minister for Local Government and Main Roads. He has a similar capacity to mine to play it fairly rough. Let me not deny that I enjoy the occasional joust with him both through the media and through Australian Transport Advisory Council conferences. 
The honourable member for Darling Downs rightly says that I always win. The fact remains that the Commonwealth is doing its utmost to alleviate Queensland's problems in regard to road construction. As to the particular road mentioned by the honourable member, all I can say is that if the Queensland Minister does not put it in the list of priorities for construction, it cannot be built. 
-It might be helpful if I give the House some total figures for Commonwealth expenditure on roads for all the States. Again, I point out to the House the levels of expenditure now being experienced. For example, in 1 974-75 the total level of Commonwealth funds made available for roads was $342m. In 1979-80 the amount goes up to $546m. In view of the difficult budgeting problem that the Government has had I do not think anybody can say that roads have been unfairly treated against the back drop of the economic climate we had to deal with after beating the Labor Government in 1975. I also point out that the Commonwealth is not the only source of funds for road expenditure. The States are also expected to expend money. I mentioned the Commonwealth's contribution for all the States but I would like to mention the contribution for New South Wales, which this year will be $ 176m as against $ 106m in 1974-75. 
It is interesting to note that the State quota, being $ 169.7m, is less than the Commonwealth's expenditure. It may well be that New South Wales from its own Budget can lift that sum of money and spend more than the State quota. There is nothing stopping any State government from re-ordering its priorities and allowing some of the very generous general revenue assistance from the Commonwealth to be spent on roads. No State at the moment does that but I encourage any State to do it. Having regard to the total level of road funds made available by the Commonwealth, I think the Commonwealth is meeting its obligations to the States in that regard. 
-The financial year 1979-80 is the last year of a three-year Act under which the sums of money to be allocated for roads were determined by the Government on a broad basis. As I said earlier, since the introduction of the Act those funds have been indexed to ensure that the real value of funds provided to the States are maintained for the period of the Act. Of course, when considering a new Act to be introduced in 1980 the Government will take into account the sums to be made available to the States. The matters raised by the honourable member and the comments made by the BTE will be considered in that context. 
I move: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
Amendment (1) eliminates a discrepancy in clause 2 which provides for various groups of provisions in the Bill to commence at various times. The discrepancy arises from the fact that section 106 is mentioned in two places, that is, in sub-clause 2(1) and again in sub-clause 2 (5). The effect of amendment ( 1 ) is to delete the reference to section 106 from sub-clause 2(5). Amendments (2) and (3) eliminate a discrepancy in clause 65 which contains two provisions, one permanent and the other transitional, for making regulations to give effect to the Limitation of Liability Convention. At present only the permanent provision contains an express power to make regulations converting the gold francs mentioned in the Convention into Australian currency. A similar power is required in the transitional provision. Amendment (4) affects clause 9 1 and substitutes a revised section 427 for that contained in the Bill. A code providing for Australia-wide uniformity in the laws covering survey and manning of commercial vessels has been adopted by the Marine and Ports Council of Australia, which consists of the Commonwealth, State and Northern Territory Ministers responsible for marine and port affairs. Since section 427 as now in the Bill was drafted, the Council has decided that the code would best be implemented by the Commonwealth, the States and the Northern Territory legislating by reference to it, and that the most appropriate way of enabling satisfactory reference to be effected would be for the code to be published in the Commonwealth  Gazette.  The necessary gazettal arrangements having been made, amendment (4) therefore changes proposed section 427 so that the Minister may, by order published in the  Gazette,  declare that the provisions annexed to the order are the provisions of the code. It also provides for future variations of the code to be similarly declared and gazetted. I commend the amendments to the Committee. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Lan Chile was advised in March 1979 that consideration of its application to operate services between Chile and Australia, would be deferred until renegotiation of Australia 's existing air services agreements, in the light of the international civil aviation policy announced by the Government in October 1978 had been completed, and the adequacy of air services then existing between Australia and other pans of the world could be assessed. 
Services operated between Sydney and Nadi (Fiji) by Qantas connect for pan of the year with Lan Chile services between Nadi and Santiago. During periods of the year when Lan Chile does not operate services between Papeete (Tahiti) and Nadi, services operated by UTA between Sydney and Papeete connect with those by Lan Chile between Papeete and Santiago. 
Present round trip fares between Sydney and Santiago (in Australian currency) are 
First class-$3,096. Economy class- $2,222. 
Economy excursionHigh season- $1,496. Low season-$l,197. 
I am advised that Lan Chile is discussing the question of fares between Santiago, Papeete and Nadi with the relevant Governments, following recent introduction of revised fares packages for travel between Sydney and Nadi and Sydney and Papeete. 
The airlines concerned do not reserve portion of their capacity on South Pacific routes specifically for carriage of traffic between Australia and South America, but the following services are relevant. 
Qantas- Sydney-Nadi 4 X B747 services per week. 
UTA- Sydney-Papeete 2 X DC 10 services per week. 
Lan Chile- Santiago-Papeete 2 X B707 services per week. During pan of the year, 1 X B707 service per week is extended from Papeete to Nadi. 
Means Test on Age Pension Increases  (Question No. 4702) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No decision has yet been taken by the Government to commit further funds to this project, and there is accordingly no timetable. However, a revised proposal for a standard gauge connection to Crystal Brook has recently been the subject of a study by Commonwealth Departments in consultation with Australian National Railways, and is expected to be submitted for the Government's consideration in the near future. 
-The fact is that consultations are still taking place on this matter. I have nothing further to say. 
Pursuant to section 49 of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation Act 1 977, 1 present the interim annual report of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation 1979. 
-The House will be aware that Ansett Transport Industries Ltd announced that it was proposing to break the parallel scheduling between Melbourne and Canberra and Canberra and Sydney. Discussions on this vexed question have been held between Ansett Transport Industries Ltd, Trans-Australia Airlines and me. Indeed, the airlines have done a considerable amount of work on the breaking of parallel scheduling throughout the trunk routes of Australia. I welcome the introduction of this first step in the breaking of parallel scheduling, but I am looking to the airlines to advance the proposals, copies of which I have seen, as quickly as possible. There is no doubt that parallel scheduling under the two-airlines agreement is the most vexed question in the minds of the travelling public. The sooner the breaking of parallel scheduling comes about, the happier the community will be. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is a machinery Bill to amend the Air Navigation (Charges) Act 1952, which imposes charges on aircraft for the use of aerodromes, airways facilities, meteorological services, and search and rescue services provided, operated and maintained by the Commonwealth. The purpose of the Bill is: 
to increase, with effect from 1 December 1 979, the rates of air navigation chargesANCs payable by the domestic airline operators by 25 percent; 
to increase, with effect from a date to be fixed by proclamation, the rates of ANCs payable by general aviation operators by 20 per cent; 
to align the assessment of rates of ANCs payable by international charter operators to those payable by international airline operators; 
to amend the rate of interest payable, in respect of those ANCs which are unpaid after 45 days from the date on which they fall due, from 10 per cent per annum to 1 per cent for each month or part of month, of the amount unpaid; 
to increase the rate of weekly ANCs for foreign private and aerial work aircraft; and, 
to correct an inequity in relation to the payment of refunds of ANCs associated with changes in ownership of aircraft. 
Honourable members will be aware that the Government has long been concerned to ensure that there is an adequate level of cost recovery in the aviation field, as was first enunciated in1 961 . Initially no target date was set for the achievement of this objective. But with the increasing gap between costs and revenues and against the background of our economic strategy, the Government has decided that the burden of these costs in the major sectors of operation should be transferred from the general taxpayer to the users of the infrastructure. In1 977-78 the cost of facilities and services provided for the industry as a whole exceeded revenue by $84.8m whilst in1978-79 the deficit increased to $96.8m and the recovery rate was 60.2 per cent. As the costs of the international sector of the industry are presently fully recovered the deficit is entirely due to the domestic sectors made up of trunk, rural airlines and general aviation operations. The airlines agreement under which the two major domestic airlines operate limits the rate of increase in any year on ANCs payable to10 per cent. 
Honourable members will recall that a similar situation obtained last year when air navigation charges were increased and the two airlines agreed to waive their rights under clause 8 of the 1961 agreement and to permit a15 per cent increase in ANCs for that year. I am pleased to say that the two major airlines have again agreed to waive their rights to permit the 25 per cent increase proposed by the Government this year. 
Honourable members will also be interested to learn that the criteria for the allocation of costs and revenues to the various sectors of the industry for the purpose of cost recovery are being reviewed by my Department and the industry under the auspices of the Aviation Industry Advisory Council. This review is aimed at ensuring that costs and revenues are allocated equitably and reflect the use of facilities by operators in each industry sector. 
Provision is made in the Bill also for a 20 per cent increase in the rate of ANCs for the commuter and other general aviation sectors of the industry. This proposed increase in no way preempts the current general aviation study. Rather, the decision recognises the deficit between costs and revenue in these sectors, of over $70m in 1978- 79 and expected to be about $80m in 1979- 80. Honourable members will appreciate the magnitude of this burden when it is realised that in1976-77 when the deficit was $55.8m, this represented an average subsidy of about $44 for each hour flown by general aviation aircraft or about $12,000 a year for each general aviation aircraft that was registered as at 30 June1 977. 
These average figures, of course, distort the true situation and I have no doubt that the General Aviation Study will show many operators, especially those in remote areas, are at near full cost recovery. The Government is also very conscious of the pressures which have been placed on this part of the industry as a result of world wide shortages of avgas, and has indicated that when the cost recovery matters flowing from the General Aviation Study are being examined close consideration will also be given to the ability of the operators to pay. The effect of the increases in the rates of ANCs for the domestic sectors will be to increase revenue by $4.1m, which with increased revenue as a result of growth will result in a total increase of ANC revenue of$l 1.6m. 
The Bill also includes some other matters aimed at a more equitable payment for the cost of provision of facilities. The alignment of the rates of ANCs payable by international charter operators with those payable by international airline operators will more directly relate the charges to the usage made of facilities and services. The increase in the interest rate for unpaid ANCs brings this charge more into line with similar charges in the commercial sphere. The increase in the rate of ANCs for foreign private and aerial work aircraft is designed to bring these charges into Une with those faced by equivalent Australian aircraft. It thus facilitates, the prompt registration of aircraft imported for permanent use in Australia by removing any possible benefit for aircraft owners in continuing foreign registration and thus paying lower ANCs. 
Finally, the Act presently provides for any refund of ANCs for general aviation aircraft to be made to the person who paid them. This is inequitable in a situation where an aircraft has been sold and a refund is subsequently sought but cannot be paid to the existing owner of the aircraft. The amendment proposed rectifies this inequity. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of Primary Industry 1978-79. 
-I think that those people who take that view are ignoring the facts that I stated a while ago in my answer to the earlier question. The fact is that for the first time these waters come under the control of the Australian Government and for the first time the Japanese have been excluded from a large part of those waters. That action was taken under this negotiated arrangement. Some 80,000 square miles of water off the Queensland coast is excluded to Japanese fishermen who fished there previously. I think the view taken ignores the fact that there will be a renegotiation of the agreement in 12 months time. With those points in mind I think that anybody would want to think very carefully before becoming too emotional about this issue. 
I am not aware of the practice followed by the Americans. I will have investigations made about it. If the practice has been correctly stated by the honourable member I will see what implications it has and could have for the proposed fishing agreement with Japan. 
There has been a preliminary report to me on this matter. I am waiting for further advice and until that advice comes I am not in a position to make any comment. 
I certainly have noticed and heard of the Press reports in relation to this matter. I think what needs to be kept in mind is what the agreement does. For the first time, the 200-mile fishing zone will come under the control of the Australian Government. For the first time, negotiations have been able to take place on this matter and further negotiations can take place in the years ahead. For the first time, Japanese fishermen will be excluded from a great deal of the waters off the Queensland coast. Indeed, Japanese fishermen will now be excluded from some 80,000 square miles of waters which were previously available to them. For the first time, monitoring of fishing within the 200-mile zone will be done on a six-day basis. For the first time, under the agreement Australian inspectors will be able to board Japanese vessels and keep a watch on and monitor the situation very closely. 
I make the point that what has been ignored is the fact that the Japanese have been fishing in these waters for 20 to 30 years. This is not a new development. At the moment we have excluded the Japanese from a very significant part of the waters affecting the sports fishermen. That ought to be to the advantage of the sports fishermen. The agreement with the Japanese is to operate for 12 months. During that period monitoring will take place and the matter can be renegotiated. 
Representatives of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation called to see me last week, seeking an assurance that provision would be made for an early payment to growers. Following their request an investigation was made. It is possible for the Australian Wheat Board, if it so wishes, to make arrangements for an early payment to growers. This is of particular significance to Queensland, as I understand that a great deal of the crop in that State has already been harvested. It is a matter for the Wheat Board itself to determine whether it wants to proceed on that basis. 
As to the second part of the honourable member's question, I understand that the New South Wales Government still wants a ceiling price to be placed on industrial and stock-feed wheat. I understand that the Wheatgrowers Federation was to meet with  Mr Day,  the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture, this morning. I will await the outcome of those discussions to see whether there is any change in the New South Wales position. I have circulated the draft legislation to the States. I hope that we will be able to progress the matter through this Parliament and through the State parliaments very shortly. The question of a ceiling price will depend ultimately on the position finally adopted by the New South Wales Government. 
A meeting was scheduled for this week. One of the member nations of the Association of South East Asian Nations was unable to be represented at a meeting this week and sought to postpone the meeting until next week. To the best of my belief and knowledge, the dates fixed are 22 and 23 October. The honourable member asked whether I was confident of resolving the matter. I have been confident right through this international civil aviation policy saga that ultimately we will come to a sensible arrangement with the ASEAN countries. I still hold that view. 
The honourable member, along with his colleague the honourable member for Denison, has taken a keen interest in this question right from the time this proposal was first made. I can inform the honourable member that only early consideration has been given to what changes are required at the Hobart airport. Customs facilities, health and quarantine facilities and separation facilities for incoming and outgoing passengers would be required. So some changes will have to be made when consideration of the proposal reaches a conclusion. I have to inform the honourable member that I have not yet been to the Treasurer or the Minister for Finance for funds to implement the proposal. I am waiting until I see the successful signing of an agreement between ourselves and New Zealand. As soon as we get that, I will be going to my colleagues seeking funds to make the changes to the airport. 
I do not have any difficulty. It is a matter for the Minister for Transport and in that capacity I deal with it. The fact is that the Western Australian Lamb Marketing Board has been given the capacity to export lamb to and to develop a lamb market in the Middle East through an arrangement with a commercial carrier that was called International Air Service Co. I think it is now called British Cargo Airlines, having changed its name. As far as I know, that arrangement is continuing. As to the fact that Qantas does not run a service to the Middle East, the passenger arrangement that we are seeking to make is that people will have the benefit of the cheap fares, secured under the international civil aviation policy, to the nearest point to which Qantas goes and for an international add-on to be available for those passengers wanting to travel into the Middle East. I have no doubt that those arrangements will be satisfactorily concluded. 
As to the freight question, what we have allowed British Cargo Airlines to do for the Western Australian Lamb Marketing Board simply means that by taking cargo out of the holds of the scheduled carriers and allowing the nonscheduled competitive commercial carriers to carry it at a non-commercial rate we are asking people travelling on those airlines to subsidise lamb exports. So it is a question of major concern. The matter has been continuously looked at. I am advised that there is one carrierCargolux that is prepared to carry lamb at ordinary commercial rates without seeking to take freight away from the scheduled carriers on the Kangaroo route. The honourable member will be aware that the question of freight, like the question of passengers, is part of the bilateral agreements between governments. If I want to change the freight arrangements that the scheduled carriers now have, I have to take that question up with other governments. So it is not a simple question. As I said, we have tried to assist the Western Australian Lamb Marketing Board. So far as I am aware at the moment it does not have any difficulties. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) The round trip revenue seat factor for Qantas services QF 1/2 and QF 7/8 between Australia and the United Kingdom has averaged 80 percent for the period 1 February to 21 July 1979. 
Qantas carried 146,559 passengers between Australia and London during the period 1 February to 2 1 July 1979 
2.5 percent. 
1.4 per cent. 
29.0 percent. 
64.3 percent. 
2.8 per cent. 
Passengers included in (e) are classified as non revenue, i.e. paying less than 25 per cent of the fare. There are some staff and industry passengers travelling at SO per cent and 75 per cent discount who, in accordance with world-wide practice, are treated as revenue passengers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Statistics on export of Australian meat are recorded as tonnages shipped, and numbers of carcasses exported are not available. Estimates of the carcase equivalent of tonnages exported are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)(a)3,875,(b)4,376*. 
The number of employees in each of the various branches of ANR as at 1 September 1978 and 1 September 1979 was as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since the Australian National Railways began payments in 1966-67, a total of $353,772.48 has been paid as compensation to employees in the Northern Division of ANR for loss of hearing under Commonwealth Employees compensation legislation. 
I regret having to tell the honourable member that under the international obligations we have in respect of this agreement there is no way in which we can delay the signing of the agreement. The signing will take place this afternoon. I should remind the honourable member of the important factor in this agreement that will allow for a consideration of the concern expressed by the 8,000-odd people who signed the petition which has been presented to the House. For the first time the 200-mile economic fishing zone now comes under the control of the Australian Government. For the first time there is an agreement between the Australian Government and the Japanese Government as to fishing in those waters, and for the first time there is also a capacity to negotiate with respect to long-line tuna fishing in those areas in the 12 months ahead. As I pointed out to the House yesterday, the present agreement excludes the Japanese from fishing in an area of some 80,000 square miles of waters. That is a very significant departure from the situation that existed while these were Commonwealth waters. 
I also pointed out to the House yesterday that there are a number of other protections that are important to the marlin fishing in that area. For the first time we will be able to co-ordinate the monitoring of the fishing that is taking place and we will be able to have Australian officials on board Japanese boats which are fishing in the area. The essential point is that the long-line tuna agreement is for 12 months only. Representatives of the game fishing clubs who met me last night agreed to the setting up of a joint committee consisting of Commonwealth, State and game fishing officials who would take part in the monitoring. Whilst to those who are concerned there may seem to be some negatives in the agreement, the fact is that there are a number of positives that should not be ignored. 
The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  does no service to the black marlin fishing industry, nor does he solve the problems facing it, when he speaks so emotionally, illogically and with a lack of information. It is interesting to note that this is the first time that the Opposition has started to take any interest in the welfare of Australia's fishing resources. Let us look at the current position. Till this point of time the Japanese have been fishing in Australian waters, unhindered, up to the 12-mile limit and in some cases, till 1 975, up to the 3-mile limit for the past 20 to 30 years. Why has not the Australian Labor Party expressed any concern about that? Till this point of time, fishing has been almost open slather. I can only say that the honourable member for Robertson is simply trying to score cheap political points. 
One could readily ask the Opposition what its intentions would be, looking at its policy in respect of the 200-mile Australian fishing zone. Its policy states that a Labor government will without prejudice to the existing fishing industry establish Australian and joint international projects to exploit the 200-mile economic zone for control over fisheries. There is no mention in that policy of protecting the marlin. So let us not have any of the humbug that we had from the honourable member for Robertson. What the Opposition refuses to recognise in this matter is that as a result of the declaration of the 200-mile Australian fishing zone, Australia has been able for the first time to negotiate a fisheries agreement with Japan which places very considerable restrictions on its fishing activities within Australian waters. This agreement places on 
Japanese activities limits which have never previously been imposed and with regard to the tuna long-line fishing the agreement can be renegotiated at the end of 12 months. This agreement is not life-long. It is re-negotiable after 12 months and within the period of the agreement it can and will be closely monitored. 
The Opposition completely and absolutely refuses to acknowledge the benefits of the agreement. It seems that fundamentally the Labor Party has adopted the view that Australia should not sign any fishing agreement with Japan and presumably with any other foreign country. That attitude totally ignores ALP policy, but more importantly it ignores Australia's international obligations and can be described only as completely irresponsible. In extending jurisdiction over a 200-mile fishing zone Australia gets certain rights but also has to assume certain obligations. Among these is a requirement from the Law of the Sea Conference 'that coastal States are required to have regard to the need to minimise economic dislocation in States whose nationals have habitually fished in the zone or have made substantial efforts in research and identification of stocks'. Japan fills both these criteria. The Japanese have been fishing these waters for 25 years. But despite this Australia has succeeded through the fisheries agreement to have Japanese fishing activities in Australian waters restricted over considerable areas around Australia, including the 80,000 square miles of water off Queensland. 
Let me explain some of the history which led up to this agreement. Preliminary discussions with regard to this proposed agreement took place in mid- 1978. Since then there have been consistent consultations through the Australian Fisheries Council, consisting of Commonwealth and State Ministers, and the Standing Committee on Fisheries, the South Eastern Fisheries Committee, the Northern Fisheries Committee and directly, as occasion required, by official discussions with the States concerned. In the last two weeks further discussions have been held on the martin issue. Last Friday a joint Commonwealth-Queensland officials meeting in Brisbane reached an agreed position on access by Japanese tuna long-line fishing vessels in waters off the north of Queensland. The Japanese Government has been notified of that agreement. Prior to signing the agreement the Japanese have been informed that the Australian Government will seek early consultations to examine the necessity or otherwise of an additional area off Cairns from which long-line tuna vessels should be excluded next year. Also more detailed studies will be undertaken during the period of the one year agreement to determine the full effects of Japanese long-line activities in Australian waters. The Japanese Government has been notified that in the ensuing months Australia will be paying particular attention to monitoring the arrangements as they affect game fishing stocks and activities in the Cairns area. Under the agreement the Japanese fishermen will be required to report the activities regularly, including catch information every six days. Their activities will also be subject to inspection by Australian officials at any time. These restrictions have not been imposed on Japanese fishing activities in the past. 
As I have already said, this agreement excludes Japanese fishing operations from considerable areas of Australian waters. Put in simple terms, these areas of exclusion on the east coast take in all waters inside the 200-mile isobath. This includes all the Great Barrier Reef and the continental shelf. In addition, on the east coast there is further exclusion of long-liners from a strip of water some 3,600 square miles in area between 14 degrees 20 minutes south and 18 degrees. This is the area fished by northern Queensland game fishermen. In both these areas, there is total exclusion of Japanese longline vessels accounting for a total area of about 80,000 square miles of water. None of these exclusions would have been possible without a fisheries agreement with Japan. Around the remainder of Australia Japanese long-liners are excluded from operating in large areas of waters in the south-east, across the Great Australian Bight and off the Northern Territory either completely or on a seasonal basis. Otherwise their operations are excluded from all waters within 12 miles of the Australian coastline or its islands. These conditions are precisely defined in the proposed agreement relating to Japanese longline access. 
Let me stress another point about this agreement in respect of long-line vessels. It will be an agreement for only one year. During the year, as I have said, we will be closely monitoring the working of it and the effects of the Japanese long-line activities. We will be taking into full account the views of interested parties, including the observations of game fishing organisations. I am advised that statistics do not indicate evidence that the operations of the Japanese longliners are seriously affecting martin stocks m waters off north Queensland nor that they are having an adverse effect on the appeal of big game fishing as a sport and tourist attraction. Members of the Opposition might be interested to know that the Japanese claim that this agreement will result in a considerably reduced fish take. 
The honourable member for Robertson tried to make capital from what I said the other day in answer to a question about the lack of research information. Let me make the point again that there has been no Commonwealth funded or effective research into marlin or other bill fish, but there has been considerable research and scientific evidence available to and used by the Commonwealth in relation to fisheries. The Commonwealth has not involved itself directly because until now it has had no jurisdictional responsibility in this area. However, all information on the various examinations that have been carried out has been available to the Department of Primary Industry and has been used by the Department in its assessment of the situation. These research programs have provided information into breeding areas, fishing patterns, migratory patterns, the size of marlin stocks and age distribution within stocks. On the basis of all this information there is no evidence that marlin or tuna fish stocks in the Coral Sea are under any biological threat through present fishing activity. I think the honourable member for Robertson does a disservice by trying to build this up into an emotional issue. Indeed statements in recent days by game fishermen spokesmen bear this out, On  AM  yesterday the  President  of the Cairns Game Fishing Club,  Mr Jock  Izatt reiterated a point which he made on Australian Broadcasting Commission radio in Brisbane the day before. He said: 
There is absolutely no evidence we have found that we have to hand to suggest that the black marlin is an endangered species. Catches have been variable from year to year over the past 30 years. But, definitely nothing to suggest that they are an endangered species. There's still plenty of good fish up here. 
I suggest he would know more about it than the honourable member would. That is what  Mr Izatt,  who is the  President  of the Cairns Game Fishing Club, said on Brisbane radio in the last couple of days. He also said- this is the truth- that the whole affair had become a political football. He said that the people who have been making statements have not the knowledge- I think he is referring to the honourable member for Robertson- or the right to make statements on behalf of the areas in the far north of Queensland. However, should there be any evidence of deterioration in the stocks of marlin or tuna fish during the 12 months of the agreement with the Japanese it will be within the power of the Commonwealth to modify any future agreements in order to protect Australian fishing interests. 
It is worth looking further at the protection and benefits that the 200-mile Australian fishing zone offers to Australia. The essential effect is that foreign fishermen operating within the 200-mile zone will be in breach of the law unless they have an Australian licence and they comply with terms and conditions of access determined by Australia. Australia will determine the total allowable catch; the catch that will be taken by Australians, and the allocation to foreign countries of any available surplus. Foreigners will not be allowed to fish areas fully exploited by Australians or likely to be exploited in the near future. The allocation to foreign fishermen will be reduced as Australians develop the capacity to operate in specific areas. Foreigners will not be allowed to fish areas fully exploited by Australians or likely to be so exploited in the near future. Allocations to foreign fishermen will be reduced as Australians develop the capacity to operate in specific areas. 
Let me summarise: Australia is now in a far better position than ever before with regard to Japanese fishing activities in our waters. For the past 30-odd years, the Japanese have been operating freely up to 12 miles off the Australian coastline. They are now required to report details of their catch and operation every six days. Their activities are subject to inspection by Australian officials at any time. Japanese tuna long-line vessels are excluded at present from a total area of 80,000 square miles off the Queensland coast; and that has never been the case before. All this is the result of negotiations among the Commonwealth, the Queensland Government, industry organisations and the Japanese. 
We have now served notice on the Japanese that we will be closely monitoring the effects of their fishing activities on the tuna and marlin stocks off the Queensland coast. If there is need to exclude their long-liners from additional waters, they will be excluded in future agreements. We will be conducting studies which will include input by game fishermen organisations throughout the duration of this 12 month agreement. Australia will not allow the marlin or tuna stocks to be dangerously depleted. There is no evidence at present to suggest that past fishing activities by the Japanese are leading to such a situation. For the first time ever, the entire question of Japanese long line fishing activities has been brought under control to a position where it can be monitored and its effects studied. 
As a result of a meeting that I had last night with representatives of New South Wales and Queensland game fishing organisations, a working committee is to be established to monitor the progress of the agreement. The committee will be made up of Commonwealth, Queensland and New South Wales government officials and representatives of game fishing organisations. 
-The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park is not in it because it is not even in the zone of fishing. That is the simple reason. The fishing begins way beyond the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. It is as simple as that. I have also agreed to put to the Government as soon as possible a request by the game fishing delegation that Australia seek a voluntary withdrawal by the Japanese of their tuna long-line fishing vessels from operating in waters off the Queensland coast between 13 degrees and 18 degrees south during the period of the agreement. I can assure the House, as I assured the delegation which saw me last night, that the Australian Government is vitally concerned to ensure adequate protection of the marlin fishery off north Queensland. We will not allow long line fishing activities to jeopardise that fishery. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) It is assumed that the question is directed only to power driven aeroplanes. Air Navigation Regulations define an aeroplane as 'a power-driven heavier-than-air aircraft deriving its lift in flight chiefly from aerodynamic reactions on surfaces remaining fixed under given conditions of flight.' Assuming 'home-made' to include those aeroplanes including rotorcraft built to a set of plans provided by the designer, or those assembled from a kit of parts, which may include some completed sub-assemblies, there are two categories of aeroplane to consider: 
Those in the amateur built category which must comply with airworthiness requirements specified in Air Navigation Orders, and 
those sport aeroplanes operated under exemptions specified in Air Navigation Orders. These include powered hang gliders, minimum aeroplanes and gyroplanes. 
Between 1 January 1975 and 18 September 1979 the following accidents were reported: 
The Department of Transport exercises control over amateur built aeroplanes which are constructed by individuals or groups for recreational or educational purposes. An amateur built aeroplane may not have a maximum take-off weight in excess of 1,000 kg. 
Aeroplanes certificated in the amateur built category must comply with the airworthiness standards specified in Air Navigation Orders. These orders define the design standards applied to this class of aircraft and detail the inspections and tests required for a certificate of airworthiness. Amateur built category aeroplanes must be registered and must comply with the Air Navigation Regulations, in common with other registered aircraft. On 30 June 1979 there were 107 registered aeroplanes certificated in the amateur built category. 
There are, however, other aeroplanes and gyroplanes which may be either home built of factory produced, exempt from certain Air Navigation Regulations including those concerning registration and airworthiness. They are, firstly, aeroplanes having a maximum take-off weight not in excess of 180 kg and with a maximum wing loading not in excess of 19.5 kg per square metre (sometimes called minimum aeroplanes) and, secondly, gyroplanes with a maximum take-off weight not exceeding 350 kg. 
Certificated amateur built category aeroplanes are included in the register of Australian aircraft. Minimum aeroplanes and gyroplanes are not included in the register as Departmental control of these types is confined to the specification of operational limitations in Air Navigation Orders to minimise third party risk. 
It is not intended to keep a register of minimum aeroplanes or gyroplanes. 
Referrals from General Practitioners to Specialists  (Question No. 4619) 
-The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
(a) Fifty-five reports involving 150 vessels were received in 1977-78. 
Fifty-seven reports involving 97 vessels were received between 1 July 1978 and 30 June 1979. 
Twenty-three vessels were apprehended. 
It has not been possible to identify every component cost to the Government for the apprehension and subsequent actions required in respect of each foreign fishing vessel found in breach of Australian fisheries law. However, the following figures give an indication of the cost that can be incurred in respect of some of the actions involved: 
Port dues- depending on the port up to $ 1 00 per day for each apprehended foreign fishing vessel. 
Legal costs- examination of the consideration of matters has revealed a difference in average costs (Counsel's fees, travel expenses and filing fees) from one capital city to another e.g. Brisbane $206; Darwin $560; Hobart $ 1 57. 
Quarantine- average of $200 per each vessel. 
Repatriation- average cost per crew in respect of apprehended Taiwanese fishing vessels has been approximately $9,500. 
Arrest- average cost for use of Commonwealth Police has been in the vicinity of $7,400 per incident. 
Surveillance- primary and secondary surveillance efforts are directed to covering the requirements of a number of departments and are co-ordinated through a centralised surveillance unit in the Department of Transport, the Australian Coastal Surveillance Centre. It is not possible to apportion costs, to any one department or to any specific incident, in this case the detection of foreign fishing vessels. 
Fines imposed for breaches of fisheries law vary depending on the circumstances of each case. Revenue from vessel sales depends on the type of vessel, its condition and the demand for such vessels. For example, fines have ranged from $200 in one case to $ 1 ,600 in another. 
Revenue from vessel sales has also varied from $600 for a clam boat in poor condition to $65,000 for a stern trawler. In 1977-78 $183,902 was received through fines and vessel sales and from 1 July 1978 to 31 June 1979 $86,210 was received. 
Between 1 July 1977 and 30 June 1979, 14 vessels were apprehended by the defence forces, 8 vessels were apprehended by civil craft chartered by the Department of Primary Industry, and 1 vessel was apprehended as a result of combined operations between a chartered civil vessel and a defence force vessel. 
Pursuant to section 7 of the Tobacco Industry Act 1955, 1 present the annual report of the Tobacco Industry Trust Account. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Reported deaths for year ending 3 1 May: 
I confirm that there has been a suspected outbreak of vesicular disease at a piggery in northern Tasmania and that as a result some 300 pigs have been destroyed. As a result of that outbreak, veterinary officers of both the Commonwealth and State governments have gathered in Tasmania today to determine what other action is required. I can also confirm that samples from the pigs have been sent to London for testing to find out exactly what this disease is. As soon as further information is available I will make it available to the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) A licensed aerodrome does not need to be inspected daily. The frequency of timing of inspections depends on the type of airline service and staff arrangements at the aerodrome. 
The training of reporting officers is done by visiting airport inspectors, through the Reporting Officers Handbook and by courses arranged in my Department's Regional Offices. 
The required frequency of inspections varies from two to twelve a year depending on whether or not the aerodrome has an airline service and also on the types of aircraft operating to the particular aerodrome. 
Delicensing of an aerodrome would occur in the following circumstances: on the request of the owner if it does not continue to meet physical or other licensing requirements (excluding temporary unserviceability) if the aerodrome owner cannot provide reports on the serviceability of the aerodrome. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An aircraft accident is defined as an occurrence associated with the operation of an aircraft which takes place between the time any person boards the aircraft with the intention of flight until suchtime as all those persons have disembarked, in which: 
any person suffers death or serious injury, or 
the aircraft suffers substantial damage. 
During the past ten years, TAA aircraft have been involved in five accidents in Australia. Three of the accidents resulted in substantial damage to aircraft but no injuries to occupants, and two arose from in-flight turbulence which resulted in serious injuries to occupants with virtually no damage to the aircraft. 
Based on the records of all TAA operations in Australia for the ten year period from 1 January 1 969 to 3 1 December 1978, the accident rates in respect of aircraft owned and operated by TAA were: 
1 in 303,000 take offs (3 accidents in approximately 910,000 take-offs), 
if it is accepted that the honourable member's reference to flight time is meant to include only en-route flighttime, the accident rate in this area was 1 in 455,000 sectors (2 accidents in 9 10,000 sectors), 
there have been no landing accidents recorded in the ten year period during which TAA aircraft made approximately 910,000 landings. 
Because of the small number of accidents involved, any determination of accident rates in respect of individual types of aircraft operated by TAA would not be meaningful. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An economic evaluation of the completion of the Sandy Hollow-Maryvale railway was undertaken by the Bureau of Transport Economics. The project was considered in two stages: Sandy Hollow to Ulan to Gulgong, which will service potential export coal traffic, and Gulgong to Maryvale which will service other freight between western New South Wales and Newcastle. The results of this evaluation are contained in the BTE report entitled 'Sandy Hollow-Maryvale Railway: Economic Evaluation of Proposed Completion'. This report is currently with the Government Printer and will be forwarded to me in the near future. The Bureau's construction cost estimates are $34.4m for the Sandy Hollow to Gulgong stage and between $8.2m and $1 l.5m for the Gulgong to Maryvale stage (depending on the construction period). 
The BTE 's evaluation did not directly consider the employment effects of the construction and operation of the line. 
No commitments have been made. New South Wales Government officials have been provided with copies of the draft BTE Report on a confidential basis. 
BTE's evaluation required close contact with the principals of White Industries. White Industries provided cost estimates of mine and railway construction and forecasts of coal flows from the proposed mine. 
I have no information on the intentions of the New South Wales Government with regard to this railway. 
I have no information which would allow me to comment on other railway lines available for rail traffic to bypass the Sydney metropolitan area. Information concerning these lines should be sought from the New South Wales Government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Details of discussions that have been held recently between Qantas and Japan Airlines on Australia-Japan air fares were provided in the answer I gave to Question No. 2851  (Hansard,1  May 1979, pages 1687-8). 
Since providing that answer a further round of discussions between Qantas and Japan Airlines was held in Tokyo on 7-8 June 1979. Talks to date have not resulted in a revised fares package acceptable to both airlines. Consideration is presently being given to courses available to the Government in its further pursuit of reduced air fares for travel between Australia and Japan. 
Plenty of evidence is available to demonstrate that the introduction of emission controls has increased fuel consumption across the board on all motor cars. There is no doubt about that. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Fisheries Council approved the establishment of an Australian Fishing Zone Committee in November, 1978, with the following membership: 
2 representatives from the Commonwealth Government; 
2 representatives from the State Government, to serve on a rotational basis; 
2 representatives nominated by the Australian Fishing Industry Council, one to represent the catching sector and one the processing sector. 
The Committee's first meeting was held in February 1979 and it has met four times to date. A report of the Committee's activities in 1979 will be made available later this year. 
-The first point I should make is that there is a difference between the accident that occurred to the LPG-driven vehicle in recent days and the proposition put by the motor car manufacturer. The fact is that the vehicles that are converted to LPG are required to meet the Standards Association of Australia regulations in terms of conversion. The proposal that was put forward by the car manufacturer relates to the proposition that there ought to be a design rule for the manufacture of new cars. 
The car manufacturing group is represented on the LPG task force that is monitoring and covering this area. We have had meetings with industry on this matter. The Minister for Industry and Commerce, the Minister for National Development and I have met representatives of the Chamber of Automotive Industries to hold discussions on this question. A set of principles has been laid down already in respect of the construction of new cars built for the purpose of LPG use and those principles are being furthered by the LPG task force. The motor car manufacturer himself is able to make a contribution to that. 
I appreciate the honourable member's interest and real concern in this matter. I appreciate the genuine way in which he has put forward the question. He shows a real heart, I must say. I think the fact that Ansett Transport Industries has donated the aircraft demonstrates that indeed as part of the cost to that airline company it is obviously prepared to pick up the bill for the landing fees on this occasion. However, as the honourable member has raised the question and as, so far as I am aware, there has been no application from Ansett Transport Industries to avoid paying the charges on this occasion, I will certainly have a look at the matter. 
-I am able to confirm that the Primary Industry Bank of Australia Ltd has appointed Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort Ltd and the Wesfarmers company as prime lenders on behalf of PIBA. That announcement was made some weeks ago by the Primary Industry Bank. The terms and conditions for loans by these companies will be the same terms and conditions as PIBA itself allows to existing prime bank lenders. In relation to future organisations being given a similar facility, that again is a matter for the Primary Industry Bank to determine. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am not aware of any Australian or overseas study specifically directed to that proposition. 
2 ) The need for research in this area will be considered as part of the continuing overall review of topics requiring attention. 
If and when a causal relationship is established consideration would then be given to the way in which TV program content could be influenced in the interest of all road users. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Five countries have ratified the Convention, namely; 
The figures indicate that farm income will reach a record level in the year 1979-80, rising from $10,610m in 1978-79 to $1 1,125m. I think the House can take some pride in the fact that there has been this turnaround in rural industries. My colleague the right honourable member for New England can take particular pride in that fact. The Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister as Minister for Trade and Resources, and the Minister for Special Trade Representations can also take some pride in the fact that there has been this big lift in farm income. The activities in the trading area have certainly gone a long way towards bringing about the recovery in the rural industries and this increase in rural income. As the Treasurer has just said, it is an indication of the recovery in the total Australian economy and is certainly a very important aspect of it. I should point out that one of the factors mentioned in the report is the concern about rising costs facing farming people. There is no doubt that one of the great aspects of the Australian Government's approach to the fight against inflation is protection of the people who are earning the export income that is so valuable to the community. I reinforce what the Treasurer has just said. If the Opposition does not realise and recognise the importance of the fight against inflation, it ought to go and talk to the farming community and learn something about it. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to obtain approval of Parliament for an agreement between the Commonwealth and Queensland governments to regulate the availability and pricing of sugar. The Bill now before honourable members contains the text of the Sugar Agreement 1979 and provisions to implement the Commonwealth's responsibilities under the Agreement. The new 
Agreement is the latest in a continuous series of sugar agreements which go back to the 1920s. The arrangements which have been developed under the successive agreements currently provide, in the Bill now before honourable members, that the Commonwealth Government prohibits the importation of sugar, golden syrup and treacle and the Queensland Government regulates production, acquires or purchases the sugar produced, supplies refined sugar and sugar products at nominated major population centres at not more than the prices set by the Agreement, and finances what are called the 'domestic' and export' sugar rebates. The domestic rebate is paid to manufacturers of fruit products on sugar used if they observe certain requirements as to payment for their purchases of Australian fruit. The export rebate is payable to exporters when the costs of the Australian sugar content of their exports exceeds a notional import parity price for overseas sugar. 
For many years the two governments and the industry operated without formal arrangements being provided in the successive Agreements as to the manner of adjustment of the domestic prices of refined sugars. The variations made at irregular intervals generally resulted from negotiations based on broad assessments of the industry 's position when it requested an increase. Among the elements often considered was the level of export returns. 
The new Agreement, the Sugar Agreement 1979, as signed by me and the Queensland Minister for Primary Industries, came into force on 1 October 1979. It differs from the former Sugar Agreement 1975 in a number of ways. The most distinguishable feature of this Agreement is the provision at clause 6 which details the formula agreed between the Commonwealth and Queensland and the industry- both canegrowers and sugar millers- for annual adjustment of the domestic price of refined sugar. In short, the clause provides that unless otherwise agreed between the two governments, annual adjustments will be made in the maximum price each season commencing 1 July 1980, taking into account both movements in the returns from exports of sugar and in the consumer price index. There is an in-built constraint that the proportionate change in the maximum price cannot exceed the proportionate change in the CPI. The effect of the formula provisions is to produce an anticyclical tendency in the resulting price adjustment. That is to say, domestic price increases will be constrained when export prices are rising and vice versa. But in any event any annual price increase will always lie between nil and the CPI increase. 
The only maximum price to be stipulated in the new Agreement is that of IXD or manufacturing grade refined sugar, in bulk. This maximum price, as set down in the Agreement, that is, $353 per tonne for IXD or manufacturing grade sugar in bulk ex refinery, was earlier agreed between the two governments and the industry after consideration of the report and recommendations of the inquiry appointed under the auspices of the Industries Assistance Commission-report No. 209 of 31 March 1979. This is the base price for the purpose of the formula application commencing 1 July 1980. It contrasts with the maximum pricing provisions of the 1975 Agreement under which maximum prices for IXD and IA that is, grocery grade, in bags, were declared. Other sugars will now be priced proportionately to the IXD grade. Sugar will be made available at refineries and, as previously, at suitable centres in Darwin, Hobart, and Launceston instead of being delivered free in specified centres. Sugar may be delivered at the request of customers. This will thus permit them a choice of delivery arrangements. Terms and conditions of delivery will be determined by the Sugar Board in accordance with the Agreement. These changes were recommended by the Sugar Inquiry Committee. The maximum price for IXD grade in the new Agreement of $353 per tonne bulk is in line with the previous bagged price of $370 per tonne on the then free delivery basis. A price review committee, as proposed by the Inquiry Committee, is not required, as the price adjustment formula will operate simply and mechanically using publicly available information. 
The export sugar rebate system will continue unchanged. The provisions of the Sugar Agreement 1975 relating to the payment of domestic sugar rebate have been retained, but there is an understanding betwen the two governments that the operation of this rebate will be reviewed within the term of the new Agreement. Under this Agreement the Queensland Government also agrees to fulfil those obligations undertaken by the Commonwealth in respect of export quotas, stockholding and stock financing, under the International Sugar Agreement 1977. As I have mentioned, this Bill is similar to previous Sugar Agreement Acts in that clause 5 provides that the importation of sugar, golden syrup and treacle into the Commonwealth, except with the consent in writing of the Minister or an authorised officer, is prohibited. This confirms a provision of the 
Sugar Agreement, which provides for exceptions to the general prohibition. The Sugar Agreement Bill 1979 continues the series of Agreements between the Commonwealth and Queensland governments, which have fostered the sugar industry, and at the same time ensured full and stable supplies of sugar at prices that are remunerative and just for Australian cane sugar producers and fair to consumers. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cohen)  adjourned. 
The last part of the question, of course, is a matter for the Government to consider in the transfer of funds. But generally I understand the negotiations on the 200-mile fishing zone and the agreement with the Japanese have been taking place over about IS months. The agreement has been developed in consultation with the States through the Australian Fishing Industry Council and through the two zones- the northern zone and the southern zone. So there has been consultation right through the period in the drawing up of the agreement. You asked when the Government decided it was too late to change the agreement. 
I first became aware of this problem when representations were made to the Government in the weeks preceding the signing of the agreement. After I became Minister for Primary Industry representations came through to us asking for a postponement of the agreement. The question was raised with the Government, consultation was held in Japan and we were notified that it was not thought possible to change the agreement at that point. Only days before the signing of the agreement final notification came through that we were unable to secure any change. 
I am not surprised at all. That would have been part of the total consideration before agreement was reached on the matter. All of those considerations would have been part of the consultation process that led up to the final agreement. You asked a question relating to voluntary withdrawal. This is a question I agreed to take back to the Government, at the request of the Game Fishermen's Association, to see whether it is possible for the Japanese to voluntarily withdraw from a specific area north of Lizard Island. This is said to be a breeding ground for marlin. That question has not yet been decided by the Government. 
The question of the $ 1 .4m return, as a financial measure, would have to be considered by the Government also. I cannot give you an answer on that. 

 Mr Purnell Webb I do not have the exact figures with me but I can give you a very close breakdown of the $3m. There is an estimated $1.4m from the Japanese agreement and about $0.8m from the Koreans. That is estimated on what they have asked for and what we might be prepared to allow them to take from two or three fisheries, especially in the north-west. 

 Mr Purnell Webb I will come to that in a moment. The answer is no, but I will explain why that is so. There is also about $0.8m from licenses to Taiwanese fishermen. There are some other smaller amounts from licence fees for feasibility fishing ventures and things like that. In round figures $3m is our estimate. That is how the S3m is made up. With respect to the marlin grounds, there are no negotiations taking place with other countries which will result in fishing in that area of the Coral Sea. The Koreans have asked for six vessels to be permitted to longline for tuna but their principal aim is the Southern bluefin tuna. Those are caught about 3 1 degrees south of the Coral Sea. 

 Mr Purnell Webb Press statements have indicated a belief that we were seeking and demanding from the Japanese unlimited access to their market for our fish and fish products. I think it would be unrealistic to expect any country to allow any other country's products unlimited access to its markets. The Japanese system of control of foreign fish products on its market is based on either tariffs or imported quotas. Apart from special arrangements they have with Koreans because of their special relationship with Korea and this area, their quotas are global ones. Our aim was access to the whole of that quota if we could meet their quality standards and if our commercial people could be competitive on their markets. We have received assurances from the Japanese that that would be the position. We have received assurances from the Japanese that if at any time we could produce a case to show that Australian fish products were being debarred from the Japanese market because of tariffs or non-tariff barriers they would discuss the situation in an endeavour to rectify it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) and (2) Qantas breakeven load factors are considered confidential commercial information the release of which would adversely affect the competitive position of the Company. 
Yes. Estimates indicate that the operation of dedicated all-economy flights for APEX traffic would have a significant impact on the 20 services per week now provided by Qantas and British Airways between Australia and London with a possible reduction of the order of 20 per cent it the number of regular services to Australian ports, given the current levels of demand. 
The operation of separate all-economy and mixed class air services was also assessed by the Committee that reported on Australia's international  civil aviation policy. The Committee indicated that the main considerations such as these would need to be fully assessed when evaluating any operation of this kind. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
and (3) It is not simply a question of redirecting services through Brisbane to reduce the cost of international air fares to Queenslanders. The provision of international air services into and out of Australia is directly related to the flow of traffic and to the servicing of locations at which sufficient demand exists to warrant a regular service. In 
Australia, with our small but concentrated population, the major demand warranting the most frequent international air services is centred in Melbourne and Sydney. Nevertheless, the Government continues to actively encourage the international airlines to serve the other smaller gateways, including Brisbane. 
More than 20 international flights pass through Brisbane each week. The current air service frequencies through Brisbane reflect that city's geographic location and the relatively limited demand for international services. No doubt as demand for travel to and from Brisbane increases the frequency of services will also increase. 
Domestic concessional fares have been introduced for Australian residents and overseas visitors who are linking with international flights. These result in significant savings for those travelling to and from Brisbane and also encourage tourist travel within Queensland. A 'See Australia' fare is also available to all international visitors. This fare provides 30 per cent discount on the round economy fare for travel over domestic sectors and can be booked inside and outside Australia. It has no advance booking conditions but applies to journeys of more than 1,000 km in total. 
Nurse Training Course at Royal Canberra Hospital  (Question No. 4594) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is general acceptance in Western Europe of a system of signs based on those contained in the United Nations Convention on Road Signs and Signals, 1968. Not all of the signs, however, are pictorial in the sense of representing visually the object concerned. Some signs employ an abstract symbol which is given a specific meaning. For example, the 'no entry' sign has a white bar on a red circular background. 
Uniformity in road signs promotes consistency of road user behaviour in particular situations and this is desirable from a safety viewpoint. For certain classes of signs, research indicates that the symbolic form is more readily seen and understood than signs which convey their meaning by words. Nevertheless the use of words is necessary in many circumstances. 
A Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices has been published as Australian Standard AS 1742. Where benefits from the point of view of recognition and visual impact could be expected, the manual makes use of the U.N. Convention symbols. Review of the manual is a continuing activity and my Department is represented on the committee of the Standards Association of Australia which has this responsibility. 
The Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices has been endorsed by the Australian Transport Advisory Council for adoption throughout Australia and, as the Commonwealth Minister for Transport, I have stressed to Council the importance of uniformity in road rules, signing and marketing. I would regard the greater use of symbolic and pictorial signs as desirable where this is clearly the best approach. I shall certainly be considering whether this specific matter should be put before Council again when the review of the existing manual has reached an appropriate stage. 
The appointment of the  chairman  of Qantas does not come up until 30 June 1980. By that time there will be a recommendation to the Government and a decision made. 
Pursuant to section 10(1) of the Primary Industry Bank Act 1977 I present the annual report of the Primary Industry Bank of Australia Ltd for 1978-79. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of Qantas Airways Ltd for 1978-79. 
I just want to say that the Government cannot accept the amendment moved by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  He knows the reasons as well as I do. They have been properly recounted to the House by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  who has done a service to the House in bringing out the truth. I think the honourable member for Bowman has displayed the sheer hypocrisy of the Opposition in moving the amendment. The Government rejects the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have your indulgence to suggest that the House have a general debate covering this Bill and the Canned Fruits Levy Bill 1979, the Canned Fruits Levy Collection Bill 1979, the Canned Fruit (Sales Promotion) Amendment Bill 1979, the Excise Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1979 and the Excise Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1979, as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. 
I can understand the honourable member's concern to ensure that appropriate air services are maintained throughout Queensland, but I have to say to him that the matter under consideration is a matter of a licence within the State of Queensland and therefore is a responsibility of the Minister for Transport in the Queensland Government. He has been keeping me informed of his approach to this question. We have had consultations on this matter. I will keep the honourable member's worries in mind. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Bureau of Transport Economics report entitled  The Long Distance Road Haulage Industry  contained the suggestion that further research on the level and pattern of freight rates and the whole pattern of road transport in Australia would permit a more detailed outline of the industry. However, the Report goes on to say that such a research program would consume a considerable quantity of the Bureau's resources and yield little more than a detailed description of flows and prices. For this reason the Report found that it would be difficult to justify the resources that would be required to produce a reliable description. The Report further stated that the BTE would therefore be reluctant to undertake such a task for the reasons stated and no action is proposed on the suggestion at this time. 
The BTE expressed doubts about the viability of such a substantial survey and made the point that a more useful approach would be to develop a statistical system of collecting market freight rate and operator cost information on a regular basis. 
and (4) The availability of statistics, on a regular basis, covering freight rates and operating costs obviously could assist Governments in their assessments of road haulage industry problems and such information would also be valuable to operators in the industry. 
The collection of such information is now being examined, following ATAC consideration of road transport problems. However, I do not accept the assumption, which appears to underly the question, that the Inter-State Commission Act should be proclaimed in order to address the problems of the road transport industry. I should also comment that, as  Hansard  shows, I opposed the Inter-State Commission legislation in April-May 1 975 in its then existing form. 
Lead in Petrol  (Question No. 4623) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nicholas Clark and Associates has been engaged by the Department of Transport to work with Bureau of Transport Economics staff in developing a paper on oil economics with particular emphasis on: 
the price of fuels in short supply (rationing versus market mechanisms, substitution, etc.) 
the time required for the transport system to respond to a changed supply situation and to develop an economic framework for determination of priorities for fuel allocation in transport. 
The consultant commenced work early in September and is expected to complete his work in November of this year. 
Transport is the sector of the economy most vulnerable to sudden disruptions in oil supplies and the Department of Transport's role is to assess the impact of such disruptions. This consultant was engaged because of his particular expertise and because he was available to commence work immediately, which was an important consideration in view of the priority which the Government now places on fuel contingency planning. 
In the first instance the consultant's report will be to the Director, BTE. It is envisaged that it would be made available immediately to the Energy Working Group of the Australian Transport Advisory Council and therefore will be available to a wide section of the transport planning community. If the report is of suitable standard, I expect that the Director of the Bureau of Transport Economics will give consideration to subsequent publication in the BTE Occasional Paper series. 
As noted in (4), the report will be prepared for eventual submission to ATAC Ministers, and m the process it will be directed to all State Ministers concerned with transport energy matters. 
Wind-driven Generators (Question No. 4870) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) South Solitary Island, New South Wales. 
To operate the lighthouse equipment: the light is being upgraded to increase the nominal luminous range from 15 to 2 1 n. miles. 
The present light is operated from primary cell batteries. 
No. Wind generators are used at three other marine navaid facilities. 
5 ) Consideration is being given to operating two other remote lighthouses on power provided by wind generators. 
The energy requirement would not be altered. Cost savings from more extensive use of wind power are still being studied. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There have been several instances of failure of an aluminium alloy flange coupling in the monitor feed line, in the cabin. This line carries a mixture of foam compound and water once the pumps are engaged. 
Yes to both questions. 
Yes, but the ban has since been removed following the fitment of a guard as a temporary measure. 
Stronger stainless steel replacement couplings have been designed and are being fitted. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, I have had my attention drawn to the Article in the  Age  of 31 August 1979. Taiwanese fishing boats represent a substantial foreign fishing presence in waters within 200 miles of Australia. As we do not recognise the 'Government' in Taiwan, discussions have been held with representatives of Taiwanese fishing interests and their Australian agents on access to the 200 mile Australian fishing zone. Draft agreements setting out the terms and conditions of access have been initialled and are currently under consideration by the Government. 
The agreements will provide the Taiwanese fishing interests concerned with 12 months access on a smaller scale than current operations, to the north and North- West Shelf trawl and gillnet resources. 
Draft letters of agreement were initialled by a representative of the Department of Primary Industry and a representative of the Kailis Kaohsiung Fishing Company Pry Ltd, a joint Australia/Taiwanese company comprising M. G. Kailis Gulf Fisheries Pty Ltd and the Kaohsiung Fishing Boat Commercial Guild, and are under consideration by the Government. 
Talks on the conditions of access for Taiwanese commercial interests have been held between members of the 
 Kailis Kaohsiung Fishing Company Pty Ltd, Commonwealth Government officials and representatives from the Western Australian Government. The First Assistant Secretary, Fisheries Division of the Department of Primary Industry, chaired the most recent round of discussions. 
Taiwanese vessels covered by the draft Agreements will be licensed to fish in the AFZ on application provided the Agreements are accepted by the Government. 
The access fees which will be payable to the Commonwealth Government have been agreed and are stated in the draft Agreements, which for the time being remain confidential. Licence fees for each vessel, as stipulated in the Fisheries Act, will be paid from these access fees. 
and (8) The Kaohsiung Fishing Boat Commercial Guild is an association of Taiwanese fishing boat owners established in 1963. It comprises deepwater trawlers, gillnet and tuna longline boat companies in Taiwan which have fishing boats of a 100 tons or greater, registered under the City Government of Kaohsiung. Its registered office is at 94 Shao Chuan Street, Taiwan. In 1979, 120 fishing companies with 230 boats and a total tonnage of 70,000 tonnes were attached to the Guild. 
Under the terms of the draft Agreement only vessels nominated by the Guild will be licensed. The Guild has sole authority to represent all the trawl and gillnet fishing boats of Taiwan which apply for licences to fish within the Australian 200 mile fishing zone. Under the terms and conditions of access, the Kailis Kaohsiung Fishing Company or the Guild as appropriate, will bear the full responsibility for all Taiwanese vessels, licensed or unlicensed. Assurances from the Company and the Guild have been received that the Taiwanese authorities will exercise strict control over all Taiwanese fishing activities in the AFZ. The Company has been advised that continuation of access for Taiwanese fishing vessels to the AFZ is dependent on effective control being exercised and on the cessation of all illegal activities particularly those by clam vessels on the Great Barrier Reef. Furthermore, the Fisheries Act 1932 has been amended to provide for penalties of up to $230,000 for illegal foreign fishing in the AFZ. In addition to the substantial increases m penalties, a magistrate may order forfeiture of a vessel, including its catch and equipment, upon a conviction being recorded. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Forecasts of demand for petroleum fuels by fuel type for the period to 1986-87 are provided in Table 13 of the Report by the Department of National Development, April 1978, entitled  Demand for Primary Fuels, Australia 1976-77 to 1986-87. 
The transport sector is currently estimated to account for around 60 per cent of the nation's energy demands supplied from petroleum fuels. These fuels meet over 98 per cent of the energy requirements of transport. 
It has been estimated that road transport accounts for 8 1 per cent of the energy used by domestic transport, rail transport 5 per cent, air transport 3 per cent and sea transport a further 9 per cent. This breakdown excludes energy used by international shipping and international aviation. 
Comparable information for the period 1960-61 to 1973-76 is also provided in Table 1 5 of the abovementioned report. 
Further information released by the Department of National Development indicates that demand for petroleum products in the years 1976-77 and 1977-78 was consistent with the forecast levels of demand for those years. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The authorised landing area at Indulkana is owned by the Indulkana Community Incorporated and is not eligible for financial assistance from my Department. I am advised that the landing area has been unserviceable for some time and that this is because the equipment needed to keep the landing area serviceable is also unserviceable and not adequate. My Department has advised the Indulkana Community of the equipment needed to maintain ae landing area in a serviceable condition. 
I understand that the State Highways Department is soon to do some work to bring the landing area at Indulkana back to serviceable condition and that it could possibly be open again by December. 
-The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
Yes. Discussions with Taiwanese commercial interests through the Kailis Kaohsiung Fishing Company and negotiations with the Republic of Korea, for access to fisheries resources off the North- West Shelf surplus to Australia's harvesting capacity, have been held. 
The State Governments of Queensland and Western Australia and the Government of the Northern Territory have been consulted during the course of these negotiations and have been kept fully informed. 
Repatriation: Disability Pensions Paid into Bank Accounts (Question No. 4895) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australian Design Rules 2 (Door Latches and Hinges), 22A (Head Restraints) and 29 (Side Door Strength) will be investigated using existing statistical data sources to assess their effectiveness m reducing injury to vehicle occupants. 
It is not intended to table the report of this investigation in Parliament. However, the results will be published by the Office of Road Safety of the Depanment of Transport and will be available on request. 
The investigation is expected to be completed by June 1980. 
Australian Design Rules are developed by the Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design (ACSVD) and submitted to the Australian Transport Advisory Council for endorsement. ACSVD will be provided with the results of the investigation. It is not possible to predict whether the investigation will lead to conclusions justifying amendments to the existing Design Rules. It is normal practice for the Council to make a public announcement of the principal decisions taken in each of its meetings including the endorsement of any changes to Design Rules. Such changes are also notified to all holders of the published Australian Design Rules. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Yes. 
Reference to the  Hansard  of that date, however, clearly indicates that I did not consider that the Interstate Commission Bill as then drafted met that criterion. 
My attitudes have not altered. However, as I have already said before, no decision has been made regarding proclamation of the Interstate Commission Act 1 975. 
It will be a quite objective view,  Mr Speaker.  I am able to confirm that the number of international flights into Sydney is much greater than the number into Melbourne. That is something I have never understood, having regard to the beauty of both places. The last weekly figures I have seen show that there were 180 international flights into Tullamarine. That compares rather unfavourably with the total of 363 flights into Sydney. The Treasurer has suggested that market forces ought to be allowed to operate in these matters. I can tell the honourable member quite seriously that recently the Department wrote to all international airlines encouraging them to use Tullamarine. There has been quite a response to that over a period. That is why there has been a build-up over the last couple of years in the number of flights into Melbourne. I will certainly take notice of the honourable member's quite responsible representations on this issue and encourage my Department to go around again. 
The situation in respect of  Mr Webster  as  Chairman  of the Australian Dairy Corporation is as follows:  Mr Webster  wrote to my predecessor, the right honourable member for New England, informing him that he proposed to resign and that he wanted that resignation to take effect from 31 December 1979. 
That letter of resignation was accepted and  Mr Webster  subsequently issued a Press release stating why he had chosen to resign. That being the case, the Department of Primary Industry is presently preparing a list of names for me to consider for the position of  Chairman  of the Dairy Corporation. If it is  Mr Webster's  wish to return to that position his name could, of course, be included on that list. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) Yes, but as clearly indicated in my statement, within the limits provided for in the Constitution. 
That statement could in no way be construed as support ibr the Interstate Commission Bill 1975 as then drafted. I did in fact criticise the Bill in the strongest terms as being outside the spirit and intention of the Constitution. 
3 ) See reply to part ( 3 ) of Question No. 46 1 7. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Joint Australian/foreign fishing ventures which have been approved or which are being actively considered to operate in waters off South Australia involve either squid jigging or fish trawling. 
Squid Jigging 
Safcol Holdings Ltd in conjunction with Chuo Gyogyo Kosha Ltd and C. Itoh and Co (Japan) have concluded the first year of an approved two year feasibility fishing project which involved 11 Japanese squid vessels operating in waters off South Australia and Victoria with port access to Port Adelaide, Port Lincoln, Melbourne and Portland. The operations of this project during the second and final year are now being reviewed in the light of results to date aud conditions to apply for the forthcoming squid season. 
A number of new additional proposals have been received involving feasibility fishing operations off South Australia. Three proposals based in either Fort Lincoln or Port Adelaide involve Australian interests operating in conjunction with Japanese and Korean companies with a total of 17 foreign vessels. These proposals are currently under consideration by the Commonwealth in conjunction with State fisheries authorities. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes; the recommendations of the Committee were presented to this House on 29 May 1978 and the motion of expediency moved on 1 June 1978. However the recommendations of the Committee do not relate to the existing fire station or the existing terminal building. 
All these facilities are expected to be operational by mid 1982. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) 1 1 ,480 units of 3 ounces. 
Purchases are made biennially. The previous one was made on 10 November 1977. 
C. Mansfield and Staff Pty Ltd, Highett, Victoria. 
15,120 units of 3 ounces, total value $2,874.69. 
No. Creamy fudge candy is a food component purchased by my Department, primarily for use in Search and Rescue Marine Survival Kits. However, it has also been used on occasions during search and rescue activities in remote areas on land. The kits are held in varying quantities at some thirty locations throughout Australia in readiness for aerial drops to provide life support to survivors on sea and land. The item is a medically approved ration for use in circumstances where a limited drinking water supply is available. 
-The answers to the honourable member's questions are: 
The Minister for Transport has the authority to convene meetings of Ministers who have a direct interest in civil coastal surveillance. 
There is at present no basis for speculation that commencement of the 200 nautical mile Australian fishing zone will lead to a great increase in surveillance requirements. 
Foreign fishing activity will be monitored continually and it is anticipated that the system of fisheries management and licensing being introduced will hold the surveillance task at an acceptable level. However, the surveillance programs are flexible and can be varied quickly should practical experience indicate a need to increase routine surveillance in the air or on the sea. 
Arrangements have already, been made for the provision of a Nomad Searchmaster L aircraft fitted with powerful radar equipment to be stationed on the central Queensland coast for fisheries surveillance of the outer Great Barrier Reef. 

   

) As per answer to ( 1 ). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 )  Mr Stanley  Phillip Smith, Acting  Deputy  Secretary, Surface Operations is the officer designated by the Minister for Transport for the purposes of negotiations between shipowners and the Australian Shippers ' Council under Part X of the Trade Practices Act, 1974. As designated officer,  Mr Smith  may appoint an officer or officers to be his  deputy  or deputies. 
The designated officer or his deputy may request from the Conference or individual shipowners information concerning the progress of the negotiations under Part X, be present at meetings in the course of these negotiations, and make suggestions which must be considered by shipowners. 
The role of the designated officer is to encourage the parties to the negotiations to arrive at satisfactory commercial solutions. 
To the Minister. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) This statement should be read in the full context of the speech. I have received numerous representations from the road transport industry on specific industry issues and on broader issues such as energy. The text of my speech details the nature of these issues and the action the Government has taken and is taking in relation to them. 
For the information of honourable members I present the fifth report of the Poultry Research Advisory Committee 1977-79. 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Oilseeds Levy Collection and Research Act 1977, 1 present the annual report of the Oilseeds Research Committee 1979. 
For the information of honourable members I present the resolutions of the 107th meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council 1979. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have your indulgence to suggest that the House have a general debate covering this Bill, the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 5) 1979, the Loan (Income Equalization Deposits) Amend-' ment Bill 1979, the Income Tax Laws Amendment Bill 1979, the Income Tax (Rates) Amendment Bill 1979, the Income Tax (Individuals) Bill 1979 and the Income Tax (Companies and Superannuation Funds) Bill 1979 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. 
)-I move 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, ancillary to the Wheat Marketing Bill 1979, is a machinery provision to take account of the proposed repeal of the Wheat Export Charge Act 1974 and the Wheat Industry Stabilization Act 1974 in which the definitions of 'wheat products' were provided. The Bill proposes to amend the Wheat Products Export Adjustment Act 1974 in order to link its operation with the proposed Wheat Marketing Bill 1979. I commend this Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 

That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to terminate the arrangements under which States are required to report in respect of funds provided under the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act. The termination is subject to the proviso that States apply any remaining funds towards assistance of a type provided under the States and Northern Territory Grants (Rural Adjustment) Act, which is the subject of a separate amendment. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cohen)  adjourned. 
)-I move 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is of a machinery nature to ensure the continuation of financial arrangements previously provided under the Wheat Industry Stabilization Act 1974 and the Wheat Industry Stabilization Amendment Act 1979, which are to be repealed. The principal Act which came into effect earlier this year provides for the Australian Wheat Board to be reimbursed the costs of borrowing certain monies. I commend this Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is ancillary to the Wheat Marketing Bill 1979 and complementary to the Wheat Levy Bill (No. 1) 1979. The purpose of this Bill is to impose a levy of $2.50 per tonne on wheat not delivered to the Australian Wheat Board but the sale of which has been authorised by the Board under the direct grower to buyer transactions scheme. The basis for such transactions is provided in the parent Bill. The levy is payable by the Australian Wheat Board. 
As in the case of the complementary Bill, funds will be paid into Consolidated Revenue and an equivalent amount is appropriated under the Wheat Marketing Bill 1979 for payment into the wheat finance fund established by that Bill. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is ancillary to the Wheat Marketing Bill 1979 and complementary to the Wheat Levy Bill (No. 2) 1979. The purpose of the Bill is to impose a levy of $2.50 per tonne on wheat delivered to the Australian Wheat Board. The levy is payable by the Australian Wheat Board. Funds so derived will be paid into Consolidated Revenue and an equivalent amount is appropriated under the Wheat Marketing Bill 1979 for payment into the wheat finance fund established under that Bill. 
The wheat finance fund may be used by the Board to refinance any outstanding borrowings by the Board from the rural credits department of" the Reserve Bank of Australia at the expiry of the 12 months statutory period applicable to such borrowings. I commend this Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
)-I move 
That the Bill be now read a second dme. 
This Bill is related to the Wheat Marketing Bill 1979, the Wheat Tax Act 1957 and the Wheat Research Amendment Bill 1 979. The Wheat Tax Act 1957 provides for the imposition of a tax on deliveries of wheat to the Australian Wheat Board. The intention of the Wheat Tax Bill 1979 is to provide for a tax to be imposed on wheat not delivered to the Board but the sale of which has been authorised by the Board under the direct grower to buyer transactions scheme. The basis for such transactions is established in the Wheat Marketing Bill 1979. 
The rate of tax is specified as being the same as the rate in force from time to time under the Wheat Tax Act 1957. As in the case of the revenue derived from the operation of the Wheat Tax Act 1957, moneys collected from the tax imposed by this Bill will be paid into Consolidated Revenue and an equivalent amount paid into the wheat research trust account for later disbursement on scientific and economic research projects for the benefit of the wheat industry. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
-I think the very fact that the new international air fares have drawn such an increase in passengers, both incoming and outgoing, demonstrates the success of the introduction of the cheap air fares regime. Nobody can take that away from the Government- not even the honourable member for Shortland, though he might try. The fact is that there has been a 28.4 per cent increase in incoming visitors in the last seven months and an increase of 10.4 per cent in outgoing Australians. The fares have opened up Australia to incoming visitors in a way not known before. The fares have been halved to Europe and to the United States of America. So the opportunities for tourists to come to this country have been opened up for the first time. I do not see the relationship between that position and the great effort by Qantas in putting that policy in place and the first part of the honourable member's question. No official report has come to me and I understand that no official report has come to my colleague, the Minister for Industry and Commerce, who is responsible for tourism, from the back bench committee to which the honourable member refers. If such a report does come, it will be dealt with on its merits. 
I saw some extravagant claims made on this very subject in a newspaper article this morning. In fact I met the authors of those extravagant claims. I note that in the article today they are calling for my head. In the years that I have been in public life my head has been called for very often, but it remains on my shoulders. Quite often I notice that my head is called for by people who could not negotiate a cheap train ride, let alone negotiate cheap air fares with 16 countries. The fact is, as the honourable member rightly points out, that the kilometre - 
-I bow to the honourable member for Hindmarsh and say KIL-ometre The per KIL-ometre fare around Australia charged by the two airlines is the same. I like kiLOMetre. I am sorry, but I will have to differ with the honourable member for Hindmarsh and say ki-LOM-etre because I prefer it. 
The first change to the flagfall in recognition of the problem mentioned by the honourable member for Tangney was made by me, as Minister. I made a second and subsequent change to the flagfall so that there is a variation now between the flagfalls that affect short-haul and long-haul routes. There is now a recognition that the flagfall is a very important part of the total air fare structure and the true cost of landing and departure ought to be caught up in the flagfall so that the flagfall, as a percentage of the total ticket, is higher on short hauls than on the long hauls. Therefore, if the flagfall rises to its true level, people will pay more accurately the total cost of the trip; that is, not only the landing and departure costs but also for the travel per kilometre. As fares are adjusted further, so it will be that the flagfall will be raised. As an instance, the last fare increase meant a 26 per cent increase from Sydney to Perth and a 48 per cent increase from Sydney to Canberra. It was a 48 per cent increase because we adjusted the flagfall as against the per kilometre charge. When the flagfall reaches its proper level it will mean that people travelling on short hauls will pay a more accurate price for their ticket. 
The article also contained one other element that is not true and it ought to be nailed. The article claimed that Perth travellers are paying for the outback services of Queensland and the like. Let me assure the House that within the structure of the airlines' financing the details of the services on each of these routes are kept accurately by the airlines; they know full well the costs and the revenues obtained on each service. There is no doubt that because of the distance between Perth and Sydney lower costs can be achieved there than on a short haul. These factors are taken into account by the airlines in fixing their total charges on air routes. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of the States and Northern Territory Grants (Rural Adjustment) Bill is to authorise the Government to enter into an agreement with the States and the Northern Territory to amend the existing Rural Adjustment Agreement in two ways. The first amendment is to bring the Northern Territory into the Rural Adjustment Scheme on the same basis as the six States. This move is, of course, a direct result of the Government's transfer of autonomy to the Northern Territory in July 1978. The Northern Territory has, heretofore, provided some forms of rural adjustment along the general lines of the Rural Adjustment Scheme. The second amendment is to formalise a number of machinery procedures which have been used during the currency of the Rural Adjustment Scheme and its predecessor, the Rural Reconstruction Scheme, on an informal basis. There are three procedures involved. 
The first is to authorise the Minister for Primary Industry to make supplementary determinations of the amount of assistance a State may approve under Parts A and C of the Rural Adjustment Scheme during a year. The existing Rural Adjustment Agreement provides for the Minister to make one determination, before the commencement of each financial year, of the amount of assistance a State may approve during that year. There have, in the past, been special circumstances where a second determination has been necessary. For example, in 1978 the Minister's initial determination was made on the basis of an interim governmental decision regarding 1978-79 assistance. Additional funds were approved in the 1978-79 Budget and a determination was necessary to distribute them between States. The amendment to the Agreement makes specific provision for such supplementary determinations. 
The second amending procedure is to permit the transfer of approvals authority from one State to another, within the same category of assistance, subject to the agreement of the States concerned. The States must estimate their rural adjustment requirement in February of each year for the next succeeding financial year. They are thus required to look almost 18 months ahead, an exercise which can be extremely difficult in the uncertainties of the rural sector. The procedure which will be authorised by this amendment will allow the transfer of excess approvals authority for a particular category of assistance from one State to another State which has an unsatisfied demand for the same category of assistance. 
The third amending procedure is to enable the Minister to authorise a State to precommit, in exceptional circumstances, approvals authority which it is anticipated will be allocated in a subsequent financial year. This measure is in a way complementary to the second one mentioned above. If through circumstances beyond its control a State finds that the demand for rural adjustment assistance exceeds the amount of approvals authority available and no other State has excess approvals authority which could be transferred, the practice in the past has been to permit the State to approve additional assistance on the basis of using funds to be provided in a subsequent year. This approach necessarily reduces the amount which will be available to the State for new approvals in the subsequent year, but it provides a most useful degree of flexibility. The precommitment procedure proved, in fact, to be most useful to Western Australia when the demand for rural adjustment assistance was significantly increased by the long drought of the mid- 1970 'sin that State. 
Finally the amending agreement formally incorporates a number of small changes to the Schedule to the principal Agreement. These changes may, under the Agreement, be made on the basis of an exchange of letters between the Commonwealth and State Ministers concerned. The necessary exchanges of letters have taken place and they are now to be formally incorporated in the Agreement. The changes are: To extend the Rural Adjustment Scheme to apiarists; to allow household support to be provided, at the discretion of the State authority, for up to three years; to extend the period during which household support assistance will be converted to a grant from six months to twelve months; to increase the lump sum payable to recipients of household support who make a prompt decision to adjust out of fanning from $3,000 to $5,000; and to amend the wording of the farm improvement criteria to ease the restriction on this form of assistance. 
The Bill also provides for consequential measures arising from the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Repeal Bill. The original Act imposed certain reporting requirements on the States and the Commonwealth Auditor-General which, due to the passage of time and the expenditure of funds provided under this Act, have become increasingly difficult to satisfy. Any funds that may be remaining after the repeal of the Act are to be applied towards assistance of a type provided under the Rural Adjustment Scheme. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cohen)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill and six accompanying Bills provide for the implementation of wheat marketing and pricing arrangements in respect of the five seasons beginning 1 October 1979. 
Review 
As in the case of past five-year wheat industry marketing and stabilization arrangements, complementary legislation is to be enacted by each of the States. In fact elements of the arrangement rely on State law. I refer in particular to the provisions requiring growers to deliver their wheat to the Australian Wheat Board, the marketing of wheat domestically and the pooling of the proceeds of the sale of wheat for payment to growers. There has been a history of renegotiating the elements of the pricing and marketing arrangements for the wheat industry every five years to enable account to be taken of the changed needs and circumstances of the industry. An enquiry and report by the Industries Assistance Commission on the arrangements to apply after the expiry of the five-year plan that ended on 30 September 1979 has provided a basis for review of the industry arrangements on this occasion. The IAC report was released publicly in July 1978 to enable all sectors of the industry and the States to consider the formulation of new arrangements. 
Orderly Marketing of Wheat 
Traditionally the industry's arrangements have been based on the application of orderly marketing. For the wheat industry that concept entails the delivery of all wheat, other than that retained by the grower for his own use, only to a licensed receiver of an statutory authority and to no other buyers and the distribution of the proceeds of the sales of that wheat to growers on an equitable basis. The concept also entails the user industries in Australia receiving their needs of wheat from the Australian Wheat Board and from no other supplier and paying a price that is equitable as between the competing users in each industry. The orderly marketing of wheat has been challenged before the High Court and the IAC made recommendations for change. 
The latest High Court case, Uebergang and Others v. Australian Wheat Board, involves, amongst other issues, a challenge on the basis of Section 92 of the Constitution to the application of the Wheat Industry Stabilization Act 1974 of New South Wales to interstate transactions. A similar challenge was rejected by the High Court on 8 September 1978 in what is known as the Clark King case. The fact that there is a further High Court challenge to the same legislation does not preclude the Commonwealth and State Governments, in reliance upon the Clark King case, from enacting legislation for the purpose of establishing wheat marketing legislation to apply for the next five years. Whether further legislation or a constitutional amendment is desirable would depend upon the outcome of the challenge in the Uebergang case. The orderly marketing of wheat has been considered by the States, the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation and the user industries. The proposition has not been accepted that there are significant savings to be made in the receival and storage of wheat by introducing commercial trading between producers and users in the domestic marketing of wheat. 
A characteristic of the industry is that grain is harvested in a relatively short period and received into silos. Supplies are then drawn from storage throughout the year for the needs of users and for export shipment. The cost of this handling and storage is borne by the industry. Whilst some individual growers would be able to escape these costs by delivering direct to a buyer, this saving would only be available because a majority of growers were prepared to support and meet the cost of the infrastructure required to meet the demonstrable needs of the industry. The commercial trading of wheat would enable individual growers to sell to the more lucrative sectors of the market and so reduce the pool return of those growers whose wheat is orderly marketed through the loss to the pool of revenue from these higher priced outlets. The individual grower would have an option of delivering to the orderly marketing system. The fundamental principles of orderly marketing provide the basis for continuation of the wheat delivery and marketing arrangements for the new five year period. However, there are modifications of the payments arrangements for growers and the pricing procedures for buyers of wheat, to meet the present circumstances of the industry. 
In developing these modifications several key factors have been considered. These include the market for feed wheat that could enable producers and users to trade on a commercial basis. This market facility could provide growers with a cash flow to their enterprises different from that afforded by the Board's receival and payments system. By contrast, the Australian Wheat Board's payments to growers from a season's pool have been spread over a longer period. This lengthening of payments has been caused by the increasing need for the Board to sell wheat internationally on deferred payment terms to meet competition from other major exporting countries. This in turn has led to the need to establish arrangements for financing discounted payments that are made to those growers whose cash flows have been reduced by drought-affected crops and other factors. 
Guaranteed Minimum Delivery Price 
The Industries Assistance Commission considered that the continuation of the stabilisation assistance arrangement for the wheat industry could not be justified on either efficiency or welfare grounds and recommended its discontinuation. The arrangement provided for contributions by growers to a stabilisation fund, from which payments are made when the average export price is less than the stabilisation price for a season. Provision existed for payments from Government revenue, within defined limits, when there are insufficient growers' moneys in the fund. In place of these stabilisation arrangements, the Government has decided that growers should receive a substantial payment when their wheat is received by the Australian Wheat Board. This payment will be made on all wheat delivered to the Australian Wheat Board and it will be set at 95 per cent of the average of the estimated pool return for that season and the two previous seasons, converted to a net basis. The payment will be guaranteed by the Commonwealth. The net pool return is converted to a net basis for the purpose of the guaranteed minimum price calculations by taking the net proceeds of the disposal of the wheat of a season and deducting the costs incurred by the Board in relation to the wheat of that season. 
Movements in the guaranteed minimum delivery price from one season to the next are to be subject to a limit of 1 5 per cent. Any deficiency between the net pool return and the guaranteed minimum delivery price will be met by the Commonwealth as a payment from revenue when the particular pool is finalised. The guaranteed minimum price arrangements provide the industry with support from the Government that is designed to help it overcome any short run down turn in producers' returns. At the same time the basis for determining the guaranteed minimum price ensures that the support will be inevitably modified with longer run adjustments in market returns whether those adjustments be for a rising or a falling market. 
The legislation recognises that the guaranteed support will enable the Australian Wheat Board to make a first payment to growers on delivery of their wheat at the level of the guaranteed minimum delivery price less the wheat finance fund levy, the wheat tax and individual growers' freight, handling and storage charges. It is the intention that the guaranteed minimum delivery price for each season be announced before 1 December each year when the bulk of the harvest commences to be delivered. The provision of the guarantee thus enables growers to receive a cash payment when their wheat is delivered that represents a substantial proportion of their final return. This innovation is designed to overcome the delayed pool payments and maintain a cash flow to growers. The payments arrangements in respect of the guaranteed minimum price do not impinge on the ability of the Board to offer cash discounting facilities to growers on payments subsequent to the guaranteed minimum price payment to meet the needs of particular growers. This arrangement evolved during the life of the present scheme and will be a useful adjunct to the payments arrangements when the final pool return is well above the guaranteed delivery price. The modification to the Australian Wheat Board's historical pool payment procedure which I have outlined will be of great value to growers in planning their financial commitments and budgeting the cash flow of their enterprises. 
Wheat Board Finance 
Traditionally, the Australian Wheat Board has borrowed from the Rural Credits Department- RCD- of the Reserve Bank to obtain funds to make the first payment to growers on delivery of their wheat and to meet the pool's marketing expenses. Under the Reserve Bank Act a statutory twelve months repayment period attaches to RCD loans and the Government has provided a guarantee of Wheat Board repayment within that statutory period. Increases in borrowings from the RCD can add to domestic liquidity in a fiscal year to the extent that they are not repaid in that period. It has become necessary to develop new financing arrangements to enable the Board to borrow to meet the changed character of the payment arrangements. These arrangements entail new borrowing rights and obligations for the Wheat Board. 
The changed provisions also reflect the experience of financing the substantial increase in funds needed by the Wheat Board to pay the higher level of first advance for deliveries from the record 1978-79 season's crop. The provisions recognise the significance of the wheat industry in terms of its ability, through the very size of its seasonal cash flow, to influence national liquidity. The financing changes provided for in the Bill are in fact similar to those already embodied in legislation assented to in July but which had application to the 1978-79 season only. The new financing arrangements embodied in the Bill provide for the Board to borrow from the Rural Credits Department to pay the guaranteed minimum delivery price to growers and meet marketing expenses. This provision reflects a continuation of the past arrangement. The Board will be able to borrow from commercial sources. Should the Government require the Board to borrow commercially within the statutory twelve months period for purposes that RCD moneys would normally have been available, the Commonwealth will meet any borrowing costs that are additional to those that would have occurred had the borrowing been from the RCD 
Should, under these arrangements, the Board be unable to borrow from commercial sources for the purposes of paying first advances or meeting marketing expenses within the statutory period, it is the Government's intention that the RCD should provide the necessary finance. Whilst the Government will guarantee repayment of any borrowings by the Board from the RCD it is the Government's intention that the Wheat Board should borrow commercially any money necessary, additional to that available from the finance fund to be established by this legislation, to refinance any outstanding RCD drawings at the end of the statutory twelve months period. 
The linking of the guaranteed minimum price with the first payment, the consequent high level of the first payment and the magnitude of the funds required, may have the effect of reducing the Wheat Board's ability to repay its RCD borrowings within the statutory period. To assist the Board to meet its refinancing obligation a wheat finance fund will be established. The fund will be a trust fund of growers' moneys. It will have a ceiling of $100m and will be financed by the transfer of the $80m in the existing wheat prices stabilisation fund together with the proceeds of a levy on wheat marketed under the control of the Wheat Board. As with the stabilisation fund, the wheat finance fund, will be a revolving one, with any excess in the fund being returned to growers on a first-in first-out basis. The finance fund will provide a source of funds from which the Board will be able to borrow on a seasonal basis to clear any outstanding debt to the RCD on a season's pool at the end of the statutory twelve months period. Borrowings from the Fund will be made at a rate of interest determined by the Minister having regard to rates applying to Reserve Bank fixed deposits or Commonwealth securities. 
The provision for the Board to make commercial borrowings on finance payments to growers that was included in earlier legislation is brought forward in this Bill. In fact this provision will be taken into account when the Government will again seek arrangements for financing advances to growers in 1979-80. As the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said in his Budget Speech, so as to minimise the addition to liquidity as was the case last year. Any arrangements that are made will not be at extra cost to growers. 
Domestic Price 
The arrangements for the pricing of wheat sold on the domestic market recognise the different components of that market, namely, the use of wheat for milling into flour for human consumption and the use of wheat for stockfeed and for industrial purposes. The arrangements also recognise that in past five-year plans there have been significant national income transfers between consumers and growers as a result of the arrangements then operating. Accordingly, the present Bill introduces some changes in the basis for setting domestic prices for wheat. Instead of the existing arrangement under which one price is fixed under the legislation for all wheat, regardless of the purpose for which it is used, there is provision for the Wheat Board to fix the prices of wheats for stockfeed and industrial uses. When fixing these prices the Board will have to balance the commercial interests of producers and users and maintain the orderly marketing of wheat produced and used for these purposes. In carrying out this responsibility the Board will be able to appoint an advisory panel comprising representatives of producers, stockfeed manufacturers and industrial wheat users. This panel would assess the accuracy, comprehensiveness and relevance of data that should be taken into account in determining prices. It would not recommend price levels. 
The change in pricing procedures recognises that the markets for wheat used for stockfeed and industrial purposes are different from those of the market for wheat used for human consumption. It is intended that the Board should be able to meet the needs of those different markets. For the 12 months commencing 1 December 1979 the price of wheat for human consumption throughout Australia will be fixed under this Bill and complementary State legislation at $127.78 a tonne, excluding the Tasmanian freight loading. For the following four marketing years the price will be moved each year according to the formula set out in the Schedule to the Bill. That formula adjusts the price in line with movements in export prices and an index of prices paid by farmers while providing, over time, a margin above export prices. Year to year movements in the formula price are to be subject to a limitation of 20 per cent. The new pricing formula replaces the existing arrangements which provide for an annual variation in accordance with cash costs of wheat production. In taking account of the trend in export prices the formula is intended to moderate the national income tranfers between producers and consumers that have occurred in the past. 
Special Delivery Provisions 
The role of the Australian Wheat Board as sole seller on the domestic market will be continued. This role rests on the continuation of the requirement that all wheat delivered off farms be received only by the Board. However, the delivery arrangements will be modified to enable growers with the authority of the Australian Wheat Board to exercise options in the delivery and marketing of wheat. This new element of flexibility is designed to meet the needs of growers. There are growers who are so placed geographically that there is an advantage both to them and to the buyer in delivering their wheat direct to the user rather than to the central receival system. There are also growers whose wheat has a special characteristic that is not amenable to be handled by the central receival system but which can be taken by a user if delivered directly. 
It is proposed that growers be authorised to apply to the Board to be permitted to sell or deliver their wheat direct to a buyer other than a licensed receiver of the Australian Wheat Board. The Board in turn will be authorised to grant a permit for delivery by a grower direct to a buyer subject to conditions the Board determines as to price, freight allowance and any premiums or discounts in relation to the Australian Standard Wheat price. Consistent with the concept of orderly marketing to which I have referred the proceeds of sales of the wheat will be incorporated in the Board's pooling arrangements and the provisions for payments to growers apply as if the wheat had in fact been delivered to the Board's pool. However, provision is to be made for any quality differential agreed by the grower and buyer and for any cartage cost adjustment to be passed back to the grower. In recognition of the fact that the central receival system continues as an alternative delivery option available to the grower, provision will be made for the Board to deduct from the payment to the grower a charge- covering capital, depreciation and costs of maintaining capital equipment- relating to costs associated with the bulk handling authority relevant to the particular grower. The specific charge will be determined under State legislation. 
Authority for the issue by the Board of a permit to a grower to deliver or sell wheat other than to the Board 's receival system will continue as at present in respect of wheat delivered by a grower to a miller for gristing for the return of the produce of the grist for use on his farm. A similar permit to deliver outside the receival system will also apply to seed wheat and inferior quality wheat including screenings not acceptable for receival by the Board. The arrangements proposed continue the principle of wheat retained by the grower on the farm on which it is grown remaining outside the control of the Board. In recognition of the structure of ownership of wheat growing and livestock feeding enterprises it is proposed that this principle be extended to exclude from the Board's pricing and delivery arrangements wheat which is transferred from the property on which it is grown to another farm under the same ownership for the purpose of livestock feeding on that farm. 
To ensure that such joint enterprise transfers do not become an avenue for the undermining of the wheat orderly marketing arrangements the Wheat Board will be provided with the power to control and monitor the movements of such wheat. The modification to the basic delivery provisions which have served the industry over time are designed to meet the changed needs of the industry by providing growers with a specification of their rights to deliver wheat to other than the central receival system. At the same time protection through controls to be exercised by the Board and through the pooling arrangements is provided for the orderly marketing arrangements of the industry. The arrangements include the insurance that growers who engage in direct delivery transactions contribute to the maintenance of the central receival system, which is an essential part of those orderly marketing arrangements. 
Tasmanian Freight Loading 
The principle of the domestic consumer meeting the cost of shipping wheat from the mainland to Tasmania is to be continued. As previously, moneys to cover this cost will be raised by a loading on the domestic wheat price. However, this loading will apply to wheat only for human consumption because this will be the only administratively determined price under the new arrangements that may not be adjusted within each 12 month period to meet the market. Moneys so raised will be used to meet shipping costs on all wheat shipped from the mainland to Tasmania, regardless of the port from which it is drawn. As has always applied, the freight to Tasmania fund established by the legislation will cover shipping costs only and not, for example, transport costs within Tasmania. 
Features Remaining Unchanged 
The Bill includes a number of features embodied in existing wheat stabilisation legislation. The provisions for delivering quota arrangements remain, purely as a contingency measure. Implementation of quotas would necessarily require the agreement of all States. Other main features which remain unchanged are the seven year period for all except the pricing provisions of the Bill which continue to have a five season life, the constitution and general powers of the Wheat Board and the power of direction by the Minister. 
The Bill contains a clause giving retrospective validation to remuneration paid by the Wheat Board to bulk handling authorities under current and previous wheat stabilisation legislation. Such remuneration was paid according to a basis agreed by Federal and State Ministers, as required by the legislation. Ministerial agreements were on a retrospective basis. Legal advice received was that payments made under retrospective agreements could only be validated by enactment of appropriate legislation. 
Conclusion 
The wheat marketing and pricing arrangements embodied in the Bill have been determined after extensive discussion and consideration of the IAC report and recommendations and after serious and lengthy consideration of views put forward by all interests concerned. The arrangements have the support of the industry and all State governments. The provision of the guaranteed minimum deliverly price, in particular, will give the wheat grower confidence in the future. Generally, the arrangements will enable the wheat industry to go ahead into the next five . years with some assurance of predictability and security. Such is the importance of the industry to the national economy that this can only be to the benefit of Australia as a whole. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
)-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second dme. 
This Bill amends the Wheat Research Act 1957 and is complementary to the Wheat Tax Bill 1979, the Wheat Tax Act 1957 and the Wheat Marketing Bill 1 979. The primary purpose of this Bill is to amend the Wheat Research Act to provide for amounts equal to the amounts derived under the Wheat Tax Act 1979 to be paid into the wheat research trust account. The Bill also provides the necessary related appropriation from Consolidated Revenue. Consistent with the principle specified in the principal Act for dealing with taxation collections, the Bill also specifies the basis upon which funds derived from the Wheat Tax Bill 1 979 are to be identified in order that revenue derived from a State is used for research in that State. 
The opportunity is taken also to amend the reporting period for the annual report on the operation of the principal Act. The present calendar year requirement for the report inhibits the presentation of financial information. Presentation on the proposed basis will simplify the presentation and preparation of the report and enhance its usefulness. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the Agreement on Fisheries between the Government of Australia and the Government of Japan. 
This matter came up at the Australian Fisheries Council meeting that was held recently. There was quite a deal of debate on this question between the Commonwealth and State 
Ministers. The Tasmanian Minister raised the point that he believed the parallel of latitude chosen should be 39 degrees 12 minutes south which is the historical boundary between Tasmania and Victoria. He further claimed that it was improper of the Commonwealth to decide another boundary for the purposes of feasibility studies. The Victorian Minister believed that the boundary should be not 39 degrees 30 minutes south but 39 degrees 40 minutes south. He pointed out that the best way to get equal feasibility studies- that is, one out of Victoria and one out of Tasmania- was to adopt a line that might be described as the median line between the two States. In the end, we settled on 39 degrees 30 minutes south as a reasonable compromise between the two and because it provides an opportunity for a fair feasibility study to be carried out from Tasmania as well as from Victoria. The Ministers also agreed that when the feasibility studies are concluded we ought to set up a tripartite committee consisting of representatives of the Victorian, Tasmanian and Commonwealth governments to look at the long term effects of selecting boundaries of this nature and establishing fishing practices for many years ahead. I do not really believe that there will be any detrimental effect at all on the Tasmanian fishing industry. 
-The Australian Wool Corporation has been looking at the whole process of wool selling to try to rationalise and to improve the efficiency of the operation. The matter raised by the honourable member is presently under study by the Australian Wool Corporation. I have no doubt that an appropriate announcement will be made when the Wool Corporation makes its decision. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Airworthiness Advisory Circular No. 110 of June 1979, states that the Department of Transport is not in a position to approve the use of motor gasoline in aircraft. 
(a) No. (b) An analysis by the National Transportation Safety Board in the United States indicating that there were sixteen (16) reported accidents in the United States in the period 1967-1976 in which the use of motor gasoline (auto gas) was stated as a causal factor. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1), (2) and (3) My Department does not maintain statistics of flight diversions at these aerodromes. 
1964. 
As the aerodrome at Corowa is owned by the local authorities my Department does not have access to the relevant figures which would indicate the degree of ratepayers money included in the amount expended on the aerodrome. 
My Department, under the Aerodrome Local Ownership Plan, pays fifty percent of the cost of all approved maintenance and development works carried out on the aerodrome. Grants, under the Aerodrome Local Ownership Plan totalling $76,789, have been paid to the local authorities by the Federal Government since 1964. In the past five years expenditure has been as follows: 
1974-75-$7,740; 1975-76-$7,429; 1976-77- $7,141; 1977-78- $7,701; 1978-79- $8,145. 
The standard of facilities at Corowa is considered to be adequate as the runways are capable of taking limited F27 traffic and the terminal building although consisting of a wartime corrugated iron building is capable of handling the likely future traffic There is also a non directional beacon at Corowa. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not appropriate to identify specific considerations associated with decisions on the appointment of Directors of Qantas. However, in making these decisions, account needs to be taken of the need to ensure continuity on the one hand and also the need to provide opportunities for other people with differing qualifications and experience to make a contribution to the activities of Qantas. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A number of vacancies have occurred recently on the Qantas Board, including that resulting from  Mr Miller's  resignation. Consideration has been given to appointments to these vacancies and two new Directors, namely  Mr J.  B. Leslie and  Sir Tristan  Antico were announced on 1 1 October 1979. 
2 May 1979. 
-The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) A cheque was sent to  Mr Miller  by Qantas on 7 June 1979 for $370.40 for the period 1 April-2 May being gross director fees of $563.3 1 less tax witholding $ 1 92.90. 
and (3) No benefits, concessions, facilities or assistance was made available to Miller by Qantas after 15 March 1979. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2 ) and ( 3 ) On 1 6 March 1 979  Mr Miller  telexed appropriate Commonwealth Ministers advising that summonses had been issued against him in regard to Computicket. Following discussions between Commonwealth Ministers,  Mr Sinclair,  on behalf of the Government, contacted  Mr Miller  and subsequently issued a press release on the same day announcing that  Mr Miller  would be writing to offer his resignations from the directorship of Qantas and his membership of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. 

 Mr Miller sent me a letter dated 20 April 1979 formally resigning as a Director of Qantas. 
I accepted  Mr Miller's  resignation in a letter dated 2 May 1979. On 15 May 1 979 1 wrote to the  Chairman  of Qantas formally advising him of  Mr Miller's  resignation which in accordance with the Qantas Articles of Association was operative from 2 May 1979. 
No. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 understand the three seamen who were living aboard the vessel  Ramu  complained about the fact that they were not being paid, had no food and the vessel was without power for lighting and cooking purposes. Although my Department has no direct responsibility in the matter, officers assisted the three seamen concerned with money from the Merchant Navy Welfare Society, Brisbane and drew the attention of the Papua New Guinea Consul and the Department of Transport and Civil Aviation in Papua New Guinea to the living conditions on board the vessel. An official from the Papua New Guinea Department visited the vesel recently and on 28 September the three seamen concerned were repatriated to Papua New Guinea at the owner's expense. I understand the Papua New Guinea Authorities are at present taking legal action against the owner of the vessel to ensure that seamen who served on the vessel are paid the wages due to them. 
It is understood that the vessel is owned by a  Mr A.  P. Olsen, whose address is given as 48 Ishmael Road, Cairns, and registered at Rabaul in the name of Olsen Shipping Lines of Port Moresby. 
The vessel has had problems complying with certain survey and crewing requirements in the past and has also been laid up on occasions. 
Since 2 1st April this year. 
No. 
The international practice is for the laws of the vessel 's country of registration to apply to the crew on international voyages. Crew conditions on the  Ramu  while in Australia are thus a matter for the Papua New Guinea Consul. However, as indicated above my Department has done everything possible to assist in this case. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Only one vessel was repaired under this contract Name: MV  Cape Moreton;  Type: Navigational Aids Vessel; Age: Built November 1963; Tonnage: 2103 gross tons. 
Servicing marine navigational aids. 
Brisbane. 
Yes. Approximately every eighteen months. 
Evans Deakin, Brisbane, and A.U.S.N., Brisbane. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
It is understood that the rules introduced in Singapore provide that: 
owners of vessels will be required to disclose particulars of ownership. If the vessel is owned by a body corporate disclosure will be required as to who are the directors, shareholders, chairman and of the company's authorised and paid-up capital; 
for a vessel under ownership of a body corporate to qualify for registration the paid-up capital of the company must be 1 0 per cent of the price of the vessel shown in the Bill of Sale, subject to maximum and minimum amounts; 
Foreign owned ships seeking registration must be of 1,600 grt or above and less than IS years old. Maximum age restrictions are also imposed on Singaporeowned ships. 
Ships are registered in Australia under the United Kingdom Merchant Shipping Act 1894 and are only eligible for registration if they are wholly owned by British subjects or by bodies corporate established under the law of and having their principal place of business in a British possession. There are no requirements comparable to (b) and (c) above. 
and (4) Information received by the Government suggests that the changes are considered necessary: 
to enable Singapore to exercise stricter and more effective control over owners of ships on its register; 
b) improve the quality and safety of the fleet; 
to upgrade the size of the vessels in the fleet. 
Apart from the DCN article to which the honourable member has referred my Depanment has no knowledge of any proposals of the Singapore Government to raise insurance rates for the registration of older tonnage. 
I am not aware of the Singapore Government's intentions regarding the Hamburg Rules, but I would point out that these Rules have not yet entered into force internationally. 
The major differences between the Hague Rules and the Hamburg Rules are: 
the Hamburg Rules are applicable to all international contracts of carriage by sea, other than charterparties. The Hague Rules only apply to contracts of carriage covered by a bill of lading or any similar document of title; 
under the Hamburg Rules, with the exception of fire, the carrier is liable for loss or damage unless it is proved that he was not at fault. The liability scheme under the Hague Rules is much more complex, there being a number of exceptions to liability. The most important is that the carrier is not responsible for loss or damage arising from errors in navigation or in the management ofthe ship; 
the Hamburg Rules cover live animals and deck cargo whereas these are excluded from the Hague Rules; 
the period of the carrier's responsibility for goods is from 'port to port' under the Hamburg Rules and from ' tackle to tackle ' under the Hague Rules; 
the limit of the carrier 'a liability under the Hamburg Rules is 2.S Special Drawing Rights (approx. $2.90 Aust.) per kilo or 83 5 Special Drawing Rights (approx. $975 Aust.) per package or other shipping unit whichever is the higher. The limit of the earner's liability under the Hague Rules is 100 pounds sterling (approx. $192 Aust.) per package or unit. 
See answer to question (6) above. 
The Hamburg Rules are not yet in force. The Hague Rules affect Australian shippers as these Rules apply to the carriage of goods by sea interstate and overseas from Australia by virtue of the Sea Carriage of Goods Act 1924. 
Vessels are registered in Hong Kong under the United Kingdom Merchant Shipping Act 1894 and the conditions are the same as those currently in force in Australia. While Panama and Liberia, like Singapore, are often described as open registry' nations the details of their registry differ substantially, as the Convention on the High Seas leaves it to each country to establish its own conditions of registry. Registration is basically to establish nationality and grant flag rights, however, I would point out that the critical factors are not the conditions of registry but rather the subsequent control of seaworthiness, safety and manning aspects exercised by 'open registry ' countries. 
10) From 1 July 1 978 to 30 June 1979 there were 460 arrivals and departures of Singapore registered vessels in and out of Australian pons. This represents 4.4 per cent of all vessel movements in and out of Australia. 
Representations are made by my Depanment from time to time to authorities in other countries, including Singapore, regarding the condition of their ships visiting Australian ports. No representations have been made regarding the changes in Singapore 's registration conditions. 
Australia is not an 'open registry' country so that comparable actions to those proposed by Singapore are not under consideration. 
Re-fuelling Depot for Nuclear Powered Ships  (Question No.  4994) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At the meeting in Brisbane on 18 July 1979, Queensland game fishing interests expressed strong opposition to the proposal to permit Japanese longline operations in the Coral Sea and sought a wider area of exclusion of Japanese tuna longliners than the proposed buffer zone of 12 miles seaward from the eastern edge of the Great Barrier Reef between 14°20' South and 18° South. The Commonwealth representative informed the meeting that on the basis of data available, it would not accord with Australia's international obligations to exclude the Japanese from any wider areas of the Coral Sea, given Japanese fishing activities in the area for over 20 years without detriment to tuna and martin stocks. The Commonwealth representative invited provision of data from game fishermen to supplement information available to the Government and assured game fishing representatives that Japanese operations would be phased out if there was evidence to show adverse effects on fish stocks or on operations of Australian commercial fishing interests. 
The game fishermen indicated, that, if the wider exclusion was not possible, the buffer zone should be extended northwards 20 miles (from 14°20 "S to 14°S) and that all Japanese operations be excluded within the buffer zone. This latter part of the request referred specifically to Japanese handlining as distinct from longlining, for tunas off the edge of the Great Barrier Reef between August and December. 
This position was put to the Japanese during negotiations and although Australia was not successful in extending the buffer zone 20 miles northward, was successful in extending the width of the buffer zone overall and in excluding all Japanese operations in the buffer zone. The result of this aspect of the negotiations was communicated to the Queensland Fisheries Service. As a result of further discussions between Commonwealth and Queensland Government officials, an agreed position has been reached with regard to access by Japanese tuna longline fishing vessels to waters off north Queensland. My media release of 12 October 1979 provides the details of these discussions. 
Yes. 
Yes. Since taking up the portfolio of Minister for Primary Industry on 27 September further representations were made to me by game fishing interests, expressing dissatisfaction with the outcome of the negotiations with Japan and calling for a wider area of exclusion in the Coral Sea. 
Fishing Agreement with Japan  (Question No. 4988) 
-The answers to the honourable member's questions are: 
1 ) Yes. The Government undertook to consult further with the Queensland Government on the concerns expressed by gamefishing interests to operations by Japanese tuna longliners in waters off Queensland. 
Consultations were held with the Queensland Government and game-fishing representatives. 
No. The Commonwealth and the Queensland Government accepted the recommendation of a working party of Commonwealth/Queensland officials that the Japanese be informed, prior to signature of the fisheries agreement, that the Australian Government would seek early consultations to examine the necessity or otherwise of an additional area of exclusion of longline fishing vessels off Cairns. The Japanese Government was informed on 16 October 1979. In addition, the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments agreed that more detailed studies be undertaken during the period of the one year Subsidiary Agreement on Japanese tuna longlining to determine the full effect of Japanese longline fishing activities in Australian waters. The agreement with Japan was signed, as negotiated, on 17 October 1979. 
I held discussions on 16 October 1979 with a delegation of representatives from game fishing organisations in Queensland and NSW, regarding the Australia/Japan fisheries agreement. At this meeting I stressed to the delegation the significance of a fisheries agreement between Australia and Japan, and the positive gains to Australia of such an agreement. I agreed to the establishment of a working committee, with representation from the Commonwealth, NSW and Queensland Governments as well as representatives from game fishing organisations, to monitor and collate information during the period of operations of the tuna longline Subsidiary Agreement. I gave the delegation an assurance that the Australian Government was vitally concerned to ensure adequate protection of the martin fishery off north Queensland and that Australia will not allow longline fishing activities to jeopardise that fishery. 
Pursuant to section 29 (4) of the Dairy Produce Act 1924I present the annual report of the Australian Dairy Corporation 1979. 
For the information of honourable members I present financial statements of the Australian National Railways Commission 1977-78. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Australian Shippers Council 1979. 
It was decided by both the New South Wales Minister for Planning and Environment,  Mr Landa,  and me that there ought to be appropriate consultations by the  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney Committee with as wide a range of community interest groups as possible in respect of the development of proposals for the future airport needs of Sydney. Consistent with that, each discussion paper which has been a product of the Committee- the discussion papers have had nothing to do with this Government- has been canvassed as broadly as possible with all of the councils and groups that have been interested in the matter. That certainly is one of the reasons for there being a considerable length of time involved in the conduct of the inquiry. I should make the point to the House that the MANS Committee consists of officials from the Government of New South Wales as well as officials from the Commonwealth departments involved in trying to help to decide this question. So it is a joint study to try to help both governments to determine the best way through this difficult problem of meeting the future airport needs of Sydney. 
In relation to why it has taken longer than normal for a report of this nature to be furnished, without being too critical let me say that we have had some trouble with State officials in relation to their attendance at meetings and the sorts of requirements that they have placed on the work of the Committee. It seemed to me- I share the" concern of the honourable member- that this matter should have been drawn to a conclusion. I took the initiative myself of asking the  Chairman  of the Committee to furnish a report. I informed  Mr Landa,  the State Minister, that I felt that 14 December was an appropriate time for this committee work to be wound up. It seemed to me that it was pointless carrying it on any longer, that all the consultations that were possible had been carried out and that all the work that it was possible to carry out had been carried out. It seemed to me that to carry out some of the work that it was suggested the Committee should continue to do would be simply going over old ground in a slightly different way. So I asked for the report by 1 4 December. 
This date was not chosen with the thought that the Parliament would not be in session. Please rest assured that this Parliament will have a perfect opportunity to debate this matter after  Mr Landa,  the State Minister, and I, as the Commonwealth Minister, have determined what the future airport needs of Sydney will be. 
I have heard statements by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. They were totally irresponsible statements by a member of parliament who purports to be a contender for the Deputy Prime Ministership of this country. He has not even the institutional fortitude to face up to the difficult questions that affect his own electorate, let alone anything else. 
The Auditor-General's report has come to hand and certain actions have been taken by the members of the board of the Australian Dairy Corporation to ensure that the practices that caused concern to the AuditorGeneral are no longer relevant. In other words, as I understand it, they have corrected the practices to ensure that they meet with the AuditorGeneral 's requirements. As to the other parts of the honourable member's question, I would like to look at them in some detail and give him a considered reply. 
Apart from anything else the proposed terms of reference for this select committee to examine are extraordinarily broad and we should not expect a small group of members of Parliament to find time to look into them effectively. I quote the second point of the proposed terms of reference. It is: 
Examine the impact of transport costs on the development of Australia's industries. 
Presumably the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  is suggesting- as this motion has been on the Notice Paper for nearly two years I imagine he is suggesting it in all seriousness- that an examination of the interrelationship of transport costs on all of Australia's industries be undertaken. I suggest that given the thousands of factories and industries the committee could not even begin to scratch the surface of this problem. I pity any honourable member of Parliament who proposes to sit on this committee. Quite simply, the point is that a number of expert groups within the Stare and Commonwealth Governments are co-operating to constantly study precisely what the honourable member for Shortland suggests a group of Parliamentarians should be doing. This specialist work is carried out by the Bureau of Transport Economics, the Australian Transport Advisory Council, the Transport Industries Advisory Council, the Marine and Ports Council of Australia, the Aviation Industry Advisory Council, the Stevedoring Industry Consultative Council, the Australian Shippers' Council, the Australian Railway Research and Development Organisation, the Australian Road Research Board, and the National Association of Australian State Road Authorities. The Department itself carries out particular studies, as do the transport departments of other States. There is co-operation and a flow of information between the Commonwealth and the States, all aimed at further enhancing transport efficiency in Australia. 
Given this complex federal system, with State control of transport regulations and systems, attainment can be achieved only by cooperation, not by dictation through Federal parliamentary study. I know that the Opposition, with its typically centralist approach, ignores the sovereign rights and responsibilities of the States and the lack of jurisdiction by the Commonwealth. Again the Opposition would like to ride all over the top of the States. The fact is that the Opposition ignores the role that the States have in this matter. The Bureau of Transport Economics has carried out a number of studies directed towards looking at the impact of transport costs in relation to demands on services. A few specific examples include several studies in relation to urban public transport, rail upgrading and intersystem rating studies, evaluation of roads investment needs, a Study of rail freight wagon utilisation, and a study into the long distance road haulage industry. With specific reference to overseas trade, there have been several Bureau of Transport Economics studies such as the transport and handling of Australia's wool production, the transport of the wheat harvest, the demand for international air services, and cargo centralisation. I name these only to stress the point that a select committee, as suggested by the Opposition, would be going over the work that has already been done quite adequately. It also shows that the Government is doing something positive about transport and transport costs. 
Someone has to pay for the provision, the operation and the maintenance of the infrastructure and the equipment necessary in transport. It is an extremely expensive business and the Government is fully conscious of the importance of transport costs in the overall economic picture. Where it has been possible, the Government has taken steps to ensure that goods and people are moved in the most effective way, providing that this is also the way that most benefits the economy and the community. The Opposition, through this motion, seems to be implying that an examination of transport costs, taken in isolation, will somehow result in a significant improvement in the areas mentioned in the motion. But it must be realised that the Government also has responsibilities ranging far wider than simply costs of transport. We have to take into account environmental aspects, social and developmental factors- such as the need to service areas on other than economic groundsfrequency and reliability of services, safety, quality and comfort. 
The Government is keen to ensure that transport costs do not have unduly adverse effects on the competitive position of industry. In transport, we have implemented the National Railway Network (Financial Assistance) Act, under which the Commonwealth will contribute $70m over five years to upgrade State railways which are a part of the national mainline system. During the current financial year an amount of $1 lm is being provided. We have supported the Kwinana-Koolyanobbing railway scheme in Western Australia by supporting the Western Australian Government's application for $65m loan funds. We are supporting the Brisbane rail electrification program through substantial grants under the Urban Transport Assistance scheme. We are improving the efficiency of the Australian National Railways and reducing its operating deficit. We have established the Australian Railway Research and Development Organisation to assist railway efficiency and development. These things are not pie-in-the-sky. They are actually happening in order to  assist  transport throughout Australia. 
We have approved projects involving a Commonwealth contribution of.$40m in 1979-80 to the States under the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Act. Only last weekend the transport 
Minister for South Australia, and I, announced an improved program for upgrading the Stuart Highway between Port Augusta and the Northern Territory border. Over the next seven years $66m is to be spent to complete the sealing of the highway by 1987. That is something that the previous Minister for Transport in South Australia,  Mr Virgo,  said could not be done. Yet the new Liberal Government in South Australia has moved quickly, to come in with the Commonwealth and get the program under way. In 1979-80 the Government is making available an amount of $7m to the States for land transport planning and research. We have major plans under way for the development of a new international airport at Brisbane and new terminal area at Coolangatta. We have developed uniform Commonwealth, State and Northern Territory shipping laws. We are strengthening the overseas cargo shipping legislation. We are carrying out major airport needs studies at Port Phillip, Sydney, Darwin, in the Perth region, Canberra and Adelaide. One of the most vivid examples of keeping transport costs down is through the Tasmanian freight equalisation scheme. 
During this financial year the Commonwealth will provide $27. 2m for transport freight equalisation. The honourable member interjects and says that the Government has no transport philosophy. There speaks an academic without the slightest basic knowledge of transport problems in this country. I invite him to come down to my farm and help me shift some cattle to market. He might learn a few facts of life. These are some of the achievements that have been carried out by the Government. In addition to that, of course, is the major program of road funds undertaken by the Commonwealth. In overall programs the Government has consistently increased its annual allocations, despite economic difficulties created by the previous Government, and the fundamental needs to restrain public expenditure. It is interesting to note that during 1974-75, which is the last year of the Labor Government, the amount provided for roads was a little less than $365m. This represents less than $lm a day. When the present Government came to office it was faced with a disastrous economic situation and this meant it was forced to restrict government spending to contain the forces of inflation that had been unleashed by the previous administration. 
Despite the tight budgetary situation, the Government has increased the amount available for roads to over $546m. That is an increase of more than $ 181m, or almost 50 per cent, over 1974-75, when Labor was in office. The mathematically minded will find that even allowing for the extra day next February we are providing more than $ 1 .49m each day for roads. 
Another area where we have achieved spectacular results is in the field of air transport. We have slashed air travel costs for consumers through our international civil aviation policy in a way that was never achieved by any previous government. The previous Government was not even game to tackle the problem. Despite steeply rising world fuel prices many individual return international air fares are still below the level of those available in December 1978. Our new international civil aviation policy has made such air fares available- fares which are benefiting hundreds of thousands of air travellers, hot only in Australia but also in many other parts of the world. Honourable members will recall that last month officials of the Association of South East Asian Nations and Australia reached agreement on recommendations they would make for new cheap air fares within the region which, if approved by the governments concerned, will come into effect from 1 January next year. 
With these recent developments we have now established low fare arrangements on 16 routes into and out of Australia covering more than 85 per cent of total international passenger movements. Benefits to consumers are significant with reductions typically in the order of 35 to 40 per cent and up to 50 per cent of the previous lowest individual fare. New domestic add-on fares encouraging wide travel within Australia are now available in conjunction with these international fares. Benefits are not restricted to lowest fare passengers with lower tour basing fares to North America, Pacific destinations and Asia agreed. In addition, new business class- superior seating, separate cabins- and sleeperette first classnewly designed seats- services have been introduced on several routes. 
As was expected, the new arrangements have stimulated travel into and out of Australia. Some examples of generation of traffic recorded to date, compared with levels experienced in 1978, are: Increases of 48 per cent on the United Kingdom route, 83 per cent on the German route and 50 per cent on the United States of America route. Indications are that visitors to Australia comprise a large proportion of the new growth. Preliminary sample figures of overseas arrivals during 1 979 compared to similar periods in 1 978 show considerable growth in short term visitor arrivals. For example in May arrivals were up 33 per cent, in June up 6 1 per cent, in July up 50 per cent, and in August up 26 per cent. This demonstrates the positive impact that the new arrangements are having on tourism to Australia. 
Our international civil aviation policy review was very much a study- indeed the first of its kind in recent years- related to the impact of costs and the efficient movement of people. The review of our domestic air transport policyagain, the first undertaken for many years- was similar. Through it, we have already introduced a number of discount fares. A number of significant changes were recommended with the object of fostering increased competition in Australian domestic aviation. 
I hope to make a statement to the Parliament on this matter next week before we get up. Already we have achieved significant benefits for air travellers within Australia by way of lower air fares, with standby fares at 30 per cent discount, Advance Purchase Excursion fares at 25 per cent discount and Super APEX fares at 40 per cent discount. I have mentioned international addons and 'See Australia ' fares. 
I must say that I find the last part of this motion rather surprising; namely, that which proposes that a select committee should examine the impact of transport costs on Australia's ability to compete in overseas markets. I think that everyone knows where the main problem lies in this regard- with excessive wage demands by the unions and rising prices adversely affecting our competitiveness. Rising prices are caused fairly and squarely by wage demands. Let us look at what a Labor government would do. This is straight from the Adelaide Labor conference. It would endorse a free for all for the unions, and that would mean unchecked wage demands. It would endorse political strikes and put unions above the law. 
You said it, amongst others, at Adelaide. Labor would favour the rights of unionists above non-unionists. It would induce unions to operate outside our system of conciliation and arbitration. It would allow unionists to strike in the course of their activities, immune from pain or penalty. Labor would completely destroy Australia's competitiveness. When it comes to the records of this Government and the Opposition and what ought to be done and what can be done in government, I rest on the Government 's record. 
For the information of honourable members I present an agreement with the Kailis Kaohsiung Fishing Co. Pty Ltd relating to Taiwanese access to the Australian fishing zone. 
Motion (by  Mr Viner)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on the motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3) Following the release of the Review Report I invited comments on the Report's recommendations. No comments specifically relating to air freight were received. However, I have on a number of occasions met with members of the air freight industry at which time these recommendations have been discussed. I do not consider it appropriate to advise details of these meetings. 
As I have previously indicated I hope to be in a position to make a statement during the current Parliamentary session. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Transport of departmental personnel for inspection/ servicing of marine navigational aids at Deal Island and Wilson 's Promontory. 
2 ) This contract was for the month of July 1979. 
From Moorabbin Airport. 
By helicopter. 
Vowell Air Services (Helicopters) Pty Ltd, Tyabb, Victoria. It is not the practice to disclose financial details of unsuccessful tenders. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am not able to comment for all firms offering travel insurance. However, of the four insurance companies whose policies are available in Qantas' ticket offices, one company allows claims for sickness or death to a passenger or near relative; the policies of the other three companies cover unforeseen circumstances outside the control of the person insured. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I refer the honourable member to the answer to Question No. 4328  (Hansard,  page 2657, of 6 November 1 979 ), provided by the Minister for National Development. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given by the Minister for National Development to Question No. 4328 (see  Hansard,  6 November, 1979, page 2657). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The course referred to has not yet been conducted. It is scheduled for November 1979. Proposed course membership is: 
I am aware of the value to Australia of the sweet corn industry. In line with the Bowen report, being a grower, I have to confess to a vested interest in the industry. I am also aware that concern has been expressed by part of the industry about the impact of New Zealand sweet corn on the industry, although no direct approaches have been made to me by the industry as a whole. I will have a look at the question the honourable member has raised and see what further information I can get. 
I am able to inform the Leader of the Opposition that McDougall Airlines does not hold a contract with the Department of Transport for coastal surveillance. McDougall Airlines does hire one of its aircraft to Executive Air Charter as distinct from Executive Air Services. Please note the distinction. Executive Air Charter holds a contract for one leg of the coastal surveillance task for the Department of Health. Executive Air Charter was contracted only from 1 October when the shortage of avgas caused the replacement of Executive Air Services as the contractor. Executive Air Charter has a sector from Cairns to Cape Grenville and not, as alleged in the Parliament in Queensland last night, to Broome. Executive Air Charter is not used on drug surveillance but on unauthorised landings concerned with quarantine. 
I make the point that I have not seen the detailed allegations made by  Mr Casey  but, quite clearly, most of them at least are false in terms of the whole of the allegations. I am seeking a copy of the allegations made by the Leader of the Opposition in the Queensland Parliament and I am seeking further information about them. As to the methods by which these contracts are awarded, as I understand it, from day one proper clearances have been given to the personnel involved. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 1972, approval has been given to a number of programs of inclusive tour charter flights by US air carriers whose purpose was to bring additional toursits to Australia from the US. However, the carriers concerned did not avail themselves in all instances of the approvals they had sought. 
There are no fixed requirements in relation to fares to be charged for inclusive tour chaner flights. A chaner operator must seek approval of the fares he proposes to charge on each such flight or program of flights. Individual proposals are considered on their merits. 
No applications to operate inclusive tour charters have been made by US air carriers since lower APEX fares for travel between Australia and the US were introduced in February 1979. 
No US chaner operators or tour organisers have raised the matter. Their current interest in operating inclusive tour charters to Australia is not known. 
Australia advised the US in December 1978 that it would continue to treat sympathetically any applications by US air carriers to operate inclusive tour charters from the US to Australia. No applications have been received since then. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Cancelled flight seats which are purchased on advance purchase basis are made available for resale. Seats cancelled prior to the relevant close out period are freely offered for resale to other passengers on an advance purchase basis, but within the period they can only be made available to passengers paying higher level on demand fares. 
Airlines may only gain double returns when cancellations are effected i.e. the passenger does not use the APEX ticket or convert it into another fare, and the particular flight departs fully loaded. The likelihood of this is not great, Qantas load factor on Australia-UK route February to September 1979 was 80.6 per cent. Le. about 15 seats not occupied for every seat cancelled by an APEX passenger. 
Domestic airlines at present operate on an average of 70 per cent load factor. However cancellation of an APEX booking does not necessarily mean cancellation of travel. Passengers on domestic airlines may upgrade their tickets to economy class and undertake travel at some later time. 
The domestic airlines are required to submit proposed fares to me for approval. I have approved the level of fares and associated conditions for advance purchase fares available in Australia. The advance purchase conditions relating to international fares are an integral component of the low fare arrangements negotiated between Australia and the other governments concerned. Without such conditions the airlines would not be able to provide fares at the current levels. The whole concept of the new fare arrangements is based on achieving high aircraft capacity utilisation levels so that airlines are able to achieve the economies which permit the low fares to be offered. To provide the degree of certainty in this regard, conditions such as those relating to the period for payment and penalties for cancellation are placed on the lower fares. 
The airlines do not keep separate records on cancellations of advance purchase fares. However Qantas has estimated that in respect of flights on the Australia/UK services in recent months about 1 .5 per cent of APEX fares have been cancelled within the 45 day advance purchase period. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At 9 October 1979 Qantas employed 13,590 staff world-wide including 681 technical crew and 2,021 cabin crew. 
(a) French, S3 cabin crew and 234 other staff; (b) German, 61 cabin crew and 165 other staff; (c) Russian, 2 cabin crew and 19 other staff; (d) Chinese, 1 cabin crew and 37 other staff; (e) Japanese, 4 cabin crew and 8 other staff; (f) Malay/Indonesian, 1 cabin crew and 32 other staff; (g) Italian, 27 cabin crew and 120 other staff; (h) Greek, 12 cabin crew and 54 other staff. 
Figures do not include locally appointed staff overseas speaking mother tongue or those not normally required to use multi lingual skills as part of their job. 
Information for most staff not readily available, however, following information is available on the number of aircrew who have more than one language other than English. 
(a) 30 aircrew; (b) 5 aircrew; (c) 2 aircrew. 
Qantas has a foreign language learning facility based on University of N.S.W. Institute of Languages package providing instruction at elementary level in French, Dutch, Italian, Greek, German and Spanish. Future consideration will be given to extending these to advanced level as well as adding Japanese, Malay/Indonesian and Russian at both levels. University of NSW has also developed for Qantas cabin crew an individual programmed instruction package available either on campus or at home. Preference is given in the employment of customer contact staff to applicants with multi language skills provided they meet all other selection criteria. However, all local staff appointed overseas must have English as second language. 
No. 
-The answer to the  honurable  member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am advised that Qantas does not recommend any specific insurance company to its passengers. However, the policies of four insurance companies are available in Qantas ticket offices. The four companies were chosen on the basis of advice from Qantas' insurance broker as providing a comprehensive range of cover, all of which are competitive within the insurance industry. 
2 ) There is no requirement that insurance must be bought on the day the Qantas ticket is purchased. Three of the companies, whose policies are available in Qantas ticket offices, will accept cover bought up to the day of departure. I am informed that it is Qantas' policy to recommend to passengers that they buy insurance cover at the time of ticketing to afford the greatest level of protection, particularly where advance purchase conditions are involved. 
Fishing Agreement with Japan  (Question No. 4923) 
-The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) No. I did say that complete lack of scientific evidence, and by that I meant that there have been no definitive studies on the relationship between longlining and gamefishing in the Coral Sea, has been a problem in the discussions. Further, I said in the House on 17 October 1979 all information on the various examinations that have been carried out has been available to the Department of Primary Industry and has been used by the Department in its assessment of the situation. 
Both the Institute of Marine Science, University of Miami and the United States of America Depanment of Commerce National Marine Fisheries Service have published documents which refer to black marlin in Australian waters. I am advised that  Mr J.  Anderson has published an article dealing with black marlin fishing of the Great Barrier Reef in Volume 41 Number 2 of the International Marine Angler, 1979. 1 am also advised that there is a report by the Cairns Game Fishing Club which refers to marlin. 
The studies referred to in (2) were taken into account. 
An economic survey is being carried out by my Depanment to assess the value of the Cairns Game Fishery both to Cairns and Australia generally. It is expected that the survey will be completed by the end of 1 979. 
Delay was not warranted. The agreement will be reviewed annually in the light of information as it comes to hand, including that contained in the economic survey referred to in (4). 
-The answers to the honourable member's questions are: 
The Working Group's comments have to be read in the context that it was discussing various forms of participation by foreign fishing interests in the 200 mile Australian fishing zone (AFZ). At page 57 of the report when discussing forms of licensed foreign fishing the Working Group stated: 
In the simplest form this involves permitting foreign vessels to operate within the 200 mile zone subject only to the payment of a licence fee and /or royalty and the provision of statistical data. Such an approach, however may not be acceptable since it does not generate any secondary benefits either by way of land based activities associated with the victualling or servicing of the vessel in Australia and the handling, trans-shipment or processing of the catch in Australia. 
The Working Group went on to discuss possibilities for additional conditions to be attached to approval of licensed fishing operations, such as port calls and landing of all or a portion of the catch in Australia, in order to maximise benefits for the industry and community as a whole. 
In fact the Government when negotiating access to the AFZ has been looking to maximize benefits to Australia including the protection of Australian fishing interests. In this connection it has sought additional benefits of the type advened to by the Working Group. 
The Working Group, also clearly recognised that there was already widespread international agreement that coastal States sovereignty over the living marine resources of the 200 mile zone carries with it an obligation to admit foreign fishing vessels to take the surplus above the coastal States harvesting capacity on terms and conditions determined by the coastal State. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Agreements providing for access by Taiwanese trawlers and gillnetters to the Australian fishing zone as from 1 November 1979, have been signed by myself, representatives of the Kailis Kaohsiung Fishing Company as agent for the Kaohsiung Fishing Boat Commercial Guild and by the  Chairman  of the Guild. 
The Queensland Government has been kept fully informed and have approved the Agreements. Under the terms and conditions of access, the area of operations of Taiwanese vessels will not include areas of concern to the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. In fact they do not include any areas on the east coast of Australia. 
Yes. 
Yes. Arrangements are in hand for the Agreements to be tabled in the Parliament. 
Boeing 707 VIP Aircraft (Question No.  4935) 
-Pursuant to section 14 of the Beef Industry (Incentive Payments) Act 1977 I present the interim report on the operation of the Beef Industry ( Incentive Payments ) Act 1977. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the University of Adelaide Road Accident Research Unit entitled Adelaide In-Depth Accident Study 1975-79, Part 1 : An Overview '. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Australian Shipping Commission 1978-79. Copies of the report are available from the House of Representatives Table Office and the Parliamentary Library. Bulk copies will be distributed during the recess. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. In the early 1960's, State authorities moved to control the sale and use of diethyl stilbestrol (DES) and other oestrogens for animal production purposes in accordance with a recommendation from the Australian Agricultural Council. Veterinarians were, however, permitted to continue use of these drugs for strictly therapeutic purposes in treating individual animals. 
See(l). 
According to the most recent advice available to the Department of Primary Industry, a complete ban on the use of DES as an animal growth promotant in the United States of America was due to take effect from 1 November 1979. 
Nabarlek: Alpha-radiation  (Question No. 5043) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australia/ Japan Subsidiary Agreement on Japanese tuna longline fishing in the Australian fishing zone, signed on 17 October 1979, excludes theoperation of Japanese tuna longline vessels from the area of the Protected Zone to be established under the Torres Strait Treaty. 
2 ) Article 20 ( 1 ) of the Torres Strait Treaty provides that Protected Zone commercial fisheries will be administered so as not to prejudice the traditional fishing activities of the Torres Strait Islanders. Article 26 (4) of the Treaty requires the Parties to consult the traditional inhabitants of the area on licensing arrangements in respect of Protected Zone commercial fisheries. The Government will not be concluding any fishing agreements which allow foreign boats to operate in the Protected Zone area unless the consultation process envisaged in Article 26 (4) of the Treaty has been carried out and the concurrence of the responsible authorities of both Australia and Papua New Guinea has been obtained in accordance with Article 27 of the Treaty. 
There were extensive consultations on the Treaty arrangements with the Torres Strait Islanders prior to signature of the Treaty on 18 December 1978. We are not currently engaged in any fisheries negotiations with foreign countries to which consultations on the matters raised by the honourable member would be relevant. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The recovery rates achieved by the sectors of the aviation industry are available in respect of 1974-75 to 1977-78 inclusive only. Further, the information for the two years 1974-75 and 1975-76 is based on preliminary financial results for those years. 
The recovery rates given in answer to pan (1) of the honourable member's question, are based on air navigation charges revenue only. When considering the level of cost recovery in the air transport industry, it is the practice to bring to account other attributable revenues such as customs duty and excise paid on aviation fuels, rents, concessionaires' licence fees etc. These revenues represent about 54 per cent and 48 per cent of the total attributable revenue in 1974-75 and 1977-78 respectively and have been taken into account in answering pan (2 ) of the question. 
Overseas charter operations are not taken out separately and are included in the Other General Aviation Sector. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2 ) See the answer to Question No. 5063. 
Aboriginal Affairs: Negotiations with States  (Question No. 5053) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nine. 
, (3) and (4)- 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The international airlines which offer the recently introduced APEX fares from Australia to these destinations have provided the following information: 
For the information of honourable members I present a substitute version of the annual report of the Australian Shippers Council 1978-79 which I initially presented on 15 November 1979. This is necessary because the final page of the initial report was omitted. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Redevelopment of Brisbane International Airport- Initial works phase 1. 
The proposal referred to the Committee for investigation and report is for the construction of the initial works associated with the proposed redevelopment of Brisbane International Airport to the north-east of the existing Airport. The initial works include reclamation of the site with sand filling dredged from Moreton Bay to accommodate the proposed new runway, taxiways, apron, building areas and roadways; the construction of a floodway channel to divert the flood waters presently discharging across the site; the construction of a 3,500-metre runway and associated taxiway system; and other associated engineering preparatory works. The estimated cost of the proposal when examined by the Committee was $98m at July 1979 prices. 
The balance of the works required to complete phase 1 involves the provision of additional facilities such as domestic terminal buildings, aprons, control tower, access roads, car parks and navigational aids and system at an additional cost of approximately $74m based on July 1979 prices. In reporting on the proposed works, the Committee has drawn a number of conclusions and made a number of recommendations which the Government has considered. The Committee in its report has agreed that the proposed concept for redevelopment of Brisbane International Airport is satisfactory, that the site is suitable and that the general scope of the initial works of phase 1 is necessary for the redevelopment. However, the Committee recommends that commencement of the proposed works be deferred until at least 1986 and that in the meantime the present runway be extended for international services and the Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airways terminals be expanded by those airlines. 
It is normal procedure for government decisions on major investments in public works to be justified in full cost/benefit economic analysis. In the case of this project this analysis was carried out by the Bureau of Transport Economics, and subsequently reviewed by the Department of Transport in the light of the latest information available. In fact, the analysis and recent review compared the proposals referred to the Committee with an alternative similar to that now recommended by the Committee. The review concluded that there is no economic penalty in proceeding with the redevedopment immediately by comparison with delaying it and making interim improvements to the existing airport. The Committee has not challenged this analysis. Furthermore, the review brought out unquantified benefits which would support a decision to proceed now. These benefits include the virtual removal of significant noise nuisance to some 10,000 residents near the airport, the elimination of current building heights restrictions, and the reduction of the cost of air traffic delays. In short the Committee appears to have based its recommendations on minimising short term government capital expenditure without due regard to the full economic considerations in the longer term. Turning now to the Committee's specific recommendations and conclusions I make the following comments: Firstly, based on the range of forecasts for aircraft movements until the 1990s, which is well within the capacity of the existing main runway, the Committee considers that a need has not been established for the immediate development of the proposed 02/20 runway. The Department of Transport stated in evidence that the proposed new runway was not required to provide early additional runway capacity. However, the Government is confident of the continued growth of Brisbane and Queensland generally. It believes that long term forecasts, such as prepared by the Department, reflect more accurately the growth prospects for aviation at Brisbane than do the predictions submitted by the domestic airlines to the Committee, apparently based on fairly recent trends, and that these long term forecasts are more appropriate for decision-making purposes. 
Secondly, the Committee does not accept that the total elimination of the curfew at the present time at Brisbane Airport will generally provide any significant benefit to the users of passengers or freight services. Thirdly, the Committee considers that the building height restrictions within the Brisbane Central Business District are not, of themselves, sufficient reason to advance the requirement for the proposed work at this time. Fourthly, the Committee recognises the noise problem in certain Brisbane residential suburbs and agrees that eventual redevelopment of Brisbane Airport should remove or reduce this nuisance. The current noise problem is not, in itself, sufficient reason to redevelop the airport immediately. The evidence from the Department of Transport did not suggest that any one of these individual benefits on its own justified the proposed redevelopment. However, in aggregate they are complementary to the economic analysis and offer significant benefits in support of the proposal. In particular, the Government believes that the opportunity to alleviate noise nuisance to a substantial number of people should not be passed over. 
Fifthly, the Committee accepts that upgrading of current domestic terminal facilities is warranted and should be permitted as proposed by Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia. The cost of upgrading required to meet demand until 1992 would be considerably higher than the domestic airlines have recently contemplated. Inevitably, these costs will be reflected into airline fares in due course. In any case the Department's investigations show that the ultimate capacity of the present total domestic terminal area, regardless of improvements made in the meantime, will not suffice for the period contemplated by the Committee. 
Sixthly, the Committee recommends the extension of the existing 04/22 runway to the north-east by approximately 300 metres be considered an interim measure to enable greater utilisation of Brisbane Airport by international operators. This recommendation relies on paragraph 113 of the Committee's report which conflicts with advice obtained recently by the Department from Qantas Airways Ltd. The Government will further investigate this aspect to determine whether there is need to review the required length of the proposed new runway. 
Seventhly, the Committee agrees that the proposed concept for the ultimate redevelopment of Brisbane Airport is satisfactory. Eighthly, the site, to the north east of the existing airport, is considered suitable for the redevelopment of Brisbane Airport. Ninthly, the Committee agrees that the general scope of the initial works of phase 1 are necessary for the ultimate redevelopment of Brisbane Airport. I have already noted the Committee's acceptance of these aspects of the proposals of the Department of Transport. Tenthly, a new international terminal building should be included in phase 1 works. 
The Department of Transport is satisfied that, subject to appropriate operating procedures, the interim use of the present international terminal would not be prejudicial to safety. However, the Government will give further consideration to the Committee's recommendation. 
Eleventhly, as it has not been effectively demonstrated to the Committee that the proposed redevelopment deserves high national priority, the increases in domestic and international air fares that will result from full cost recovery of the project are considered premature. Because of the variables involved it is premature to draw any firm conclusions on the effects of the cost of this project on air fares beyond the general conclusion that they would not be substantial. In any event, the Government has already recognised a need for special consideration to be given to cost recovery aspects of this project, and this will be done at a very early date. Twelfthly, the Committee recommends that the commencement of the works proposed in this reference be deferred until at least 1986, and recommends for consideration the works set out in paragraphs 103 to 116, which it believes will enable the current facilities to meet Brisbane's major airport needs to the year 1 992. 
For reasons which are apparent from my comments on other recommendations, the Government does not accept that the proposed works should be deferred. Deferral is not supported by the economic analysis which establishes that there is no overall economic penalty in proceeding immediately with this project. The Government believes that there are real and substantial community benefits to be derived from proceeding without delay to the redevelopment of Brisbane Airport in a manner which will provide an adequate base for future improvements to meet the long term needs of Brisbane. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning of the work referred to the Committee can proceed having regard to the comments contained in this resolution. The Government desires to thank the Committee for its thorough consideration of this large complex project. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. Consultations with the States were effected through the Australian Fisheries Council committee structure that is through the Standing Committee on Fisheries, the South Eastern Fisheries Committee, the Northern Fisheries Committee and directly as the occasion necessitated by official discussions with the States concerned. Queensland is of course a member of the Standing Committee on Fisheries and the Northern Fisheries Committee and has been present at meetings of the South Eastern Fisheries Committee which discussed the Japanese negotiations. There have also been discussions with Queensland fisheries officials by their counterparts in the Commonwealth both prior to and following initialling of the Agreements. 
Information relating to the progress of all negotiations including those with the Japanese was conveyed similarly through these committees and also in writing by the Minister to his Ministerial counterparts on the Australian Fisheries Council. 
Representations from the Queensland Government on behalf of game fishing interests were received in March 1 979 concerning the proposed areas of exclusion of Japanese tuna longliners from game-fishing grounds off Cairns. 
Published Japanese longline catch statistics record catches in numbers of fish rather than weight so it is necessary to estimate the weight of marlin caught. 
The following table shows estimated catch, effort and catch rates for the years requested: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In the context of the Australia /Japan Fisheries Agreement, Japan has agreed to continue the provision of technical assistance to the Australian fishing industry through the following technical assistance projects: 
accepting an Australian national in an appropriate Japanese research institution for training in the culturing of prawns; 
accepting an Australian national in an appropriate Japanese research institution for training in the light weight purse seining for jack mackerel; 
accepting an Australian national in an appropriate Japanese research institution for training in the catching of octopuses (Paroctopus dofleini dofleini (Wulker)); 
conducting studies, and making available to Australian fisheries authorities the results of those studies on commercial harvesting of octopuses in Australian fisheries; 
sending a research vessel to survey Australian squid resources and possible catching techniques; and 
examining means of improving culture techniques of Tasmanian rainbow trout in sea water. 
The market access issue was one element of the negotiations on the recently signed fishery agreement between Australia and Japan. 
As a result of these negotiations certain understandings have been reached between the Australian and Japanese Governments. 
Japan will advise Australia of the details of its import quota restrictions and give the Australian Government forewarning of any alterations in access conditions on fisheries products of interest to Australia, so that, if necessary consultations or negotiations can be held with Japan. 
In the negotiations the Japanese Government advised that where Australia's fish and fish products are commercially competitive with the fish and fish products of other nations, market access is and will be available for such Australian fish and fish products under the Japanese import system. 
If the situation should arise where Japanese import restrictions were to inhibit reasonable access for Australian fish and fish products, the Australian Government's expectation is that prompt consultations would be held when requested by Australia, that such consultations would be approached in a constructive and positive spirit and with the aim of reaching a mutually satisfactory solution. At all times such consultations would take into account the wider co-operative relations between Australia and Japan in the fisheries field. 
The Subsidiary Agreement concerning Japanese tuna longline fishing was signed on 17 October 1979 and has a currency of twelve months from 1 November 1979 with provision for re-negotiation not later than three months before its expiry. The terms and conditions of access for Japanese longline vessels will be reviewed prior to renegotiation in consultation with the States and industry. In this respect the Commonwealth and Queensland have agreed that a study is to be undertaken by a government/industry working group to assess the effect of Japanese tuna longlining on the marlin fishery off north Queensland. Membership of the working group comprises government representatives from 
Queensland, New South Wales and the Commonwealth and game fishermen's organisations from Queensland and New South Wales. The Japanese Government has been notified that during the operation of the Subsidiary Agreement the Australian Government will be paying particular attention to the monitoring of the arrangements as they affect game fishing stocks and activities off northern Queensland. 
Yes. The Governments of Queensland, Western Australia and Northern Territory have been fully consulted during talks with Taiwanese commercial fishing interests and have approved the agreements for access by Taiwanese fishing vessels, with the Kailis Kaohsiung Fishing Company, as agent for the Kaohsiung Fishing Boat Commercial Guild. 
All the terms and conditions concerning access to waters off north and north west of Australia and the controls to apply to all fishing activities and in particular the requirement for a cessation of illegal clam vessel operations on the Great Barrier Reef, were discussed with representatives of the Kailis Kaohsiung Fishing Company (KKFC), representing the Taiwanese fishermen. 
The agreement with the KKFC provides for the surrender of Australian licences, in respect of a number of Taiwanese fishing vessels that the Commonwealth Government shall solely determine, in the event of significant levels of contravention of Australian laws by Taiwanese fishing vessels, whether licensed or unlicensed. The company and the Guild have also been advised that continuation of access for Taiwanese fishing vessels to the AFZ is dependent on effective controls over all Taiwanese fishing activities being exercised, particularly cessation of all illegal activities by clam vessels on the Great Barrier Reef. Furthermore, the Fisheries Act 1952 has been amended to provide for penalties of up to $250,000 for illegal foreign fishing in the AFZ. In addition to the substantial increase in penalties, a magistrate may order forfeiture of a vessel, including its catch and equipment, upon a conviction being recorded. 
The Governments of Queensland, Western Australia and the Northern Territory have approved the agreements. 
Yes. The payment of access fees, based on the value of fish to be taken from the zone, has been agreed. The access fees for the 12 month period of the agreements are $825,000 for trawling and $ 1 59,600 for gillnetting. 
The access fee of $ 1.4m paid by Japan is a negotiated figure and is based on the value of the fish taken from the zone. The fee compares favourably with fees charged by other countries including countries of our region. 
10) Yes. State Governments and the Northern Territory has been kept informed of negotiations with the Republic of Korea. At the recent meeting of the Australian Fisheries Council on 2 November 1979, I agreed to refer to the Government the matter of State representation on government delegations negotiating bilateral fisheries arrangements. 
The Government has given priority to concluding negotiations with those countries having an existing fishing presence in Australian waters prior to proclamation of the Australian fishing zone on 1 November 1979. In this regard, agreements have been finalised with Japan and with Taiwanese commercial interests. Negotiations with the Republic of Korea are scheduled to recommence early next year. No timetable has been set for negotiations with other countries. The availability of fisheries resources surplus to Australia's harvesting capacity is a determining factor and the assessment of surplus resources is under continuing examination by the Commonwealth and the Suites, particularly in the light of the results of feasibility fishing activities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) and (2) It is not possible to advise how many advance purchase tickets bought at off-peak period rates have been cancelled and subsequently resold because such information is not retained by Qantas. 
There is no guarantee that the airlines would be able to sell cancelled APEX seats to 'on-demand' passengers within the advance purchase period. During thisperiod, the airlines are not permitted to sell cancelled APEX seats to APEX passengers since this would clearly contravene ticket conditions. 
If the practice of allowing some APEX passengers to make their payment within the advance purchase period were to be permitted, those passengers who had purchased their travel in accordance with the advance purchase conditions could understandably claim that they were being discriminated against. 
APEX passengers are, of course, allowed to cancel their travel outside the advance purchase period on payment of a cancellation fee. This fee is designed to compensate the airlines for the costs involved in processing the reservation and ticketing the passenger. Naturally, APEX seats cancelled outside the advance purchase period are made available for resale as APEX seats. 
Qantas 's recent experience on the Australia/UK route suggests that, within the advance purchase period, there are approximately six cancelled APEX bookings on each service, of which about three are passengers who simply do not turn up for the flight. Clearly, considering the average seat utilisation achieved by Qantas since the introduction of lower fares, the number of unsold seats significantly exceeds the number of seats for which APEX passengers have forfeited their fares. (3)I understand that Qantas has examined the feasibility of operating a wait-list for persons wishing to purchase a cancelled APEX ticket at off-peak rates. 
I am informed this examination has shown that such a facility presents difficulties. The introduction of a wait-list would add significantly to Qantas 's administrative workload, the costs of which would need to be recovered either through fare increases or the levying of some other charge. 
Further problems involve the impact on passengers' expectations. With the availability of a wait-list facility outside the advance purchase period, some intending APEX passengers may be tempted to defer completion of their travel arrangements in anticipation of ultimately obtaining an APEX seat through the wait-list, particularly if their preferred travel date is fully booked and instead of choosing alternative travel dates they could elect to wait-list for their preferred date of travel. 
Should no seat become available outside the advance purchase period for the preferred date of travel, not only will the intending passenger not travel on that date, but in all likelihood the passenger would have missed the opportunity to arrange APEX travel at an acceptable alternative date. 
In the circumstances it would appear that the limited benefits which would be derived from a wait-list facility may be far outweighed by the disadvantages and additional cost of providing such a facility. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The F27 aircraft was hired in accordance with the Department's flight standards surveillance program, which requires Examiners of Airmen to maintain proficiency on the various types of regular public transport aircraft. 
) One aircraft for six hours. 
Tamworth,NSW. 
This is the normal means of meeting this requirement. 
Yes. Trans Australia Airlines, Melbourne. In accordance with Finance Regulation S3, details of successful tenders only are disclosed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)I wrote to the  chairman  of both Ansett and TAA on the 14 August 1978 requesting that consultations take place with a view to jointly bringing forward firm proposals involving the reduced incidence of parallel scheduling between the two airlines. This was followed up by correspondence on 26 March 1979 and 25 June 1979. 
All competitive routes. 
The airlines have advised that a joint working group has been established to devise separated timetables which provide each airline the potential for achieving a 50 per cent share of the market. 
The Bureau of Transport Economics has not reported on the incidence of parallel scheduling. 
5 ) The information sought is not readily available. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Pilot actuated airport lighting control units are remote switching units developed by the Department of Transport to provide a more cost effective means of activating airport lighting at unattended aerodromes. Installation of these units enables approaching pilots to switch on lighting systems at destinations without the need for ground assistance. 
Queensland: Barcaldine, Boulia, Bundaberg, Charleville, Charters Towers, Clermont, Coolangatta, Cloncurry, Cunnamulla, Dalby, Gladstone, Goondiwindi, Hughenden, Julia Creek, Longreach, Mackay, Mt Isa, Quilpie, Richmond, Rockhampton, Roma, St George, Thangool, Thargomindah, Toowoomba, Winton. 
New South Wales: Balranald, Bourke, Brewarrina, Camden, Casino, Gunnedah, Merimbula, Mudgee, Narromine, Walgett, West Wyalong, Young. 
Tasmania: Devonport, King Island, Wynyard. 
Victoria: Ararat, Bairnsdale, Benalla, Bendigo, Hopetoun, Hamilton, Horsham, Kerang, Latrobe Valley, Nhill, Sale, Shepparton, Warrnambool. 
South Australia: Leigh Creek, Oodnadatta. 
Northern Territory: Tennant Creek, Tindal. 
Fifteen years. 
Universal Electronics, Brookvale, NSW, T.B.C. Pty Ltd, Hornsby, NSW. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority has programs investigating the catch, effort and economic structure of recreational fishing in the Great Barrier Reef region. The work on the marlin fishery is a small part of an overall study of recreational fishing. The program is based in part on analysis of catch and effort data provided by fishermen, charter boat operators and fishing clubs. 
No. Responsibility for the management of marlin fishing in Australian waters rests with Commonwealth and State fisheries authorities. The working group is comprised of the First Assistant Secretary, Fisheries Division, Department of Primary Industry and three members nominated by the Queensland Minister for Maritime Services and Tourism and three members nominated by the New South Wales Minister for Conservation and Water Resources. Both State Ministers have nominated their chief fisheries officers and two representatives of game fishermen to the committee. The working group will consult with relevant organisations, including the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority, as appropriate. 
Most black marlin fishing activity takes place outside the Great Barrier Reef region. Sport fishing for black marlin, but no foreign longlining activity, takes place inside the outer edge of the Great Barrier Reef. 
Conference on Family Policy (Question No. 5015) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Earlier this year, the Australian Wheat Board borrowed commercially, through the issue of bank accepted bills, to raise funds additional to those available from the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank to make first advance payments to growers for the 1978/79 crop and to meet the marketing expenses of that wheat pool. 
The full details and justification for these borrowings are set out in  Senator Carrick  's answer to  Senator Walsh  's Question on Notice No. 1 376 which appeared on page 2297 of the Senate  Hansard  of 29 May 1 979. Securities maturing in September from those commercial borrowings have been refinanced by the Board through the issue of promissory notes to the value of $167 million. The refinancing arrangements were decided after considering offers from trading banks, merchants bankers and authorised money market dealers. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (I), (2) and (3)- The information requested is of a detailed commercial nature and as the airlines concerned are operating in a commercial environment it would not be appropriate to disclose such information 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Application has not been received from EastWest Airlines to import either F28 or Bandierante aircraft. The airline has, however, expressed interest in introducing aircraft of the F28 type for its current route network and requested approval in principle of the importation of such aircraft. Consultations are being held with the Company on the proposals. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Passenger load factors for first and economy class are not collected separately by the Department of Transport, and East West Airlines operate only single class services. The following load factors therefore refer to total passengers carried under all revenue fare categories: 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) (a) and (b) Interstate travel: My Department has no power to control concessional travel on interstate services provided by domestic airlines. 
(a) and (b) Overseas travel: In common with most other countries Australia requires that proposals for international air travel at less than the approved tariffs or at variance with approved conditions should receive the prior agreement of the aeronautical regulatory authority. 
Numerous requests are received each year for special consideration in relation to persons intending to purchase tickets for international air travel. The criteria used in considering requests are 'significant national interest' and 'compelling humanitarian'. 
The relevant Air Navigation Regulation (ANR 106A) was amended in 1976. The following table therefore indicates the numbers of people involved in proposals and approvals for 1977, 1978 and the first ten months of 1979. 
-The information sought by the honourable member is contained in the following schedule. It has not been possible to provide details of the estimated potential size of the catch or its value as they have yet to be determined. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Non-scheduled operators are normally restricted to the carriage of a single homogenous shipment from a single consignor to a single consignee. However when a full aircraft load of export meat is carried on a non-scheduled flight, the operator may carry six separate shipments, each of 3000 kgs minimum weight, on the inbound flight to Australia. In addition, two meat exporters each have been allowed the further concession that when they have arranged one meat export flight per week under the preceding condition, they may then arrange a second flight per week carrying ten separate shipments, each of 1500 kgs minimum weight, on the inbound flight; provided that these shipments are uplifted from ports not directly linked by scheduled services to the Australian port of entry. 
1 ) (b) No minimum shipment size is prescribed. 
(a) and (b) There is considerable variability among routes in the composition and annual tonnages of freight carried by air into Australia. Hence statistics on size of average shipment are not compiled. 
Yes. The Air Navigation Act requires (Section 14 (4) (b)) that in considering applications for permission to operate non-scheduled flights regard be paid to, inter alia, the need to provide reasonable protection for the operators of regular public air transport services between Australia and other countries so as to ensure the maintenance of regular air transport services for the carriage of passengers, cargo and mail between Australia and other countries'. 
Comprehensive information is not readily available for the last five years. All licensed international scheduled airlines offer freight services to and from Australia. These airlines are listed in the 1976-77 and 1977-78 Department of 
Transport Annual Reports which were tabled in the Parliament. 
Airlines which operated non-scheduled freight flights to or from Australia in 1978 were listed in my answer to Question No. 3425 given on I May 1979. During 1979 the following airlines have to date operated non-scheduled freight flights to or from Australia. 
International Aviation Services (UK) Ltd, Transmeridian Air Cargo Ltd, British Cargo Airlines, Cargolux Airlines International SA, Trans International Airlines Inc., Trans America Airlines Inc., The Flying Tiger Line, Japan Airlines, Ansett Airlines of Australia Ltd, Bush Pilots Airways Ltd, Air Express Ltd, Interstate Parcel Express Company Pty Ltd, Trans Australia Airlines, Korean Airlines, Safe Air Ltd, Global International Airlines, North West Territorial Airways, Alaska International Air Inc., Air Niugini, Talair Pty Ltd, Stillwell Aviation Australasia Pty Ltd, Qantas Airways Ltd. 
Details of exports carried by air are given in Australian Bureau of Statistics Catalogue 8.25 ( 1 973-74/ 1 976-77) and Catalogue 541S.0 (1977-78). Comparable statistics are not available for imports carried by air. 
Security Arrangements at Official Establishments (Question No. 4871) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a)Yes. 
Yes. 
The masters of all licensed foreign fishing boats in the Australian fishing zone are required to report by radio to the Australian Coastal Surveillance Centre the position of their boat every two days after the boat enters the Australian fishing zone. 
Yes. 
The masters of all licensed foreign fishing boats are required to provide by way of log books biological and other data concerning all fishing undertaken by their boats in the Australian fishing zone. All Australian log books completed by the masters of foreign fishing boats must be returned to Australian authorities prior to departure of the boat from the Australian fishing zone. Those masters of foreign fishing boats permitted to use the log books used by Government agencies in their country are required to return a copy of the completed log book to Australian authorities within a specified period of returning to their country of origin. In addition to the log book system masters of foreign fishing boats are required to report by radio to the Australian Coastal Surveillance Centre catch and fishing effort data every six days. 
The masters of all licensed foreign fishing boats are required to report to the Australian Coastal Surveillance Centre their intention to enter or depart from the Australian fishing zone together with the position where they intend to enter and depart from the zone. 
All foreign fishing boats licensed under the Fisheries Act 19S2 will be permitted entry to the ports specified in the licence issued in respect of each boat. The port access fees payable by masters of foreign boats are a matter for the relevant State authorities to determine. However, access fees paid by foreign fishermen in relation to the issue of licences under the Fisheries Act 1 952 do not exempt such operators from payment of fees associated with port entry or other services. 
No. There is no barrier to licensed foreign fishing boats transhipping product in a port ' of entry specified in the respective boat licences. However, transhipment of product in such a port t is a matter for determination by the respective vessels operators. At this time, transhipment of product at sea by any foreign fishing vessel is not permitted. 
Compulsory transhipment of product at sea by foreign vessels would pose major problems in terms of the enforcement of licence conditions particularly in relation to catch quotas and data collection. There are obvious benefits to be gained by the various State authorities where product is transhipped in a port. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A major objective of the consultative machinery within the Australian Transport Advisory Council (ATAC) is the achievement of a greater degree of uniformity of road laws in Australia. There have been no studies as such in recent years as the desirability of uniformity is accepted. 
One of the major current tasks being undertaken by ATAC's Advisory Committee on Road User Performance and Traffic Codes is a comprehensive review of the National Road Traffic Code which for road safety and traffic flow improvement serves as a model for adoption by the States and Territories. The review is based on an assessment of States' conformity with it so as to enable consideration of changes to the Code or to State legislation to reflect desirable national requirements. The Committee's review is nearing completion and recommendations flowing from its work will be reported in the near future for further consideration by other relevant committees of ATAC. 
A substantial degree of uniformity in the intent of road traffic laws has been achieved, the main differences insofar as they could potentially affect safety being giving way requirements at intersections in Victoria and Western Australia differ in some respects from other States general open road speed limits are not uniform, being either 100 km/h or 1 10 km/h drink/driving legislation varies in matters of detail and procedures the meaning of various longitudinal pavement markings such as double centre lines and unbroken lane lines is not uniform. 
It is not possible to list all aspects of non-uniformity as such information, in the level of detail sought, is not presently available. 
No information is available with regard to the results of lack of uniformity in respect of transport efficiency or additional costs of manufacture. With regard to road safety it is unlikely that differences in road traffic law have a large effect on accidents. The vast majority of accidents- about 95 per cent- involve drivers within their State of residence. There is no information available on the extent to which nonuniformity of traffic laws was a factor in the remaining accidents. 
Progress towards uniformity of road laws is discussed regularly at meetings of ATAC. I have continued to press strongly for a greater commitment towards uniformity. A recent result has been the adoption of a uniform meaning throughout Australia for the 'STOP' sign and other initiatives are expected to flow from the work described under ( I ). 
The constitutional framework in Australia means that progress towards uniformity in road laws must be made by way of consensus and the ATAC procedures provide the machinery through which the necessary consensus is established. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Information on State regulations governing the registration and operation of road freight vehicles is best sought from those authorities which have the appropriate regulatory role. At the national level, however, the principal standards relating to the safety aspects of freight vehicle registration and operation are found in 
the Australian Design Rules for Motor Vehicle Safety 
the Draft Regulations Defining Vehicle Construction, Equipment and Performance Standards for Road Vehicles 
the National Road Traffic Code. 
The Design Rules are applied uniformly throughout Australia at the point of first registration of vehicles. Information is not readily available to determine the extent to which the Draft Regulations and the National Road Traffic Code have been incorporated into legislation in each State. 
There is no information available on the effect of differing regulations with respect to costs of manufacture or operation of freight vehicles or transport efficiency and freight rates. With regard to road safety, see answer to question 4937. 
The Australian Transport Advisory Council (ATAC) is responsible for consideration of transport matters at the national level including uniformity of standards. Two of its advisory committees, the Advisory Committee on Safety in 
Vehicle Design and the Advisory Committee on Vehicle Performance, are responsible for recommending Design Rules and Draft Regulations for ATAC's consideration. A further Committee, the Advisory Committee on Road User Performance and Traffic Codes is responsible for developing the National Road Traffic Code. 
Since 1975, the following Design Rules relating to road freight vehicles have been endorsed: 
ADR 28A Motor Vehicle Noise 
ADR 30 Diesel Engine Exhaust Smoke Emissions 
ADR 32 Seat Belts for Heavy Vehicles 
ADR 35 Commercial Vehicle Braking Systems 
ADR 36 Exhaust Emission Control for Heavy Duty Vehicles 
Since 1975, Draft Regulations have been revised or introduced on the following aspects of freight vehicle safety and operation: revision of requirements for load and dimensional limits revision of in-service noise requirements specification of maximum turning circle for combinations of vehicle and trailer. 
Work is proceeding within the ATAC system to progressively increase the level of uniformity of vehicle regulations. It is not possible to set a timetable on this continuing activity. 
5 ) See answer to question 4937. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The evidence available from BTE and other sources tends to confirm  Mr O'Regan  's statement. However, individual comparisons made between specific sea and land transport freight rates can be misleading. 
Predictability and relative stability in freight rates are major factors in shippers ' support for Conference services. 
In exchange for exemption from the Anti-Competitive Provisions (Part IV) of the Trade Practices Act 1974 Outward Shipping Conferences are required to hold meaningful negotiations with the Designated Shipper Body in accordance with the Overseas Cargo Shipping Provisions (Part X) of the Trade Practices Act. Certain individual shipowners are also required to hold such negotiations under these provisions. There is nothing to prevent freight rate negotiations in domestic transport services. 
-The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
It is not possible to identify readily the salary and other costs of staff involved in the management of the Australian fishing zone. However, a total of $900,000 has been appropriated to the Department of Primary Industry for the management of the zone in 1 979-80 for specific items such as reimbursement to the States for observer functions on foreign fishing vessels, apprehension and prosecution of foreign fishing vessels, computer services, as well as incidental expenditure covering log books, surveillance manuals, licence forms and manne charts. 
In respect of the above appropriations it should be noted that the determination of future estimates of management related expenditure in the Australian fishing zone will be based on practical experience gained in the first year of operation of the zone. 
It should also be understood that surveillance of the Australian fishing zone is provided by primary and secondary units which are also engaged in covering the requirements of a number of other departments. These surveillance efforts are co-ordinated through the Australian Coastal Surveillance Centre, within the Depanment of Transport. It is not possible to apportion surveillance costs to any one department or to any specific incident, in this case the detection of illegal operations by foreign fishing vessels. 
It is estimated that$3.3m wilt be paid by foreign fishing nations in the form of fishing fees (including statutory licence fees) in 1979-80. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Reserved parking space at Canberra Airport is allocated to the various forms of vehicle transport by my Department 's airport planners in the tight of the day to day experience of airport management. Limited accommodation has been provided for hire cars so that this type of activity can provide an effective service. 
(a) A total of four places is reserved for hire cars without any reservations for any particular companies. 
Taxi ranks adequate to accommodate 13 taxis are provided along the terminal building access road. 
There is a total of 452 places in the airport public car parks being 172 limited time places near the terminal, and 280 places in the long stay area. 
In addition, a total of 49 places is allocated to Commonwealth passenger vehicles, diplomatic corps, authorised car rental companies and incapacitated drivers. 
My Department does aim to provide convenient facilities for all public use and at the same time permit the efficient operation of passenger and vehicular movement. Certainly my Department would not deliberately disadvantage a particular class of legitimate user. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2), (3) and (4) Air Navigation Orders require only that cabin attendants shall be instructed in the location and use of first aid equipment and have a knowledge of the physiological effects of altitude, together with the use and location of oxygen equipment carried. The content of training syllabuses is delegated to the airlines concerned and is subject to only general supervision by my Department. 
As in other areas of public concentration, in a medical emergency in flight use is made of additional medical resources when available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Under an arrangement with the State Governments fisheries inspectors employed by the States undertake functions on the Commonwealth's behalf. States are reimbursed for the actual costs of this work. In the 1979-80 financial year $511 ,000 has been allocated to allow the States to employ an additional 26 observers to monitor foreign fishing activity in the Australian fishing zone. Additionally the Commonwealth directly employs five fisheries inspectors at the Northern Fisheries Unit which is based at Cairns with an additional inspector at Darwin. 
The officers referred to in ( 1 ) are now or are likely to be located in Cairns, Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Hobart, Adelaide, Perth and Darwin. 
It is not expected that observers would spend more than 24 hours aboard an individual longliner at any one time. 
Yes. 
Yes. In addition fishing logbooks must be maintained and returned to the department after the conclusion of the fishing voyage. 
Every sixth day each boat reports: 
total longline catch by number and weight of fish. 
catch by number and weight of; albacore, bigeye tuna, black marlin, southern bluefin tuna, yellowfin tuna. Catch data is to include fish discarded. 
total number of hooks set during the six day period. Additional information is contained in the logbooks including size of vessel, type of operation, bait used, position, daily effort and catch by species. 
Samples of black marlin flesh caught by Japanese fishermen in the Australian fishing zone have not been tested for mercury levels by Australian authorities. At the present time it is not intended that this be done. However New South Wales authorities have tested mercury levels in black marlin caught by Australians in the Coral Sea. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) As indicated in my replies to Questions Nos. 4159 and 4160, the major revenues received by the Commonwealth in respect of the operation of the airways system including airports, airways facilities, meteorological costs etc stem from air navigation charges and fuel tax. Air navigation charges are levied on a route or annual charge basis and are not allocated to individual airports or facilities. Similarly, the estimates of fuel tax are not allocated to individual airports nor are they allocated to individual airlines. 
The only revenues which are specifically identified with individual airports are those relating to business concessions at airports, site and building rentals, car parking and a number of other miscellaneous charges. Moreover, only some of these revenues are received directly from the airlines mentioned in the question. 
In these circumstances it is not possible to answer parts ( 1 ) and (2 ) of the honourable member's question. 
As indicated in my reply to Question No. 4159, the Department's accounting system records capital, maintenance, operating and administrative costs under a wide range of functional headings for each location. 
The Department's accounting system, however, does not allocate these costs at locations to particular airlines. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Mac. Robertson Miller Airlines Service, an Ansett Transport Industries (Operations) Pty Ltd operating division, currently has five F28 aircraft in its fleet The aircraft are presently operated on intrastate Western Australian services and on regular services to Darwin. 
No application to import further F28 aircraft is currently held by my Department 
Yes. Approvals to import these aircraft were given at various times between 1969 and 1971. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1  ) The following air navigation charges figures have been derived from Departmental records and reflect the airlines financial years of  1  July to 30 June, with the exception of QANTAS which has a financial year  1  April to 3  1  March. 
For the year  1  979-80 the periods in question are- 
TAA-1/7-14.9.79; (b) EWA-  1/7-3  1.8.79; (c) Ansett- 1/7-29.9.79; (d ) Qantas- 1 /4- 1 3. 10.79. 
The Ansett figures cover all airline operations of the Ansett group. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following table sets out details of fuel costs as requested. The information has been obtained from the annual reports of the airlines except in the case of Ansett where the data has been extracted from the financial reports tabled in Parliament. 
The figures relate to the financial years of the airlines which is the normal fiscal year except for Qantas. The Qantas year is from 1 April to 3 1 March. 
The figures for Ansett cover all airline operations of the Ansett group and also includes materials used, services rendered and purchased and accommodation expenses. A separate figure for fuel is not available from published information. 
Information for period I July 1979 to date is not yet available. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
To ensure that if, in the event, an Interstate Commission were established, its powers and functions would be more in keeping with the spirit of the Constitution than those envisaged in the original Bill. 
1 agreed with the amendments. 
As indicated above, the body envisaged in the Interstate Commission Act 1975 as redrafted was more acceptable than that originally proposed. But the question assumes that this Government would necessarily wish to proclaim or amend that legislation. There is no basis for such an assumption. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Airworthiness Advisory Circular No. 113 contains an article concerning evidence of poor maintenance of general aviation aircraft. This article, a repeat of one published in 1976, is part of my Department's ongoing program to draw the attention of the aircraft industry to matters affecting safety. 
A maintenance release is normally issued by either the holder of a certificate of approval or the holder of an aircraft maintenance engineers licence covering the maintenance. 
My Department has cancelled or suspended certificates of approval and licences in some cases, has prosecuted some in court of law and has counselled others. The action in any particular case is determined by the nature of the deficiency, the strength of the evidence and the previous history of the individual involved. 
Action is continually being taken to ensure that the required standard of maintenance in general aviation is adequate and is being observed by the industry. 
Effects of Heat on Light Aircraft (Question No. 5099) 
-The answer to the honourable member's  questionis  as follows: 
Airworthiness Advisory Circular No. 1 13 contains an article warning of possible weakening of the wing spars of light twin aircraft if an exhaust gas leak occurs. Potentially, the problem can occur in most light twins and that is why the article is not specific to any manufacturer. 
The Department has received  Major Defect  Reports of 3 occurrences on Cessna 402 's. 
On the basis of the specific Australian experience my Depanment has issued Airworthiness Directives that impose special inspections at SO hour intervals on the exhaust systems of Cessna 300 and 400 series aircraft. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my reply, to his question No. 3685, in the  Hansard of  73 May 1979 (page 2318). The only information I can add is that negotiations are proceeding with the South Australian Housing Trust to ascertain whether agreement can be reached for the Trust to take over all of the Commission's housing and land reserved for housing at Port Augusta. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Exclusion of Japanese longliners from the areas concerned is unlikely to have a major conservation impact. The exclusions were principally intended to minimise interaction between the Japanese and Australian fishing fleets. 
In his statement in the House of Representatives on 25 September the Minister for Primary Industry said that foreigners will not be allowed access to fisheries fully exploited by Australians or likely to be in the near future. 
The fishing agreement with Japan allows Japanese longliners to operate within designated areas of the Australian fishing zone. 
The Australian southern bluefin fishery takes place within the Australian fishing zone in the Great Australian Bight, off the coast of South Australia, and off the south east coast between Newcastle and north east Tasmania. 
Most of the Japanese southern bluefin fishery within the Australian fishing zone takes place further offshore, further south and at different times of the year than the Australian fishery. Most of the southern bluefin catch of the Japanese fleet is taken outside the Australian fishing zone. 
This is a matter for the Minister for National Development. Officers of my depanment have bought the matter to the attention of the Department of National Development. 
The fishing industry was consulted during the negotiations. 
All fishing industry representatives with whom details of the agreement were discussed were asked to protect information which, if it became publically available during the negotiations, could have prejudiced Australia's negotiating position. 
Approximately 250. 
The value of the catch varies according to catch volume, quality, composition and current market conditions. The average value in recent years of the catch of the Japanese longline fleet in what is now the Australian fishing zone is estimated to be in the range $25-35m dollars per annum. 
The fee is a negotiated figure based on an assessment of likely catches and market prices. 
The fee of $ 1.4m is payable in respect of the total number of boats licensed to enter the fishery. It is not apportioned on a per boat basis. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. Whilst the names of the successful tenderers and the amounts of consideration offered by them were published in Government  Gazette  No. G.40 of 9 October 1979 at page 102 in accordance with the car rental tender schedule, it is not proposed to publish the percentages tendered by the concessionaires. This information is considered to be commercially confidential. 
No. In accordance with the concession agreements, the successful tenderers are required to provide this information to my Department which treats it as commercially confidential. Further, all the major companies, except one, have indicated their desire for this information to remain confidential 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought by the honourable member has already been provided to the members responsible to the electorates in question at the time when work in the respective electorates was approved as a pan of a program submitted by the States. This information is too voluminous to incorporate in  Hansard  and I have directed my Department to assemble the data and I will forward it direct to the honourable member when this task is completed. 
