1 preface my question, which  is directed to the Minister for Housing and Construction, by asking him to bear in mind that the Prime Minister is on record as saying at the Premiers Conference that more low income families are to be given the opportunity tobuy homes of their own. In view of the fact that the Federal Government's policy allows only 30 per cent of housing funds to be expended on purchase homes, does the Minister feel that home ownership is less desirable than rental occupancy? Secondly, bearing in mind that a tenant may make considerable improvements to a rental home, and then make himself ineligible to purchase through increased income because of the means test, will the Minister give consideration to amending the situation to allow the tenant to purchase in these circumstances? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
In the establishment of a Pharmaceutical Commission to research, produce and wholesale drugs, is it intended that these operations be carried out by (a) the expansion of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, (b) the setting up of a new company or (c) the purchase of an existing pharmaceutical company or companies. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What sum is proposed to be expended on the re-constitution of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. 
When is it anticipated that the Government will move to bring about the re-constitution of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. 
asked the Minister for Health,  upon notice: 
What sum is proposed to be expended on the setting up of an organisation to research, produce and wholesale drugs. 
When is it proposed to set up this organisation. 
Will the wholesaling of drugs mean the distribution of drugs produced to the retail pharmaceutical industry and to other wholesalers. 
Is it intended that general wholesaling of pharmaceuticals be carried out to include drugs produced by other private companies. 
Last night I rose rather reluctantly to move the adjournment of the Address-in-Reply debate. I say 'rather reluctantly' because I have been waiting for something like 2 weeks to speak and finally I was given the nod. It may be that this is not a long time by some standards but I was placed on a list of speakers and then 2 minutes before I was due to speak notice came to me that I was not to speak last night. I wonder whether this happens to honourable members on the Government side of the House. I do not want to hear the excuse that the Opposition is delaying the proceedings of this House because I do not think that is a valid excuse. But I want to register a strong protest at the blatant disregard shown for the agenda. One might ask whether the person who draws up the agenda or changes it could produce an agenda for a simple monthly meeting of a sporting club or a parents and citizens association. This is the Government of Australia. I think that this action is indicative of the utter confusion and turmoil that the Government is in. I think that the people of this country should know of it. In my opinion there is nothing more uncertain than the uncertainty of this Government. I believe that the confusion and the uncertainty is breeding growing concern in the people of Australia. No wonder the country is in economic shambles. One might ask where is the plan of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to combat inflation? We have heard of 5 point plans and 6 point plans. The Treasurer probably has a plan - it is probably a 10 point plan and as a result it will take a iittle longer to produce. We will probably hear about the plan when he finishes it. But why this rush to get Bills through? I wonder whether Ministers are afraid that there will be no funds to implement some of their projects and want to get in early. 
I accepted your mild rebuke,  Mr Speaker,  a week ago when I was interjecting. I have since come to know you to be a kindly gentleman and to know that you exercise much tolerance. But I really was concerned for you yesterday, particularly during that part of question time when the House was in uproar when I felt sure that your blood pressure was rising. I was concerned also for the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  last night and this morning. I am fully aware that in making this, my maiden speech, in this House I have foregone any privilege that is normally accorded a new member at such a time. I accept this situation and fully realise that I have no immunity with regard to interjections. 
There is a popular misconception among many people in this country that members of the Liberal Party, and Liberal parliamentarians in particular, are in the main rich people, or 'silvertails' as they are sometimes referred to, who have attended private schools and tend to stand aloof from the great masses. This is a fallacy. It is a view that members of the Labor Party too often see fit to promulgate in an endeavour to denigrate the Liberals and win support for themselves. I want to advise this House that I am an ordinary person, that I am not born of wealthy parents and that I attended a State school, and that I recognise that I breathe the same air and eat the same food as other humans, that I came into this world and will go out of it the same way as all other humans. No doubt there are people on both sides of this House who are wealthy, who went to private schools and who still are ordinary down to earth people. 
One of the most pressing needs in Australia today is for people to realise that they must give a fair day's work for a fair day's pay. There is too great a tendency for people to take and to give little in return. There are demands by unions for higher wages and more leisure time that are not earned in terms of increased efficiency and greater productivity. Surely no one would deny anyone in this country the right to enjoy a good standard of living with adequate leisure time. But it has to be earned - not gained by easy handouts with no respect for a reasonable level of productivity. The people of this nation have to awaken because we are in danger of slipping into a most undesirable welfare state situation. 
The attitudes and approaches of governments have a big bearing on the attitudes and approaches of citizens of a country. In my opinion this Government has a huge responsibility to recognise and arrest undesirable trends present in our communities, trends that it has accelerated. Good, honest, hard working citizens are important to the solidarity of any nation, be it rich or potentially rich. Richness is surely not to be gauged only in terms of money in the bank or a person's assets, but more importantly by the honesty, integrity and plain decency of the person. So there must be a return to the contribution of a reasonable day's work, to people wanting to save for a rainy day, instead of the 'spend while the sun shines' attitude. We must not have the creation of a huge welfare state. 
I recognise that it is important for every country to take care of its citizens who are among the less fortunate in the community. Having been associated with community and charitable work for many years, I am aware of the need for attention by governments in this area so that these people can live the respectable life that they deserve. So let us provide, and provide well, for these people but not fall into the trap of extending benefits to those who are able but not willing to make a contribution. I believe there is a tendency for this Government to overplay social benefit in some areas thereby creating deviates and dropouts instead of concentrating in the areas where there is real need. 
It is my firm belief that there must be greater understanding by the business world and the labour force that one cannot survive without the other. I believe that the pendulum is swinging too heavily in favour of the labour force and that incentive is rapidly being diminished for the businessman. It is here that this Government must take the initiative and ensure that the incentives within the business world are not eroded to an extent where the work force will suffer the consequences. There must be a common sense approach by the Government and the burying of the idea that businessmen are mostly out to exploit the labour force. It will only be when this sensible balance and understanding is reached between business and labour that productivity will improve and the nation begin to prosper further. 
I was concerned when, in this House on Tuesday of this week, I heard the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  mention that a business concern in Canberra had raised its rates. I was concerned also when the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  rather flippantly made reference to increases. I am not here to protect the interest of big business. But I ask: Who will come to the assistance of the businessman when he goes broke? Will it be this Government, or will it be the unions? 
The unsatisfactory rate of productivity must be of grave concern to the Government. This rate reflects the attitude of many people who want to take so much and give so little in return. I listened with interest to the maiden speech of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  I wish that he was in the chamber now. The honourable member referred to the waste of money by political parties in the course of election campaigns. While I concede that he made quite a valid point one might ask him, other members of the trade union movement and the Government to examine the present industrial unrest. 
More work days were lost in Australia in the 4 months period from January to April of this year than in any full year since 1929. More than $18,170,000 were lost in wages through industrial disputes in April and in excess of $36,646,000 were lost in March. In April 1973 $3,134,000 were lost through this cause. In terms of productivity, this means a tremendous loss to our country and rather makes the expenditure on election campaigning pale into insignificance. If the Government is looking for a starting point to begin investigation into lack of productivity and the causes of soaring inflation the area of industrial unrest and the unreasonable attitudes of the unions would be a good place to begin. 
I wish to make one point abundantly clear. As far as individuals are concerned I do not differentiate between unionists and others. Some of my best friends are unionists. It is the unions and their unreasonable demands and those in government who succumb to all their demands to which I strongly object. Apart from a small amount of hard physical work a number of years ago, my working life has been largely devoted to the profession of pharmacy. I qualified as a pharmacist in 1958. To the best of my knowledge - and I know the profession fairly well - pharmaceutical chemists are not a wealthy race. They do not do what is popularly believed, that is, sell coloured water, although I will admit that the water tap is one of the most frequently used pieces of apparatus in the dispensary. Pharmacy is a very noble profession and very important to the well-being of our community. 
In the area of social welfare one section stands out as being in dire need of immediate assistance. The people on age, invalid and widows pensions in many cases are enduring a mere existence because of the high rates of inflation. I say this in spite of the proposed 55 a week increase in the single pension and 56 a week in the pension for a married couple. These are rises that should have been given 12 months ago in the light of the inflationary situation that Australia faces. I would remind honourable members that the pensioner pays just as much for his pound of butter, loaf of bread, can of jam, glass of beer, packet of cigarettes or whatever commodity might be named. In many cases pensioner couples are paying from $20 to $30 weekly for rental premises. 
It is interesting to note that, in the Brisbane area, variations of income from 1 July 1973 to 30 June 1974 of various employees - from clerks to plant operators and tradesmen to cleaners and to labourers - showed an increase of 34 per cent, while the income of the pensioner couple showed an increase of 21 per cent. This is just not good enough. If this Government will not take action to control inflation - it has not been successful to date; and one might ask whether it is really trying - something must be done to improve the lot of the pensioner. Wild promises were made about keeping the pension at 25 per cent of the average weekly earnings. The truth of the matter is that the pensioner is falling further behind. The means test must be relaxed so that more pensioners can receive fringe benefits such as the pensioner medical service, telephone concessions, reduced radio and television licence charges, etc. There is fine talk by the Government in relation to the existence of poverty in this country. Inflation is increasing poverty daily, and the Government must act without delay in the needy areas. 
Currently I am serving as a member of a local authority - a position I have held for the past 7 years - and therefore I feel qualified to speak on this very important level of government that has been neglected for too long by Federal governments. As an alderman of a Queensland city with a population of approximately 40,000 and a percentage population growth rate ranking third among the cities in the State, I have experienced at first hand the problems that face a rapidly expanding urban community. I make this criticism of this Commonwealth Government in the full knowledge that previous governments which my own Party formed with the Australian Country Party also were negligent in not providing assistance to local government. I make no excuses for this criticism. From past performances one would think that members of this Parliament were completely oblivious to who is responsible for the provision of such important everyday services as water supply, sewerage, roads and drainage; the construction of playgrounds, sporting fields, parks and gardens; the provision of libraries and civic centres; and the disposal of garbage. All of the foregoing are extremely necessary for our everyday living. I was shocked to hear important aspects of town planning being debated so piously when the Glebe Lands (Appropriation) Bill came before this House, when local authorities are so vitally concerned with town planning, building by-laws and by-laws generally for the orderly and proper conduct of a community. 
Why then has local government not received more recognition from the Commonwealth Government? Presently local authorities are faced with rate rises, ranging in many cases from 20 per cent up to 50 per cent, in order to carry out their essential works. There is grave concern, shared by many in the over 900 local authorities throughout this country, that if a substantial share of the Commonwealth taxation pool is not channelled to local government stagnation will be widespread. Many serving members of local government, particularly in rapidly expanding urban areas, are loath to increase substantially rates and charges- virtually the only means of revenue - because it would be political suicide. From my experience in Queensland - I have no reason to doubt that the same applies elsewhere in the Commonwealth - local government is run with a good measure of efficiency. However, I believe that there must be more amalgamation of local authority areas, particularly in regard to shires where little or no development is taking place. Considerable savings can be effected, operations can be streamlined and better and more efficient use can be made of plant and machinery, with consequent savings to ratepayers. 
Too many councils and shires in Australia have provided no remuneration for their aldermen and councillors. Every" man is worthy of his hire, and if we are to attract men and women of quality to participate in local government we must ensure that they are compensated adequately for their time and efforts. It is absurd and, indeed, unthinkable to have rapidly expanding cities or shires with budgets of, say, ยง10m to S50m with a mayor and 8 aldermen as directors receiving a collective maximum of SI 5,000 to $20,000 annually, as is often the case, and with many of them putting in up to 30 or 40 hours a week individually. In my opinion, local government must retain its present autonomy. It is vital that these dedicated men and women in control of the local government scene - the area of government closest to the people - retain autonomy of their areas of responsibility. 
I remind members of this Parliament that they are the most remote from the people and are somewhat inaccessible; the State members of Parliament are a trifle more accessible; while the. members of the local council take the brunt of everyday complaints. When he raises rates, the residents raise Cain; whereas the State and Federal members can more readily duck the blame for increased taxes. To date the Government has given only lip service to assistance to local government needs. It is true that the Grants Commission, for the first time since its inception in 1933, has been hearing the case for assistance to local government. I know that everyone connected with local government is watching and waiting anxiously for the findings. I sincerely hope that no forward-thinking council, because it has provided costly services and amenities for its ratepayers, will be disadvantaged by the Government's policy of wanting to bring equality to all areas. 
I want to make 2 points abundantly clear: Firstly, I believe that there is a share of Commonwealth taxation that rightfully should go to local authorities on a 'no strings attached' basis. This money, I stress, must be in the form of non-repayable grants. Secondly, it should be channelled through the State governments. I am firmly convinced that there are no bodies better equipped than the State governments to handle the distribution of funds. Their government departments and State members are in constant touch with all local authority areas and are best fitted to know the needs of a particular area. There is no need for constitutional change to allow grants to local authorities. Any government can show its bona fides by making the grants available, as did the McMahon Government in 1972 to relieve unemployment. This practice was contitnued for some months by the Labor Government. 
I would point out to the Government that whereas rating is based on the unimproved value of the land, the pensioner, the person near to the poverty line, the middle income earner and the wealthy, all living in the same street, are rated the same amounts. Local government does not have at its disposal the same methods of differential taxation according to income as the Commonwealth Government has. It is only through greater recognition of the plight of this area of government by the Commonwealth that relief will come. We must remember that every citizen of this country comes under the control of some local authority. 
My electorate of Petrie comprises a number of northern Brisbane suburbs, a good portion of the Pine Shire, a small portion of the Caboolture Shire and the whole of the city of Redcliffe. The area contains some 77,000 electors and the 4 local authorities in the electorate are. all experiencing rapid growth with resultant growing pains. All councils are desperately short of funds to provide what everyone in this House would term essential everyday services. Representatives of these councils are fully aware that many of their ratepayers are stretched to the limit and cannot meet further substantial rate rises without a great deal of hardship. For too long a blind eye has been turned to local government. We must face the problem full on with both eyes open and the purse strings undone. 
In my opinion the encouragement of home ownership is an important ingredient in building good citizens. I am appalled at the attitude this Government is adopting in relation to 2 matters that vitally affect home ownership. Firstly, high interest rates are pricing young would-be home owners into being flat and rental home dwellers for the rest of their lives. Secondly, the decree that Commonwealth funds spent through the State housing authorities are to be spent at the rate of no more than 30 per cent on homes for purchase and 70 per cent on homes for rental is indicative of the Government's attitude to home ownership. If we are to build good solid citizens in this country we must instil pride into them, and what better way than starting off with pride in home ownership? In Queensland over the past 30 years in excess of 45,000 homes have been constructed by the Queensland Housing Commission, resulting in 59 per cent being for ownership and 41 per cent for rental. This more desirable situation will be rapidly reversed, and with no incentive for home ownership large numbers of rental homes will tend to deteriorate along with the attitude of the occupants. 
In conclusion, I can only stress that from my personal point of view I will do my utmost to make a useful contribution to the running of this Parliament and pledge my loyalty to Queen and country. I congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  on your election to your high office and I would mention the great assistance I have had from the staff in Parliament House and from my colleagues. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that some chemists' national health claims in Queensland were processed and ready for payment in the latter part of June 1974, but owing to no funds in the SubTreasury the claimants had to wait until early July to receive payments. 
If so, will he take steps to ensure the situation does not arise again. 
Has this happened in previous years at the end of a financial year. 
I rise to support this Bill, but I do so with certain reservations. This Bill provides a total of $7.95m. This amount is supplementary to what was provided in the Sewerage Agreements Act 1973. Following the passage of this Bill, the total amount provided through this legislation will be $37.95m. Queensland sought $2m through this legislation. Victoria asked for $3.95m. Western Australia sought $3m. As I see it, the Bill has 3 main aspects, each of which is most important. The first is the health of our nation. I think everyone will agree that the provision of sewerage services is extremely important today. The second aspect is the pollution of the environment. This pollution is continuing in some areas in varying degrees. The third feature concerns local authorities which must carry out these sewerage works and the methods that are adopted in funding those works to be carried out. 
I wish to direct my comments mainly to the position in Queensland. The Queensland Government over many years has provided a subsidy of 40 per cent for all sewerage undertakings. Some 8 years or 10 years ago this subsidy was 50 per cent, but it was reduced to 40 per cent. The $lm provided in this Bill for Queensland will go towards the cost of the Brisbane City Council treatment works at Luggage Point. In common with the $3. 1 m provided in the 1973 legislation, this sum is not a grant. I emphasise this point. The money is repayable over 40 years at the long term bond rate which, I understand, is 8.5 per cent. 
The Queensland Government has been much criticised and maligned by this Government. As recently as a few days ago it was so criticised and maligned by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  as it has been by a number of other ministers. The Queensland Government has provided this 40 per cent non-repayable subsidy to local authorities for many years. This meant that only 60 per cent of funds received had to be re-paid over 40 years. One might well ask how well off are local authorities in Queensland which accept these repayable sums of money. The word 'grant' should always be qualified when it is used by this Government. It should state whether a grant is non-repayable or repayable as the latter is almost invariably the case with this Government. 
The Australian people have been hoodwinked long enough by the term 'grant'. When local authorities are worse off- they are in this casebecause no subsidy is applicable the people are worse off too because the rates which they must pay reflect the fact that no subsidy is involved in financing these works and that the whole of the money is to be repaid. In Queensland in handling this special Federal money for sewerage purposes, the proportion of the total costs of the works to be met by taxpayers with the loss of the subsidy of 40 per cent is almost doubled. This charge can go on almost ad infinitum as the life of a sewerage scheme is considered to be about 40 years. If we take into consideration that there are operating costs involved as well, we find that the ratepayer is paying for the cost of these services ad infinitum to local authorities. Do not let us run away with the idea that the Labor Government is playing Santa Claus in the terms of this agreement. Let me make it abundantly clear that this scheme will cost the taxpayer- in this case the ratepayers- more money. 
One might ask: Is Queensland being penalised? Queensland sought $2m; it is to receive $lm only. We have heard the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  say that Queensland asked for $2m but is to receive Sim only. I did not hear from the Minister any explanation of this matter. Perhaps he will enlighten us a little later. Is Queensland in actual fact being penalised? There has been a great deal of talk in recent times that Queensland is to get a raw deal because it is not co-operating with this Federal Government and because our Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  quite rightly resists the intrusions of this socialist Government into the State sphere. 
-Well, this is correct. If this Government is going to be vindictive towards the State of Queensland, there will be a backlash, not only from Queensland but from all of the Australian people. 
Well, you know all about sewerage on that side of the House. Let me remind honourable members on the Government side that Queenslanders are made of good stuff. They have a lot of intestinal fortitude and they do not give up their rights and privileges easily. Why should they? 
-Well, the results show the facts in Queensland. We have a good Premier and Deputy Premier of probably the best State Government in Australia. The point was proved in the election on 18 May when the Australian Labor Party was overwhelmed in that State. So, why should Queensland be disadvantaged in respect of this legislation? The Commonwealth Government is in my opinion only a collecting house for the States. Is Queensland not entitled to receive a fair go? We had an impassioned call by the Prime Minister in the course of the election held on 18 May: 'Give me a fair go'. That is what he said to the people. Of more recent times he said: 'Give us a fair go; we have to control inflation'. I say to the Government, if Queensland is in any way disadvantaged the people of South Australia. Tasmania, Western Australia, New South Wales and Victoria will also say: 'We want a fair go for Queensland'. Who knows, it might be one of those other States which needs assistance in the future. 
I believe that a lot of favouritism has been shown to the suburban areas of New South Wales and Victoria, particularly Sydney and Melbourne. But in the local government elections last Saturday the people of New South Wales showed their disapproval of Labor in no uncertain terms. In spite of the favouritism that the Government has shown towards these areas in its giant vote catching action, the people have rejected it. The Prime Minister in his 1 972 policy speech stated: 
A Labor Government would immediately ask the principal water and sewerage authorities what Commonwealth grants in the present financial year would enable them to embark promptly and economically on an uninterrupted program to provide services to all the premises in their areas in 1978. 
For subsequent financial years, the Commonwealth Grants Commission will investigate and recommend the size of Commonwealth grants required to see the program through. 
These promises have been dishonoured because once again the Prime Minister of this country has misled the people. He has misled the State governments and local government because these are not non-repayable grants. 
I remember only too well the Prime Ministerhe was then the Leader of the Oppositioncoming into my electorate in the city of Redcliffe prior to the 1972 election, and he had done his homework, I might assure members of the House. 
No, he would not be game to come back now. But on that occasion he knew all the phrases. He had them all off pat. He had done his homework. He is a good salesman. But I can tell honourable members and the people of Australia that like any salesman he will sell you something once and he might get away with it a second time. But I ask them to have a look at his personal ratings in recent times and also the ratings of his Government. Let him go back to the people and just see what they will do to him next time. The Prime Minister said that local government would get a new deal. He said that there would be no fear about this. He said that Commonwealth grants would be made to local government. He had that wonderful air of persuasion about him.  His  silver tongue deceived thousands in local government as it has deceived hundreds of thousands in Australia generally. Local government is still waiting for these massive non-repayable grants. All we are getting are loans. 
We will talk about the Grants Commission. I concede to you that for the first time since 1933 the Grants Commission considered local government. But $56.3m is a drop in the bucket compared with the thousands of millions of dollars that local government requires. If we divide this amount by the over 900 local authorities in Australia we find that on an average they would receive $55,000 each. Only about 92 per cent of them were paid something anyway. The City of the Gold Coast, which is in the electorate of the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)-  do not ask me whether this situation has arisen for political or other reasons- has received nothing. The Redland Shire Council which is in the electorate of the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  - 
-Do not worry, I have read the report. I have read it in more detail than you have, my friend. So we find that many of these local authorities have missed out. How do members on the Government side explain this? Is it their wish that we all be brought to the one level? Is that the answer which they will give to me? 
I want to get back to the subject of the Bill and say that it puzzles me why the long  term  bond rate is applying? We are just taking money off the people. We are taking further money off the ratepayers of the community who in many instances cannot afford to pay this level of rates. Let us look at the sewerage backlog in Queensland. The Brisbane statistical district is approximately 5 per cent unsewered. The City of Townsville is approximately 5 per cent unsewered. The City of the Gold Coast is 73 per cent unsewered. The figures that I am giving of course relate to cities which have a population in excess of 60,000. Let us not be disillusioned by the case of the City of Brisbane which is 95 per cent sewered. It is true that this area has reticulation mains, pumping stations, rising mains and the like. But where is the treatment works that serves 450,000 people or 60 per cent of the population? Raw sewage from 450,000 people runs into the mouth of the Brisbane River at Luggage Point. An average daily flow of almost 20 million gallons of raw sewage is released at this point. Sewage from only 300,000 people or 40 per cent of the people is treated. The primary treatment plant that will be required by the Brisbane City Council- and I emphasise that it is only a primary treatment plant- was estimated in 1972 to cost $12m. It is now estimated to cost, because of the inflation that this Government has allowed to run rampant, over $ 1 4m. I believe that some arrangement has been made with Alderman Clem Jones, the Lord Mayor of Brisbane- you know, the gentleman who was to knock the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  out of the ring and perhaps take a portfolio, perhaps that of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development- in this regard. The estimated cost of the full treatment works that eventually will be provided in Brisbane is about $20m to $25 m. 
The Queensland Water Quality Control Council requires very high standards, something like 20 parts per million of BOD, or bio-chemical oxygen demand as it is called, for effluent that finds its way into the bays and streams near the coast. In inland rivers and lakes we get down to a level as low as 10 parts per million and in some cases even as low as 5 parts per million of BOD. But the point I want to emphasise is that many existing treatment plants are inadequate. We cannot allow pollution to issue into our streams and bays at its present rate. Therefore we have to augment a number of our existing treatment works. 
I would like to deal briefly with the city of Redcliffe which is in my electorate. This city which has a population of 40,000 is 96 per cent sewered. It also has an unsatisfactory BOD rate at the moment- something like 50 parts per million. However, an augmentation is being carried out at the treatment works costing in the vicinity of $ 1.4m. This will bring the BOD rate down to an acceptable level of 20 parts per million. The situation is different in the Pine Rivers Shire which has a population of 42,000 people and which is an extremely rapidly expanding urban area on the northern boundary of the city of Brisbane. At the moment only 13 per cent of the population is enjoying sewerage. This represents a total of 1,550 tenements out of 12,000. 
The costs of supplying sewerage have escalated. Footage costs supplied to me recently by the Brisbane City Council indicate that for 6-inch sewers, which is the main dimension laid in quantity, the cost 18 months ago averaged $7 a foot. The cost today is $ 10 a foot which is a 43 per cent increase. The Gold Coast City Council will require about $48.5m to complete its scheme with treatment works on South Stradbroke Island or about $45m if it constructs ocean outfalls along the coast areas. So even at the rate of $3.5m yearly it will take the Gold Coast City Council 12 to 15 years to complete its sewerage scheme. 
I want to touch briefly on the pollution angle because thousands of our creeks, rivers, inlets and beaches are being polluted to varying degrees. To take a prime example, as I mentioned earlier, the Brisbane River averages 20 million gallons flow of raw sewage daily. This outflow pollutes the mouth of the Brisbane River which is like a giant sewer. The surrounding areas of Moreton Bay also suffer. A report in the 'Brisbane Courier Mail' of 19 September was headed: 'Faint Fish Taint From Brisbane River'. The article states: 
One of the areas where the ' kerosene ' taint of some mullet emanated was Luggage Point, scientists have found. 
State Primary Industries Department Animal Research Institute chemist  (Mr D. Moy)  said yesterday that studies had shown the taint in sea mullet came from the Brisbane River area. He said Luggage Point was the main known area where fish picked up kerosene-like hydrocarbons responsible for great losses of mullet 
A report in Australian Fisheries, a monthly magazine published by the Australian Agriculture Department's Fisheries Division, said: 'The kerosene-like hydrocarbons isolated from sewage effluent discharging into the Luggage Point area indicate that this is a source of the hydrocarbons in adjacent water and sediments.' 

 Mr Moy said Brisbane City Council efforts to improve the effluent would improve the situation considerably. 
He said the sewage probably was not the main source of contamination. 
So we must look to the preservation and improvement of our environment. It must be protected from man-made highly undesirable problems that we create with raw sewage and low grade treated effluent. I return now to the Prime Minister's plan by which he endeavoured to hoodwink the people of this country. He said that by 1978 he hoped that the major areas of this country, the cities, would be sewered. This is less than 4 years from now. This sounded very attractive to the people. Queensland would probably require something like $200m to complete the necessary sewerage works. This would be carried out with the normal programs where the State government and loan funds are used and, of course, the special repayable grants or loans, which is what they are, which we are debating here today. 
I remind the Government that in 1973-74 $4.1m was provided for Queensland. That rate will have to be increased considerably if this backlog is to be overtaken. The Budget this year contains $105m for expenditure on sewerage works for the whole of Australia and states that the provincial cities in the population range of 20,000 to 60,000 will be covered and considered. In 1973 more than $800m was required for communities of 60,000 people or more. Good heavens, it would be well in excess, I would say, of $ 1,000m if all communities were taken into account. I urge the Government to provide funds -total non-repayable grants- to local governments. It is the ability of the people to repay this money that concerns me greatly. I know many of them are stretched to their limit now and we want non-repayable grants made in the future. It may be that some consideration could be given to this work which is more important than, perhaps, some areas of social welfare that have been undertaken by this Government. 
-We heard 2 excellent speeches earlier tonight from the honourable members for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  and Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  and I want to support them. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)-  the next Prime Minister, I might add, in the not too distant future- has moved important amendments to the Appropriation Bill. These are self-explanatory, and I add my weight of support to them. Bill Snedden is gaining steadily in stature, and with the shambles the Government is in I venture to say that many members on the Government side would like to be on the Opposition side of the House, particularly right wing members who have to tolerate the left wing dominated Caucus running the Parry- the socialists with communist tendencies, and the real communists. Communist countries invariably produce defectors. I make particular reference to the word 'defectors' because I wonder how many members on the Government side of the House would like to defect to the side on which the Liberal and Country Party Opposition sits. I venture to say that the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  who 
E receded me, would be one of these defectors if e had his chance. For many years I belonged to a service club, Lions International. In keeping with most service clubs Lions International lives by a code of ethics, aims and objects. One of them is: 'Be careful with your criticism and liberal with your praise. Build up, do not destroy'. I find it very difficult to be liberal with my praise of this Budget, although there are some good features of it and I will point out the good features as I go. 
Yes, it will probably take only about 3 seconds, as the honourable member for Riverina reminds me, but because they are scarce the bouquets will be scarce as well. Before looking at specific items I want to make some general comments. This Government has been rushing headlong into change. It wants to be the reforming government. It wants to be known as the government that introduced more reform for Australia than any previous government, without stopping to assess whether the country can withstand the changes it wants to make. It has a mandate from the people; I will concede it this. It has a mandate to govern and a mandate to make changes, but it also has a mandate to govern wisely, and it is incumbent on the Government to be flexible, to curb its desires, to dampen its own enthusiasm if the country's interests are best served in this way. There are better goverments than this one that have had to eat humble pie in the past. Changes in direction must be made as necessary, not in desperation when it is too late. 
I do not know who made the statement that to climb steep hills requires a slow pace at first. One must proceed slowly and become accustomed to sudden changes in steep gradients. One must slowly and deliberately tackle steep slopes. Just as an out-of-condition and out-of-training athlete becomes distressed and begins to falter when he is confronted with steep hills in trying to maintain his pace after traversing flat and slightly undulating country, so the wise athlete slows down and conditions himself to change; but not this Government. Oh no, it must clap on speed. It says: 'Australia is running out of time. We must increase the rapidity with which change is brought about. The nation has been in the doldrums for 23 years. We must set the rusty machine in motion and quickly catch up on our lost past'. If they were the doldrum years then let me assure this Government that countless Australians want to return to the solidarity of those days. This Government has run the country out of energy, out of puff. We are floundering and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  bolsters himself. We saw him in the House this morning bolstering himself and his tottering Government by statements trying to blame the Opposition for creating an atmosphere of panic, confusion and rumour mongering. I know who is panic stricken, confused and rumour mongering and so do the Australian people. Let me assure honourable members that the idle words from the silver tongued Prime Minister will not be swallowed by the Australian people. In his policy speech on 13 May he said: 
For the first time Australia has a government determined to promote Australian ownership . . . 
For the first time for a generation Australia has a government dedicated to equal opportunity . . . 
For the first time Australia has a government determined to make the conditions of life more equal for all Australians ... 
For the first time Australia has a government seriously concerned to give equality . . . 
For the first time Australia has a national government-  and he goes on and on. For the first time,  Mr Prime  Minister, the big three- inflation, unemployment and economic crisis in combinationare the scourge of this nation. We have a lot of firsts- ones we do not want. I call on the Prime Minister to be realistic. We have an economic crisis. He has to recognise it. We have intolerable unemployment. We are told by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  who is at the table at the moment, that the statistics show that 130,000 people are unemployed, but his confrere in Queensland,  Mr Jack  Egerton, the Queensland  President  of the Trades and Labour Council, estimates the true figure to be 200,000. That is the opinion of one of the Minister's own men. 
He likes Jack. He is in league with him. He obviously agrees with him. We have not been told the real figures, but of course it is only a matter of time before they come out. Inflation is running at somewhere near 20 per cent, and where is our Prime Minister? He is wondering whether he can fit in a visit back to Australia. He told us that he is going overseas again shortly to Europe. He is unashamedly saying this. He is off again. 
-As the honourable member for Darling Downs says, he wishes he would stay there. I suggest to honourable members of this House that the place for the Prime Minister is in this country. What about the confidence that is so widespread in Australia today? Or should I say the lack of confidence? Throughout the business world we find that there is a lack of confidence that unfortunately is growing. I say 'unfortunately' because this is a matter that is beyond politics. Indeed, the people generally lack confidence in the ability of the nation to recover from inflation, high unemployment and the economic crisis. What reasons have they to feel confident? Unless the economy of this country improves and unless confidence is restored in the business and private sectors of the economy Australia is doomed. It will SliP further. Unemployment will continue to rise or will remain at a high figure. Inflation will remain high and the economic crisis will continue. When will the Government learn that this country cannot do without private enterprise based on solid foundations? The actions of the Government are undermining the foundations of private enterprise business and undermining the jobs of countless thousands of workers it purports to represent. What a laugh! The Labor Government is the friend of the worker. I wonder how many thousands of workers long for the return of the Liberal PartyCountry Party coalition government. It is a true saying that the devil you know is better than the one you do not know. Honourable members opposite may laugh but old friends best to meet, old wood best to burn, old wine best to drink and old governments best to trust. I am sure people would like to see a return to the old Liberal Party-Country Party coalition government. 
No longer can this Government be relied upon and no longer can it be trusted. Inflation was running at 4.7 per cent in December 1972 when the Labor Government came to power but it took off and it was only a matter of months before it was running at about 1 2 per cent, then 1 3 per cent, 1 4 per cent and so on. In the early stages of the May elections the Prime Minister told the nation that inflation was not an issue but he was quick to change his mind a few days before the elections when he realised he was losing ground. At that stage he recognised that inflation was an issue and he told the Australian people: 'We can cure inflation'. He failed and failed badly. This is an inflationary Budget with estimated expenditure of $l6,274m, an increase of $3,980m or 32.4 per cent. He produces an inflationary Budget and yet repeatedly says he wants to control inflation. The Prime Minister's credibility has evaporated into thin air. What about the super tax that has been imposed- 10 per cent on unearned income? It is an iniquitous tax. It will affect the affluent society. It will affect everybody but not to the same extent as it will affect the small man- the lower income earner, the battler the fellow that members opposite represent or supposedly represent. 
We have some comedians on the Government side of the House. They are terribly easy to handle really. They think they are good, but they are not. Let us consider the Caucus Economic Committee. It flexes its muscles and as a result perhaps income up to $5,000 may be exempt from this super tax. What about the thrifty people who have no desire to be a burden on the country? They do not want to be freeloaders. They are good, honest, hard working people. They constitute the majority of people in this nation today. They are being kicked mercilessly by this Government. What incentives are left for these people? In effect people are being encouraged to become dependent on the Government and this is a sorry state of affairs. With the imposition of this super tax the Government is no better than a thug, mugging people and taking their wallets and handbags or a thief breaking and entering a shop and living the easy life. In its bid to equalise the wealth of Australia this Government will strangle initiative and take away all incentive from people. This nation is built on an aggregation of personal efforts. Is the Government blind to the reality of this situation? This is a wonderful country with wonderful people proud of their achievements but they are being led down the path of socialism. What is more upsetting is that the socialists on the Government side are proud of it They have virtually encouraged the people of this nation to produce less and to contribute less because big brother government will take care of them. 
It is time for all Australians to come to their senses, to reject this attitude and approach that plagues us like a malignant growth- a growth that is becoming so extensive that it will not be possible to excise it from our society. I say to Australians: 'Take a long hard look at yourselves. Do you want a continuation of personal pride in individual achievement? Do you want to remain an individualist not only for yourself but also for your children and your children's children or do you want a giant welfare state where initiative is taken away from you, incentives are abolished and the people of this nation fade into a murky oblivion?' The dark and murky waters the people of this nation will struggle through will not be pleasant. They will have a stench that will remain in the nostrils of our people for generations to come. The colour of the waters will stain our society. 
-This brings comments from Government supporters, but the truth hurts and obviously this is hurting. There are many honourable members opposite who would like to get out. They would like to opt out now but they cannot because they are caught up in the web. However, I have faith in the dogged Australian. He will not be pushed. He will not let his independence be whittled away. He will not accept charity from governments unless it is absolutely necessary. He will reject the bureaucracy of this Government and will rise up and stand on his own feet. He will fight for his family's freedom and independence. He will overwhelmingly resist any radical change perpetrated on the Australian people by any political party that forms the government. 
This Budget is in tatters. The Caucus Economic and Education Committees pulled it to pieces. What a farce. A carefully prepared Budget involving $ 1 6 billion- prepared by the Prime Minister and 26 Ministers- is pulled to pieces by the Caucus Economic and Education Committees. What a way to frame a Budget. The Leader of the Opposition has moved an amendment. Perhaps if he had invited the Labor Party's Caucus Economic and Education Committees to join him, with the expertise on the Opposition side and the extra numbers from those Government Caucus Committees - 
-At least he did not get the country into an economic crisis with unemployment and inflation as they are today. Government supporters must be proud of their record at the moment. I am surprised that they even open their mouths. If with the superior performance of members from this side of the House we had a few of the numbers from the Caucus Economic and Education Committees we could even reframe the whole Budget. We could rewrite it for  Mr Crean,  or I am sorry,  Dr Cairns  who is the man to whom to direct comments. What about obstructionism? We have heard this term so often I am tired of listening to it. Who is obstructing the Government now? 
-The Caucus Economic and Education Committees are obstructing the Government so do not let me hear the term obstructionism in this House. 
-I should now like to deal with some specific items. Personal income tax and massive wage increases have resulted in greater taxes to the Government. There has been a slight reduction in income tax for people earning up to approximately $ 10,500 a year. But this will have little or no effect on the wages grab. What will the unions say now that people are getting back a maximum of $1.92 a week? This will be a great incentive to them when they are asking for increases between $10 and $40 a week. So the taxation cuts will be a great help. 
It is very nice to see radio listeners ' licence fees and television viewers' licence fees abolished But why does the Government wish to abolish the licence fees on the one hand and then say to the people of Australia that they have to pay extra postage charges? How can it reconcile that sort of action? The Government abolishes one charge and increases another. In education there is record spending. I support the figure. But what about the reduction in the tax deduction for education from $400 a year to $150 a year? Maybe the Caucus education committee will rule supreme. Maybe it will overrule the Prime Minister and the other 26 Ministers. This is obviously a deliberate attack on private schools. I like to see the $75m that is to be spent on the care and education of young children. This is a welcome figure. But it was to be $130m, it was then reduced to $35m and now it is back to $75m. Talk about the stop-go tactics of this Government. 
The Government is continuing its efforts to improve the position of patients in nursing homes. Good heavens above, what a farcical situation. The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  is talking about looking after the patients in the nursing homes. He says he is concerned for patients in the nursing homes. Many of the nursing homes are faced with closure. Pensions have not been increased. We can talk about $5 single and $6 double - 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Notwithstanding the fact that some work of a grass clipping nature was carried out, does the Minister consider the method of distribution of funds for unemployment relief in 1972-73 was made on a needs basis and therefore satisfactory? Why has this method been departed from and why have committees set up by some States to examine projects and allocate funds virtually been ignored? Does the Minister concede that some Labor Party political patronage has taken place under the regional employment development scheme with the ad hoc allocation of funds? 
-Last Thursday in this House I asked a question of the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in relation to the regional employment development scheme. I raised this matter after a question from the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  on 2 October in relation to the unemployment situation in Tasmania. At that stage a number of Dorothy Dix questions were asked by members from Tasmania because they were rather frightened of their position. The Opposition had endeavoured to enlighten the people of Tasmania about the neglect of thenState by this Government. The point I raise tonight is, I believe, quite a serious one. It concerns the most unsatisfactory method by which the funds under the RED scheme, as the Minister so proudly calls it, are being disbursed. I ask you,  Mr Speaker,  why there would need to be 4 RED Ministers- the Minister for Labor and Immigration, the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass).  How degrading it is to have one Minister on the committee, let alone 4 Ministers. 
I thought that the purposes of this scheme would be basically twofold; firstly it would provide unemployment to relieve the situation of rapidly increasing unemployment, approaching 200,000, that we have at the moment, and secondly, it would produce assets for our communities for us to complete projects of a capital nature with a high labour content. I agree that some maintenance work was earned out in 1972-73 that was, as the Minister claims, of a grass clipping nature. I agree with him to some extent on this point, but surely now we are in a position where we do not want any politics played. All we need is jobs for the unemployed and we want them quickly. In 1971-72, $27m was spent on unemployment relief, $103.8m in 1972-73 and $12m in 1973-74. Many worthwhile projects were carried out in that time and all States indicated that they were prepared to co-operate with the Commonwealth. The Queensland Premier immediately set up a committee to investigate and to allocate funds, but Queensland was ignored; indeed, it was snubbed. 
I believe speed was the essence in this particular instance because of the rapidly rising unemployment. The State committees that were to be set up were ideal. They had the expertise, they had the technology and they could rapidly deal with projects and have funds allocated perhaps within four to five weeks. Yet the Minister for Labor and Immigration took it on himself to handle it all from Canberra. I understand that at the moment cities and shires throughout this nation are being told to spend funds and they will be reimbursed later. In my opinion, to date the scheme has failed dismally. There have been few people employed and the scheme has virtually bogged down. Let us look at the guidelines for the scheme. I am informed that they are amended almost weekly or even daily. It is said that the schemes are supposed to have a 50 per cent labour content, and I would agree with that. There is also an emphasis on those with dependants who have been unemployed the longest. Good heavens, many shires and cities today are facing retrenchments of 15 to 20 per cent. In the 10 points in the list dated October 1974 the classic one is No. 10. It says: 
Appropriate public acknowledgment of the grant by the Australian Government under this scheme should be displayed prominently on the project site during progress of the work. 
Just imagine a two or three thousand-dollar project with a big sign on it saying 'This project was instigated by the Australian Government'. Imagine the confusion. There are approximately 900 local authorities in Australia, all making submissions to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. One cannot even get a reply from most of these departments. If the scheme were decentralised in the 6 States, as was the case previously, we would have none of the delay that is being experienced at the moment. The Minister stated in this House that he wanted Federal members to recommend schemes. Surely this should not be necessary. 
I want to deal with a question I asked the Minister last Thursday when I interjected at one stage and mentioned Ipswich. Could I put on record that I do not begrudge Ipswich one cent of any money that it received. The Minister said that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  had presented an excellent case for Ipswich and that the case was irresistible. If that does not smell of political patronage, I ask what does. Is the Minister implying that the remaining members in Queensland and throughout Australia who have not had schemes approved in their areas are not doing their duty? The Minister said that people have to maintain their dignity. One might ask what dignity is there in being unemployed. He said the local councils are proud to be associated with the Regional Employment and Development scheme. I can assure the Minister that there are 132 local councils in Queensland and I think there are 14 regions under the Commonwealth Employment Service that have been approved. The information I had on 24 September, and I do not think there has been a news release or a bulletin since then, indicates that only 3 projects to date have been approved. 
I think the Minister degraded himself when he mentioned the number of projects in Tasmania. A detailed list was given and it is recorded in 
Hansard of 2 October. The projects included cleaning of foreshores for $5,000, right up to a project for an elderly citizens' complex for $140,000 and road works on the Cradle Mountain Road, which is to be upgraded at a cost of $82,000. 1 understand there has been a change in the policy in relation to kerbing and channelling works and these are not being recommended at the moment. There is confusion right throughout the scheme. There are 97 regions in Australia for the purpose of registration for employment and there are 6 capital city regions. Yet we find that to date only two of the capital cities have had any recognition- Hobart and Perth. Yet on the September figures, 45 per cent of the unemployed were registered in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide. 
So we look at the Brisbane metropolitan area. The City of Brisbane and 9 other cities or shires comprise the Brisbane metropolitan region. At the time of the announcement of the Ipswich grant at the end of August the Brisbane metropolitan region had 5,601 unemployed. Three other regions- Cairns with 1,350, Townsville with 1,302 and Toowoomba with 1,107- were ahead of Ipswich with 1,037, and most of these areas were fairly low in unfilled vacancies. At that stage there was an announcement in one of the newspapers that Ipswich was to get $808,000. 1 do not know what the figure is, and the Minister might tell us afterwards. I have heard figures ranging from $350,000 to $450,000 to the Press report of $808,000. 1 believe this is another example of the Government's refusal to co-operate with the States. So often we hear that the States will not co-operate with the Commonwealth. The States opened the door wide, and what did the Minister for Labor and Immigration do? He decided he would handle the whole lot from Canberra. As far as I am concerned, this handling of the scheme is nothing but a hotch-potch. 
I say to the Minister that he should allocate the funds to the States, as was done previously, to allow them to get on and examine projects so that the work can be carried out quickly and so that we can achieve the twofold purpose of finding employment for those who are unfortunate enough to be out of work at the moment and the provision of assets for our cities and towns. I suggest that the Minister stop playing politics. This is a matter that is beyond politics. Unemployment has been created in this country by this Labor Government which claimed it would do so much for the worker, the worker it purports to represent. Yet we have probably the highest rate of unemployment this century. I suggest that the 
Minister stop playing politics and hand the matter over to the State governments, who I am sure will deal quickly and efficiently with the problem. 
-At the outset,  Mr Speaker,  I want to congratulate you on the superb quip you made during question time. It is rather difficult these days to inject some humour into our proceedings, particularly with the dark clouds that are hanging over the Government of this nation. If the people of Australia could individually air their grievances this morning I am sure that the issues of unemployment and inflation would be to the forefront. I believe that what I have to say in this grievance debate is echoed by the Australian people. It is not my aim to indulge in destructive criticism. I shall endeavour to be constructive and let the Australian people judge. I believe if there were an election this Saturday or even in the next few months this Government would go. I am sure that the Government of Queensland will be returned with a resounding victory in the election in a few weeks time in spite of any comments that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made this morning during question time. He would be rejected, just as the Australian Labor Party in Queensland will be rejected. 
I believe there is a great risk in Australians accepting high levels of unemployment and inflation and the economic crisis. This Government has shown that it will continue to prop up our society with massive handouts of social security benefits. There is a danger that we may become accustomed to this situation. I want to address my remarks primarily to the housewife because she is the one who particularly feels the high costs of goods and services. Unemployment means a lesser flow of capital into the home, and perhaps one could say a very drastic reduction if the breadwinner is on a high income. It is the woman of the household who appears to suffer most. 
There is a lack of confidence by Australians and particularly business people in this country. It is not a case of painting a gloomy picture. Australians are sensible, down to earth people. They do not panic at the drop of a hat. They are noted for their calmness and their coolness and they are not airy-fairy or fickle. They exhibit a tremendous amount of common sense and native cunning under pressure. They do not become panicstricken when confronted with a formidable task, problem, enemy of foe. They quickly recognise the task or the problem and they rally very readily against the enemy. But Australians like a fair go. They do not want to be deceived, and this applies equally to the woman as to the man of the home. The Australian loves a yarn but when the time has come to be serious he wants everyone to come clean. Then the reliable and dogged Australian wants the cards on the table. The Prime Minister and his socialist Government did not reveal to the Australian people what the true facts were when the election was held in May of this year. The Australians- yes, you and I- have been deceived. Three weeks after the elections the facts began to emerge- inflation was getting worse and unemployment was rising. 'Unemployment' is a word that is hard to find in the Labor Party dictionary. 'Full employment for all', the Labor Party promised. Let us place our feet firmly on the ground. We have massive unemployment. That means people without work, without pride, without dignity and without purpose. Two hundred thousand people are wondering whether stability will return to Australia, to this great nation, this land of plenty as we know it. 
I want to examine the reasons for unemployment One reason is the economic crisis, the credit squeeze. Business cannot obtain sufficient liquid funds to expand or to replace equipment so the boss puts off staff. There is a lack of overseas investment and interest in Australia. This Government demands that banks deposit 33  Vi  per cent of their funds with the Reserve Bank of Australia with no interest on it. This has stopped the flow of essential capital into the economy and prevented the re-structuring expansion which is necessary to take up a growing work force. The result is that less people are being employed. Another reason for unemployment is union demands for excessive wage rises. In simple terms, the worker prices himself out of a job. Wages and overheads increase and the boss has to rationalise his operations. He has to cut back here and there and reorganise his business. To stay in business he must put off some staff. There is a lack of confidence in the stability of the Government. If a person has $500, $1,000 or $2,000 to invest he looks for low risk investment. He wants the capital to be safe. People in business are reluctant to expand. The result is that less people are employed. Another reason for unemployment is productivity which keeps falling off. I refer to the output by office workers, shop assistants and vehicle drivers. This means that today we have commerce and industry producing less. The result is more costly goods and services. Exports earn us less. There is less money in circulation resulting in less jobs. 
I will outline remedies to overcome unemployment. I believe that the credit squeeze must be eased by this Government immediately. We must have a controlled inflow of overseas capital. Union demands for wages must be curtailed. Private enterprise must be encouraged to expand. Productivity must be increased, and this is up to every individual Australian. Protection must be afforded to some Australian industries. Even our dour Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  accepts the point that high inflation will destroy our society and our way of living if it is left unchecked. Repeatedly the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has expressed a 6-point plan to combat inflation. In the beginning the opponents scoffed at him. The economists and the academics slated his policy. He has stuck to it and I admire him for it. I do not hear the same cries from the critics today. 
How does the average family man fare in this inflationary trend? Those in the middle income groups- that is, the battlers- are the people that this Government has let down. It has sold them out. How many of them yearn for the return of a Liberal-Country Party Government? Yesterday the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr Cairns)  accused the Press of setting out deliberately to destroy the Government. What a laugh this is. The Government, not the Press is responsible for its actions and failures. I would have thought that in the past this Government had more than its fair share of kind treatment from the Press. 
Let me return to the housewife and the effects of price increases. In this morning's news we heard reports that a 2 lb loaf of bread in New South Wales would be 4c dearer from today. A 2 lb loaf of bread has risen 10c in 5 months from 31c to 41c, an increase of 32 per cent. We also heard that the cost of Holden and Chrysler vehicles will increase by 3 per cent. A Kingswood will now cost an additional $122. 1 admit that in 195 1 we had inflation at a fairly high level but at that time we had a Liberal Party government and there was confidence on the part of the people in the ability of the Government to trade itself out of hard times. This Government has neither. I suggest that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  should stay at home and that he should curb his insatiable desire and the desire of his Government for reform. 
Let us look at some of these other prices that have increased so dramatically. In 1972 a person could buy bacon at about 45c per lb. Today it costs about 79c. These are the things that a housewife has to put up with. Formerly 1 lb of beef cost an average of 75c. It is now $1.30 or $1.40. A 16 oz can of soup in those days cost 18c but now the housewife has to pay 27c. This country has many ills. High unemployment and inflation are, in my opinion, two of the worst ills. I suggest to this Government that it accepts this diagnosis which is obvious and that it be positive and treat the complaints. 
My question is directed to the  Deputy  Prime Minister. Yesterday the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  was reported as saying there would be 6 months of continuing high rates of inflation and unemployment before the situation improves.  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, was also quoted as saying there would be an improvement in 3 months. Can the  Deputy  Prime Minister, as one of the so-called experts on inflation, the economy and employment, give his views on when improvements can be expected and his predictions as to the extent of the improvements? 
-In rising to speak in the Estimates debate on health and social security I am mindful of the importance of this area to the Government. I say this because I have had a little over 20 years' association with the pharmaceutical profession and something like  1  years now in local government. In both of these areas I have realised the importance of social welfare and health programs. If I recall aright, in the Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said that Australia must be restored to a position of leadership in the provision of welfare services, and I do not think that anyone would deny assistance to people in need. It is true that an enormous amount of money is being spent in this area. The social security and welfare budget is something like $3,44 lm of a total budget of $ 16,274m, which is 21 per cent of the total budget. The health budget is $ 1, 232m, or 7.5 per cent, and in total they approximate 30 per cent. Assistance for the aged, which I think honourable members on both sides of the chamber would agree is extremely important, comprises something like 10 per cent of the total Budget. 
I think we should look at the importance of care for the aged, the sick, the underprivileged and the handicapped. Most honourable members would be able to recall many cases, many very sad cases, of aged people, of underprivileged people and of handicapped people. The personal suffering to the individuals and to their families is extreme, to say the least. The honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  endeavoured to make out a case that this Government in its 2 years in office has been the only government that has ever done anything in the field of social welfare. I would remind the Committee that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who was the Minister for Social Services for many years, showed great concern in his portfolio and most of the measures we see in operation today were in actual fact instigated by a Liberal-Country Party Government. I do not think we should forget this fact. He and his predecessors did have a very humane approach to social welfare. 
But as a government increases its affluence, increases its wealth, so therefore surely it must extend its services, and I give due credit to the Government of this day for increasing these benefits. One could not expect benefits that exist today to have been in existence 5 or 10 years ago. In any case, the high rate of inflation in the last 2 years would demand that there be considerable increases. Our standard of living improves, so obviously we must improve our social welfare benefits. This Government increased the range of benefits to the aged, to the handicapped, to widows and supporting mothers, to the unemployed and the sick, etc. etc., and this is only to be expected. Dealing with the figure that has been included for unemployment, I venture to say that the amount appropriated for this area is far less than will be required as the unemployment figures in this country rise rapidly. 
One of the biggest problems we have in Australia is our low productivity. That prompts me to offer a suggestion in relation to the money which is spent on unemployment relief. In this respect I am referring not only to the money which we have seen spent in the last couple of months, at a time when the unemployment figures are rising, on a scheme to relieve the unemployment situation but also to the countless millions of dollars paid out in unemployment benefit through the Department of Social Security for which the country gets nothing in return. I suggest that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  should investigate ways and means of providing benefits for our communities in return for the moneys paid out in unemployment benefit. 
There is no incentive today for people to work. I wish to illustrate that point with an example. I take the position of the labourer. In doing so I am not reflecting upon the labourer because labouring is his occupation. I have done labouring work in the past. The labourer is just as important to this country as anybody else. But let us look at his position today. He earns approximately $90 a week. He pays, in round figures, something like $10 a week in taxation. The essential things for which he has to find money, such as fares and medical benefits, might amount to another $5 a week. So he nets something like $75 a week. If he is a family man with four or five children he can today draw social service benefits of approximately $70 a week. So what incentive is there for him to go to work? A person in receipt of such an amount has no taxation to pay, no medical benefits to pay and no fares to pay. 
-The point is: Who has created the situation whereby he is being paid such an amount of money? 
-I do not consider that he is all that underprivileged. Surely he should be prepared to work. There is no dignity in being unemployed; I think we all agree on that. So why should we have, as at present, the REDregional employment development- scheme in operation? Why should we not be receiving benefits for our communities? The local authorities in this country- there are 900 of them- are crying out for funds. Let us adopt some scheme whereby we will make some use of the money that is being paid out. 
In the few short minutes I have left to me I want to deal with a couple of specific items. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  made excellent reference to the domiciliary home nursing care subsidy, which is to be paid at the rate of $2 a day for people over 65 years of age. I know that this is an area of concern to the Opposition, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Bennelong. Surely we can devise a scheme whereby disadvantaged people under 65 years of age will receive similar benefits. There would be a great saving to the Government if people were to be kept in the very desirable environment of the home. Let us look at the aged persons accommodation provisions. We must care for the aged. That is most important. Many elderly people have not had the opportunity to live the life that we do today. One could say that many of them virtually were pioneers. A number of them rely heavily on the Government to provide them with a decent and reasonable standing of living. 
The subsidy provided under the Aged Persons Homes Act to religious, charitable and local government bodies has been increased from $2 for every $1 to $4 for every $1. That is not a doubling of the assistance given by the Government to religious and charitable organisations. A $2 for $ 1 subsidy is a 66% per cent subsidy and a $4 for $ 1 subsidy is an 80 per cent subsidy. There has been an increase of 13W per cent in the subsidy. So the increase is not as massive as it might appear to be. The capital grant payable under the Aged Persons Hostels Act has been increased from $7,000 to $9,000. 1 venture to say that very few units for aged persons will be built in this country in the next couple of years unless this amount is increased substantially, because units today cost in the vicinity of $13,000 to $ 14,000. It is an increase, and I guess that any increase is welcome; but we will not be providing these services for the amount of money that is being provided under the Budget. 
It is excellent to see that the benefit for physically and mentally handicapped children under 16 years of age is to be increased. The religious and charitable organisations caring for such children are to receive an increase of 50c a day to $3.50 a day. Of course, parents of handicapped children under 16 years of age will welcome the $10 a week allowance. I wish to make one point in relation to the field of health. I notice that the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  is present at the moment. I believe that the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories are playing an important role in this country, but I predict that the Government will burn its fingers if it widens the operations of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories or establishes a pharmaceuticals corporation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the cost of collecting the revenue on television and broadcasting licences for the years 1972-73 and 1973-74. 
Is it the intention of the Postmaster-General's Department to pursue the collection of television and broadcast licence fees which were overdue on 1 7 September 1 974. 
In view of the abolition of television and broadcast licences, will pending prosecutions for failure to hold these licences be proceeded with. 
-First, I wish to comment on a couple of the matters raised by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  earlier in this debate. I am sure that people in this country are sick and tired of listening to the denigration of the State governments by the Federal Labor Government. We have heard these constant and nauseating comments so many times that I wish they would cease. I have noticed that even in recent times the Premiers of Tasmania and South Australia are having many doubts about this Federal Government. As I see it this Government is like a sinking ship. The State Governments of Tasmania and South Australia do not want to be associated with a sinking ship. I ask the honourable member for Shortland to forget about criticising the Queensland Government because the result which will eventuate on 7 December in the State election in Queensland will show this Labor Government and the Labor Opposition in Queensland just what an election is all about. Quite frankly, the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  whose name also was taken in vain by the honourable member for Shortland, will certainly shine through. 
Let me take up another point that the honourable member made- that is, that this Government is only a collecting house for the States. We know that there are Commonwealth areas of responsibility as there are State areas of responsibility. The Federal system was instigated in 1901. The Australian people on numerous occasions since have rejected constitutional changes. 
Before dealing with some specific areas of the Ministry of Urban and Regional Development, I wish to make some general comments. I warmly applaud many of the objectives of this Department that are so concisely expressed on page 17 of Budget Paper No. 8. But while the objectives are couched in compelling terms, the Government has failed to scratch the surface of the enormous problems associated with urban and community affairs. I wish the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  would return to the Committee because I want him to listen to this speech. 
Before members of the Government hasten to inform me how my Party left local government in the wilderness- and I may add what a cold, wet, and unpleasant wilderness it was- I want to express to them my complete and utter disappointment at the way in which the Liberal and Country Parties in government failed to recognise the plight of local authorities. I admit that this is a serious indictment of my own Party. But it is one, I am delighted to say, that will not be levelled at the next Liberal-Country Party Government, and that will not be too long in the future. Indeed, it is refreshing for me to sit and listen to Liberals formulating policy over a whole spectrum covering urban development, regional planning and local government. As the result of a tremendous amount of research and work in this area, I am pleased to say that excellent policies and policy initiatives, I might add, will be forthcoming from the Opposition Parties. 
I will now deal with the performance of the Department of Urban and Regional Development for, in the eye of local government, many of its grandiose offers of assistance are not worth the paper on which they are written. I remind the Minister for Urban and Regional Development that window dressing is not good enough for the thousands of old campaigners, many of whom have spent half a lifetime in local government. I remind the Minister that one must have the goods to offer as well. There is one thing that members on both sides of this Committee must remember: All the wisdom of government does not reside here in Canberra. As a basic tenet, please accept that the majority of politicians in local government are well aware of what they are about. They are informed, exhibit ample political nous and cunning, and possess an earthiness which many members of this Parliament should envy. They shoulder a huge responsibility which many politicians, State and Federal, will not recognise. I am pleased that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development has returned to the Committee. 
I now turn to the frustration being experienced by local government in its dealings with DURD. Our honest inability to meet demands is accepted and tolerated. But when a Minister produces booklets such as the one entitled 'Australian Government Assistance to Local Government Projects', in full knowledge that about 95 per cent of the claims made cannot be honoured, is it any wonder that his credibility evaporates into thin air. Impressive reports and booklets listing all the goodies, printed on glossy paper, which contain in most cases nothing more than empty promises will do nothing to improve the confidence of local government in DURD or in this Government. My Party in government did very little in this area. But at least it was honest. This Government is deceiving the elected representatives and the administrators of local government. Is it any wonder that scepticism grows steadily when flowery offers are made but very, very few ever honoured. This Government offers loaves of bread but few local authorities pick up any more than a dry crust or crumb. 

 Mr Minister, I want you to examine analytically what you are offering and what you are providing. Talk of the past will achieve little, as it always does when we so frequently hear in this place 'what happened over the past 23 years'. Not only are requests for assistance refused, but also many councils are left in suspense for months awaiting a reply from the Minister. One city in my electorate made a simple submission to the Minister on 2 July. It had to wait 4 months almost, until 21 October, to receive a reply- of course, in the negative.  Mr Minister,  this is not good enough. Is it any wonder that I have heard you referred to as 'Tricky Tom', 'Wodonga Tom ' and ' Urger Uren '. 
-That is true. But they are not my words.  Mr Minister,  you were successful in hoodwinking local government, pulling the wool over its eyes, but I would suggest to you that the honeymoon is over and that you take off the mask and reveal the true face. 
There is a great deal to commend the regional planning concept. DURD is to be congratulated for adopting it as many benefits will flow to communities, in addition to the savings effected. I call to the attention of the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  that I will hand out some bouquets, for his benefit, just to show him that I am not being completely biased. Let me say that Queensland leads Australia in regional planning- that much criticised State that I spoke of earlier. Many of the principles adopted by DURD in actual fact were developed and formulated in Queensland and copied by this Labor Government. 
The capital cost of providing sewerage, garbage collection, water storage, adequate road systems, to name a few, will be minimised by regional planning. Better and compatible use of land will be achieved where previously much conflict occurred between neighbouring minicipalities as the result of a lack of consideration in declaring zonings. I implore the Minister not to diminish the rights of States or to erode the autonomy of local government. What is wrong with the Minister establishing his guidelines and then handing over the money and administration to the States. Please answer that question,  Mr Minister. 
At the present time, officers of DURD are tripping around the nation assessing where the $9.5m of a total of $14. lm for area improvement should be spent. I am not condemning the area improvement scheme. On the contrary, I thoroughly commend it. But why is it necessary to send officers into 11 regions spread across Australia to assess where this money should be spent on drainage schemes, acquisition of parklands, landscape design and construction, to name a few? Are these men of superior calibre to their counterparts in the various States? I am informed that the administration of the scheme is, to put it mildly, extremely wasteful. 
For a Government obsessed with centralist policies, I am bewildered by its desire to decentralise by establishing growth centres. Personally, I am happy with the growth centre concept. Perhaps the Minister might explain to the people of Queensland, where 3 growth centres are planned, the people of Western Australia, where 4 growth centres are planned, the people of Tasmania, where one growth centre is planned, and the people of the Northern Territory where again one growth centre is planned, when they can expect some capital expenditure. I realise that all of these centres cannot be developed at once. But this Government has been guilty of discriminatory action before today. 
The attention to sewerage, which is an area of great need, is most desirable. But how the Minister can estimate the overtaking of the backlog to be a 10 year project completely astounds me.  His  report says that the best estimate of the total cost is about $3,800m, at June 1974 prices, and that the Australian Government's contribution is likely to be approximately 40 per cent. This would amount to an average expenditure of possibly $200m for 10 years, allowing for inflation. Yet, this year, $ 105m is to be spent and the forward estimates for 1975-76 and 1976-77 are $ 1 12m and $ 1 1 9m respectively. I realise that the report qualifies all forward estimates by saying that they will be determined 'in the light of prevailing circumstances'. That is nice phraseology. But it looks like more window dressing to me and that the program will extend over 20 years and not 10 years. 
-Firstly I must take to task the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick).  He made the statement that State governments were not assisting local government. This is totally incorrect. State governments are assisting local government and 
I think honourable members should refrain from statements of that nature or, if they are illinformed, should make no statements at all. I was rather flattered by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  who tried to get mileage out of me by suggesting that I was agreeing with him during the debate. That shows what sort of tactics Labor Party members will resort to, particularly as the Queensland State election is to be held on 7 December. The honourable member referred to Alderman Jones as having done such a good job as Lord Mayor of Brisbane. I suggest to the honourable member that this was a personal vote. As a matter of fact it was a blackmail vote because during the campaign for the last Brisbane City Council election people were told that if they did not vote for the Australian Labor Party they would not get anything from Alderman Jones, because he is a dictator. So it was a blackmail vote. But it also shows the complete impartiality of the Queensland Government which has been impartial towards the Brisbane City Council. It shows also the success of the State Government which I know will be returned with a resounding majority on 7 December. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in addressing the Council of the Local Government Associations conference, said that he was the lucifer of centralism. I suggest that, like Alderman Jones, his light is burning rather dimly at the moment. 
Yesterday the States Grants (Special Assistance) Bill debate was gagged in this House. The Opposition was denied the right to adequately debate it. I am pleased that the Bill we are now debating has not received the same treatment. Honourable members from Queensland and South Australia were denied the right to debate yesterday and this indicated the interest of the Government in those areas. That was a substantial Bill which involved expenditure totalling about $48m. The present Bill involves an amount of about $56m. However the proceedings are being broadcast at the moment and I guess the Government regards this as a good opportunity to show up the good points of this Bill. 
I support the Bill, as the Opposition has done, and I am happy to do so because it relates to an area that has concerned me for about 8 years. In recent times we have heard and have seen reports in the newspapers of the State Opposition Leader in Queensland,  Mr Tucker,  making statements to the effect that the Commonwealth Government has made greater per capita grants to Queensland than elsewhere- grants of the order of $380 as compared with the Australian average of $360. 1 am surprised that  Mr Tucker  is so naive that he is not aware of the way the Grants Commission operates. The Grants Commission seeks to bring equality to States that are below the standard States of New South Wales and Victoria. The claimant States, of course, are to function at a standard not appreciably below that of other States without levying extra charges and taxation. Therefore their revenue has to be supplemented, because they have a lower capacity to raise taxes and revenue and because they incur higher costs in order to provide comparable services. 
This Bill provides that $56.3m is to be spread among 806 local authorities. When averaged out, although it might sound a lot this is not a great deal of money to each authority. It is approximately $70,000. If it is averaged over 900 local authorities, the amount is reduced to $60,000 to each authority. What amazes me about this move by the Government is this: Why has it applied a ceiling of $56m. We find that $4 1.6m is appropriated this financial year to the Albury-Wodonga concept which I support whereas only $2.4m was spent on that project last year. I would suggest to the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and to the Government that first things should come first. Why not upgrade the existing facilities we have in our cities and towns? Why are we spending so much money on Albury-Wodonga? Is it because we have a glory-seeking Prime Minister who wants to be known as the first Prime Minister to do so many things? Perhaps the name 'AlburyWodonga' is rather cumbersome and he wants it to be renamed ' Whitlam City'. 
We have seen 3 Budgets presented in 4 months. As far as I can see, in this House a budget seems to have no significance at all. The first Budget proposed a deficit of $570m. Eight weeks later, that deficit is $ 1,300m. As reckless spending seems to be the order of the day I call on the Government to double at least, or perhaps treble, the $56.3m that is provided by this Bill. The sum of $56.3m causes me to claim that the Government's generosity is really at stake. 
Having been present at hearings of the Grants Commission on behalf of one local authority, I feel that I can speak with some authority on this Bill. I played a part in the preparation of the submission for and also appeared on behalf of one authority. One fact is abundantly clear in Australia today. This is that local government is not receiving sufficient revenue. It is required to carry out so many important services including the provision of water supply, sewerage, roads, kerbing, channelling and drainage, parklands and public toilets to mention a few. It is quite obvious that, if we are not to experience stagnation, extra revenue must come to local government. 
It is interesting to note that local government's share of total Government spending in Australia is shrinking steadily. Instead of increasing, unfortunately it is declining to such an extent that in 1969-70 only 7.4 per cent of total government expenditure in Australia was spent in the local government area. A committee of inquiry into local government affairs in New South Wales- it was called the Barnett report- clearly illustrated this figure of 7.4 per cent. This is in stark contrast to the expenditure of 21.6 per cent in Canada, 25.4 per cent in the United States of America and 34.6 per cent in Great Britain. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  stated earlier that a figure of approximately 20 per cent of all revenue coming to local authorities is expended on interest and redemption payments. I can assure the House that there are many local authorities in this country which have interest and redemption payments in excess of 50 per cent of their revenue. Rate increases of between 20 per cent and 50 per cent are rather the order of the day. In the city of Ipswich, which is in the electorate of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  complete uproar recently occurred with petitions being presented to the council calling on the council to resign and for rates to be reduced. This is typical of the position throughout Australia and demonstrates the fact that local government obviously must receive more revenue. 
The question is: Where is that revenue to come from? Many people in our community today are unable to meet the increased rates which are being levied. The capital cost of services today in new estates is being provided by subdividers. But there is a tremendous backlog which must be caught up. It is not only a question of who provides capital costs; the cost of the maintenance of these services and the replacement of vital equipment is involved. 
This Government is able to indulge in a differential taxing system. Unfortunately, that system is not available to local government. When we talk of the average size allotment in a residential street- that is, a 24 perch allotmentwe might find living in that street a pensioner, a low income bracket earner, a middle income bracket earner and perhaps a high income bracket earner. Local government has not at its disposal the means to levy a differential rate on those people in these various income brackets. It does have by the operation of valuations some power to vary rates m certain areas. 
Let me return to the reaction of local government to these grants. I make the point that these Grants Commission hearings were held in 1973. We are now towards the end of 1974. The reaction I receive from local government authorities is: 'When are we to receive the money?' It is fairly plainly stated in this Bill that the grants are to be paid out before 30 June 1975. 1 would hope for the sake of local government and in view of the number of persons unemployed- this number is increasing all the time- that these grants will be made available almost immediately. 
I come again to a point that I made earlier in reply to the honourable member for Darling and refer specifically to the generosity of the Queensland Government. Honourable members will recall that he mentioned that no State government gave assistance to local government. These remarks would indicate to the Australian people that this Australian Government is the only Government that has ever done anything for local government Let me assure honourable members that non-repayable grants are made by State governments and that in Queensland in particular subsidies range from 15 per cent for roadworks and drainage up to non-repayable grants of 40 per cent of cost for sewerage works and up to 50 per cent for new water supply schemes. 
It is a Government sensitive to the needs of local government authorities. Let us look at a local government whose works program is Sim. On average- a generous average- 20 per cent of that sum comes by way of non-repayable grants. I make the point quite strongly that this Government is not the only government that assists local government in Australia. Local government certainly is deflated and depressed by the approach of this Commonwealth Government to more finance for local authorities. One might say that it is in the doldrums and that all the wind is dropping out of its sails. Local authorities thought that this Government was Santa Claus because it told them so. This was a good selling point. Government members proved that they were good salesmen. But local authorities today- and I wish some Government members would move around in this area- are like disillusioned children for they have learnt who Santa Claus really is. 
-Never mind about Gosford. It is just as disadvantaged, I would say, as other local government areas in Australia. This Government has not done too much for it. Local government is a little dejected and a little deflated by and a little distrusting of this Government. But the main difference between the child who believes in Santa Claus and the local government child, so to speak, is that the confidence of the child in the first instance returns pretty quickly; let me assure this Government that the confidence of local government will not return. 
I make the further point that the Grants Commission, as we know, is non-political. But it operates only within the charter that is given to it. I am most fearful that, in the future, if grants are made to regions- this has been quite clearly stated by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)-  we will have greater problems on our hands with respect to the distribution of these funds. What will happen if a local authority has not received a grant, as a number have not in these hearings of the Grants Commission, and a grant is made to the region in the future? Who determines where the money is going when it is given to the regional body? I am not decrying regional planning. I am very much in favour of it because there are very great advantages that will accrue to our communities if we pursue regional planning. I might add that regional planning in the State of Queensland, as I have said in this House before, is to the forefront in Australia and many of the ideas that were instituted by the Queensland Government have in actual fact been copied by the Department of Urban and Regional Development 
I would like to talk a little about members of the Grants Commission because I believe that they are well qualified and competent people. They are people who did their utmost to do an honest job. The following statement is made at page 40 of the report of the Commission: 
The Commission has not been able to compare the extent of assistance provided by the various States to local government in any explicit way. Better information will be sought from States and local government authorities in order to overcome the problem. But for the time being, the Commission has had to resort to broad judgment. 
The operative phrase there obviously is 'broad judgment'. I sympathise with the commissioners in their task. Obviously it was a major one. But the distressing thing, I think, is that there was an admission of these difficulties in the report in that the commissioners, of course, had to use their 'broad judgment'. I want to make the point that local government grants commissions do operate in New South Wales and Western Australia 
These grants commissions provide grants to local authorities. I suggest to the Government that it lays down suggested guidelines for State governments and in consultation with the States sets up State Grants Commissions. The Federal Government should let the State governments assess the needs of local government. After all, they have local knowledge which is important. The various State government departments know the intricacies of their own States. I believe that a greater uniformity of operations of local authorities can be obtained by consultation rather than by confrontation. This Government seems to be making a habit of forcing its views on the States rather than seeking their co-operation. 
I now turn to the second reading speech of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I want to refer to a couple of points. Firstly the Minister said: 
There will be no conditions attached to the expenditure of grants. 
It is very nice to see that there are to be no strings attached to grants which will be allocated to local authorities. But what guarantee have local authorities of that in the future? What guarantee is there that this Government will not endeavour to control what happens to their funds in the future? The Minister also said: 
The Government believes that these grants will go a long way towards alleviating these deficiencies. 
This is utter rubbish. I pointed out earlier that $56m spread over all local authorities in Australia is an exercise in window dressing. 
It is a fleabite, as my honourable friend reminds me. 
The final point is that a number of local authorities missed out on grants. I want to know whether these local authorities were told why they missed out on grants. Was it because their rates were too low and they had the capacity to levy higher rates? Was it because their operations were inefficient? What was the reason? I would suggest to the Special Minister of State that he might look into this matter and provide an explanation either directly or through the Commission to local authorities that were unsuccessful in receiving grants. 
I also suggest that the money should be made available immediately. Many local authorities cannot raise this money from loan funds. This problem is widespread throughout Australia today. Of course, the money will help to prevent retrenchments which at this point of time are inevitable. I sum up by saying that the system is too complex and too loose to determine fairly and accurately amounts of grants. I would suggest that the States be allowed to handle the distribution of money provided by way of grants. 
I address a question to the Minister for Services and Property. I inform him that on Friday 1 November during the installation of a sophisticated machine on the 12th floor of the Australian Government Centre in Brisbane power was disrupted to the entire building and I was caught on my own in one lift for 15 minutes between the 10th and 11th floors. I might add that I was caught in pitch blackness in what one might describe as extremely frightening circumstances. Will the Minister inform the House of the nature of the machine and its approximate cost and whether the equipment is for the use of all departments and members in the building or for the exclusive use of the Prime Minister and Ministers? Is it expected that the machine and operating staff will be gainfully employed? Have similar machines been installed elsewhere in Australia? 
-I am delighted to be able to support the remarks of the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson).  I must take up a couple of the points mentioned by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh).  I am not a betting man but if he would like to have a little wager on the side as to who will win the Queensland elections I will take him on. I suggest to the honourable member that the Labor Party is a sinking ship and that he should get off along with the rest of the crew. The result of the Queensland election to be held on 7 December will prove this point. 
I would like to refute the statements made by the honourable member in relation to unspent Commonwealth funds provided to the States. It is true that every State in the Commonwealth was unable to spend certain funds in certain areas. The main reason for this was the economic bungling of this Federal Labor Government. The finger can be pointed in the same way to every State, whether that State has a LiberalCountry Party Government or a Labor Government. 
I suggest also that the honourable member should look at the expenditure of this Federal Government on the Albury-Wodonga project. Once again, expenditure on this project fell short of the mark. So I say to the honourable member Do not point the finger of scorn at Queensland or any other State. Get your own house in order first. He also went on to say that the Premier of Queensland will not co-operate. He went on with all sorts of rubbish about letters being unanswered. If I were the Premier of Queensland I would not trust this Labor Government either. He has been given no reason to trust this Government. As a matter of fact, the people of this country do not even trust this Government any longer. Why should they? 
Let us have an election now and see how honourable members opposite fare. They were able to hoodwink the people on 18 May, but three or four weeks later they could not have won an election. 
Yes. As the honourable member for McPherson reminds me, the honourable member for Bowman would not be back. He was lucky to be returned to the Parliament last time. I believe that the co-operation that has been received by the Government from the Opposition in relation to the projects covered by these Bills is typical of the co-operation that will be received by this Government if it plays the game with the State of Queensland. I remind members of the Government that these projects were all started prior to this Labor Government coming to power. As a Queenslander, I support these Bills. There are only 2 dams on the fringe of my electorate of Petrie. These are well up in the centre and the northern area of the State. There are two very important purposes for building dams. One is for water conservation and the other is for flood mitigation. I think that all of us are aware of the problems that are being experienced right throughout this country in regard to flooding. The ravages of floods are costing this nation hundreds of millions of dollars annually. All too frequently we find that dams are built with flood mitigation in mind but because of the excessive cost of construction and the need for water conservation so many of the dams that are built for flood mitigation are used as water storage dams. 
I wish to speak now in relation to the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. On 23 October 1974 the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  asked a Dorothy Dixer question of the Minister at the table, the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson).  The question asked on that occasion was in relation to the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation operating in Queensland. I want to put the record straight because the Minister was extremely misleading in the answer he gave. 
As the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  reminds me, he often is. I wish to quote the answer of the Minister that is recorded on page 2706 of Hansard. He said: 
I understand that it is a fact that the Premier of Queensland is introducing legislation in the Queensland Parliament which will in effect ban the operations of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation in Queensland unless with the express approval of the Premier. I believe that to be a most irresponsible action. 
The truth of the matter is that the amendment to the Queensland Act concerned was merely a technical one. It was done for administration purposes to bring the Queensland Act into line with the broadened scope of the Federal Act. Of course, this Act was amended and is now called the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Act 1970-73. The point I am making is that there is nothing underhand as was indicated by the Minister. There is nothing sinister or diabolical about the actions of the Premier of Queensland or, for that matter, the Queensland Government. All of the major construction works carried out in Queensland come under the control of the Premier of that State. The Co-ordinator-General's Department is in charge. That Department does all of the research, planning and supervision of all major projects in Queensland. Let me remind Government supporters that the programs that are undertaken by the Queensland Government are of quite some magnitude. Do not forget that they include main roads, freeways, dams, harbours, and many other projects. This is the purpose of the Co-ordinator-General's Department which has been set up in Queensland. 
Queensland welcomes the assistance that is forthcoming from these 3 Bills. It is not trying to prevent the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation from entering Queensland, as the Minister endeavoured to make out. It appears to me from the comments and the tone of the Minister that he wants to see the discontinuance of Federal money for these schemes. That is the only impression I can gain from his answer on 23 October. 
I want to refer further to the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation because it has a very broad charter. It was formed to carry out investigations and to furnish advice in relation to water resources in Australia or elsewhere and in relation to soil, rocks and materials used in the construction of engineering works in Australia and elsewhere, and to design and construct engineering works in Australia or elsewhere, and so on. The inference I draw from what has been said by the Minister is that he wants this authority to operate everywhere in this country. We have seen what has happened with the interference to private enterprise in this country. We have seen a complete about face, a somersault, by this Government when it realised that we were just about on the rocks. It has now changed its tune altogether. As I said, the Minister wants to see the Corporation take over. Surely to goodness this Government has learnt its lesson with the state of the nation as it is, the economy in a shocking position, inflation running at 25 to 30 per cent and unemployment at 190,000. Surely to goodness it has learnt its lesson, as the honourable member for McPherson said a little earlier. Surely it no longer wants to control everything in this country but rather to allow free enterprise a fair go. There is too much bureaucracy today. I would have thought that the Government at this stage would have eased up more than it has. 
I want to tell the people of Queensland, who are concerned with these 3 Bills, that this socialist Labor Government will obviously ruin this country. I would like to repeat a point that was made by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  a couple of days ago. I think it is worth mentioning that the pledge taken by Labor Party candidates states: 
I also pledge myself to actively support and advocate at all times the Party's objective, the socialisation of industry, production, distribution and exchange. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that he was proud to have signed this. The point is that complete socialisation of this country will not work. This Government has to learn this. Queenslanders will reject socialisation first and foremost, and I stand with them. 
-I have a habit of dealing with lightweights the same as I deal with all the lightweights opposite. That is exactly the way I will deal with them in the future. 
-He went where I put all the lightweights, the same as you will go next time. The honourable member for Bowman nearly went at the last election. With the extra support that we will muster for our candidate next time he will go.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and the Queensland Government are prepared to cooperate with the Federal Government.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  is not obstructionist, as has been so frequently claimed in this Parliament, but he will stand up for State rights. I support him in that stand, as I am sure the people of this country would. Even the Premiers of South Australia and Tasmania are disenchanted with the Federal Labor Government because they realise that their heads will be on the chopping block also if they go along with the Prime Minister and this Government at the moment. 
It is a strange coincidence that these Bills should be going through the House 2 weeks before the Queensland election. It amazes me that the Labor Party in the Federal Parliament would be electioneering for a broken down party in Queensland. Apart from the 3 Bills being discussed tonight, many Dorothy Dix questions have been asked on Queensland. An extra $8m has been promised for housing in Queensland. A statement has been made that the Prime Minister will spend 12 out of 2 1 days in Queensland. He is going there to open a grandstand, as we heard this morning. Apparently the invitation has not been given to him through the right channels. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)-  I do not know how he will get to Queensland when the pilots are on strike- is to open a train display in Brisbane tomorrow. It is rather unusual. One might ask why all these moves are being made in relation to Queensland by the Government at this time. 
I would like to illustrate to the House and to the Government how Queensland does cooperate with the Federal Government, particularly in relation to the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. The Queensland Government has paid $500,000 in fees to the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation over the past 4 years. 
It is a big amount for engineering fees. It is proposed that in excess of $450,000 will be paid to the Corporation for work currently in hand. I mention these points because the Minister by inference in this House recently indicated that Queensland was not interested in the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. What I say disproves what he had to say. The projects being worked on at the moment are the Burdekin reappraisal scheme and the Cania Dam at Monto costing $135,000, and the Corporation is also involved in the Brisbane flood study, which is costing $100,000. So let us not have any more of the comment that the Queensland Government is not interested in the Corporation. 
It was made because it brought into line the broadened scope - 
Because it has to come under the authority of someone. The authority in Queensland is the Co-ordinator-General's Department, which comes under the Premier. It is as simple as that. 
I would like to deal specifically with each of the Bills. The Queensland Grant (Bundaberg Irrigation Works) Bill provides for $4.4m. As the honourable member for McPherson so succinctly put it earlier, the reason is that the Monduran Dam will cost and extra $4.4m is basically the inflation that has been let run riot by this Government. The cost of the dam will now be $ 1 7.2m, which is a 34 per cent increase on the estimate, the Minister said in his second reading speech: 
The general escalation in salaries, wages and construction materials also contributed to the increased cost of the works being financed by the Australian Government. The Snowy Mountains Engineering Coporation was engaged by my department to advise on the revised cost estimates. 
That is an admission that inflation has taken over. This is another project on which the Queensland Government is co-operating with the Federal Government. The Minister also said: 
Over the past year, the Australian Government has undertaken a comprehensive evaluation of the whole of the Bundaberg Irrigation Project (phase 1 and phase 2). The Department of Northern Development, the Bureau of Agricultiral Economics, the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, various State departments - 
Did the Minister hear that? He went on: and the Bureau if Sugar Experiment Stations have all contributed to this evaluation. 
This is another example of co-operation by the Queensland Government. I move next to the Queensland Grant (Proserpine Flood Mitigation) Bill. This provides for a $120,000 grant from the Commonwealth Government to be matched by the Queensland Government on the basis of 40 per cent Federal, 40 per cent State and 20 per cent local authority contributions. In this House a couple of days ago the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  stated that no government in Australia subsidised local government. What a lot of rubbish. This Bill is another example of a 20-40-40 subsidy. The flood mitigation work for which it provides will obviously be extremely important to the people in the Proserpine district. I referred earlier to the disastrous flooding that occurrs throughout this nation. The floods that come particularly to mind are the Australia Day floods in Brisbane. In that area we are hopeful that we might get the Wivanhoe Dam and the Middle Creek Dam constructed not only for water conservation but also for flood mitigation. 
The final Bill is the Queensland Grant (Clare Weir) Bill. It provides $3m to the Queensland Government to go towards the cost of the Clare Weir in the Burdekin area. The Minister in his second reading speech referred to the waste of our resources. He said that only 3.6 per cent of the total runoff is at present committed for industrial, urban and agricultural use in the Burdekin River basin. This is a shocking state of affairs. Obviously the Clare Weir, which is in the early stages of development for water conservation and flood mitigation, will be of great benefit to the Clare basin in future years. This is situated in the dry tropical area and there is a lack of rainfall in this belt. I have seen the Burdekin River in flood. It is several kilometres wide in parts when it is in flood. The continuation of the work on the Clare Weir will be of great benefit to that area. 
I reiterate the co-operation of the Queensland Government to date. As I said earlier, we hear so much from the Prime Minister that we would be led to believe that the Premier of Queensland would never sit at the same table as the Prime Minister of Australia or any of his Ministers. That is totally incorrect. I make that point most strongly. 
He may have had his reasons at the time. The Prime Minister, on occasions, is not very polite either. I have heard some of his own members m_ this.. Parliament on some occasions refer tO' times when his politeness has left a lot to bC desired. In summing up, I wish to make a couple of points to refute the arguments that were put earlier. I point out than an excellent Budget was introduced in Queensland this year. We have only one budget, that brought down by 

 Sir Gordon Chalk this year, not 3 budgets in 4 months as was the case with this Government. Queensland has extremely stable government I am surprised that the Prime Minister of this country would have the audacity to denigrate the Premier of Queensland and to criticise Queensland which has a stable Government. Unemployment and inflation in Queensland are very high. All I can say about that situation is that on 7 December we will see the result. I would like to see the face of the honourable member for Bowman on 7 December when we have a resounding victory in the Queensland State election. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Was the Training Depot of the Queensland University Regiment, CMF Army Reserve at Walcott Street, St Lucia, damaged as a result of being inundated by water during the Australia Day floods of 1 974. 
If so, (a) what is the estimated cost of the damage; and (b) when is it expected repairs will be undertaken. 
-Mr SpeakerMotion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Does the Government support the view that physiotherapy is an important form of medical treatment which is recommended by the medical profession in a frequency which is increasing as the Australian public rightly seeks to obtain the best quality of medical care. 
If so, does the Government propose to provide worthwhile Commonwealth benefits for this service provided by private physiotherapists, as the distance to public hospitals makes travel to them prohibitive for many patients by virtue of the condition requiring treatment. 
It is indeed a pleasant occasion to be speaking to the Bill- 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I am pleased to support this Bill and the contributions that have been made by the honourable members for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  and Indi  (Mr Holten).  My association with the problems of local government has been a close one over the past 8 years. As this Bill basically deals with assistance through the States to local government, I support it wholeheartedly. But I have some reservations, as the previous speakers on the Opposition side have had, particularly with regard to the second reading speech of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  which states that the Minister may, in consultation with the State Ministers, approve of programs. It also stated that the Minister may agree with the State Government upon financial assistance being provided. As has been pointed out so ably by the honourable member for Boothby, there is a repetition of this word 'co-operation'. One wonders when one hears so much about the use of the word 'co-operation' whether in actual fact the Minister is not really a wolf in sheep's clothing. I think it also bears out the fact that the States of Australia are prepared to co-operate with this Government. It has been frequently stated in this chamber that various State governments have been unco-operative and obstructionist. But I think the point is well taken in this instance because it appears from all my investigations that the Minister has gone out of his way to cooperate with the various State governments. 
The problems of local government are vast. There are many costly programs which local councils- approximately 900 of them throughout Australia- wish to carry out. As I said earlier, I welcome this Bill because a greater share of the Commonwealth taxation pool must go to local government. In many instances ratepayers in this country are really stretched to the limit. Of course representatives of local councils are not prepared to increase rates to be able to carry out the massive programs that we would all like to see carried out in order that people may enjoy the facilities that we in this country have come to accept. I believe the regional planning concept is extremely important and the Minister is to be commended for the regional concept that has been introduced by his Department. I point out that there are often vast differences between local authority areas in any region and between shires. The facilities which are available at one end of the shire often vary considerably when compared with those which are available elsewhere in that shire. But there are major advantages in regional planning which I believe should be retained without being the fourth tier of Government. It is important that we have co-operation between regions themselves and between shires and cities within those regions. There are advantages in. town planning and in planning our transport systems, the provision of transport corridors and water supply schemes. These can be done on a co-operative and regional basis or a part regional basis. Of course sewerage schemes also can be carried out with great savings to the various local authorities, particularly in relation to the provision of costly treatment plants. 
I point out that this Government is not the only government with policies which concern urban and regional development. The Liberal and Country parties have developed policies which provide for an increase in the supply of services urban land and building materials and in the rate of housing construction. They have policies to aid regional growth centres, urban planning and renewal and policies for land tenure. I make that point because it would appear that the Labor Party is the only party with policies in this area. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development in his second reading speech stated that the States will introduce legislation to set up land commissions. In actual fact, I think that 2 of the States he mentioned have already done so. Other States are planning legislation to set up these commissions. I suggest to the Minister that he might inform the House whether, in his opinion, good quality serviced land will be provided at a reasonable price. The theory is attractive, but in practice one wonders whether it will work out satisfactorily. I ask the Minister whether he can give some examples of actual costs or estimates of costs in South Australia and Victoria. Perhaps we might be able to compare those figures with the general market value of land in those areas. I suggest that in the past governments have burned their fingers by intruding into areas where private enterprise normally operates. 
I move on to growth centres. I notice that in the Cities Commission report 4 growth centres are planned in Western Australia, one in the Northern Territory, 3 in Queensland, one in South Australia, one in Tasmania, 3 in New South Wales and one in Victoria. Of course, as well there is the Albury-Wodonga area. We have seen the start of Albury-Wodonga, the Geelong scheme, Monarto in South Australia and the Holdsworthy-Campbelltown area in New South Wales. The Minister may give us some indication of when we may see some action in Western Australia, the Northern Territory, Queensland and Tasmania. I am fully aware that all these areas cannot be started at once. It would be impossible for any government to begin them now, I ask the Minister whether he could perhaps give us some indication as to when development of these other areas is expected to commence. 
I also question the wisdom of providing growth centres in certain areas when we perhaps could be upgrading our existing cities before commencing these growth centres. Are we assured that we will have people and, of course, commerce and industry to support the people in these growth centres? I point particularly to that part of the second reading speech which deals with Queensland. I thank the Minister for the cooperation which has been forthcoming with the Queensland Government, particularly with the Co-ordinator-General's Department. At the moment a study is being carried out in the Moreton region on a 50-50 basis with the Queensland CoordinatorGeneral 's Department. As I said earlier, we hear so much about non co-operation that I point out this matter to show that we do have a study under way in the Moreton region which surrounds Brisbane. 
Next I move on to sewerage. I think it is a shock to Australians to realise that there are 1.5 million people in major cities in this country in accommodation without sewerage. I do not think I need to go into all the strong points which indicate the value of sewerage services to our com.munites. There are 2 major points. Firstly, there is the health of the nation and, secondly, the very important matter of pollution if sewerage is not treated. The standard of the effluent which we issue into our streams, bays and rivers is very important. I question whether the Minister can carry out a 10-year program. In this House this morning we heard him mention that at the moment it is estimated that it will cost $3, 800m to complete sewerage services to all urban areas. One questions whether this can be carried out in view of the fact that $ 147.65m is to be spent in the first 2 years of this 10-year program. The cost of $3,856m for the remaining 8 years will mean that approximately $480m will have to be provided yearly. I realise that not all of this amount will be provided by this Government, but the completion of the program depends upon whether the State governments and local authorities can afford to find the remainder of this large sum of money. 
I welcome the 30 per cent non-repayable grant which is provided under this Bill. The remainder has to be repaid by local government over 40 years at the bond rate. I know that there was quite a deal of criticism by this Government of local authorities for not taking up sewerage loans which were available. I inform the Minister that in Queensland a shire in my electorate which had the offer of money took up some of that money. But at that stage before the 30 per cent nonrepayable grant was available that shire was forgoing a 40 per cent subsidy which the Queensland Government was providing. The Queensland Government provides a 40 per cent subsidy on all new sewerage schemes. So this morning I was pleased to hear the Minister announce that the shires of Pine Rivers and Caboolture were to receive some sewerage money including this 30 per cent non-repayable grant. I conclude by commending the Minister on the area improvement program. The selection of areas where funds are to be expended is extremely important. I assure the Minister that I will be watching- as will no doubt the Oppositionto see that no political patronage is extended in the selection of these areas. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Was building No. D44 at Enoggera Army Camp occupied as a canteen by the 24th Construction Squadron, now known as the 2nd Engineers Regiment, prior to 1 965. 
Since the WRAACs vacated the building some time during 1972: 
for what purpose has the building been used; and 
b ) has it been used to good advantage. 
Has any approach been made by the 2nd Engineers to have the building re-instated as a canteen for use by them. 
Will he take steps to have the building revert to a canteen for use by the 2nd Engineers. 
-At the outset I want to say how deeply concerned the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  is about social security matters. He is often criticised for some of his attitudes in certain areas but, as a person who has sat around a table with him and discussed these matters, I know of his deep concern for them. 
-He cares for people, as the honourable member for Griffith has stated. The Opposition does not oppose these Bills. As a matter of fact, the Opposition is agreeable with the Government on many occasions. I think that fact was pointed out by one of the Government members in the House this morning. However, the Opposition will vehemently oppose bad legislation when it comes into this House. The Statesthose governed by Liberal and Country Parties as well as the Australian Labor Party- enter into many agreements with the Federal Government. But of course there are some propositions which are totally unacceptable to the States, be they ruled by Liberal and Country Party governments or by Labor governments. We encourage social reform. As a matter of fact, the elder statesman, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who was suspended recently from this chamber for a week, was one of the finest Ministers for Social Security this country has seen in many a year. The point I make is that many of the Bills that come before this Parliament are only extensions of the legislation that was introduced by a previous LiberalCountry Party Government. In spite of supporting social reforms in many respects, the Opposition will oppose socialism in the true sense. We abhor it; we will fight it as long as we have breath left in our bodies. 
Much has been stated in this House about the poverty that exists in Australia today. It gives me pleasure to support the Homeless Persons Assistance Bill. Today we have scores of derelicts, people who are less fortunate than we are, in most of our cities, particularly the larger cities. Unfortunately some men and women are alcoholics and drug addicts. As the honourable member for Hotham said, many of them drink methylated spirits. If honourable members have witnessed people suffering from delerium tremens, or the DTs as it is often called, they will agree that it is not a very pleasant experience. Such a condition is basically caused through a lack of food, a lack of vitamin B, too much alcohol and not enough nutrition. 
So this Bill to provide homes for homeless people is an extremely worthy one. These people require normal rest; they require nutrition that in many instances they are not getting. As has been stated in the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  they require treatment and counselling. We would hope that, with rehabilitation, they would be able to find their feet and get back to enjoying a normal life. This Bill will provide funds for the many eligible organisations- religious and charitable bodiesthat will provide havens for these people. This assistance will be provided over a 3-year period. Grants will be made by the Minister to approved projects. Grants will be made also to provide premises for rental and to provide furniture, fixtures and fittings. A subsidy of up to 50 per cent of the salary of a social welfare worker employed at one of the centres will also be provided. I notice- and in my opinion, it is an extremely important part of the Bill- that grants will be provided to organisations providing meals and accommodation or meals only. Those honourable members who have visited the soup kitchens, as they are called, would appreciate the difficulties under which many of these organisations are operating. It is good to see that there will be organisations to provide meals and accommodation or meals only where no accommodation is provided. A number of these organisations that have been referred to, such as the Salvation Army and the Methodist Church, provide extremely good services in this area. No doubt they will welcome the subsidies that are to be provided. 
I turn now to the Nursing Homes Assistance Bill, and I will refer to 2 aspects of it. Although this Bill provides for deficit funding for religious and charitable organisations it has an extremely important bearing on the private nursing homes. I want to take a minute or two to talk about the private nursing homes. Moving the subsidy from the patient to the organisation may at first sight seem rather harmless but this means that the money will be paid to the nursing homes on behalf of the patients. One wonders what is the eventual aim of the Minister for Social Security in this matter. I hope that he will answer some of these queries later. I believe that he should state quite clearly the Government's position in relation to the private nursing homes. Does he want private nursing homes to continue or does he not? 
As I see it, this is the thin edge of the wedge. Certainly the religious and charitable organisations in the main- I say 'in the main' because I understand that one or two of them will not be entering into this deficit financing area- are approving of the extra grants to them. I believe that this is out of necessity, because they have been squeezed to such an extent that they would find it impossible to continue if they did not accept further assistance from the Government. So the situation could be that the people will not be complaining bitterly because the subsidy is being paid to the religious and charitable organisation but the churches might voice their disapproval at the lack of subsidy forthcoming from the Government. One wonders whether this is not a devious and unscrupulous method which the Minister is employing with the aim of the eventual demise of the religious and charitable organisations also in this field. As I see it, it certainly sounds the death knell for the private nursing homes. I hope that the Minister will take up that point in his reply. I want to know what are his views in relation to the private nursing homes. 
It is interesting to note that in Australia today there are approximately 38,000 private enterprise nursing beds. Approximately half that number again are owned and operated by the church and by charitable organisations- about 50,000 all told. But more interesting is the fact that in 1973-74 there was an increase of approximately 1,000 beds. To achieve this increase there was an increase of 2,000 beds controlled by the religious and charitable organisations and a decrease of approximately 1,000 beds in the private sector. I think this is a clear indication of the difficulties being experienced by the private nursing homes. Many of them have had to be sold and their numbers are decreasing. As I said earlier, I believe that this is a distinct wedge that has been driven between the religious and charitable organisations and the private nursing homes in this area. 
I also want to know whether the religious and charitable organisations are forfeiting their autonomy. In similar legislation so much has been made of the importance of the common touch in private nursing homes and in the religious and charitable organisations that one wonders whether they are not heading down the road to destruction. In Queensland on 19 August this year nurses' wages increased by 35 per cent to 40 per cent. I think these increases occurred around Australia. On 1 5 October the subsidy was increased by $2.50 a day and a loading system was introduced. I cite a case in point where a religious and charitable organisation in Queensland, which has approximately 800 beds, will suffer a loss of over $60,000 when it enters the deficit funding scheme. As I see it, there are 2 alternatives for this organisation. One is that the Government could allow the home to include the value of the unexpired loading in its deficit budget. The second is that it be allowed to charge the loading to the patient until the date on which the loading expires. This is extremely important. The amount involved is about $60,000 and that is money that the religious organisations concerned could be using for capital works. I ask the Minister to give consideration to this matter. The Bill is not opposed by the Opposition. As I said earlier, it is another of the many Bills that the Opposition is pleased to support. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) On how many occasions, and on what dates, have the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories been inspected in accordance with the code of good manufacturing practices. 
Have quality control inspectors operating in accordance with the code of good manufacturing practices ever been refused admission to the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. 
) If so, on how many occasions, and on what dates. 
I am very eager to join in this debate, particularly in the first instance to refute some of the statements that have been made by honourable members on the Government side of the House. I take the honorable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  to task, particularly for his reference to the Bill not being about Medibank. Let us have a quick look at the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  In fewer than 5 pages, as a quick scrutiny will reveal, the word Medibank' was used at least 9 times. So that is what it is all about. If it is not about Medibank, why not scrap the Bill altogether; there is no point in having it. The fact is that the Minister is obsessed with this scheme and will go to any lengths to see it come about. What the honourable member for Kingston was doing was in fact criticising his own Minister on this matter. 
I join with the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  in criticism of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  It is quite plain in all the advertisements that the use of the word 'free' is being pushed. They say: Medibank will provide free medical insurance cover for every man, woman and child in Australia. And free public hospital care in those States whose governments agree to allow such treatment to be made available.' There is no doubt that this Government is deceiving and misleading the Australian people with the same sort of deceit that has been perpetrated on the Australian people from time to time by this Government. 
-The Government should be ashamed of itself, as the honourable member for Griffith reminds me. I also take up a point which was made by the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child).  The Opposition is concerned for those people not covered and for extending the cover for pensioners. I repeat that the Opposition is concerned. It says: 'Extend the present scheme.' Why scrap the present schemebecause that is the eventual aim of the Ministerwhy bring in a scheme to cover everybody in Australia, when we have a subsidised health benefits scheme to which the majority of people in this country are happy to belong? So I refute the statement that the Opposition is not interested. 
It is interesting to note Press reports of the statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that Cabinet plans to cut back expenditure which does not directly create jobs for the unemployed. The Government has an expenditure review committee- I call it the Big Five, the super brains of the Cabinet- of which the Minister for Social Security is a member. I think that they realise that the honeymoon is well and truly over. It is a case of get back to work and get your feet back on the ground. The Prime Minister has admitted that many Ministers have over-reached themselves with their spending projects. It is a matter of simple accountancy to realise that if there are taxation cuts- that is, income cuts- they must be matched by expenditure cuts. I say to the Minister for Social Security: 'Why not scrap this Bill altogether and extend the existing service?' We have seen plenty of somersaults by the Government in recent times. We have even seen reversals of reversals. That is the sort of desperation we see from this Labor Government. 
Profit is no longer a dirty word in this country. When I came to this Parliament less than 12 months ago it was well and truly a dirty word, but the Government's attitude has now changed. The Government says now that it must encourage the private sector. Only 3 months ago it said: 'Let it struggle. Let it get on the best way it can. ' The Treasurer and  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  made a rather infamous speech at Terrigal when he said: 
The private sector is not only Australian, it is international. Despite our understandable and justified aspirations for a better society we must operate for now within the system. 
The important words are 'for now' because they indicate to me and to every Australian that the long term objective of this Government is the complete socialisation of this country. Now the Government says: 'We must concentrate on the private sector. ' 
I submit to the Minister that Medibank is contrary to that objective. It is a public instrumentality, not a private one. I turn again to the rather infamous advertisements that state: 'A healthy change for everyone'. I submit also to the Minister and to the Government that this will be a further unhealthy change in the state of Australia's deficit balance. We have budgeted for a deficit of $570m. It has been estimated and stated by the Prime Minister that we now face a deficit of something like $2,500m. That is a further unhealthy trend for all taxpayers. I want to go into the net extra cost to the Government. Let us be honest with ourselves, this is a cost to the people. The estimates put the cost of the scheme for a full year at approximately $ 1 ,600m. If one projects the costs of the existing scheme, which are estimated to be about $570m, add to that figure the predicted taxation concessions from the existing scheme of about $370m and subtracts those 2 figures from the total cost one finds that it leaves a balance of some $700m to be found by way of extra taxation. This will amount to something like 7 per cent in additional tax receipts from individuals. 
The Labor Government's propaganda says that this is a free health scheme. I hope that the Minister is listening to this. I sincerely hope that the Minister will take steps to delete the word free' from the advertisements. If Government members are genuine and are genuinely under the misapprehension as to the meaning of the word 'free' and as to how the scheme will operate, as has been clearly indicated today, I believe it is the duty of the Minister to remove the word free'. We saw the machinery 1.35 per cent levy Bill rightly thrown out by the Opposition. This levy was, of course, to be the means of funding the scheme. On the one hand the Government intended to bring this scheme in with a tax levy and now it tries to make out that the scheme is free. I ask the Government: Where can one get something for nothing? The Minister for Social Security refers to it as being a free scheme. I say to him: Who does he think he is fooling? Queensland has had a so-called free hospital scheme for a number of years, but it has cost the people of Queensland a lot of money to operate. 
-I said it was a so-called free hospital scheme. 
-The point is it has had this name from the days of a State Labor Government. 
This was a name we inherited in my State. That is not the question in issue at the moment. I point out that under the Medibank scheme people will be covered only for public hospitals. It is a well known fact in this country that a majority of people seek private or intermediate hospitalisation. The Minister has made some outlandish statements in relation to Medibank, and I want to point out some of them to the House. He says that doctors will not be involved in overheads and bad debts often associated with billing the patient. I am touched by the attituds of the Minister. He is so concerned for the medicos that he is telling them that they will not have to worry about bad debts and they will not have the extra overheads. I am surprised at his deep concern to improve the lot of the medico. It is a real about-face from Australian Labor Party policy to reduce the medico's bad debts and to cut back his overhead costs so he can earn more and lift his meagre incomeperhaps an income that is lower than that of the lower to middle income earner. Who does the Minister think is going to swallow that nasty draught? 
In a recent statement the Minister said of a speech that the  President  of the Australian Medical Association,  Dr Keith  Jones, made that he was trying to race a lame horse. I say to the Minister: You have a horse that is completely broken down and it needs shooting. Another statement attributable to the Minister is that Medibank would be smaller- do not ask me how it will be smaller- less bureaucratic, less costly and more efficient than the present enormously fragmented system of private health insurance. 
-He said it would be smaller, less bureaucratic and less costly. Let us look at those 2 statements. I submit to the Minister that the very reverse will be the position, that Medibank will be full of bureaucracy and will be far more costly to this Government, to this country and to the people. I am afraid that I could not agree with his statement about the efficiency of Medibank. I cannot agree that the Government will run a more efficient service than the private voluntary health organisations. Let us look at the Minister's reference to this enormously fragmented system. What a distortion of the facts' that statement is. In Queensland one health fund has approximately 78 per cent of the business; 2 health funds together hold approximately 9 1 per cent of the business, and 3 funds in that State, in total, hold 95 per cent of the business. The remaining 5 per cent of the business is held by five other funds. So there is not the enormous fragmentation mentioned by the Minister. I understand that in New South Wales 3 funds have in excess of 80 per cent of the business. I think this refutes the Minister's statement that there is enormous fragmentation in the present scheme. 
I would like to refer to the second reading speech of the Minister. This refutes the point that the honourable member for Kingston made about this Bill not being for Medibank. The Minister made the point in his second reading speech that the Bill provides for cessation of the payment of the Australian Government medical and hospital benefits under the National Health Act and, secondly, that it provides for the manner in which existing health insurance organisations will phase out their National Health Act operations. I say to the Minister: Why should we amend the Act at all? Why not leave it as it is? The Minister went on to state a little further on in his second reading speech: 
As I have already stated it is not absolutely essential that the Bill before the House be passed to enable medical benefits to be paid and the hospital arrangements to be achieved under Medibank, but it is desirable . . . 
Of course it is desirable. The Minister wants to see the demise of the existing scheme, the scheme that has served this country and the people of this country so well over the years. 
I shall refer briefly to the massive promotion of this scheme which is costing $ 1 .56m of the taxpayers ' money. I shall mention also that Medibank at the moment is poaching a lot of staff for the same work from the existing voluntary health funds at a salary, I understand, of often more than $2000 or $3000 more than they are receiving at the moment. As I indicated, they will do the same work for Medibank. It is scandalous that the Government should be wooing these people and poaching them to do similar work by offering far greater salaries than they are currently receiving. I ask the Minister: Why introduce Medibank at all? It has been stated that 8 per cent of Australia's population is not covered by health insurance. I understand that the Minister has indicated that one million people are not covered. Incidentally, the Opposition has gone along largely with the statement of the Minister but I understand that the figure for people who are not covered is closer to half a million of 4 per cent. I say to the Minister: Expand the existing subsidised health benefits scheme. I oppose the Bill and I urge the people of this country to reject Medibank and to stay with their own private health organisations. I finish on this note: The devil you know is better than the one you do not know. 
-My question to the Prime Minister follows the question asked of him this morning by my colleague the honourable member for Bennelong. It pertains to the word 'convention' which has been much used and abused by the Prime Minister in recent times. By way of preamble I again remind the Parliament that in recent days the Prime Minister has come out very strongly in stating how important it is that conventions be followed. I ask the Prime Minister Has he and his Government not flouted the convention and the law on the following issues: In relation to open government, by his refusal to allow Parliament to know the amount of reduction in government expenditure; by not dismissing Cabinet Ministers for leaks or illegal actions, for example, the raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation; by his refusal to obey the rule of law by releasing national service defaulters contrary to the law; by violating the traditional convention of direct State appeals to the Privy Council - 
-The honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  seemed to labour the point about the protection of people's rights by the introduction of this Bill. It seems to be the call of the Government all the time that it is the champion of the people's rights. Let me say to the honourable member for Henty, to the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and to the Government that I do not hear of any massive numbers of people being hurt because this legislation has not been enacted. As I see it, if this Government remains in power the people will have no rights at all. I have been handling contributors to medical benefits funds for years. The largest fund in Queensland handles about 78 per cent of all people who are covered. As a pharmacist, for the last fifteen to twenty years I have been talking to people- let me state right here and now that I have no personal or vested interest in this matter because the very small amount of return that comes to any chemist by way of commissions is not worth considering; he provides a service to his customers- and I have not heard people wailing and complaining. Perhaps when he replies the Minister for Social Security can tell me what is the massive number of people who have been hurt or whether any people have been adversely affected because this proposed legislation has not become law. 
I would like to join with the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  in this debate and direct my comments firstly to the National Health Bill (No. 3) 1975. If there were a prize for persistence on the part of Ministers it must surely go to the Minister for Social Security. No one has found the secret of perpetual motion, but as far as Cabinet Ministers are concerned he must come perilously close to fitting that description as he keeps tossing up these Bills with regular monotony. It is rather like a gramophone needle caught in the groove. The same section of the tune is played over and over again. I trust that the Minister will not repeat his rudeness to me in this chamber last week when he completely lost his cool. I must add that he apologised to me quite promptly. 
The Opposition stands firm in its rejection of this Bill. It vigorously opposes the provisions of the Bill and will continue to do so in the future. The Minister made great play of the fact that the Bill is consistent with the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurancethe Nimmo Committee report- which was referred to ad nauseum by the Minister and which was referred to in the same context this morning by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  during question time. That Committee was established, as has been claimed, by the former Liberal-Country Party Government. In his earlier second reading speech, before the Senate rightly deleted the provisions of this Bill from the National Health Bill (No. 2) 1974, the Minister went to great pains to quote the former Minister for Health, the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes),  as saying that he was giving consideration to the introduction of measures contained in this Bill. I suggest to the Minister for Social Security that the operative and important word is 'consideration'. The then Minister for Health was giving consideration to introducing legislation, every the inference to be drawn from what the Minister for Social Security said is that the Liberal-Country Party Government was going to introduce legislation. 
Does the Minister blindly adopt every recommendation that is put forward by every committee of inquiry, commission, board of review or tribunal? Of course he does not. It is the function of the Minister and of this Parliament to sort the wheat from the chaff. Advisers are important people and must be listened to, questioned and their findings respected. But heaven help the governmental system if the public servants and outsiders are permitted to run the show completely. That principle applies to all levels of Government, I might add. I do not want to be mistaken or misquoted on this issue. I have a high regard and a high respect for the intelligence, the judgment and the dedication of the great majority of public servants and those Australians who serve on these advisory committees, many of whom do so in a unpaid capacity, of course. 
I move on to deal with that section of the Bill which deals at some length with deregistration. The Minister makes the shallow excuse that the reason for his desire to have the power to appoint an inspector to investigate the affairs of a medical benefits or hospital benefits organisation is his concern that the only punitive action open to the Government under the National Health Act is the deregistration of the organisation. I ask the Minister to be honest. The only reason he wants this power is so that he will be able to dictate to, and pry into the affairs of, the voluntary health funds. Last Thursday we saw in this House, and had a bitter taste of, dictatorship at its worst. In effect, what the Minister is saying is that he does not trust the people who are operating the organisations. I say to him that these people, with perhaps a few exceptions- I might add that there always will be exceptions- are citizens of impeccable character and their honesty and integrity leave nothing to be desired. So I submit to the Minister that there is no room for the fabrication of excuses that he keeps putting forward. There is no case for the appointment of an inspector. There is no good purpose to be served by the final clause, clause 11, which seeks to include the new Part VIa. What an intrusion this whole Part is into the already satisfactory functioning of the voluntary health organisations! 
This morning we heard the Prime Minister speaking a lot of nonsense about archaic voluntary health organisations. The Opposition does not deny that there is a necessity for constant review and reform. But why is it necessary to dismantle an already well established scheme that has served this nation well? Why does not the Government introduce a scheme to provide cover for the 8 per cent of Australians or one million people referred to this morning by the Minister for Social Security as not being covered at present? However, I would challenge that figure given by the Minister. I personally believe it to be something of the order of 4 per cent. I might add that not all of those people are below the poverty line. There are many people in this country who elect not to be covered by a voluntary health organisation. Why is it necessary to demolish the present system at all? To me the reasons are quite obvious. The Government wants to centralise all operations in Canberra. It is a power grab by Ministers and a power grab by the dictatorial Labor Government. It is a true saying that power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely. As this Government continues with its power grab, so will the level of its corruption increase. So I reject out of hand the whole of clause 1 1 of the Bill, with its power to appoint an inspector and its statement of the inspector's powers and duties. I reject also the proposed new sections that talk about the appointment of judicial managers and the winding up of funds. This is a poor piece of legislation which certainly deserves the axe. 
Towards the end of the Minister's second reading speech he refers quite pointedly to the fact that the Bill has no relation to Medibank. I respect the fact that the Deputy Speaker stated that the Bill does not give rise to a discussion on Medibank. But I suggest that the Minister has some grave doubts about the successful launching of Medibank. The promotion of Medibank is one of the greatest hard-sell operations ever undertaken in Australia's history. An amount of $ 1.56m of Australian's money is to be spent just on promotion alone. 
-That is right; the ALP health program. The Minister must have grave doubts when he has to spend that sort of money in promoting a scheme which he says will be so readily acceptable to the Australian people. One surely would question whether it is necessary to spend any money on the promotion of this project. As I see it, the Government is rapidly creating a nation of no-hopers as it encourages people to accept larger and larger handouts and to perform less work. Productivity, of course, is at a low level. Why would people want to work in Australia today when there is no incentive to do so? Incentive has been abolished completely by the Government. This Medibank scheme will quickly become a monster unable to be controlled and ever increasing in size and cost to the people of this nation. It' will be another case of easy come easy go. People will be using and abusing a service because they do not have directly to put their hands into their pockets to pay for the service. I emphasise the point that they do not have directly to put their hands into their pockets. They will be paying for this scheme indirectly and paying very dearly for it. 
I have been a pharmacist for some 20 years and I have witnessed at first hand the growing cost of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. I have had pensioner patients say to me on numerous occasions- these are people who receive their prescriptions free of charge: 'If only there was some small charge, some token charge, a great deal of waste would be prevented'. I emphasise the point that the majority of those patients do not waste. But, of course, one will always find those who do. If there were just a small charge, much of the present waste would not take place. We have seen, of course, the failure of a similar scheme in Great Britain. The point I make in relation to the waste is that when people do not have directly to pay for a scheme there is a great deal of exploitation of it and a great deal of waste. I want to refer briefly to the transfer of reserves between the medical and hospital funds by a particular organisation. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  covered this point very clearly. There are many people who join a hospital fund and many people who join a medical fund. I do not know how the Minister can justify the transferance of funds from one fund to another when he is a member of a government which is talking of inequality in so many instances. In this case the Minister wants to introduce inequality into this scheme by the amendment which he seeks to make to it. 
Finally, I wish to address a few remarks to the National Health Bill (No. 2) 1975. The Opposition is supporting this Bill. It provides for the removal or reduction of the waiting period before a person joining a health insurance organisation can claim a benefit. In the case of pregnant women, when this Bill becomes law they will have to wait for a period of 2 months before their benefits commence. Uninsured people who receive social security, unemployment, sickness and special benefits in fact have to wait 2 weeks before they are eligible to receive those benefits. Under the provisions of this Bill that waiting time of 2 weeks will be abolished. I support what is contained in that Bill. It certainly will relieve the anxiety and the financial hardship that many people in this country are experiencing today. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Are officers of his Department visiting patients named on prescriptions seeking such information as (a) whether the patient consulted the doctor on the date of the prescription, (b)whether the patient personally collected the medicaments from the chemist and (c) whether the signature on the prescription is that of the patient. 
Are the pharmacists who dispensed the prescriptions also being questioned. 
Are the doctors who wrote the prescriptions also being questioned. 
If the position is as stated, (a) what have these investigations revealed and (b) what suspicions motivated the Department to carry out these investigations. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that Australian gallantry awards recommended for some Australian servicemen who served in the Vietnam War have not as yet been made. 
If so, are these awards still to be made, and when can the recipients expect to receive them. 
-This morning I wish to highlight what I believe is a dangerous and creeping disease which, to my mind, has reached almost plague proportions in this country. I wish to expose the exploitation of the scheme that has been designed to benefit people in need, people who are less fortunate than we are and people who, fortunately, are in a minority in this country. I refer to the exploitation of the unemployment benefits scheme in this country. 
I measure the cost to the nation in 2 ways. Firstly, there is the moral cost which I consider is extremely important and has far reaching effects. Secondly, one can measure the cost to the country in dollars. I am very disturbed at the moral attitude of the Australian people in relation to the acceptance of unemployment benefits when they are not really in need of them. I am appalled at the deterioration in the approach to the acceptance of unemployment benefits. I will endeavour to outline some of the problems which exist. 
This Government stands condemned for its encouragement of laziness in the Australian people. We have easy hand-outs- it is a case of easy-come, easy-go, which has resulted in no incentive being offered the Australian people. I submit that any nation will prosper and flourish only if its people are industrious. There must be, as I think everyone will agree, a good average rate of productivity. But there are no shortcuts to widespread affluence and a better way of life - the better way of life and affluence that we would hope everybody in this country could enjoy. 
Why is work a dirty word in this nation today? Why is work shunned by so many Australian people? Why is work not looked upon as an essential prerequisite to happiness and success? Yet, people seek happiness and success in this nation without effort, without being industrious and without concern for the present and future. There is an attitude in this country in which people say that the country owes them something. I submit that it owes them nothing at all but rather that they owe the country something. This Government, through its laxity, is encouraging a significant proportion of people to exploit, to deceive and to trick the honest people of this nation by accepting unemployment benefits. We have countless thousands of these people in Australia. We have a sick society. This Government has to do more than sit on the bedside and watch the disease which is spreading, but also it must make sure that the disease does not reach an incurable stage. There has to be a positive cure, some positive action, and this' Government must get tough. 
I emphasise that there are genuine people in this country who are deserving of unemployment benefits. Let us look at the economic situation in relation to the exploitation of unemployment benefits. With respect to unemployment benefits, a single person gets $31 a week. A married couple receives $51.50. These benefits are to be increased shortly. If a married couple has children, an unemployment benefit of $5 a week is payable in respect of each child. The average pay-out could be around the $60 a week mark. In round figures we have 270 000 people unemployed in Australia today. Approximately 180 000 of those people are on unemployment benefits. A little bit of simple arithmetic reveals that approximately Slim a week or $600m a year is being paid out in unemployment benefits. 
I wish to emphasise this exploitation as officers of the Department of Labor and Immigration right throughout this country say, I understand that the situation is the worst .that they have ever experienced. The position is out of hand. It is really running riot. Let us assume that an office of the Commonwealth Employment Service wishes to contact 10 men, to place those 10 men in employment. This may be through the RED scheme or in relation to some unemployment relief money. It may be in respect of an inquiry from an employer. 
They do not send telegrams to 10 people; naturally there would have to be a few more people involved to do that. But in some instances they have to send 25 or 30 telegrams. I shall cite an example- it is not in my electorate, but I believe that it is typical- where three times as many men as required are contacted. Expressed in terms of percentages of those contacted, 45 per cent were referred and 35 per cent were placed. Apart from the 45, per cent who were referred, there is a remainder of 55 per cent. Fifteen per cent failed to answer, 20 per cent advised that they had started work, 5 per cent had left the area and 15 per, cent advised that they were not available. The .remainder of the 55 per cent had actually lodged' a statement and were receiving unemployment benefit. 
Let us look at another situation where a man and a woman are living in a de facto relationship. Let us say they are both earning $109 a week- a total of $2 1 8. If they were both registered for unemployment benefits they would be receiving $31 each-a total of $62. A total of $280 a week would' be coming into the household. An important section of the Department of Social Security deals with the provision of a supporting mother's benefit. In some areas it has been proved that up to 75'. per cent of the women receiving that benefit were actually living with their husband or a man in a de facto relationship. 
Let us take the case of young people in this country. Four, five or six young men or young women or mixed company may occupy a flat and pool their resources. Let us take the situation of 5 people living in a flat with $155 a week coming in. They are paying rent of perhaps $35 a week, and if we say that their food costs another $80 a week, they are left with a balance of about $40 for incidentals, clothes, etc. 
-As the honourable member for Port Adelaide says, they might even be able to save for an overseas trip. This Government shortly will provide that sort of money for people without their making any effort. We have the situation of people working under false names. We have more offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service being opened and more offices of the Department of Social Security being opened. People can flit from one office to another to register and pick up more than one benefit weekly. I believe that as a part solution- I do not believe the problem can be fully overcome because it is one which will face any government- there ought to be more social security inspectors put out on the road to do spot checking. We should tighten up on the supplying of income statements. At the moment I understand there is a white form that has to be filled out, followed a week later by a green form and then no more income statements are required from individuals who have registered for unemployment benefit. We have a situation that has relaxed the rules for individuals, because we had a. reporting system that operated on a weekly basis. I realise the extra load involved for the officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service offices, but we have now changed to a monthly reporting system. I believe that it is a flexible system and that the individual officer in charge of the office has the right to make more frequent checks apply to people registered in his office. But here again a man can register while he has a job but still go back to the employment office once a month for 10 minutes to report. The system is therefore easier for those who want to exploit it. With a Budget that is running at about $3,000m over the mark by the end of the financial year I believe it is an area that this Government could well look at. People in this country today are acting like leeches and are sucking the blood from the Government in the form of massive unemployment benefit cheques to which they are not really entitled. 
I wish also to refer to the situation of the average labourer who is getting approximately $90 to $100 a week, depending on what part of the country he lives. A man on the dole- one of the dole set- he could be a married man with 4 children- currently receives $7 1.50. Of course he has no tax to pay and no fares. One might say that he is better off than a labourer. If he is working one or two days a week and let us say he is earning $25-$30 a day, he would receive $60 a week for working 2 days. If he were receiving $71.50 in unemployment benefits and $60 from working 2 days, he is getting about $ 130 a week. That anybody can work 2 days a week for $130 and have 5 days off is an indication of the freedom that this Government has allowed and the way that this country is progressing at present. I emphasise again that I do not begrudge the individual who genuinely cannot get work receiving those benefits. It is the obligation of this nation to look after those unfortunates. I believe that the Government has to act to eliminate the loafing dole set. It stands condemned, and as the Queensland Secretary of the Transport Workers Union,  Mr Bevis,  stated - 
-I want to protest - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
Was spermaceti illegally imported from West Germany into Australia during 1 973-74. 
Are whale products from non-International Whaling Commission countries prohibited imports. 
If the position is as stated, has action been taken to stop further like occurrences, and was action taken against the importer; if not, why not. 
Can he say whether the United States of America banned the export of whale products in late 1 974. 
If so, did Australia take delivery of some United States produced whale products after the date of the ban. 
If these breaches occurred, will he take action to impose a full ban on the importation of all whale based products, as is being done in New Zealand, as a move to strengthen the international actions being taken to protect the whale species. 
-The amendments proposed by this Bill are only of a minor nature, yet one in particular is in my view very important. The Opposition supports the amendments to the Grants Commission Act 1973. The Grants Commission was initially set up in 1933 and has been very important to the financially weaker States of South Australia, Western Australia, Tasmania and Queensland. Of course, this was the real reason for setting up the Commission in 1933. The standard States in those days were, and still are, New South Wales and Victoria. The Grants Commission Acts of 1933, 1951 and 1957 were repealed and replaced by the Grants Commission Act 1973. This new Act embraced all the functions of the old Act and in addition provided for assistance to the States for local government purposes. Financial assistance was provided on the basis that a local government body in one region was to function at a standard not appreciably below that of local government bodies in other regions, that a local government body in a region was to operate at a standard not appreciably below the standard of local government bodies in that or other regions and that an approved regional organisation was to function at a standard not appreciably below the standards of other regional organisations in other areas. I do not think there is any doubt that this was a major step forward for local government. 
It is not my purpose today to canvass the merits and demerits of the first year's findings of the Commission although I take to task the honourable- member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn)  who made great play of the fact that it was the first time that local authorities had received attention from the Grants Commission. We all agree with that and, as I said a little earlier, it was a major step forward. Some local authorities are mildly satisfied with the Grants Commission's findings and, of course, there are others which are totally dissatisfied. When the debate on this Bill was held on Wednesday, 16 April, the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  made a great point of saying how local authorities were happy with the Commission. I would agree that they are happy to receive funds but they are very unhappy at the uncertainty of whether they will receive funds, when they will receive them and how much they will receive. 
-But at the moment, as the honourable member for Griffith states, local government authorities cannot plan ahead. This is a very important point because forward planning is important tc local government. It is important to any level of government and one wonders at the complete lack of forward planning on the part of the Federal Government. 
Local authorities are faced with getting some grants, if they are lucky, from the Grants Commission and some money, if it is available in their area, under the Regional Employment and Development Scheme and through the unemployment relief schemes that are currently operating through State governments. We have area improvement schemes, national estate schemes, and grants are available through the Department of Tourism and Recreation. It is this fragmentation of funds that are coming from this Government which makes it extremely difficult for local government to operate efficiently. Local authorities have staff to employ and naturally want to get the most out of these funds. Of all the levels of government today local government is starved of adequate staff. I would venture to say that local government authorities are in the same position as the average housewife who runs to a budget which she cannot veer from to any great extent, unlike this Government which prints money whenever it sees fit. I venture to say that even a person on the dole feels more secure today than does local government when it comes to forward planning. At least he knows his money is coming, the exact amount he will receive and that no one will question it. 
There is great confusion in local government. As a member of local authorities for many years I have sat around the table with local authority representatives and have attended regional council meetings at which there were mainly the mayors of cities and chairmen of shires. I know the deep concern they have at not knowing where they are going. 
The proliferation of schemes and the fragmention of funds they are getting are causing them great concern. I suggest that this Government would do better by giving the funds to the States for onward transmission to local government. 
Clause 3 of the Bill provides for an amendment to section 8 of the Act and is, in my opinion, the most important amendment in the Bill. It provides for an additional member on the Commission. The present Act provides for a  chairman  and a membership of not less than four and not more than six. This amendment will increase that membership to not more than seven. As previous speakers have said, this increased workload on the 4 existing full time members that comprise the local government division of the Commission is extremely important. Those members have travelled extensively throughout Australia endeavouring to visit the majority of the 900 local authority areas. They have made inspections of cities and shires, checking in detail on the facilities that are provided, noting the amenities and the deficiencies of the various local authority areas, assessing their financial situation and looking at the rates and charges that they levy. It is a difficult task for these members to familiarise themselves with the functions of local government, particularly as the services provided by local government vary from State to State. In some States we find that local authorities take a particular interest in social welfare programs; in other States they do not. In some States we find water supply and sewerage provided by local government and in other States it is provided by metropolitan boards. In some States there are State government subsidies for works and undertakings; in other States there are no subsidies. 
I want to pay a tribute to the sterling work and dedication of Commission members to date. As one who has sat in on a Commission hearing I know of the extremely difficult task they have in grasping the situation as it relates to every local authority. When the Local Government Grants Bill was debated here on 14 November last year I made the point that the Grants Commission's report referred to the fact that the Grants Commission had to resort to broad judgment and that this broad judgment exercised by the Commission had resulted, in my opinion, from 2 things- firstly, from the lack of information from the States and local authorities because that was the first year that the Grants Commission had had hearings in relation to local government and, secondly, the shortage of time. I believe that the extra member that this Bill provides for will be of great advantage to the present members. Naturally the members of the Commission have to sharpen their approach, and that is the way they would want it. In turn this makes the representatives and executive officers of local authorities who appear before the Commission sharpen up. In recent times the hearings have been in held in Brisbane. It came to my notice that Brisbane's experienced, dictatorial Lord Mayor, Alderman Clem Jones, met his Waterloo at the hearings. He was given the rounds of the kitchen by a couple of the members of the Commission who are very able and very knowledgeable about the local government scene. 
As the honourable member for Maranoa said, he was the fellow to whom the honourable member for Griffith gave such a caning in the last federal election. There was no case of the Lord Mayor pulling the wool over the eyes of the members of the Commission. In view of the fact that the Lord Mayor of Brisbane, Alderman Jones, has announced his intention to retire after 14 years- this is the man whom the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  wanted so badly in Canberra in the 1974 federal elections- might I suggest that this dictator who has such vast experience in local government matters would be an excellent choice as the proposed new member of the Commission. He knows all the tricks of the trade and I am sure that he would be a valuable asset to the Commission. I am sure the ViceMayor and Mayor-Elect, Alderman Walsh, would be pleased to see him depart. I understand that Alderman Jones intends to step down as Lord Mayor in the middle of this year. If that is the case, I am sure that he could be enticed to resign from the back bench of the Brisbane City Council to pursue his labour of love serving local government on the Grants Commission. 
A number of local authorities were unable to be visited during the Grants Commission hearings this year. I believe an extra member of the Commission will not only lighten the load for the existing members of the Commission but also enable them to visit local government authorities more frequently. In my own electorate of Petrie I was able to make representations on behalf of the Caboolture Shire. As a result of those representations, the Grants Commission decided to alter its itinerary to include a visit to the Caboolture Shire. This situation where shires and cities are not visited is not good. They feel that they are being disadvantaged and are left off the scene. There is no doubt that the provision for an extra member of the Commission is well and truly justified. 
Clause 3 (b) of the Bill provides for a new subsection after section 8 (6) of the principal Act which provides for the  chairman  who, immediately before his appointment was a judge of the Federal Court or the Supreme Court of a State or Territory, to have the same rank, designation, status and precedence as a judge of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court. I believe it is only fitting that this be done in this instance to accommodate  Mr Justice  ElseMitchell and in future other judges. I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. In recent days the Treasurer has indicated in strong terms his policy on the economy and has left no doubt that he intends to pursue an unrestricted approach. In view of the growing concern of the Australian people at the rising rate of inflation, does the Prime Minister agree with the attitude and course of action of the Treasurer and is that the Government's approach, or does the Prime Minister have a contrary view? If so what is that view? 
-In entering this debate I wish to take up the point that was made so well by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  Honourable members will recall that he mentioned that rumours were circulating in many electorates throughout Australia that the delay in the payment of increases in the pension rates was caused by the Opposition. These are false stories, stories that have been circulating in my electorate of Petrie also. They are malicious and they are untrue. I suggest that the blame falls on the Government, and particularly on the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  for not bringing the Bills before the Parliament at an earlier date. It is true to say that the money will be paid from 1 May to all people who are entitled to receive the benefits, and no one will really lose. But the point was made by the honourable member for Hotham- I think it is worth emphasising- that it was not the Opposition's fault that these Bills were not passed. The question I ask the Minister for Social Security and the Government is: Did the Government bring the Bills in late to delay the payout of several millions of dollars? 
Also I want to take the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  to task on the point he made about having doubts that the bludgers and the exploiters of the Government's unemployment benefits scheme did in fact exist. Let me assure the honourable member that his own Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  recognises the problem. A little later on I will quote from an interview with the Minister which clearly indicates that he recognises this problem. I suggest that the honourable member for Holt talks with some senior officers in the Commonwealth Employment Office because they will enlighten him on the situation. There is ample proof that there is exploitation of this scheme. 
The Opposition supports these Bills but makes the point that the Government should sharpen up its approach by making payments to those who are really in need. We agree that we must bring extra benefits to that section of the community that is most in need. The Bills provide for increases in pensions, additional payments for dependants of pensioners, unemployment benefits and sickness benefits to be paid weekly in advance and also immediate payment of special benefits for persons newly discharged from gaol. In addition there is the very important abolition of the means test for people in the 70 to 74 age group. I think it is very pertinent to point out that the estimated cost of these benefits for a full year is $587m. 
I would like to direct my comments now to some of the points made in the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security. He gloated that the standard or single rate pension now represents 24.5 per cent of seasonally adjusted average weekly earnings, but he went on to qualify that by stating that the comparison was made with the December 1974 figures for seasonally adjusted average weekly earnings, which was the last quarter available to him. If the Minister were in the chamber at the moment I would ask him to look back over the last 5 months at least in which the inflation rate has been running at 20 per cent. I would suggest to him that average weekly earnings now have increased quite considerably since the last quarter of 1974. I believe that the Minister is being deceitful in drawing a comparison with average weekly earnings back in 1974 when we have inflation currently running at the tremendous rate of 20 per cent. 
He went on to comment that in the last year of office of the Liberal-Country Party Government the comparable proportion of the pension to average weekly earnings was 21 per cent. A few minutes ago the honourable member for Hotham pointed out to the House that the figure that this Government has been paying in recent times is still only 2 1 . 1 per cent. The Minister also claimed that the single or standard rate has increased by 80 per cent and that the combined married rate has increased by 74 per cent since December 1972 when the Australian Labor Party formed the Government. That is true. Then he went on to say that in the same period the consumer price index has increased by 31.6 per cent. He stated: 
This indicates that there has been a substantial redistribution of purchasing power to pensioners and social security beneficiaries. 
I offer the suggestion to the Minister that many items in the consumer price index do not affect the pensioner. I invite the Minister for Social Security to come with me into a supermarket in which the average pensioner does his shopping. I assure him that I have a number of pensioners in my electorate, particularly in one section of the electorate. I invite the Minister to come with me and compare some of the price increases of the commodities commonly purchased by a pensioner. Let us consider some of them. In December 1972 a pint of milk cost 12c; in May 1975 it costs 18c- an increase of 50 per cent. Bread which used to cost 26c a loaf now costs 38c a loaf- a 46 per cent increase. A pound of bacon rashers used to cost 96c but in May 1975 costs $1.58- an increase of 64 per cent. The price of butter has increased from 56c to 67c- an increase of 20 per cent. In December 1972 a 5 lb bag of potatoes cost 30c; it now costs 45c- an increase of 50 per cent. A 24 oz can of jam cost 25c; it now costs 34c- an increase of 36 per cent. A pair of sandshoes cost $6.99; it now costs $10.50- an increase of 50 per cent. Certainly the price of beef has gone down but lamb and pork have increased in price. If one takes items at random, as I did, one finds that the increase was something like 41 per cent. Of course, I have not mentioned the increase in local authority rates which in this same period has been quite considerable. 
On 10 April I made a speech in this House during the grievance debate in which I highlighted some of the problems that exist today with the exploitation of the unemployment benefits being paid to a great number of people in this country. I spoke of the exploitation not only from the point of view of the cost to the economy but also from the point of view of the moral cost to the nation. I want to enlarge a little on this subject today. I believe that this will refute the statements of the honourable member for Holt. My first comment relates to a statement made by the Minister for Labor and Immigration. A headline in 'The West- .Australian' on 12 March 1974-a little over 12 months ago- read 'Cameron's warning to slackers'. The article stated: 
The Minister for Labor,  Mr Cameron,  warned last night that 'slackers' might lose the right to unemployment benefits. 
He said he was giving thought to reducing unemployment benefits for people who were out of work and refused to be retrained for other jobs. 
He went on: 
I've got no sympathy for people who can be described as the professional unemployed person, who just won't work and who treats unemployment benefits as being a suitable or satisfactory alternative to working ... I want to get rid of slackers. 

 Mr HODGES The honourable member for Wakefield asks: 'How is he getting on with it?' I suggest that the Minister for Labor and Immigration has taken no action whatsoever. It is the Department of Social Security that foots the bill for those people who are registered as unemployed. I wonder how many prosecutions there have been. I wonder how many checks have been made to ensure that the work test has been properly applied. Let us look at another statement- a Press release by the Minister for Labor and Immigration. It stated: 
The liter-departmental Working Party on the 'work test' has now completed its review and I am indicating in this statement the relevant decisions. 
The Working Party, consisting of senior officers of the Department of Labor and the Department of Social Security, was set up by the Minister for Social Security,  Mr BUI  Hayden, M.P., and myself to conduct a thorough examination of the work test and the procedures followed and instructions to officers concerned with its application. 
That is dated 14 April 1974. 
Yes, 1974-a little over 12 months ago. He went on to say: 
The Working Party expects these guidelines to minimise abuses and to identify the 'work shy' more effectively. 
The Press statement finished by saying: 
The Permanent Head of my Department,  Dr Sharp,  is issuing instructions to the CES to observe strictly the new procedures and guidelines from now on. 
Obviously, they are more empty words from the Minister for Labor and Immigration and the Minister for Social Security. I continue my remarks to refer to an interview given by the Minister for Labor and Immigration on the 'A.M.' radio program in regard to unemployed persons. The Minister was asked: 

 Mr Cameron how long have you been aware that the unemployment benefits have been exploited? 
The Minister answered: 
It came to my notice a few weeks ago following the reports in some sections of the press about what they described as a multi-million dollar racket and suggesting that practically everybody in the community was on unemployed benefits. There is evidence that following those press reports that a lot of young people who previously had not done so had applied for unemployed benefits, apparently believing, 'well everybody else is on it, according to the papers, we might as well join the queue'. 
The interviewer then asked: 
Is it a multi-million dollar racket? 
The Minister answered: 
No it's not. Of course it never was, and it's not now. In point of fact, the survey that I ordered into this matter showed that out of those who are getting unemployed benefits, and it's well to remember that only 40 per cent of those who are unemployed are in receipt of unemployed benefits, that only 3 per cent of that 40 per cent who are getting unemployed benefits were thought to be bludging, to use an Australianism. 
I wish to update those figures because now approximately 55 per cent of the registered unemployed are receiving unemployment benefits. Can we take the fact that the percentage of people registered as unemployed and receiving unemployment benefits has jumped from 40 per cent of the unemployed in April 1974 to approximately 55 per cent in April 1975 as an indication of the position that has arisen? I suggest to the Minister for Labor and Immigration that there is a multi-million dollar racket in Australia at the moment in this regard. Let us assume that, as the Minister stated, only 3 per cent of those who are receiving unemployed benefits are bludging. I believe that the percentage is probably 6 per cent or even as high as 10 per cent. There are approximately 150,000 people in receipt of unemployment benefits in Australia today. I was unable to obtain the April figures, but I am working on the March figure, which would be something of the order of 150 000 people. Three per cent of that figure is 4500. When we average out an unemployment payment of $60 a week- I guess it is now about $70 a week- this means a payment of something like $270,000 weekly or $ 14m annually. If the number of people receiving unemployment benefits went as high as 10 per cent of unemployed people- I believe it could be- this figure would jump to approximately $47m. So it is indeed a multi-million dollar racket. I also quote from an article by a well known dedicated Labor man and dedicated socialist which appeared in the Brisbane 'Telegraph' of 14 February 1975. The headline reads: 
Union head urges dole out. 

 Mr Arch Bevis, the State Secretary of the Transport Workers Union in Queensland, had this to say in the article: 
I think the Government should consider cutting back existing benefits to make people want to get work, he said . . . 
People are going on the dole for three months or so, going back to work, and what they lost in wages they make up in tax rebates, he said. If my contention can be proved, and I believe it can, then the Government should reduce the present dole rates. 
The Queensland State Secretary of the Transport Workers Union,  Mr Arch  Bevis, in a newspaper article of Friday, 14 February 1975. 
As the honourable member for Forrest reminds me, he has a lot of sense. At present 150 000 people receive unemployment benefits at an average payment of approximately $70 a week. I cite this figure because one must remember that the single rate of unemployment benefit is $36 a week, the rate for a married couple is $60 a week, for a married couple with 2 children it is $74 a week and for a married couple with 3 children it is $8 1 a week. So bearing these figures in mind I would say at a conservative estimate that approximately $ 10.5m weekly or $550m annually is being paid out in unemployment benefits. It is time that the Government had a long hard look at this tremendous waste to our nation. 
But what about those genuine people for whom the payment of the benefit weekly in advance, as is proposed by this Bill, is extremely important? This is a humane approach and the Opposition has much pleasure in supporting it. People often need money immediately. The people who are genuinely unemployed often refrain from registering as being unemployed. Their pride will not allow them to do so. People who have this very problem have contacted me. They have held off from registering week after week in the hope that they will be able to find employment. Eventually they realise that they must register. Private enterprise is in such a depressed state in this country today, brought about by this Labor Government- there is no doubting this and the people of this nation daily are beginning to realise it- that jobs are scarce and business has no confidence. Surely the return of business confidence must be the long term answer to the lack of jobs in this country. In this situation we will find that people will want to receive unemployment benefit payments in advance. As the Minister said in his second reading speech, this will cost $9.4m in a full year. But the Government has a responsibility to ensure that the unscrupulous dot not capitalise on this immediate payment. It must surely tighten the reins to ensure that only those who are in need are the ones who receive. 
I want to mention in conclusion the abolition of the means test for the 70 to 74 year old pensioners. I want to draw the attention of the House to the fact that at the moment there are approximately 43 000 pensioners who are receiving the reduced rate pension and who will benefit by this abolition, and that in addition 56 000 people who are presently excluded from receiving a pension will receive one. These people have paid taxes all their lives and surely must be entitled to receive this pension. I sum up by saying that personally I am delighted to support the increase for all classes of pensioners, the abolition of the means test for those aged 70 to 74 years and the increased benefits for the genuinely unemployed. But I charge the Government to adopt a more stringent policing of exploitation of the unemployment benefits scheme by the loafing, bludging dole set. 
-The honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  and the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  have dealt with the philosophical approach to the position of children in our communities. I believe that these contributions are very valuable. The deep thought in them should be examined very closely by all honourable members of this House. This Children's Commission Bill is one of the most important pieces of legislation to come before the Parliament. I ask honourable members: What could be more important to the well-being of our nation in the future to ensure its stability, progress and enrichment than caring for, properly nourishing and educating, and giving adequate parental affection to our children? Obviously the family unit must reign supreme if we are to breed children with the desired qualities to maintain Australia as a great nation, keeping it abreast of the ever changing world and, indeed, if possible keeping it in the forefront with other great nations. As far back as 400 BC a Greek philosopher called Plato showed his concern for the future of his country and of the world when he expressed himself in these words: 
So long as our younger generation is, and continues to be well brought up, then our ship of state will have a fair voyage- otherwise the consequences are better left unsaid. 
I believe that Plato's words are just as true today as they were more than 2300 years ago. Probably they are more relevant today because the peoples on earth, despite the vast changes in technology, science and living standards, and so on, are confronted with stresses and strains of immense proportions. Therefore they need to be well suited and fitted to meet the demands of our modern and rapidly changing world. For these reasons I am convinced that too much emphasis cannot be placed on the careful upbringing of our children. This does not necessarily mean that the mere expenditure of money will provide all or even most of the answers towards achieving our objectives. Of paramount importance must be the giving of love and affection to children until they reach manhood or womanhood. I might be labouring this point but it is so vital to our nation. Certainly it cannot be measured purely in cold terms of making dollars available for projects involving children. 
This brings me to my main point of concern. I wonder what motivates the socialist Labor Government when it starts splashing such large quantities of money around so quickly. The state of the economy, the high rate of inflation and the worrying high level of unemployment do not daunt the Government, although of recent days there is a hint of a suggestion that government spending may be cut. I am firmly convinced that no program of this nature should ever reach the stage where the Government takes over completely. There must be some participation, not only physical and mental but also financial by the consumer. What the consumer gets for nothing he will tend to have little regard for, but if he contributes only a nominal amount he has respect for the service. Is it this Government's intention eventually to gain complete control over all facilities it funds? Is this another step to control and regiment our lives from the cradle to the grave? 
The Opposition supports the Bill and therefore, once again, is not being obstructionist as we so frequently hear and as is claimed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  Ministers and members of the Government. However, the Opposition would have preferred to see a children's bureau established. It would bring together competent people in advisory role and act as a liaison body rather than have an extension of the bureaucracy by setting up another commission as an executive body. I point out that the Bill has an extremely broad scope. To see this one only has to look at Part 1, the definition of 'Services for Children' and then at Part 11, the 'Functions and Powers of Children's Commission'. I would prefer the administration of the Act to be under a LiberalNational Country Party Government rather than the present Labor Government. I shall now make a few comments in relation to the second reading speech of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  He used quite impressive words. He stated that the Government does not want to see a proliferation of white elephant centres which can be used for one purpose only. I ask the Minister: Why must we have white elephant centres anyway? If they are properly planned where needed, after surveys have been carried out and designed so that they can be adapted, built and operated by charities and local authorities there need never be white elephants. 
-I ask the Minister to point out where we have them. They will be the result of very poor planning. If there had been correct planning we would not have white elephants. 
-In his opening remarks the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  mentioned that the title of this Bill was a misnomer. I agree with him. I would suggest that the Bill would be more appropriately entitled the Death Knell to First Time Home Seekers Bill. That is exactly what it is and what it will achieve. It sounds the death knell to thousands of people- to young married couples and those intending to get married who want to settle down, raise a family and become decent citizens in this country in any one of thousands of suburbs, towns and settlements. 
I believe it is a sinister move by the Government and part of its socialist plan to prevent people from owning their own homes. They will then become less self supporting, less self sufficient and more dependent on the Government. Why this Government wants to kill personal achievement, kill personal effort and kill incentive completely baffles me. This Government has done damage to business confidence and private enterprise and has caused high unemployment. It is encouraging Australians to be lazy. Now it does not even want them to own their own homes. But I will give the Government credit for exposing its policy in relation to housing. This is not another measure recently cunningly conceived and now being thrown upon Australians. It is like so many of the other diabolical measures and policies being perpetrated to the Australian people by the Whitlam socialist Government. The Australian people were not aware of the ways and the evils of this Government. I give the average Australian a great deal of credit for having a lot of native cunning. He is now aware of what this Government is about and he is rebelling against it. 
The Labor Party in its philosophy of home ownership, as I said earlier, has been quite open. It stated its policy on 21 August 1973 in the Budget Speech of the then Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  The then Treasurer said there would be a scheme of tax deductibility of mortgage interest on housing loans to have effect from 1 July 1974. 1 want to go back a little further and refer to the housing agreements with the States. I can well remember in 1973 and again in 1974 the minimum limit of 20 per cent and the maximum limit of 30 per cent which was placed on home ownership. In other words, an emphasis was placed on rental homes. These were the agreements, of course, that the States were forced into. I think this applied with one exception, Tasmania, where the figure was as high as 50 per cent. So this is the philosophy, the policy, the thinking of this Government- to place a great deal of emphasis on rental homes. What is the scheme being replaced with? It is being replaced with a scheme for tax deductibility of mortgage interest on housing loans. The next question I ask is: Who will benefit? Obviously, they will be people with homes. As far as they are concerned this is an admirable scheme. But what about those without homes? I suggest that they are completely disadvantaged with little or no chance of obtaining their homes. 
The Homes Savings Grant Act, which has been in operation since 1964, in my opinion has served this nation well. It had its problems. No doubt in the last two to three years, with inflation, particularly under this Government, running at up to 20 per cent now, the figure of $750 should have been increased. But the proposed scheme is discriminatory. This is supposed to be the government that deals out justice to everyone. I suggest that perhaps social justice is its strong point, with emphasis on social. Nevertheless the Government is meting out injustice to so many thousands of Australian people by abolishing this useful Act. Of course people in rental homes will be allowed no deduction. What about the person already purchasing his own home? Of course he will have in-built capital gain as well. There has always been a great Australian dream of owning one's home. I suggest that it will remain just that-a dream. 
I turn now to the effects that this will have on the home building industry, one of the most depressed industries in Australia. The Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson),  who is sitting at the table, and his Government are directly responsible for the depressed nature of the Australian building industry. I cite as an example home building in 2 areas of my own electorate of Petrie. The city of Redcliffe for about five or six years had a building rate for new homes of about 600 per year. This is now down to 300 homes. The Pine Rivers Shire, one of the most rapidly expanding shires in Queensland, built 1700 homes in 1972-73. The figure is down to approximately 900 in the current financial year. So what am I going to tell the hundreds and hundreds of young intending home owners in my electorate of Petrie? Inflation has been beating them in the last couple of years and now I have to tell them that this Government has abolished the homes savings grant scheme, so their chances of bridging the deposit gap have now vanished altogether. 
The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  referred to the Labor Government encouraging insurance companies to put funds into housing. I suggest that with the establishment of the Australian Government Insurance Office there will be little general insurance funds to be placed, particularly of course now that there will be very few homes built. I suggest to the Government that it should have retained this Act, that it should have extended the grant from $750 to a more realistic figure of, say, $2,000 and encouraged young people to save to give them some sort of incentive, which is obviously the very important operative ingredient that today in Australia is so lacking. If it wanted to the Government could retain its tax deductibility scheme in some form. I vehemently oppose this Bill. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Last Tuesday in another place in answer to a question without notice the Minister for Foreign Affairs readily advised that a visa had been granted to  Mr Gamal  El-Surani, a member of the Palestine Liberation Organisation. Yet the following day the Minister for Labor and Immigration in reply to a similar question from the honourable member for North Sydney claimed that he did not know what the honourable member for North Sydney was talking about. Is it a fact that the Minister still has responsibility for approving applications for visas to enter Australia? Were departmental or ministerial representations made to the Minister prior to approval being given for the issue of a visa to  Mr El-Surani,  and what was the approximate date? 
-The purpose of the Health Insurance Bill 1975 is to provide benefits for services by optometrists and to provide that these benefits be available under Medibank from 1 July 1975. The Opposition supports the Bill, although Opposition policy varies slightly from Government policy. I will point out the slight variations a little later in my speech. The Opposition does not seek to amend this Bill. Firstly I wish to make some general comments on Liberal-National Country Party policy and approach to the nation's health. There were a great number of initiatives in the 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government. One would not realise this fact if one listened to Government members in this House, particularly during the 12 months that I have been a member. One would think that all the initiatives in the health and welfare field had come in actual fact from the Australian Labor Party Government. 
Let me assure the people of this country that the Liberal-Country parties in government for 23 years initiated a great deal in this field. I refer to the national health scheme, the pharmaceutical benefits scheme and other schemes which were improved, amended and upgraded as the nation could afford them. So these social welfare benefits- pensions to the aged, the disabled, deserted mothers and their dependants, unemployment benefits and sickness benefits- were increased in proportion to what the nation could actually afford. The aim of the Liberal and Country parties, which is contrary to what this Government would lead the people of the nation to believe, is to provide for those in need. I want to stress this point: The Opposition in government has intentions to provide for those people who are in need not to create a giant welfare state. I think it is an important point. The Liberal-Country parties in government want to provide incentives for people in this country, to encourage free enterprise, to encourage the people of this nation to be industrious, to encourage a high rate of productivity and to seek full employment. Contrary to the views that are expressed by a number of Ministers, including the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who is in the House at the moment and who so frequently says that the policy of the Opposition would be to retain a large percentage of unemployment, let me assure the Government and the Minister that it is not the policy of the Opposition to have unemployment. 
I submit that the nation must look after those who are less fortunate than many of us- the unemployed, the sick, the accident victims, the aged, the disabled, the deserted mothers and their children- and not encourage the creation of more 'less fortunates' as appears to be the case with this Government. One of the dangers of the massive welfare programs that are, as I see them, the aims of the Labor Government, is that they will tend to create in this nation people who do not care or who do not have any incentive. There is a tendency as well for people to become lazy or to lose their purpose in life. The approach of this Government seems to be that it will think for people and that it will care for people. This attitude surely must be deplored. The result is that a person's brain tends to become inactive, his body tends to become inactive, and in turn the nation becomes inactive. 
-The honourable member for Robertson interjects. He is rather inactive at the moment. I am sure that many of the electors in his electorate realise this fact. Serious repercussions could result. The nation could lose its standing in the world. It could lose business confidence. Business investment will slump. Risk capital will no longer flow. We have seen this particular situation arise in the last few weeks when the Government unsuccessfully tried to raise a $2,000m loan. This story will be repeated as far as Australia is concerned while we retain a Labor Government. The lenders in this world will not look favourably upon Australia when it comes to lending money. So, the nation will stagnate. This Government frequently claims that the Liberal-Country Party Coalition did very little in the 23 years it was in Government. 
-As the honourable member for Hotham suggests, this could be amplified. A number of plastic surgeons in this country perform operations involving plastic surgery to the great benefit of the Australian people. I now turn to make some comments about the professional ability of optometrists in Australia, because for many years opthamalogists and optometrists have been in conflict. Of course, the patients of opthalmologists have been able to receive benefits that have not been available to the patients of optometrists. I believe that optometrists in Australia have a high standard. They are men and women of integrity. Their ability is unquestionable. No trade or profession is perfect. It does not matter to which trade or profession one turns one finds that there are always isolated cases of people who are unscrupulous, but I believe that optometrists in Australia provide a standard in their profession that is probably second to none in the world. They are highly skilled people who employ modern technical equipment. The Optometry Advisory Panel of the University of New South Wales virtually determines the standards for optometry in that State. That panel presented a paper dated 22 July 1966. The members of the panel who signed that paper were: C. J. Milner, Head, School of Physics; J. Lederer, Associate Professor of Optometry; J. Ludbrook, Head, School of Surgery; and F. C. Hollow, Associate Professor of Opthalmology. One can easily see that the standards set by that panel would be very high. It is interesting to note that optometrists who qualify in the schools of optometry in New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland are recognised in all States of Australia. 
Under the scheme we are discussing optometrists will have a moral obligation to their profession and to the Australian people because obviously greater use will be made of their services. The Opposition has some reservations about optometrists taking on extra responsibility. There will be dangers and optometrists must exercise extreme care and caution. I believe that their responsibilities will increase when they enter into this scheme. I illustrate this by referring to the fact that the medical profession generally and the governments in a number of countries realise that there are dangers in recognising optometrists perhaps to the same extent that we propose to recognise them in Australia. For instance, the New Zealand Department of Health, in a publication entitled 'Therapeutic Notes No. 128, 1974', issued this warning: 
Examination of the eye by an optometrist (as distinct from sight testing) is usually of value only when a positive finding leads to a referral for medical assessment, and no secure reliance can be placed on a negative result. 
The Canadian Royal Commission on Health Services in 1964 said: 
The Commission is concerned that the very conditions most likely to be missed by an optometrist are among those having the most serious effects. Since the consequence of loss of sight is so serious we believe that every effort should be made to eliminate all elements of risk. 
In England in 1970 the General Optical Council issued an instruction that if an optometrist should undertake orthoptic treatment the case should be regularly reviewed by an ophthalmologist. Under the National Health Act in Britain optometrists are not recognised as being competent to detect ocular disease or abnormality. I think it is interesting also to note that there is a lack of legal responsibility for clinical decisions by optometrists. Because the law sets out to limit people's activities to their competence, the full responsibility for clinical decisions concerning diagnosis is not the responsibility at law of any optometrist. It is doubtful, in the absence of any statutory requirements for referral of disease to medical practitioners, that any civil action for negligence by an optometrist would succeed should he fail to diagnose eye pathology. This is because of the statutory limitations on the scope of his activities provided in the State optometrical registration Acts. Diagnosis not being his role, his failure to diagnose, while regrettable, cannot be regarded as professional negligence. Any condition that requires a change of spectacles more than once a year is very likely to be caused by disease which requires medical diagnosis and treatment. 
In addition to placing extra emphasis on optometrists observing the fact that they have great responsibility- they will perhaps have a greater responsibility because there will be increased usage of their services- I also want to warn optometrists that there is a great onus on them not to abuse this system; not to abuse it from a professional point of view and not to abuse it because of the costs to the Government. There is also, of course, an onus on the Government to ensure that the scheme does not get out of hand. One has only to look at the national health scheme as an example. By far the great majority of medical practitioners in this country are honest and carry out their duties in an efficient and an honest manner, but there are some who do abuse the system. No doubt it will require a great deal of vigilance on the part of the Minister and his staff to ensure that the optometrists of this country do not abuse this scheme. 
There will probably be a bonus as a result of the increased usage because no doubt more people will be having their eyes tested, and I believe that optometrists do have the ability, if they are careful in their examinations, to detect many important and insidious diseases of the eye. For instance, I believe that a number of them have detected glaucoma, which is an extremely dangerous eye disease. If optometrists can detect glaucoma at an early stage and refer patients to ophthalmologists, it is quite possible that the sight of many thousands of Australians will be saved in the future. I am pleased to say that the Opposition has pleasure in supporting this Bill. 
It is now just a little more than a year since I was elected to this House. 
-The honourable member might say it is too long, but I will be here for a long time to come, a lot longer than a lot of the honourable members opposite, I can assure him. In the 70 or 80 days that I have been in this House in the 12 months or so that I have been a member I have been appalled at the lack of open government. It never ceases to amaze me that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  can make so much about open government and free and open debate and yet apply the guillotine to this extremely imporatnt legislation that is before the Parliament tonight. He is not satisfied with that; he has to hog the debating time as well. It is a disgrace that the Minister should spend so much of the Parliament's time hogging the debate on legislation that he has presented, without giving honourable members a fair chance to debate the issue. I am amazed that he should make out that the Australian Labor Party is so disadvantaged by the proposals. Good heavens- just imagine the Labor Party bearing gifts to the Liberal Party. I would be very wary of them. 
I can assure the honourable member that the Minister is no Santa Claus. 
-Yes. But the trouble is there are a lot of senators from his Party. I do not know what they would do with him. I assure you,  Mr Speaker,  that there is no real goodness in the Minister's heart. I call him the court jester. I appreciate his wit. It is something to be heard. It is a pity that people throughout the country cannot be here to hear him. 
-He is timid but there is always a barb behind that facade, I can assure the honourable member. I turn to the point that was made today by the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  in relation to a double dissolution. I think he made the point very succinctly. Quite frankly, if the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  and the Labor Government believe that they can pull off an election now and win power in the House of Representatives and in the Senate I say: Let them go ahead. Let the people of Australia judge. They will not be interested in electoral redistribution Bills at all. The real issues before this country at the moment are the economy and the high rate of unemployment. 
I want also to make the point that there is no wedge at all between the Liberal Party and the National Country Party in opposition. Let us look at the Labor ship at the moment. It is travelling fairly stormy seas these days. Daily the Caucus and Cabinet have a brawl with variations in votes from one to up to thirty between supporters of Cabinet and Caucus decisions. 
-In supporting this Bill- 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  proposed: 
That the question be put. 
-This is outrageous,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  We have had less than one hour on this Bill. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1) What are the names, quantities printed and costs of all publications produced by his Department during the years 1973 and 1974. 
Broadly, to whom are the regularly produced booklets, newsletters and type productions distributed. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Can he confirm or deny recent reports that the Regional Employment Development scheme is to be wound down? In view of the fact that only onethird or $5.6m of the proposed $17m has been spent in Brisbane under this scheme on a program which was formulated by the Minister and Brisbane's Lord Mayor, Alderman Jones, in February and agreed to in principle with a measure of urgency by all Brisbane Federal members at a meeting on 23 February 1975, can the Minister advise whether the reason for lack of action lies with his Department or with Brisbane's Lord Mayor? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
How many positions under legislation of the Australian Parliament other than judges of Courts of the Commonwealth of Australia have the same rank and/or status of one or other of such judges, identifying in each case (a) the authority or body concerned, (b) the number of positions within each such authority or body, (c) the particular rank or status established in each case and the number of persons appointed to date. 
-Is the Minister for the Media aware of an article that appeared in the Brisbane  Courier Mail  reporting that the Australian Government's Brisbane media office had mistakenly released a statement on behalf of the State Labor member for Rockhampton,  Mr Wright?  Has the Minister carried out an investigation of the matter and will he report on the incident? Can the Minister confirm the statement attributed to Department of the Media liaison officer, Barry Cotterill, that the facility was only for Federal Labor members of Parliament, or is it for the use of all Federal members of Parliament? Where else have similar offices been established and are more offices planned? 
-Before giving my reasons for supporting the Opposition 's stand on this Bill I want to take up a point that was made by the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child).  She asserted that waiting for the report of the Industries Assistance Commission will perhaps prevent drugs from coming on to the pharmaceutical list. That is a red herring if ever I have heard one. I want first of all to draw attention to a statement that was made this morning by Britain's Prime Minister, Harold Wilson. He said that 'too great a squeeze being placed on companies would result in lower profits and create more unemployment'. I think this is a very pertinent comment and that a very similar situation will no doubt arise if this Government is given the opportunity under this Bill to put the ringer just a little harder on the drug companies. I will develop that argument a little later on. 
-The honourable member talks about profits. If he knew what he was talking about, if he had a look at the figures as I will explain in a few moments in relation to a breakdown of the figures on total health expenditure for 1973-74, hie would know that drug companies in Australia are not making very high profits. Of course one must also consider the employment opportunities which drug companies provide, the fact that the drug manufacturing business can expand and thereby provide many more employment opportunities in this country. If you have capital invested in this industry, as many people have, obviously you want a return on your capital. I do not hear any Government supporter saying he will lend money to anybody without a reasonable return on his capital. I am not here to defend the large companies but surely they are entitled to make a profit for their shareholders. They are entitled to make a profit so that they can operate their business and provide employment for Australians. 
The urgency for this Bill appears to have arisen from the report of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices. As the Prices Justification Tribunal is now carrying out virtually the same function as the Prices Committee, I want to refer to a comment by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in November last year in relation to the Prices Justification Tribunal. He said:   to give particular attention to the problems of sustaining and stimulating an adequate level of private investment and maintaining rates of return on capital which will induce new investment required to maintain economic growth and employment. 
That is the very point I was making a little earlier and the very point that Britain's Prime Minister,  Mr Wilson,  made today. 
I want to refer to the Prices Committee. I am currently a member of this Committee. I was not a member of the Committee when it brought down the report containing the section referred to in the second reading speech delivered by the then Acting Minister for Health,  Dr Cass.  I want to refer to this Committee because I believe that it is somewhat redundant. I also believe that the Prices Justification Tribunal has failed dismally in its attempts, has done nothing more than to produce a lot of extra unemployment and has created a lot of hardship in business in this country. I believe that the Prices Justification Tribunal should be abolished. In relation particularly to the personnel of the present Prices Committee, not the personnel at the time when this report was produced- I say this with due respect to my fellow parliamentarians who sit on this Committeeit is interesting to note that during one of the earlier meetings of the Committee I asked members of the Committee whether any of them had ever had any business experience. The answer, with the exception of myself, was that none of them had had any business experience. I do not subscribe to this view and do not suggest that if a person is going to be the Minister for Health he should be a doctor or he should be a lawyer if he were going to be the Attorney-General or an engineer if he were going to hold a portfolio that had something to do with Works. Nevertheless I believe that experience in a particular field can be an advantage. The point I make is that I believe that at least some of the personnel who comprise these committees should have experience and expertise in the subject that is being examined. 
As the Acting Minister for Health pointed out in the second reading speech, this Bill resulted from the report of the Prices Committee. The actual recommendation of the Committee was quoted by the Acting Minister who also went on to state that 80 per cent of all dispensed medicines are supplied under the provisions of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. So that is the basis upon which this Bill is now before us. In his second reading speech he also said that negotiations are currently carried out between departmental officers and the drug companies concerned. He said that in some instances there was a failure to achieve satisfactory prices. He went on to say: 
If a satisfactory price cannot be achieved an item may be removed from the list of pharmaceutical benefits. 
He further stated that such de-listing may not, however, always be in the public interest because of the therapeutic value of a particular drug. It has been my experience, as a pharmacist for some 20 years, that no company wants its product to be de-listed. If a satisfactory price cannot be achieved, then the company has no alternative but to have the product removed. What the Government is saying is that it knows best how to run the pharmaceutical industry and, in particular, the company that applies for a drug to be listed. 
I want to dwell a little on quality. I believe that the quality of the drugs we receive in this country is extremely important and that no inferior drugs should be introduced. I believe that the Government would agree with that. Drug research is extremely important. It may not be quite so important in this country, but one has only to look overseas to realise that the large and reputable drug companies are providing the greater proportion of the new drugs that come on to the market. I mention them as distinct from a number of smaller companies- the backyard operators, as they are sometimes called- which in the main do very little research. 
I draw the attention of the House to the fact that 19 new drugs were introduced to medicine in the United States of America in 1973, and 13 of them were from American pharmaceutical companies' research. In 1974, 18 new drugs appeared in the United States,  I2ยฅi  from America and 12 were developed in American pharmaceutical companies. Of the 37 new drugs appearing in 1973-74, 35te were developed by pharmaceutical manufacturers. Twenty-six manufacturers were involved in the United States marketing of the 37 new drugs. It is notable that during that period no new drugs appeared from the socialist countries, other than Sweden- and its new drugs were developed earlier in a free enterprise society. 
-They are drugged, and they produce no new valuable drugs for the world. 
-That is debatable. I would like the honourable member to produce some figures to back up that statement. Does the Government intend to require every supplier to supply the cost structure of all goods it purchases? Let us go outside the pharmaceutical field. Will the Government squeeze suppliers and manufacturers and cause the companies to face liquidity problems, to reduce their overheads and thereby add to the unemployment market? I wonder whether it will require companies overseas, perhaps those from which we purchase our defence equipment and aircraft, to produce detailed statements of all their costs. 
I want to refer for a moment to the dear image of pharmacy, because it is closely linked with this Bill. It is true that pharmacy in this country has a dear image. I believe that that image is not warranted. The public has gained the impression that all master pharmacists are rich. I can assure honourable members that that is not the case. It is interesting to note that at the moment hundreds of pharmacies in Australia are for sale and there are no buyers. It is also interesting to note that in the last few years hundreds of pharmacies in Australia have closed down. The manufacturers have been labelled as making excessive profits. 
In his second reading speech the then Acting Minister for Health referred to patented drugs and stated that the voluntary system had not always been successful in obtaining information from manufacturers on costs of patented drugs. Let me point out that in the vast majority of cases this information is supplied voluntarily to departmental officers. Let us look at this question of patented drugs. I mentioned a little earlier the numbers of new drugs that have been introduced in the United States. It is interesting to note the patent rights that are applied for and granted on the discovery of drugs. One must look at some of the wonderful advances we have seen over the past 20 or 30 years. I refer to antibiotics, penicillins, tetracyclines, antihistamines, antidepressant drugs and drugs to treat cardiac disease, just to name a few. These have been patented by the companies that have produced them. The discovery of and research into drugs is a highly expensive business. It requires expensive and complex equipment and highly skilled research personnel. I might add that countless thousands of drugs are developed which, when tested, are found to be not effective, perhaps unsafe or no more effective than existing drugs. Therefore, successfully developed new drugs are indeed rare. 
I ask: Who is to sit in judgment on the price received for these hard won patented drugs? Will it be the Minister for Health or some of his bureaucrats? After all, if this happens and if drug companies are to be screwed and squeezed to such an extent that they do not receive a reasonable return on their outlay, we are going to jeopardise drug research in the future. In my opinion drug research would grind to a halt in exactly the same way as oil and mineral search in this country has ground to a halt. I daresay that if the drug companies had a budget deficit in the order, proportionately, of this Government's Budget deficit it would be catastrophic for the industry. 
I want to go into the question of quality because I believe that is very important. It is important to the Government because we hear so much about improving the quality of life of those people who are less fortunate than many of us. I agree that we should endeavour to uplift the quality of life, particularly for those less fortunate people. Therefore, I find it difficult to reconcile the Government's attitude in this area. After all, it must be interested in quality. I would hope that the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham),  who is a medical practitioner, would be interested in the quality of the drugs that we bring on to the market in this country. It is a well known fact that if one reduces the price one often gets cheap and nasty goods. These cheaper brands are more likely to be of less therapeutic efficacy than those brands in respect of which greater care in manufacture is observed and more advanced techniques and better quality control are exercised. 
The extent to which active therapeutic agents are absorbed is influenced by many factors, which incidentally may be compounded. I take the example of tablets, which represent by far the greatest form of intake of drugs today. The tableting process is important because of the crystal size of the drug, the excipients or the inert substances that are added to facilitate the division of dosage and to allow for granulation prior to the tableting process, the method of the admixture of the drug in the excipients, the type of quality controls employed during stages of manufacture and, of course, the disintegration of the tablet in the stomach after it is taken- not to mention the experience of the personnel who produce the tablets and the developed technology that comes only with many years of experience. The time the drug takes to disintegrate and to be freed in the stomach is extremely important when a tablet is taken. I can cite examples of patients coming back to my shop and telling me that a certain enteric coated tablet that was designed to be swallowed and to disintegrate in the abdomen had not disintegrated but had passed through and come out in the faeces. The enteric coated processes and film, coated processes which are used by some companies are processes which have been developed over many years. It is important that in the selection of processes we do not disadvantage these companies by screwing and squeezing their profits to such a great extent. If we look at the generic medicines, as they are commonly referred to, we find that those companies which do not indulge in research tend to produce the bigger volume drugs which are the more profitable ones and leave research to the larger companies. I hope that the Minister for Health who is at the table will agree that quality control is of the utmost importance. 
Of course one must also look at brand prescribing. As the Minister no doubt appreciates doctors often brand prescribe selectively when prescribing medicines. We had an instance fairly recently where doctors and chemists were advised that a particular type of heart preparation should be adhered to according to the brand which the patient had been taking over a period of time. Although the dosage was the same in other brands they suggested it was wise to keep the patient on the brand to which he had become accustomed. If we look at the total expenditure for 1973-74 we find that a little over $3 billion was spent on health and yet prescription medicines required $299m. Of that amount the manufacturers' profit ended up at $10. 3m. The chemists' share was $107m and the wholesalers' share $24m. The manufacturers' share was $ 168m. It was interesting to note that on the previous year there was a fall from 3.6 per cent to 3.4 per cent in the manufacturers' profit in the total cost -of medicines. I believe we have to be extremely careful that we do not apply too many restrictions to drug manufacturers in this country because the country 's health is at stake. 
-At the outset of my remarks I wish to refute and rebut some of the arguments that have been put forward by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb).  He made reference to the rises under this Government being far greater than the rises that were experienced by pharmacists under previous Liberal-Country Party governments. In some respects I would agree with him. But I would remind the honourable member- I think it does us all good to think back a little, it is not that long ago- that just before the 1972 election the then Opposition, the Australian Labor Party, told this nation that we could not live with the rate on inflation of 4.5 per cent or 4.7 per cent a year. We know the story or the Labor Party's sad record since then. It was only a matter of months until that rate of inflation had jumped to 10 per cent or 1 2 per cent a year and it is currently running at about 20 per cent a year. So naturally there have had to be greater increases. I am not suggesting for a moment that pharmacy was happy under the -previous Government. In many respects it was unhappy because it was obviously not receiving sufficient remuneration for the skill and the effort that was going into the profession. 
The honourable member for La Trobe talked also of the rationalisation of pharmacy. I assure the honourable gentleman that hundreds of pharmacies are closing down throughout Australia today and hundreds more are for sale. The basic reason for this is that many of these pharmacies that were able to be operated viably a matter of only two or three years ago, today find it difficult to operate and of course are having to close. The honourable member talked about uneconomic pharmacies. I suggest to the honourable member and to the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  that due consideration has not been given in this whole exercise to the number of small pharmacies in outlying suburbs and in smaller towns. I do not know how one rationalises pharmacy in a small town where there is one pharmacy, just as it would be difficult to rationalise the only butcher in a small suburban area or a small township. Obviously some provision has to be made for the so-called uneconomic pharmacies referred to by the Minister and referred to in the report that has been produced. 
This Bill seeks to increase the pharmaceutical benefit item charge from $1 to $1.50 for drugs under the national health scheme. This new move, one might say, probably would have been made had a Liberal-National Country Party government been in power. The Bill also seeks to increase from 50c to 75c the charge for those patients who are catered for under the subsidised health benefits scheme. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. As I said, in all probability, having looked at the history of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme from its inception back in 1948, a Liberal-National Country Party government would have increased charges also. The scheme was of course considerably expanded in 1960 when the first charge of 50c per item was instituted and of course again in 1971 when this was increased to $1. 
I want to point out forcibly to the House the real position because I believe that many people in Australia, when they pay that $1 as it is today or the $1.50 as it will be from 1 September, believe that the pharmacist in actual fact puts that $1 or $1.50 into his own pocket. I think this point has been made by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  and the honourable member for La Trobe. This is not the case. The $1, or $1.50 as it will be, in actual fact is deducted from the amount the pharmacist receives from the Government. I understand that a move is afoot by pharmacists today to display signs in their shops to point out this fact to the public. I applaud them for this. There is a misconception on this point and I believe that the public must be informed on this matter. 
Since I have been a member of this House I have refrained, to a great extent, from participating directly in debates concerning pharmacy. I made some small reference in my maiden speech to the fact that I was a pharmacist. I have refrained from speaking on pharmacy because I believe that one has to be extremely careful in the pursuance of a profession- one which has supported me for some 20 years- in taking up the case for that particular profession. Nevertheless I believe I am in a position to voice an opinion because, as I have said, I have experience of some 20 years of the position in relation to pharmacy and the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. 
In answering the Minister's speech on the reason why the patient contribution towards the national health prescription should be increased from $1 to $1.50 one must of necessity also look into the composition of the elements which make up the costs of the national health prescription and what has happened to these costs in the past 3 years, that is, since the financial year 1972-73, for it is in the years since then that the major increases in costs have occurred. For the year 1972-73 we have extremely accurate figures to which to refer for it was in this year that the Liberal-Country Party came to an agreement with the Pharmacy Guild of Australia to conduct an inquiry into pharmacy earnings, costs and profits. This inquiry was to be under the control of the Joint Committee of Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements. I point out that the previous surveys had taken a great deal of time and there had been much wrangling between the Pharmacy Guild and the Government. I believe that in entering into this agreement of 1972 pharmacy thought basically that its pricing problems were over. 
This joint committee which comprised 4 Government representatives and 4 representatives from the Pharmacy Guild was presided over by an independent  chairman  in the person of  Sir Walter  Scott The terms and conditions under which this inquiry was to be conducted were conveyed to the Pharmacy Guild in a letter dated 5 April 1972 by the then Minister,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. I understand that these terms and conditions were confirmed by the present Minister,  Dr Everingham,  when his Party came to office. I would appreciate it if the Minister would confirm that he agreed to the conditions laid down for this inquiry in the letter dated 5 April 1972. The aim of the inquiry was that the Government and the nation would have available in great detail complete information as to the average cost of dispensing a national health scheme prescription. It is important to note this fact for I shall revert to it later to show how this Government has manipulated the figures to give a result quite outside the aim and objective of the inquiry- a result which bears no relationship to the facts. I will refer in detail to certain aspects of the result because I believe the Government has used figures to gain a false result. 
The terms of the inquiry gave both parties certain rights in the event of disagreement. Firstly, the  Chairman  would be able to make recommendations to the Minister and, secondly, if the recommendations were not accepted by either party they were to go to arbitration, the result of arbitration to be binding on both parties. I think everyone will agree that if an agreement is entered into both parties must abide by it. These were the major points of the inquiry which was conducted by a secretariat within the Department of Health directed by a sub-committee of the main joint committee. For various reasons the inquiry- as a pharmacist I do not want to dwell on those reasons- took far longer than the Government had anticipated. The recommendations of  Sir Walter  Scott on the points at issue were conveyed to members of the joint committee and the Minister on 23 May this year. 
Subsequently in June of this year the report was tabled in the Senate. 
The recommendations made by the independent  chairman, Sir Walter  Scott- a man of probity whose reputation in the business world in Australia and overseas is beyond reproach and who has served on many major committees as  chairman  or member during the past 35 to 40 years- have not been accepted by the Government and at this stage the Government has made no effort to carry out its obligations under the agreement to go to arbitration on the issues in dispute, notwithstanding the fact that requests have been made by the Pharmacy Guild, the other partner to the agreement, that the agreement made by the Government should be honoured. It seems completely alien to me and outside the nature of the Minister that he should be refusing to abide by the agreement. Indeed, last Thursday, when speaking to the Bill requiring manufacturers to disclose their costs of pharmaceuticals, he made a point of the fact that he would be willing to have arbitration available in the event of disputes. How hollow does this offer sound when equated with the realities of what this Government in the past 4 months has done with the agreement on arbitration for pharmacistsa written agreement by the Minister of the day? If one looks also at the statement made on 16 July by the Minister to a deputation from the Pharmacy Guild it would appear that the Minister- I feel that this is correct- does agree with the concept of arbitration but has been overruled by Cabinet. Where then is the supposed justice that the Labor Party claims it represents? Why then in the Press statement of 16 July does the Minister add to that statement a last line: 'although the Government may not in law be bound to accept such arbitration'? Why, one might use the term, the two bob each way? In one case the Minister agrees with the agreement made by the Minister of the day providing for arbitration but now, when the chips are down, he implies that there can be arbitration but the Government is not bound by it. Surely this is duplicity, if ever there was. 
If we study in more detail what the Government has done by accepting the Department's approach to a nebulous concept of relative economic pharmacy- nowhere does the Government define it- we see some strange manipulation of figures. It must be remembered that the results we have are from an inquiry statistically designed for no other reason than to discover the average cost of dispensing a national health scheme prescription. I point out that the survey was based on categorising pharmacies into 6 strata determined by items dispensed per annum. I now refer in detail to only stratum 1 figures from table 1 in the Scott report on the economic approach. These show that by using this approach in part 77.6c per prescription is taken away from the income of this stratum. As this stratum dispensed some 4426 items in the year inquired into there was an income loss of $3,434. The total income received by this stratum under the national health scheme in this period was $4,589 when assessed at $5 per hour. This means that this stratum was paid $1,155 instead of $4,589 for the proprietor's professional labour or, expressed in real terms, at a rate of $1.25 per hour. I wonder what other profession of similar standing in Australia would be prepared to accept a rate of $ 1 .25 per hour. 
Surgeons are extremely well paid in comparison. This, to answer the honourable member who is a medical practitioner, is the result of the manipulation of the figures by the Government. What was not appreciated by the departmental advisers was that in a cost accounting approach one cannot take out of the system without a corresponding input into the system. However, because these same departmental advisers manipulated only one set of figuresthat is the cost of national health scheme items- we have the most ludicrous and unbelievable situations where stratum 1 proprietors are paid at the rate of $1.25 per hour when dispensing national health scheme items but at the correct rate of $4.86 per hour when dispensing repatriation prescriptions. I think that is worthy of comment by the Minister. How immoral and ridiculous can a government get when it tries to fiddle figures? If it had accepted arbitration these facts would have been disclosed once again, as indeed  Sir Walter  Scott disclosed them when on page 6 in paragraph 5 of his review of the economic approach he said: 
The obvious question is what importance is to be ascribed to this all-important word 'relatively', because it is the 'relatively uneconomic' that reduces everybody's prices by 70 per cent. 
As a pharmacist I must say that one wonders whether the departmental officers advising the Minister are out to destroy private enterprise pharmacy as it is or whether they are acting on Government orders. If it is the former one can only be alarmed; if the latter, the Government should declare its hand and state that it is its intention to destroy the community pharmacist, for this surely will become the result of the policy being carried out now, more particularly as this policy is, in effect, being dated back by 2 years to the year beginning 1 July 1973. So much for the Treasurer's statement of giving the private sector confidence in the future as stated by him in his Budget Speech delivered last Tuesday evening. 
If one now studies the total picture of the cost of national health scheme items as a whole- here I can use only the combined total figures of national health scheme and pensioner prescriptionsone sees that since 1972-73 the total volume has increased from more than 74 million to more than 97 million- an increase of 23 million items or 33  W  per cent. The figures for 1974-75 would include oral contraceptives and so this increase is not a net increase in volume but a gross increase. That is, a large proportion of this increase is brought about by alterations to items available under the national health scheme and so the increase is not a total income increase to the industry. It would probably be of the order of approximately 30 per cent to 40 per cent of this total. This percentage increase would become a true increase of some 1 5 per cent. 
Against this increase in volume the value per prescription has increased from 264c to 280c whilst the cost of the ingredients has fallen marginally. In other words, the manufacturers' costs have not risen. It is a truly remarkable performance by private industry to keep its costs the same over a 3-year period. Where else has industry done this? I ask this question particularly bearing in mind the percentage increase of up to 16 per cent in average weekly wages in 1973-74 and 27 per cent in 1974-75 and increases in the consumer price index of 13 per cent and 17 per cent respectively in those years. So if we look at actual alterations in the gross income per national health scheme prescription- and here for convenience we look at the Government's figures which include the 11c and 22c increases plus any other increase in the past 3 years- we find that at 1 January 1972, labour, expenses, and return on funds amounted to 113.57c. In 1974-75 these items amounted to 144.11c. The difference between these figures then becomes the increase in actual costs over the past  Vh  years and also in the actual gross income per prescription on average, or, expressed another way, a total of 3 lc and not the 50c that the Government is now claiming. Whilst I have not worked out the figures for the period used by the Minister I can assure honourable members that the figures I have cited are factual and would still be relevant no matter at what stage the Minister wished to compare them and no matter if a different set of figures were used as a basis. As I see it not only has the pharmacist in community practice not been paid his just rights in the past 3 years but now, because the entitlement is being paid- or more correctly 2 years of it is being paid in the tax year- the Government will reap back a substantial amount of the payments in extra taxation. I should like the Minister to comment on this point and to say whether he has discussed the matter with the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  with a view to evening out or spreading the income over 3 years. 
I should like to conclude my remarks with some questions directed to the Minister; I trust that he will answer them. I understand that the Minister recently put to Cabinet the case of the Department, the case of  Sir Walter  Scott and the case of the Guild and that he argued for the Chairman's recommendations as against those of the Department. I understand that he argued that if the Guild asked for arbitration after a Cabinet decision contrary to the Chairman's recommendations this arbitration should be agreed to and the arbitration finding accepted, although he felt that the Government would not be bound in law to accept such arbitration. Am I and the pharmacist to assume that this Government will not honour the agreement of 1972? I suggest to the Minister that this is a disgraceful state of affairs. Does the Minister agree with me? Will the Minister explain his position and say whether it varies from that of the Government? 
-A number of Government speakers in the Budget debate have referred to the fact that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and other Opposition members in commenting on the Government's Budget have not referred to certain areas. Let me assure Government members that they can take nothing for granted. This is the Government's Budget, not the Opposition's Budget. I state quite frankly that in framing a Budget the total situation has to be looked at. So one cannot take anything for granted just because the Opposition has not commented upon a particular area. I suggest to the honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child)  that any government, insofar as social welfare benefits are concerned, should sharpen up where the handouts are made. Handouts should be made to those in need and not to everyone right across the board. Australians, unfortunately, are drifting too far in the direction of Big Brother looking after everyone. 
I strongly support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  which condemns the Budget for not providing a program to beat inflation and unemployment and to restore confidence in the business sector. The Treasurer, claimed in his Budget Speech that tougher budgetary measures were necessary because we were living in tougher times. I suggest to the Government that the reason why we have tougher times is this Government's mismanagement of the Aus.tralian economy. The reason why we have a mess in Australia today is the ineptitude of this Labor Government. In my estimation this Budget is an admission of the failure of this Labor Government over a period of some 3 years. It is a classic example of shutting the gate after the horse has bolted. If this Government during its previous 2 years in office had been careful in the framing of its previous budgets and watched where it spent the funds that it raised, I am sure that we would not be in quite the chaos that we have in Australia today. 
So the honeymoon is over. The spending spree is finished or halted temporarily. However, the thing that concerns me is that having realised this the Government still has so many madcap schemes in the pipeline. These schemes basically are making people less self-reliant. In other words, they are making people more dependent on the Government. The day of reckoning has arrived. I think everyone would agree that the Government of Australia is the largest business in the country. I wonder how many businessmen there are on the Government side of the House. It would be interesting to take a count just to see what the position is because it is a large business and it is a business that requires a great deal of expertise. Obviously, it is expertise that is not available on the Government side. So often we have heard the bleat from members of the Australian Labor Party that in 23 years of government under a Liberal-National Country Party Administration this thing was not done or that thing was not done. Let me assure Government members that any advancement that was made that time was made well within the resources of Australia at the particular time, something that cannot be said of this Government today. 
Let us look at the statements of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  over the past 2 years. He has been telling the people of this country that inflation has peaked and that there will now be a downturn in the rate of inflation. This has been going on for over 12 months. He has been telling the people that unemployment has peaked and that there will be a downturn. We are all waiting for that downturn to occur. So far as the economic crisis is concerned, he has been telling the nation that we are about to climb out of the trough. I ask honourable members to consider that. He said 12 months ago that we were about to climb out of the trough. It is a bottomless trough that I assert we will never climb out of under this Government. The Prime Minister's credibility has evaporated; there is no doubt about this. The people of this nation are trusting him less and less. I think this is obvious from the public opinion polls that are taken today. 
I now turn to the Budget Speech of the Treasurer and wish to quote some of the more infamous statements that appear in that speech. The Treasurer stated: 
We expect that as the expansion of public sector activity is restrained, the opportunities for private sector expansion will improve, though full responses to greater room for growth may take time to develop. 
I have heard Government members claim in this House repeatedly that profits had been too high. In other words, they claimed that the private sector should be squeezed even further. Now we see that the private sector is to be given a chance. The Treasurer continued: 
Furthermore, the big increases in spending on our programs in the past 2 years were needed to overcome decades of neglect. 
I submit to honourable members that no one should have the gall to suggest that this nation was neglected for 2 decades. When we look at the mess we have in Australia today we can only come to the conclusion that in those 2 decades we had responsible government under a LiberalNational Country Party Administration. Again, the Treasurer said: 
Our reforms are enduring; they will not be reversed. Now we propose to pause to take stock of the achievements. 
Good heavens. I ask: Achievements at what price? The answer is at any price. We have chaos in Australia today. What is worse, of course, is that the Government is still pursuing these costly reforms. Is the Government proud of the situation that we have in Australia today? Is it proud of the inflation, the high unemployment and the economic crisis that exists in this country? Let me go on a little further to quote from this speech of the Treasurer: 
Because of the structure of our mixed economy, where three out of four jobs are in the private sector, there are firm limits on how far the public sector should be stimulated in this recovery phase. In framing the Budget, therefore, we have exercised the utmost restraint on Government spending. 
Surely Government members recall that over the last 2 years the Opposition has been exhorting the Government to restrain Government spending. But they have said, so to speak: 'No, we will not do this. We will let it rip'. For 2 years they have let the private sector stew in its own juice. Now, all of a sudden, we notice that the private sector is important. Let us look finally at these couple of sentences: 
Our present level of unemployment is too high. If we fail to control inflation, unemployment will get worse. 
What a brilliant deduction. The Opposition told the Government that it would have to control unemployment by controlling inflation and, of course, by stimulating the business sector. But the Government saw fit not to do anything about it. I think it is true to say that the most important factor today in Australia that needs to be controlled is inflation. 
I want to recall the history of inflation in this country. Prior to the 1972 election, Australia's rate of inflation was 4.5 per cent per annum. We heard at that time from the then Leader of the Opposition, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  that Labor would not tolerate this situation, that the country could not live with a rate of inflation of 4.5 per cent. Let us look at the record of the Labor Government. In June 1973, the inflation rate was about 10 per cent; in December of that year it had risen to 13.2 per cent; in June of 1974 it was 14.4 per cent; and in December of that year, it was 16.3 per cent. Of course, in June of this year, it is 1 7 per cent. 
What of the claim by the Government that our inflation is imported? I suggest that it is a lot of ballyhoo. It is manufactured domestically. Let us look at the position in regard to our cheap resources. Our sugar costs us about one-third of the world price. We produce about 70 per cent of our oil requirements at about 25 per cent of the price of imported crude oil. Our coal is cheap. So it is rubbish to talk about imported inflation. It is not on, as far as Australia is concerned. Our cost of living has gone up by 41 per cent since Labor came to office 2Vi years ago. It is interesting to note that a Liberal-National Country Party dollar is now worth only 70c. It is interesting to note from the figures of the Organisation for Economic Development and Co-operation that, with the exception of Great Britain, inflation is being cut back in most nations. I refer to the statement of the British Labour Prime Minister,  Mr Harold  Wilson which he made to the British nation on 21 August 1975, 2 days after the presentation of the Hayden Budget. He said: 
We have tight price controls, but there is a limit to what can be safely done by price control. Price control which cuts manufacturers' and traders' profits to the bone can drive them into bankruptcy and cause further losses of jobs: that is one reason why we cannot just simply introduce a flat pricefreeze. 
I suggest that the Prices Justification Tribunal should be abolished. Competition ensures that prices remain at a reasonable level and that profitability remains at a reasonable level. Of course, with profitability Will come expansion of business and more job opportunities. Unfortunately, Australia appears to be sUpping into the situation which exists in Great Britain. What impact will the Budget have on inflation? I suggest that it will increase the rate of inflation, indirect taxes have increased by over $700m. The new taxes and charges are expected to add more than 1.5 per cent to the December consumer price index. 
I move on to comment on unemployment. Once again we have to go back in history and look at the situation in December 1 972 and prior to that date. We were told by the Australian Labor Party, then in Opposition, that Australia could not live with from 60 000 to 120 000 unemployed. The figure fluctuated between 60 000 and 120 000 for quite some time. The Labor Party said that a Labor Government would not tolerate an unemployment figure as high as 100 000. If we look at the seasonally adjusted figures for December 1972 we find that 100 500 or 1.8 per cent of the work force were registered as unemployed. In June 1973 there had been a reduction to 89 100 or 1 .6 per cent. In March 1 974 the figure was 8 1 600 or 1 .4 per cent. 
Then the rot began to set in. In September 1974 there were 145 900 or 2.5 per cent of the work force unemployed. In December of that year the figure was 235 000 or 3.9 per cent. In March 1975 it was 267 000 or 4.5 per cent. In May 1975 it was 270 000 or 4.5 per cent. In July of this year the number unemployed was 287 700 or 4.8 per cent of the work force. The comment of the previous Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, was that he would resign if his Government ever allowed the registered unemployed to reach 250 000. He did not resign. At that point the Government, too, should have resigned. If we included the 32 000 employed at the moment under the Regional Employment Development scheme, which is to be phased out, those employed under the National Employment and Training scheme, and those employed under the State Government employment schemes, the unemployed would be about 330 000 or 5.5 per cent of the work force. This is one of the highest rates in the world. The predictions, not just from this side of the House, are that the number could rise to 500 000 or 8 per cent of the work force. In fact, unemployment would be worse than it was in the depression days. 
If we look at the cause of unemployment we find that basically it is the problems which exist in the private sector. It is a vicious circle. Unless this Government sees that there is greater stimulation in the private sector, unemployment in this nation Will not improve. There is no business confidence in Australia today. It is not, as we hear so often from the Government side, a case of the Opposition preaching gloom and doom. Unemployment is there. It is factual. There is no business expansion. I ask honourable members on the Government side whether they would expand if they were in business today. There are no incentives. As I go about my electorate I find that people have no trust in this Government. Why should one bother to expand one's business? The interest rates are too high. People in business cannot afford to buy money today. They have liquidity problems and escalating overheads and their productivity is down. I believe that the average Australian has to accept some of the blame because the rate of production in this nation today is appalling. The average worker must accept his share of responsibility. 
What does the businessman do? He rationalises his operations because he is motivated by self-survival. He puts off staff.  His  equipment is not replaced. He puts off expansion.  His  rebuilding programs are not undertaken.  His  expansion is halted or perhaps curtailed. I submit that this Government has betrayed the workers, the people whom it purports to represent, because this Budget is not designed to provide jobs. One of the problems I see today is that Australians might accept 300 000 unemployed as the norm. That certainly was not the case when the Liberal Party and the National Country Party of Australia were in government. 
I refer now to the position in relation to housing. It was commented on recently by the  President  of the Building Workers Industrial Union when he said that only 16 per cent of wage earners or one in six were able to purchase their home. The Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  might take note of this. Let me assure the Minister that back in 1964 90 per cent of wage earners were able to purchase their homes. In 1974-75 there was a drop of 30 per cent generally in the home building industry. 
-I cannot recall the gentleman's name. I shall get the article and show it to the Minister afterwards. We saw the abolition of the homes savings grant which assisted people, particularly first home seekers, to bridge the deposit gap. Some of them have no chance today under the present scheme. I know that a scheme for deduction of mortgage interest was introduced. But, quite frankly, this is of no assistance to those people who do not have homes today. This Budget has dropped 10 per cent or $69. lm from the allocation for housing. It has dealt a death blow to the housing industry and to people who seek to own their homes. Of course, the total Budget was increased by 22 per cent. 
I refer now to the defence service homes scheme. The Minister for Housing and Construction will realise that there has been a reduction of $7.5m in this area. With inflation at the current rate the loss in homes built for ex-servicemen will probably exceed 500. I am completely bewildered at the Government's action in this area. There will be an increase in demand. The upper limit has been raised from $12,000 to $15,000. Ex-servicemen have been sent reeling in this operation. It is typical of the attitude of the Government to ex-servicemen and women. This was illustrated by the Prime Minister in his fairly recent attacks on the Returned Services League. I shall make a few comments on local government finance because it is important for those people who are battling in this important area of government. They have seen extra attention given to local government but with tremendous fragmentation. They now do not know where the money is coming from, how much it will be and when they will receive it. Money is provided under such schemes as the RED scheme, the area improvement programs scheme, the Grants Commission, unemployment relief for the States and the National Estate scheme and, of course, some funds are available from the Department of Tourism and Recreation. This is the dilemma that faces people today in local government in their attempts to forward plan. 
I have never denied in this House that the area of local government was neglected by the Liberal-Country Party Government. I agree with the honourable member for Barton. But the fact remains that at the moment because of the quest of Ministers to see how much can be spent in their areas the local government people do not know where they are going. A number of other matters could be referred to but time will not permit. Postal charges were cunningly conceived and announced a month before the Budget. These increases will hit those less fortunate in our community such as pensioners and people in receipt of superannuation. They will be vastly disadvantaged. I also want to refer briefly to the record deficit of $2,567m in 1974-75. This year the deficit is to be increased to $2,798m. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In the short time that I have been a member of this House I have always been impressed by the honesty and the integrity of its members. I think these are among the ideals that have to be upheld. It is extremely important that this honesty is carried through all the activities that take place in this Parliament. But I want to draw the attention of the House tonight to what I believe is a deliberate attempt by 2 Ministers to mislead this Parliament. 
It is a shame. I refer first of all to a question that was answered on 19 May by the then Minister for Labor and Immigration, the  Hon.  Clyde Cameron, which was asked by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  Today in this House a question was asked by the honourable member for Gellibrand of the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan),  representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, which was almost word for word the question asked by the honourable member for Gellibrand on 19 May of the then Minister for Labor and Immigration. The question was along the lines of comparing the figures of the Australian Bureau of Statistics with those supplied by the Commonwealth Employment Service in relation to unemployment. I want first of all to quote from Hansard of 9 September a question that was asked by  Senator Everett  of the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland).  The question read as follows 
I direct my question to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. In the light of the latest unemployment figures, what levels of unemployment does the Minister anticipate over the rest of this financial year? 
The answer given by  Senator James  McClelland was as follows 
My Department has prepared for me some estimates of unemployment for the coming year, and I underline that they are only estimates. In particular, I think we have to be conscious of the fact that a record number of school leaversapproaching, it is estimated, a quarter of a million- will come on to the labour market by next January. The best estimate that the Department is able to give, and of course it is nothing in which we take any pleasure, is that actual unemployed, including school leavers, who register for unemployment, could approach 400 000 members of the labour force in 1976. 
The Minister goes on and on in his answer but that is aU I wish to quote. Now, it seems to me that this was an honest answer. There was no suggestion that the Minister was endeavouring to hide the truth. He claimed that the figures were estimates and that they were supplied by his Department. I want to prove to the House just how cunningly conceived has been the trickery entered into by the Minister for Housing and Construction in his methods of deceiving this Parliament in relation to the method of recording the figures he quoted to this Parliament today. It was the same trickery that was indulged in by the former Minister for Labor and Immigration, the  Hon.  Clyde Cameron. The Minister stated today in answer to a question:  . . . the Commonwealth Employment Service figures do not purport to show the number of people actually out of work. They show the number of persons who are registered for employment, and there can be a significant difference between the 2 figures. There is no reason why a person who is employed cannot register in order to seek another job. He breaks no law. It is not illegal for him to register in this way. 
These were the words of the Minister for Housing and Construction. Sure, he is correct in saying that the individual breaks no law. But what I want to do now is to quote from the document which is put out monthly by the Department of Labor and Immigration, titled 'Monthly Review of the Employment Situation '. 
It is a good document, as the honourable member for Lilley reminds me. Definitions appear in each edition of this monthly journal and the definition of 'Unemployed persons' is as follows 
Unemployed persons comprise all persons who were still registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service (CES) at the Friday nearest the end of the month, who claimed when registering that they were not employed, and who were seeking full-time employment, i.e. 35 hours or more per week. They include persons referred to employers but whose employment was still unconfirmed, and persons who had recently obtained employment without notifying the CES. All recipients of unemployment benefit are included. 
I want to emphasise this definition of 'Unemployed persons', particularly the part that refers to those 'who claimed when registering that they were not employed '. We can go back to when the Liberal-Country Party was in government and the figures may have fluctuated from perhaps 60 000 to 120 000 unemployed. Surely if the figure was inflated in those days it is inflated in the same way today. What I am extremely upset about on this occasion, as I was on 19 May when the former Minister for Labor and Immigration gave almost the same answer to a question asked by the same honourable member, is that Parliament was not told of the unpublished lists that the Commonwealth Employment Service held. I believe that these lists are generally known as 'seekers after improved jobs' lists. There are thousands of these people employed. 
It is true, no doubt, that a small percentage of people will register as unemployed who in actual fact have a job at the time. But the point is that the Minister, in answer to the question today- as was the case when the same question was answered by the former Minister on 19 Maymade no reference to these lists of seekers after improved jobs. Surely there is a discrepancy between those registered and those who are in receipt of unemployment benefits- and there are a variety of reasons for this. Sufficient income may be coming into the home to make the person ineligible for unemployment benefits, or perhaps there are those who are out of work but have not registered for unemployment benefits because for various reasons they may not wish to receive those benefits. There could be various reasons for this. Sometimes the pride of people will not allow them to receive unemployment benefits. 
I want to make it clear here and now that it is my opinion that the staff of the Commonwealth Employment Service are extremely competent, alert and experienced. They do a lot of work in the field. They are concerned at the high level of unemployment and at the high level of unemployment benefits that are paid out in this country today. I understand that they question applicants at length so that they do not register people and hand out unemployment benefits lightly. If the system of registering needs examining I suggest to the Government that it look into the matter thoroughly. It should not deceive this Parliament and this country as to the true figures of unemployment in this nation today. 
I want to mention briefly the cost of these benefits to the nation because this is also important. Today countless millions of dollars are being paid out in unemployment benefits. I suggest to the Minister that instead of endeavouring to deceive the Parliament he and his Department should crack down on those who are receiving unemployment benefits illegally. Let those who genuinely need unemployment benefits receive them. The main point I wish to emphasise tonight is that, in my opinion, the Parliament has been deliberately misled. It was misled on 19 May and it has been misled again today. The Parliament has been deceived. Surely the Parliament must be told the truth in all these matters. The Ministers concerned are to be condemned for this action. The document that is prepared by the Department of Labor and Immigration month after month makes quite clear those who claimed when registering that they were unemployed. It is there in black and white for the whole nation to see. Yet we have these Dorothy Dix questions put up in a matter of 6 months and answers given in the same manner by 2 different Ministers. I believe that these Ministers should be censured for their actions. If there are anomalies in the system of registering, the system should be overhauled. I maintain that above aU honesty must be maintained in this Parliament If the Government has shortcomings, as we know it has, it must fact the facts of the matter. It must admit failure and admit that the figures that are given in these documents produced monthly are in actual fact correct. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What are the names of the regions that have received capitation grants under the Australian Assistance Flan, and what were the amounts received in each case. 
Will the Minister provide full details of the (a) projects approved, (b) cost of each project, (c) organisations to which the grants were made, and (d) contribution by the organisation to the project where applicable. 
-In this debate I want to highlight 2 aspects of the Regional Employment Development scheme. Firstly I want to deal with the appalling way in which the scheme has been destroyed and secondly to illustrate that it has been one of the greatest administrative bungles ever perpetrated by any government of this nation. We have been told by the Government that the scheme is a monster that has grown out of control. I ask: Who has let it grow out of control? The obvious answer is: No one other than the Government itself. To my way of thinking it would have been better to scale down the RED scheme rather than to push the panic button as has been done by this Government. The scheme is currently being expressed by the Government as being phased out. Let me assure the House and the nation that it is being completely cut off quite abruptly. 
It is being pulled out like a tooth, as the honourable member for Gwydir suggests. I believe this is indicative of the general mismanagement of the affairs of this nation. 
I want to trace the interesting, albeit brief, history of the scheme and the purposes of the scheme. Of course the supreme architect is that man of great vision, the Honourable Clyde Cameron. The scheme was introduced around about 12 months ago during a time of high unemployment. I think we should keep the 'high' in inverted commas. One purpose of the scheme was to provide employment at a stage when something like 100,000 to 120,000 people were unemployed and the figure was rising. The second purpose was to provide worthwhile projects for our communities. The thing that amazes me about the RED scheme is that it was introduced with those 2 purposes in mind and yet- this is the point I want to make- it has now been abolished when we have 300 000 unemployed, and of course the figure is rising. How anyone can reconcile the abolition of a scheme introduced to relieve unemployment when the figure was 120 000 with the abolition of the scheme when the figure is 300 000 and rising fails me completely. 
I want to make my position clear on the scheme. I believe it was a stop-gap measure of some merit. In my opinion it should have been administered through local government with the funds going to the States. In my opinion the projects in the main are of great value to our community. I want to look at the allocation of funds next. In the 1974-75 Budget $25m was appropriated for the RED scheme. I believe that the 
Government and the Minister for Labor and Immigration at the time stated that the amount would be flexible and dependent on the unemployment situation. 
He was a good Minister, as the honourable member for Bendigo reminds me. Unfortunately he got the axe like so many others. We find that for the financial year of 1974-1975 a figure of $60.4m was actually expended on the scheme. In this financial year $135m has been provided. Let me look at the administration of the scheme. The architect, as I stated earlier, was the Honourable Clyde Cameron who, together with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and other members of the Government, hailed the project as a great scheme. They said, in effect, that there would be no grass clipping in this scheme as there was under the McMahon Government scheme early in 1972. They said that they would be providing assets for our communities of which the communities would be proud. It was important to the Government that these community projects would be built by local authorities, sporting clubs and organisations, etc. If we look a little more closely at the administration of the scheme we find it was too important for one Minister to administrate. It did not take 2 Ministers, 3 Ministers or even 4 Ministers to administer the scheme; it took no fewer than 7 Ministers of this Parliament. 
It took 7 Ministers of this Parliament to oversee the RED scheme. Let us look at the Budget before the Parliament. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  is responsible for $633m; the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  for $l,800m; the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  for $ 1,908m; the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  for $2,778m; and at the top of the list is the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  who is responsible for $4,772m. Yet it took 7 Ministers to administer a scheme which expended $60.4m in the last financial year. This was not done for the want of a back up organisation. This was done by the Commonwealth Employment Service. Some excellent officers are in that Service right throughout Australia. By way of example New South Wales has over 30 of these offices outside the capital city and Queensland something like 20 offices outside the capital city. 
If we examine the infamous RED Ministers we can only say that they are a disgrace to themselves and a disgrace to the Parliament and what a humiliation this whole scheme has been to the Government. Let us categorise the Ministers. We have the old RED vintage of 1974 and the new RED vintage of 1975. Let us look at the calibre of those old vintage 1974 Ministers. They were: The Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Cameron;  the Treasurer,  Dr Cairns;  the Minister for Urban and Regional Development,  Mr Uren;  the Minister for Social Security,  Mr Hayden;  the Minister for Manufacturing Industry,  Senator James  McClelland; the Minister for Tourism and Recreation,  Mr Stewart;  and the Minister for Environment,  Dr Cass.  Let us look at the new RED vintage 1975 Ministers. They are: The Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Senator James  McClelland; the Treasurer,  Mr Hayden,  the Minister for Urban and Regional Development,  Mr Uren;  the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation,  Senator Wheeldon;  the Minister for Manufacturing Industry,  Mr Bowen;  the Minister for Tourism and Recreation,  Mr Stewart;  and the Minister for Environment,  Mr Berinson.  Four of these,  Mr Hayden, Senator James  McClelland,  Mr Uren  and  Mr Stewart,  have the unique distinction of being on both RED committeesthe 1974 vintage and the 1975 vintage. If we look at them we find that some of them are the cream of the Whitlam Cabinet. There is the new wonder Treasurer, the  Hon.  Bill Hayden, and the  Hon.  Clyde Cameron and the  Hon. Senator James  McClelland, both notable Labor and Immigration Ministers. 
It has taken 7 Ministers or a quarter of the Whitlam Cabinet to administer $60m in the first year and $135m in the dying stages of this scheme. If one looks at this as a percentage of the Budget we find that it is taking 7 Ministers to bungle one-half of one per cent of the Budget. I ask the nation: What chance has this country got when 7 Ministers of the Government bungle onehalf of one per cent of the Budget and we have a Budget figure of $22 billion? Is it any wonder that we have an economic mess on our hands? Yet the Treasurer and the Prime Minister have the audacity to criticise the Opposition's federalism policy. They ought to hang their heads in shame. 
I want to examine briefly some of the problems that have confronted local authorities and organisations. I want to mention in particular one council in my electorate of Petrie that has had approved, over the signature of  Senator James  McClelland, $250,000 worth of projects. 
The council is holding at the moment $62,000 in advances. The projects have been frozen. I received a telegram from the Minister as follows: 
I am pleased to advise you that the following projects submitted by the Redcliffe City Council have been approved for assistance under the RED scheme . . . 
It went on to list the projects and the details of the unemployed people who would be employed and the period of their employment. It was signed:  Senator J.  R. McClelland, Minister for Labor and Immigration. The freezing of this scheme is a disgrace. What has it done to the planning of local authorities and organisations? These people do not know where they are in their planning. If we look at the scheme we find that local authorities and organisations did not ask for it. They were happy in a sense that it came along because they were able to provide facilities, but of course in many instances they have been left carrying the baby. 
The RED scheme is being put to rest and its tombstone will contain this epitaph: 'RIP. Here lies the RED scheme, born 1974, passed away 1975, age 1ยฝ years, architect Clyde Cameron'. Then it will list the infamous, unrenowned and anything but illustrious Ministers responsible for its brief and shameful life. I believe there will be an inscription on the bottom and it will be to the effect that the RED scheme has been one of the greatest administrative bungles in the history of the Australian Parliament. 
-I address my remarks this evening to the Australian Assistance Plan in general and more particularly to a parochial matter that concerns me personally in my electorate of Petrie. I want to look first of all at the background of the Australian Assistance Plan and to remind the Committee that the Plan is now in its third year of operation. At this stage it is still being classed by the Government as a social experiment. I point out that some $2m was spent in the 1973-74 financial year, $4.2m was spent in 1974-75 and it is estimated that in this financial year $7.4m will be expended on the Plan. There are 12 regions receiving captitation grants. In the last financial year they received $4,lm. Page 54 of Budget Paper No. 1 shows that 37 regional councils received social development grants for administrative costs and for the employment of community development officers or CDOs as they are referred to. Fourteen of the 37 regional councils will receive capitation grants. 
I turn my remarks more particularly to the Brisbane area. The City of Brisbane Interim Committee at the moment is not receiving capitation grants but is receiving funds for the employment of administrative staff and also community development officers. I want to look first of all at the composition of the Interim Committee in a political sense. I am not aware of the political affiliations or leanings of all the members of the Committee, nor have I bothered to go into that in great depth. Of some 20 members on the Committee two are non-Labor members of note, the Liberal member for the State seat of Merthyr,  Mr Don  Lane, and the National Country Party member for the State seat of Wynnum,  Mr Bill  Lamond. 
-Maybe the Minister would not trust them. He should wait until I give the line-up of the ALP members on the Committee. I understands that at least one other Liberal also sits on that Committee. 
I am not certain about two or three of the others on the Labor side either. There are no fewer than 6 well-recognised Labor members on this Committee. They are  Mr Kevin 
Hooper, the MLA for Archerfield, Alderman Burton and Alderman Beattie Dawson from the Brisbane City Council- they will not be there after the March elections next year when the Liberal Party for the first time contests the Brisbane City Council elections- Councillor J. Harding from the Albert Shire Council,  Mr S.  Tapper representing the Trades Hall and  Mrs Pat  Brusasco who is the wife of. Brisbane City Council Alderman Ian Brusasco. I understand there are 2 other Labor members as well. I am not particularly taking issue with that point. Therein lies the greatest danger that the Australian Assistance Plan faces. Any ad hoc committee that is established in this country which is not democratically elected and where the people elected to the Committee do not have to face the ballot box a danger always exists. 
I want to refer to some of the seminars and meetings that have been held to establish interim committees in the Brisbane area. I attended one recently at the Sandgate Town Hall that reeked of politics. Meetings of this nature are stacked, they have been stacked, they are being stacked and they will be stacked in the future by people from both sides of the political spectrum while the present situation in relation to the Australian Assistance Plan exists. I want to refer to a part of the minutes of a meeting of the City of Brisbane Interim Committee on Friday, 27 June. It referred first of all to a letter of resignation from a community development officer, R. Phelps, addressed to the Reverend Laurie, the Committee  Chairman. Mr Phelps  had asked that the letter be included in the minutes, and this was done. Let me quote 2 paragraphs from the minutes. They read: 
Your Committee should re-open the question of Community Development Officers being endorsed candidates seeking public office. 
A CDO cannot also assume the role of endorsed candidate and be a success. The roles are incompatible. A CDO publicises and fosters the interest of the AAP, while a candidate must publicise him or herself, and personal interests and activities to be successful. Undertaken concurrently, one must necessarily reflect on the other. 
This was a very eventful meeting. There was also a dismissal of another community development officer but this gentleman happened to be the endorsed ALP candidate for the Federal seat of Moreton, which is now held by  Mr Killen. 
There had been an agreement, I understand, between this community development officer,  Mr Lewin  Blazevich and the Committee that he would not operate in the electorate of Moreton as he was the endorsed ALP candidate. However, I understand he broke this agreement. The matter of his non-compliance with the direction of the 
Brisbane executive officer was discussed at this same meeting. There was a report from the executive officer,  Mr Marshall. Mr Blayevich  addressed the meeting and responded to questions from the Interim Committee. A motion was moved and seconded by two of the ALP members that the report be noted and no action be taken. The motion was defeated, 4 members being in favour, five being against and two abstaining. Then a motion was moved by Rev. Brian Gilmour and seconded by  Mr Kelly  that the Committee adopt the recommendations of the executive officer to the Interim Committee and that  Mr Lewin  Blazevich be dismissed. This motion was carried, 6 members being in favour, four being against and one abstaining. It is interesting to note also that another community development officer, Lyndal Sullivan, resigned at this meeting. It was really quite a meeting. 
Having dealt with the circumstances that surrounded the dismissal of the endorsed ALP candidate and community development officer,  Mr Blayevich,  I now turn to another endorsed ALP candidate who is also a community development officer in my electorate of Petrie. I refer to  Mr Hungerford.  He was endorsed some 6 months ago. I inform the House that I have not made any statement publicly until this evening. I have not raised the issue but have watched it naturally very closely. My association with  Mr Hugerford  has been a very friendly one. I meet him quite frequently in my electorate. We have shaken hands on a number of occasions and our association is quite a friendly one. I want to make that point quite clear. I have received reports in recent times that he is working in the Petrie electorate. Anyone who knows the activities of a community development officer will realise that the scope is quite wide. Such an officer can be carrying out different surveys and door knocking in the course of his duties. Of course, politically this gives him quite an advantage. After all, one must recognise that he is also being paid under the Australian Assistance Plan by this Government. 
This gentleman has received quite a deal of publicity. He has met community groups and addresses them in the course of his work and he has had articles in local newspapers. At the same time- this is once again his right as a candidatehe has had quite a deal to say in the Press in relation to various issues. I do not take issue with him on that point, but it is rather disturbing when a local newspaper contains an item stating that he has addressed a meeting in his capacity as a community development officer under the Australian Assistance Plan and on the same page or a page or two later he is named as the endorsed 
ALP candidate for the electorate of Petrie. One would have to say that he has a vested interest. That is the point that  Mr Phelps  made in his letter. 
He has no hope of winning it, but it is a point that wants watching, and I raise it tonight for that very reason. 
-Would the Minister like to come to my electorate and assist the gentleman? I would like all honourable members opposite, particularly the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  to come into Petrie. He would be most welcome there. I would even pay his fare if he would come. The Minister for Tourism and Recreation is welcome too. I am going to write to the Brisbane interim committee and request that this gentleman work in an area other than the federal electorate of Petrie. I do not wish to see  Mr Hungerford  dismissed. That would be the last thing I would want. Because of the nature of his work and because he will be campaigning in the next few months, as I understand he has been doing quietly in the past 6 months, I believe that he should be directed in his duties into an area other than the Petrie electorate. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 

 Mr STEWART (Lang-Minister for Tourism and Recreation)-  Mr Chairman,  I suggest that the order for the consideration of the proposed expenditures agreed to by the Committee on 4 September by varied by postponing the consideration of the proposed expenditure for the Department of Housing and Construction. 
Department of Services and Property 
Proposed expenditure, $70, 1 50,000 
-In dealing with this matter of public importance on the lack of employment opportunities for school leavers and others seeking to enter the work force at the end of 1975 I want to highlight the graveness of the problem and the importance of providing for our younger generations. I want to point to the situation that existed when the Labor Government took office, and then to look at the causes of the problem and some of the solutions which should be adopted. One of the gravest problems facing the nation today, although it tends to become caught up in and overshadowed by the bigger issues of high inflation, industrial unrest, the economic crisis and high unemployment, of which it is a part, is the plight facing young school leavers and others- seeking to enter the work force for the first time. Government members can say what they like. They can bleat until the cows come home as far as I am concerned. But the lack of employment opportunities is largely, and indeed almost entirely, caused by the policies of this Government and the drastic changes instituted by this Government. Now, in mentioning school leavers and others, I refer to the problem of young people from technical colleges, colleges of advanced education and universities. It is a grave problem and the gravity of the problem cannot be assessed in the short term because it is in the long term, I believe, that this nation may feel the full effects of the fact that there are very few job opportunities available for school leavers today. If we all address ourselves to the problem and look back to when we were at this age, this difficult stage in life, when we had to make a decision as to what we would do, we can all recall our first job, be it a part time job or a full time job. The change from school life or college life to the work force is a major change to say the least. I feel for these people today as they are pushed from place to place, business house to business house, and factory to factory, in their efforts to find employment. Their confidence will surely be shattered and one wonders just what deep adverse psychological effects this experience may have on them in the future. They certainly are facing a difficult period because job opportunities are just not available. They will have a confused state of mind, no security, a sense of not being wanted and in many instances they will turn to crime and to drugs. It is all right for the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  to look startled but this in actual fact will be the situation. 
I want to point up the importance of providing for the younger generation. I refer to Plato, the Greek philosopher who in about the year 400 BC made reference to the younger generation. The philosophy is as valid today as it was in 400 BC. He made the comment that so long as the younger generation is and continues to be well brought up the ship of state will have a fair voyage; otherwise the consequences are better left unsaid. That philosophy was right then and it is right now. These young people are our adults of tomorrow. 
I maintain that our social structure depends largely on our family life. Our society must be laid on good foundations. If members of the Labor Government would only go out into their electorates and talk to the parents of these people, to the headmasters and principals of the high schools, and find out their feelings, they would realise the concern that exists in our community today. I want them to talk to these people. These are the people- the teachers and the headmasters- who help to mould the future of our young people. If Government members would only do this, I believe, they would put a greater effort into finding a means of alleviating this difficult situation of finding jobs for young people. 
There is a great amount of work done by officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service in association with Rotary clubs, Lions clubs and Apex clubs. Service clubs generally have been active in finding job opportunities. Various courses are carried out. But there is no point in having courses for young people if there are no jobs for them to go to at a later date. If honourable members examine the situation when the Labor Party took office they will find that there were about 100 000 registered as unemployed. We were told by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the Leader of the Opposition of the day, that we could not live with 100 000 out of work. We were told that we could not live with an inflation rate of approximately 4.5 per cent. It was not long before our unemployment figure had reached 150 000. The number of unemployed rose to 200 000 and since January it has not been below 230 000. The Government said we could not live with an unemployment figure of 100 000 and we could not live with an inflation rate of 4.5 per cent. The level of inflation rose to 10 per cent within months and is currently running at 17 per cent, but probably a more accurate figure would be 20 per cent. We were told that inflation was imported. I wonder how inflation was imported into this nation. If we look at the Australian nation today we find that even if the rest of the world was not operating we would probably be as self-supporting and as well off as any other nation. Business confidence was good when this Government took office. Expansion programs were going on. Job opportunities for school leavers were quite plentiful. 
I quote from the introductory remarks to the policy speech of the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Gough  Whitlam, during the 1 972 Federal election campaign. Just listen to these hollow words: 
Do you believe that Australia can afford another 3 years like the last 20 months? 
Are you prepared to maintain at the head of your affairs a coalition which has lurched into crisis after crisis, embarrassment piled on embarrassment week after week? 
Will you accept another 3 years of waiting for next week's crisis, next week's blunder? 
Will you again entrust the nation's economy to the men who deliberately, but needlessly, created Australia's worst unemployment for 10 years? 
Or to the same men who have presided over the worst inflation for 20 years? 
That was said by the then Leader of the Opposition, the Honourable Gough Whitlam in 1972. This Government has presided over the worst inflation, the worst unemployment, the worst industrial strife and the worst economic crisis this nation has known since Federation. These are the big issues, much talked about issues, but tucked away we have a problem which is not highlighted, not cared about, by this Government- the problem of school leavers looking for work. This Government has presided over the worst situation in relation to the lack of job opportunities for school leavers ever known in our history. Our school leavers' plight is the by-product of the mismanagement of this nation's affairs by this Government. I use the word 'by-product' in its worst sense, as one might use it in terms of noxious waste from a manufacturing industry. It is unfortunate that the by-product of this Government is that today we have so many school leavers in our community looking for jobs. 
I turn to a question in relation to the latest unemployment figures that was asked in the Senate by  Senator Everett  on 9 September and answered by  Senator James  McClelland, the Minister for Labor and Immigration. The Minister answered: 
My Department has prepared for me some estimates of unemployment for the coming year, and I underline that they are only estimates. In particular, I think we have to be conscious of the fact that a record number of school leaversapproaching, it is estimated, a quarter of a million- will come on to the labour market by next January. The best estimate that the Department is able to give, and of course it is nothing in which we take any pleasure, is that actual unemployed, including school leavers, who register for unemployment, could approach 400 000 members of the labour force in 1976. 
He went on to elaborate that statement. Two hundred and fifty thousand school leavers are to be plunged onto the labour market in a matter of months. We hear of Government restrictions on the growth of the Public Service, and of course this will mean there will be fewer opportunities for employment. Those who are now back at school total quite a number, I believe. I do not know whether the figures are available but many young people who finished their education at the end of 1974 were forced to go back to school in the 1975 school year. What will the figure be in 1976 for those who cannot obtain satisfactory employment at the end of this year? Our high schools and our colleges are going to be crowded out. According to the available figures, there were 9335 registered school leavers in August this year and in September this number had dropped by only 900 to 8466. 
-They do not care, as the honourable member for Lilley says. If we look at the number of job vacancies we find that it also is down. In his Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  mentioned that the Government refused to increase the dole for 16 to 18-year- olds. The Government is trying to force young people out to work. This is obvious, but what are these people to do when there are no jobs to go to? I would like the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan),  who is sitting at the table, to answer that question. The intent, of course, is to try to force these people out to work. Perhaps $36 for a single person is sufficient to live on and therefore, the Government says, it will not increase the benefits and so encourage people to be bludgers all their lives. Where do these people go when there are no jobs? I suggest that we should apply the remedy at the root cause rather than adopt measures such as those taken by the Treasurer. 
I look next at the cause of the problems. I believe that basically the policies of this Government have caused the situation which exists. The Prices Justification Tribunal is squeezing companies for profits, which means that there is less expansion by companies. The repercussions are quite widespread. If companies do not expand, job opportunities of course are not available. Drastic changes from the promotion of a free enterprise system, such as we had under 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government, have been implemented far too quickly by this Government. I liken this to a person buying a thriving business and then closing the front door and putting a sign on it directing all the customers into the side street or around to the side lane. This is exactly what this Government has done. Another measure that has caused problems and reduced the number of job opportunities is the drying up of overseas capital by the restrictions that this Government has placed on the inflow of such capital to help develop this nation. The great taxation grab which this Government has indulged in is also a matter for concern. There is no incentive these days for people to save to expand and spend their money. The strangulation of the mining industry and oil exploration companies has had a very profound effect on the number of available job opportunities. 
What are the solutions? I believe that there must be restraint by the unions. There must be wage restraint. I think the statement made by a former Treasurer, the Honourable Frank Crean- I do not know whether he was the second or third last Treasurer- that one man's pay increase would be another man's job is quite true. The trade unions must show greater restraint than they are showing. It is of no use this Government trying to dissociate itself from the trade union movement. It is pandering to the trade union movement and at the moment is in a dreadful bind. This Government is synonymous with the trade unions, and we all know the way in which they are ruining this country today. There must be genuine efforts to stimulate business activity in this country. It is of no use this Government talking about stimulating the private sector of the economy; there have to be genuine efforts. No businessman in this country, be he large or small, is going to respond to a government that on the one hand says it is interested in private enterprise and on the other hand shows duplicity at every turn. This Government must put money back into people's pockets. This is a further solution to the problem. The people of this nation should not be subjected to such a heavy tax burden, a burden that is placed on them by a government that is hell bent on social reform. I hope that the Minister for Housing and Construction will reply to this point because if he considers that the social problems that are being created by the lack of job opportunities today, particularly for young people, are not important then I would like him to say so. 
There must be an abandonment of a number of the new social reforms proposed by this 
Government. This Government is caught in a vicious circle. It wants to reform, yet in doing so it wants more taxation. The prosperity of this nation cannot be sectionalised. The greatest good for the greatest number must prevail. School leavers are not interested in political infighting, fine rhetoric or the playing of politics in any shape or form. They want jobs and they want security. 
-In entering this debate, I hope that the new found king of the Cabinet, the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  does not think that I have lost my sting. I can assure him that I have not. Because my address tonight is what one might term 'low key', it does not mean to say that 1 believe that there is no criticism necessary. The 2 matters I wish to raise are in connection with the national estate. I also wish to talk a little about the cost of serviced land. In relation to the national estate, I believe a serious problem could arise for a local authority following the acceptance of a submission for the acquiring of a property under this scheme. I have no quarrel with the scheme and its objectives or the fact that it provides for acquisition or restoration and preservation of historic buildings and land acquisition for conservation purposes for national parks, etc. 
I wish to instance a hypothetical case where a local authority has applied for funds and of course prior to applying would obtain a valuation of the property. It would be normal for a local authority to obtain 2 valuations- perhaps one from its State Valuer General and the other from a private valuer. So the local authority has funds in hand from the national estate fund and the project has been accepted. The authority then finds that it has an unwilling seller on its hands. The local authority, of course, has the powers of resumption and resumption proceedings are instigated. Eventually the property falls into the hands of the local authority. There is only one step further and that is the determination of the compensation. This goes to court and it could well be that the court would provide far greater compensation to the owner of the property than had originally been envisaged. 
Let me cite an example. A local authority has $50,000 in hand; it obtains a couple of valuations and the top valuation is covered by this $50,000. It then finds that the court judgment requires the local authority to pay out $ 100,000 or perhaps even $200,000. I ask the Minister whether he would explain to honourable members in these circumstances how the local council bridges the gap between the amount that has been received and the amount of compensation that the court has decreed to be paid to the owner. I think it would be agreed that the local authority is the level of government that is least able to meet such a large increase as this. So what safeguards are there for councils? Are they to be left holding the baby? 
My next point concerns the cost of serviced land. I think that one should first of all endeavour to define what serviced land is. As far as I am concerned, it is land with certain improvements that have been made by way of provision of services such as water supply, sewerage, electricity, roads and drainage. It is also what one might term in a fuller sense, 'land where transport is available and where facilities such as schools, shops and neighbouring parks are in reasonable proximity'. It is land zoned under a town planning scheme in an urban area and residentially is usually categorised into high density, medium density and low density. Low density land is frequently referred to as 'residential ordinary land'. Allotments in this residential ordinary land which provides by far the greatest number of single unit dwellings for our urban communities, may be as small as 16 perches or perhaps as large as an acre or even larger. 
Before looking a little further at the cost of serviced land and how the costs have escalated, I want to examine in more detail the way in which in recent years serviced land has been developed and how local authorities have had to apply certain subdivisional conditions. If honourable members look back at the position as it was around the middle of this century, they will find that local authorities were unable to impose the conditions that they would have liked. They have been left a legacy of many COStlY headaches. Following subdivision approval in those days, it was necessary only for the owner to engage a surveyor who would draw up a plan and put in some property pegs. That was about where the matter was allowed to rest. So it was left to the local council to provide a tremendous backlog of services such as water and sewerage, the sealing of dusty streets, solving drainage problems and providing electricity. The position improved as regulations changed and local authorities were allowed to impose greater conditions. Of course with these conditions came a greater cost being passed on to the consumer. 
So the situation has evolved now where in my opinion the pendulum has swung too far. The cost of services is so great that the finished piece of land has become too expensive for the user. In the last 10 years, demands by local authorities have become too stringent, forcing the cost of serviced land to such heights that it is now out of the reach of thousands of Australians. Local authorities are able to require subdividers to contribute to head works and trunk mains of water supply and sewerage works. The imposition of conditions such as the undergrounding of electricity supply and the requirement that child care and pre-school facilities also be provided have become a great burden for those buying the finished block of land. Many developers are borrowing funds at interest rates of between 16 per cent and 20 per cent in order to carry out these works. The servicing of the loans is adding greatly to the cost. With inflation running at 20 per cent and the extra conditions of subdivision being imposed, it is not surprising that in Sydney land prices rose from around $7,000 in 1970 to approximately $12,000 in 1975. But the cost of services rose by 108 per cent in that period from $2,700 to $5,600. In Melbourne the cost of services rose from $1,600 per allotment in 1970 to $6,000 in 1975. In Brisbane the cost of services showed an increase from $1,400 in 1972 to $4,500 in 1975. So there has been a shift of the traditional public cost from the public sector to the private sector. The cost originally was borne by the local authority- that is the government authority- but it has now been shifted from the public sector to the private sector. It can easily be seen that with this shift in this traditional costthe public cost component in land prices- from the public sector to the private sector serviced land prices to the consumer have escalated out of the reach of many people. But I do not believe that the matter should move back to the local authority; I believe that the burden should be shared by the 3 levels of government- local, state and federal. I believe that the user of the land must obtain some relief, otherwise only the middle and upper class income families will be able to afford a block of land and eventually to build a home on it. To relieve the burden on the purchaser or user, the local authority must not suffer unduly. The extra cost must be shared by governments at all levels. The provision of capital cost services at government interest rates, approximately 10 per cent, would help immensely. I say finally that governments must somehow subsidise land prices or fewer and fewer people will become home owners in the future. 
-We have listened to the rantings and ravings of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I reject out of hand the comments he has made. The fact of the matter is that inflation was at 4.5 per cent a year in 1972 when this Government came to power and unemployment was somewhere in the vicinity of 80 000 to 100 000. To suggest other than that our inflation has been manufactured domestically is completely and utterly ridiculous. The fact is that in Australia we are basically insulated from inflation from overseas countries. 
This is a dishonest government. Let us not cloud the issues of the current crisis. There is no constitutional crisis. If anything, it is a political crisis. Any dishonest government should not govern any country at all. We have had 2 Ministers who were Acting Prime Ministers in the past who have both been dismissed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  How he can dissociate himself from the actions of these men who were senior Ministers who were Acting Prime Ministers, I fail to see. We have a deficit coming up for this financial year of $3,500m to $4,000m and the deficit for the last financial year was $2, 500m. And this Government says it is governing well! 
I support the motion of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  I believe that although it is some 15 months since he gave notice of this motion he showed great foresight in doing so because it is more relevant today than it was when he foreshadowed it then. The honourable member for Adelaide suggested that there are honourable members on the Government side who would like to speak to this motion. There are a number of honourable members on the Opposition side also who would like to speak to it. 
I want to deal with these 3 basic groups: Retired people- those who are in receipt of superannuation and those who are living on their investments; pensioners- those on age and invalid pensions; and the unemployed. The main thrust of my argument will be directed at showing that inflation and inadequate increases in welfare benefits are causing intolerable hardships for people in these groupings. It is not sufficient for honourable members on the Government side to point to percentages of increases in the unemployment and pension benefits that we have seen since 1972. Percentages do not mean anything today. The pensioner is basically interested in what he has in his hand and what it will buy for him. People who have retired, people on superannuation and fixed incomes- these are people who have little opportunity to increase their incomes- have their life savings invested in many instances in blocks of flats, houses or shops. Unfortunately they have not been able to withstand the rate of inflation that we see today and the inflation that we have experienced over the past few years. 
They have worked and saved all their lives to get together their nest eggs. Take the case of someone who in 1972 had $40,000 saved and had it on fixed deposit at 10 per cent a year interest. That person would be getting something like $4,000 a year or $80 a week return. Maybe that return would be a little higher if the money were invested in flats or in shops. With investments made prior to 1972 the situation would be even worse. These are the people who today can buy only the essential items such as clothing, food and of course pay their local authority rates and for the maintenance of their homes. These are the people who are finding it difficult to meet the increases in the items I mentioned. 
I mention specifically age and invalid pensioners. I shall work on the basic rate of $36 a week for a single pensioner and $60 a week for a married couple, bearing in mind of course that there will be increases in the next month or so. These people may be divided into home owner pensioners and those who rent accommodation. I suggest to Government supporters that they ought to move out into their electorates to talk to these people, to the thinking pensioners, to find out whether they are better or worse off today than they were in 1972. Almost without exception one will find that the answer from those people is that they are worse off today because of inflation- much worse off. 
As the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  our shadow Minister for social security so adequately put it yesterday in the debate on the Social Services Bill, the Government has changed its course from aiming to provide as a base for pensions 25 per cent of average weekly male earnings to providing increases tied to percentage increases in the consumer price index. He pointed out- it has yet to be disputed by the Government- that this change will save the Government something like $80m annually. If that is not duplicity, I ask: What is? On the one hand the Goverment is saying that it wants to improve the lot of the pensioner and on the other hand it is saving $80m by changing its policy. 
I want to look particularly at the pensioner who pays for rental accommodation. He gets supplementary assistance of $4 a week, which is now to be increased to $5 a week. When this Government took office in 1972 the supplementary assistance was $4. As the honourable member for Hotham put it yesterday, the pensioner should be receiving by way of supplementary assistance an amount close to $8 a week today if he is to maintain the 1972 parity. In my electorate of Petrie, which is basically an average middle class area, I did a little bit of research and found that a pensioner renting a house in 1972 was paying about $25 a week for it. Today he is paying $40 a week- an increase of $15 or 60 per cent. If he was renting a single bedroom flat he was paying about $12 a week for it in 1972. He is now paying $24 a week- an increase of 100 per cent or $12. The fact is that rent has increased by $15 for a house and $12 for a flat. If we look at the increase in pensions we find that the total pension for a single pensioner receiving supplementary assistance has gone from $24 to $40. This is a $16 increase, $12 of which of course is taken up by the increase in rent if he is in a single bedroom flat. So it is quite scandalous for the Government to maintain that these pensioners are better off. 
Pensioners today are living on food that in many instances is substantially lacking in nutrition. They are forced to buy cheap foods and to grow their own vegetables. They are forced to buy secondhand clothing. One has only to move through the St Vincent de Paul stores and some of the other similar types of stores and jumble sales to realise that these people are worse off. They rent substandard premises. I ask the Government supporters to move into some of these areas to see the position for themselves. They would be appalled at what they see. In many instances pensioners are compelled to take light work to supplement their pensions. 
-The House should be thankful to the honourable member for- Eden Monaro  (Mr Whan)  for recalling the history of the Captains Flat area and the role of the early settlers. I believe he would have identified very well with those early settlers. He mentioned that at the last election the area voted about 80 per cent for Labor. That may have been the position in the last elections but it will not be the case in the next elections. 
-That is the Minister's opinion but my belief is that it will be nothing like that at the next elections. I believe that the honourable member for Eden-Monaro did not appreciate that the Opposition realises the true significance of the work to be carried out, with respect to not only the Molonglo River, Lake Burley Griffin and Canberra but also the Murrumbidgee and Murray Rivers. The Captains Flat (Abatement of Pollution) Agreement Bill 1975 concerns the Australian Government and the New South Wales Government and makes provision for something like $2.5m to be expended on works necessary for the abatement of pollution. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  is to be congratulated for taking this step. Pollution in Australia has come more under public scrutiny in the past five to ten years than probably at any other time in the previous 200 years- not only pollution of rivers, streams and bays, but also pollution of air. We have come to expect greater pollution containment standards today than ever before. Local authorities are particularly concerned with the disposal of sewage effluent. Demands made on local authorities to upgrade the standards of effluent are causing them concern and a great deal of expense. 
I believe that conservationists have an important role to play in this area. They must keep a watchful eye on the situation. Nevertheless it is my firm belief that people are still the most important things on the face of the earth. Quite frankly I believe that some conservationists would, if they had their way, have all people living in bark huts. We must pay attention to our extractive industries. One has only to travel throughout this country to realise that in the past the attitude was: 'Get out the minerals and let us not worry too much about the scars we leave. Let someone else, perhaps in the future, look after the legacy that is left'. That has been the case with Captains Flat. Permanent scars, made principally by the mining industries, must not be allowed to remain. It is interesting to note that in recent years governments have made a number of advances in this respect. One has only to look at the sand mining that has gone on in Queensland and in Western Australia to realise that as a result of restoration work the countryside in many instances is far better than it was in its original state. 
I do not want to add a great deal to the comments made by the two previous speakers to this Bill. I have read the second reading speech of the Minister. I believe the proposed works will result in the necessary abatement of the problem that exists. Much can be done to prevent leaching processes. I have seen such work carried out in mining areas of North Queensland where in some areas the pollution problem has been serious. If the water system involved does not flow through country where the effects of siltation can be serious downstream there is no great problem but in this instance we are discussing the water flowing into Lake Burley Griffin and thence into the Murrumbidgee and Murray Rivers. The Opposition has much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
-by leave-Mr  Speaker,  I am delighted to support you in the presentation of this report on the Australian Parliamentary Delegation's visit to the Asian countries of Thailand, Japan and the Philippines. The visit during July last was an extremely valuable fact-finding and good will mission and there is no doubt that the understanding between our country and the countries visited has improved considerably as a result of this mission. The purpose and value of parliamentary trips of this nature will always be the subject of discussion and the trips will not be undertaken without attracting varying amounts of criticism. I stress that this delegation did not seek to inform our neighbouring Asian countries as to how they should conduct their affairs. I believe that any such approach would have been gross impertinence on our part. What it did seek to do was to provide a forum where our parliamentarians could mingle with people of all walks of life in these countries and thereby ascertain their views and the extent of their fears and their problems and, above all, create a better understanding between Australia and these our neighbouring nations. 
I believe that it is important and indeed essential that parliamentarians travel throughout the world. This particular trip also was of immense educational value to the members of the Australian delegation. They met people from all walks of life- those who were affluent right down to the poorest of the peasants. We met the well educated people and of course the illiterates. We had interesting and informative dialogue with Government and Opposition leaders in Thailand and Japan. We met local government and provincial leaders and discussed the problems that they experience in their countries. We met leaders in commerce and industry. Essentially we spoke at length with many of the ordinary people in the streets of their cities and towns. I agree with you,  Mr Speaker,  that almost without exception the delegation was extremely well received in a most friendly fashion. It is my view that these countries that we visited- Thailand, Japan and the Philippines- are kindly disposed towards Australia. It gave us an excellent opportunity to observe the customs of the people and to discuss the problems that are facing the elected representatives and the administrators in these countries at all levels of government. I believe that they have problems similar to ours; it is only the magnitude of the problems that differs. 
You made reference,  Mr Speaker,  to the Australian aid projects in Thailand and the Philippines. There is no doubt that these countries place great value on the aid projects that Australia is helping to fund. I believe that it has tended to cement excellent relations with these countries. I also want to mention that the Australians working overseas- there are a number of them associated with these aid projects- are highly regarded and their skills are second to none. They are men and women who have offered a great deal from Australia and are great ambassadors for this country. If honourable members glance at the program, they will see that this was a busy schedule that was undertaken by this delegation. It was mainly work with only a small amount of time available for sightseeing. 
I want to mention,  Mr Speaker,  your leadership of this delegation which I believe was always objective. You carried out the position as leader of the delegation with great dignity and you are to be commended for this. The remainder of the team operated in a good spirit of comradeship at all times. The sort of tensions that we have seen built up in this Parliament in recent weeks were not evident on this trip. I believe that visits of parliamentary delegations of this nature tend to break down the tension between Government and Opposition members. 
I want to say a word or two about embassy staffs, because in the 3 countries visited, right from the ambassadors down to the third secretaries and the office staff, we found that the greatest of courtesies and co-operation were extended to members of our delegation. These people are to be congratulated on the work they are doing in upholding the traditions of Australia. Finally, I mention that a number of political leaders expressed a desire to visit Australia. Recently we had in Australia the Philippines Executive Secretary Melchor and I understand that he was well received by this country. I understand that invitations will be issued to these people when we will be able to repay some of the courtesies that were extended to us. 
-I ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs whether his attention has been drawn to a leading newspaper article claiming that consumer protection actions have been stalled. Are the statements true, and what is the 
Minister's attitude towards consumer protection prosecutions? 
-Briefly I want to take up the points made by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  I agree with a lot of the comments he made, but at one stage he suggested that a patient cannot overuse the scheme and that it is the doctor who is responsible. Largely that is correct, but a vicious circle is set up within the medical profession. If a patient goes to one medico and does not get what he considers to be adequate treatment- some patients look for abundant treatment; that is the category into which I would put it- he goes to another medico until he does get it. This definitely is the fault of the medical profession. We find also that certain patients force themselves on the medical profession with constant visits to a doctor. The fact that the service is free at the point of delivery encourages many patients to go back to their doctor. It is a difficult problem. I do not know the answer but certainly it is a matter which wants looking at very closely. 
I address my remarks to two parts of the Bill. The first is the part which abolishes subsidised health benefits. The second is the part that deals with the patient contribution increase from $1.50 to $2 for each item under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. I wish to make some general comments later about that scheme as a whole. The subsidised health benefits plan, or SHB as it is commonly referred to, was instituted with a three-fold purpose, I believe. Firstly it was to assist with enrolment fees for medical services with a voluntary health insurance fund. Secondly it was to assist in a similar manner with enrolment fees for public ward hospital treatment with a voluntary health insurance fund. Thirdly it was to defray the cost of certain drugs and medicinal preparations under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. Certain persons were eligible to receive such benefits. For the information of the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  it was for migrants in the first 2 months after their arrival in Australia. It was also for those in receipt of unemployment, sickness and special benefits and for certain low income families. One might generally put them into the group of disadvantaged people in our community. 
The Commonwealth was actually enrolling these eligible persons with a voluntary health insurance fund during the period of their eligibility and was providing them with a certificate of entitlement from the Department of Social Security to allow them to receive pharmaceutical benefits items at half the cost to the general public. These people were notified in various ways. Migrant groups were advised through native language pamphlets or through embassies. They applied to the Department of Social Security. Unemployment and sickness benefit recipients and special benefit recipients were notified and were issued with a certificate by the Department of Social Security when they were awarded a benefit. Low income groups were informed by publicity campaigns, by the voluntary health insurance funds, by Commonwealth Employment Service officers and by social workers. Unfortunately the subsidised health benefit plan did not work as it was originally intended, when introducing this scheme in 1970 the then Minister for Health,  Dr A.  J. Forbes, stated that it was to be available to an estimated 100 000 families or 300 000 individuals. There was an extension in June 1970 to provide for a further 84 000 families or over 250 000 individuals to be catered for under the scheme. But unfortunately, as the 1974-75 annual report of the Department of Social Security indicates, the scheme was not working very well because only about one-third of those eligible were actually participating in it. 
The Minister made reference in his second reading speech to the fact that Medibank renders the subsidised health benefits plan as it relates to hospital and medical benefits redundant. I think no one could dispute this point. He made the comment that for pharmaceutical benefit: purposes the scheme was no longer justified and made the point that the value of the benefits payable amounted to only $700,000 per annum although the scheme cost $1.3m per annum to administer. I am curious about this matter. I know that the Minister, who is a good Minister, will no doubt look into the other administrative costs within his Department. I would be interested to know how the $1.3m was assessed. Clearly it would not be an easy matter to pull 'out the figure of $ 1.3m as the cost of administering this subsidised health benefits plan. If this figure is correct surely this will be the cue for the Minister to look into other areas of his Department as no doubt he is already doing. 
In effect the Bill says that all people now will pay $2 per item for a pharmaceutical benefit prescription. This proposal is unfortunate for people on low incomes, recipients of unemployment and sickness benefits and new migrants. I will concede that under Medibank people treated as outpatients in .public hospitals get free pharmaceuticals but they have to see a doctor at that hospital and, of course, have the dispensing done at that hospital pharmacy. The objection I raise is that there will be a loss of freedom of choice for the individual. People must, of course, attend a public hospital and receive the pharmaceuticals from that public hospital. It is regrettable that such an arrangement must come about in the free enterprise system that we support. I would say in a mild way that it is a backward step, albeit a small one. 
I want to direct my main comments to the increase of the patient contribution from $ 1 .50 to $2 per item. This is the amendment of greatest consequence in the Bill. I think it is necessary first of all to research the scheme. If one does this I think that one will find that the original concept is being lost at the moment. I think that the honourable member for Maribyrnong made reference to this. But the fact is- and the honourable member admits this- that the previous Labor Government of which he was a member also increased the charge from $1 to $1.50 per item. It is my contention that patients will avoid this scheme. In many instances they will avoid getting the necessary health care, particularly those families in the low income and disadvantaged area that I mentioned earlier. Surely the scheme is not serving the purpose that it should if people deprive themselves of proper health care because the cost is too great. 
If we look at the period between the birth of the scheme in the 1940s and November 1959 we find that no charge was made at all during this time for a general benefit. At the end of 1959 legislation was introduced to, provide for a charge of 5s per item. I think that I should emphasise that at the same time the scheme was considerably widened to provide many more drugs and medicinal preparations to the public and, of course, that meant a greater and better scheme for the general public. I guess the reason for the patient contribution being required was the escalating costs. No doubt this motivated the previous Government to increase the contribution from $ 1 to $ 1 .50 as is the case now when it is proposed to increase contribution from $1.50 to $2. 
The introduction of the 50c charge was strongly opposed by the Labor Opposition of the day. This opposition was re-stated in the 1963 policy speech of  Mr Calwell  who was then the Leader of the Opposition. I remind the honourable member for Maribyrnong, who is the shadow Minister for Health, of this point. The patient contribution was increased by 100 per cent to $1 in September 1971. It was then, of course, increased by a further 50 per cent to $1.50 only 6 months ago in September 1975. I want to relate the patient contributions to the cost per item. I think it is very important to look at this relationship since the inception of the scheme. Prior to 1959 there was a nil contribution by the public. In 1959-60 there was an average item cost of $1.86 and 50c or 27 per cent of that was covered by the patient contribution. In 1971-72, the average cost per item was $2.45 and the public was then required to pay $ 1 or some 41 per cent of that cost. In 1974-75 the average cost was $2.85 with the patient contributing $1.50 or 53 per cent of the cost per item. Although the average cost at the moment is $3.05, the deletion of certain items obviously will mean that the average cost will go up. I estimate that the average cost will be in the vicinity of $3.25. It is proposed that the patient will pay $2 or 62 per cent of that amount. So the patient's contribution has gone from nil to some twothirds of the average cost of an item. 
I think that the whole concept of the scheme has been changed. It is time that the scheme was overhauled. Of course, no charge has been made in respect of pensioners in the Bill we are considering. But one might surely ask: Where is this scheme heading? I firmly believe that a patient contribution is essential. Any service that is provided free at the point of delivery will be abused. I think that there are certain aspects of Medibank, such as bulk billing, that at the moment are causing the scheme to be grossly abused. Therefore I am strongly in favour of a patient contribution at the point of delivery. But what of the low income earner? What of the family with one or more members suffering from chronic illness? I have seen such families as no doubt has the honourable member for Maribyrnong. I refer to people with two or three children who suffer from, say, asthma. Medibank takes care of the doctor's fee. If the doctor bulk bills, of course, the patient can visit the doctor as often as he or she likes at no cost. But if the doctor does not bulk bill the patient has to bear something of the order of $ 1 a visit. For example, take the case of a family which has 2 children suffering from a chronic illness. The visit to the doctor costs nothing or perhaps $2. Their doctor might prescribe an antihistamine, an antibiotic, a decongestant mixture and perhaps a spray for an asthmatic patient. Therefore the visit involves 4 items for each patient. The family with such patients would be required to purchase 8 items at $2 a time. As a result the family has to pay $16. Such a charge is beyond the means of many families. The supply of" these preparations may run out in a week or 10 days and the patient is required to go back to his chemist for a repeat. Therefore a family could be up for another $10 to $12 in a week to 10 da) s' time. 
It is all very well for the bureaucrats to say that the doctor has an authority that he can call on, that he can apply for an authority to prescribe an amount of the drug for the patient, that the patient is entitled to a month's supply and 2 repeats. But the hard, cold facts of the matter are that in many instances doctors do not apply for the authority. I have known doctors to tell the patient: 'Go and talk to your chemist about it or go and talk to someone in the department'. This is the attitude taken not by all but by some of the medicos who will not take the time to apply for the authorities for these special patients. There is a problem. What is its solution? I believe that far too many ad hoc decisions are being taken and too many ad hoc measures are being introduced. Surely the aim of the Government is a saving in cost. Whereas the cost is important, the health and the welfare of the nation are of paramount importance. 
The pharmaceutical benefits scheme should be totally overhauled. I suggest that the Government work with the Pharmacy Guild of Australia. After all it comprises the people who are in close contact with the public and is administering the scheme at the patient level. The Pharmacy Guild has men and women with great expertise in this field who could combine with the Government and officials of the Department of Health as a working party on restructuring the scheme. The Guild is an untapped source of information. It is a respectable body of people. Its members are people of integrity and of considerable professional capacity. I propose for the Minister's consideration, and I hope for the consideration of the suggested working party- I have discussed this type of proposal with a number of medicos- a division of the scheme. There could be a section, as there is now, for pensioners, who would not be charged; another section for children and people who are plagued by a chronic illness; then perhaps a further section for the ordinary people. In the main, the ordinary people perhaps can afford a greater contribution than those disadvantaged groups I mentioned previously. 
The increasing cost of the scheme is obviously worrying the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Government. No doubt it was of great concern to the previous Labor Administration. Of course, one has to expect a cost increase with this scheme. After all, one can attribute the increased cost to greater usage of the scheme, a widening choice of drugs on the list of benefits, inflation continually pushing prices higher and higher and, of course, population growth. At the moment, chemists are most unhappy with the remuneration they are receiving for their services. The Minister has informed me that a conference between the Minister, his departmental officers and representatives of the Pharmacy Guild is planned for March. The pharmacists are surely entitled, as is any section in our community, to a fair fee for service. I do not believe they are getting it. I do not believe thay have been getting it for a long time. 
An inquiry commenced in 1972, when the Liberal and Country Parties were in government-  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson was Minister for Health- into the earnings, costs and profits of pharmacists. The results of that inquiry were tabled in the Senate last June. The Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements, which conducted the inquiry, comprised 4 representatives of the Government and 4 representatives of the Pharmacy Guild plus  Sir Walter  Scott as the independent  chairman.  It deliberated for many months, but the chairman's recommendations were not adhered to by our predecessors in government. It was quite clearly claimed that any dispute as a result of the findings of that Committee was to be put to arbitration and that the result of the arbitration was to be binding on both parties. I believe that the Pharmacy Guild is prepared to go to arbitration on the matter in dispute. I hope the Government will see fit to do likewise. 
The Labor Government refused to accept the findings of the committee of inquiry and paid, I think, 1 lc retrospective fee increase per item for 1973- 74 instead of 32c, and 22c increase instead of 47c per item for 1974-75. 1 believe that something like $43 m is still owing to pharmacists throughout this country for the 1973-74 and 1974- 75 financial years. It is the duty of this Government to open negotiations with the Pharmacy Guild in an endeavour to resolve this matter of fair remuneration for service. Whatever is resolved on the issue of the $43m owing to pharmacists, at least a new fee basis should be established for the next and ensuing years with provision for updating of the fees. There should surely be no repetition of the fee fiasco that we have seen over many years now. 
I implore the Minister to study the Scott report and to investigate it, particularly the reference to economic and uneconomic pharmacies. If all the uneconomic pharmacies are phased out there will be countless thousands of Australians without a pharmaceutical service in their area. I think the Minister is well aware of the situation in his own expansive electorate of Gwydir. Hundreds of people in smaller towns will be disadvantaged. I have with me a letter written by  Mr Rushbrooke  of Moree, which is in the Minister's electorate, concerning a pharmacy at Collarenebri, a pleasant township of some 1000 people which is outside the Minister's electorate. I understand that Collarenebri was devastated by floods in recent times and is still in difficult circumstances at the moment.  Mr Rushbrooke  is a part owner of Dash's Pharmacy in Moree. He cannot sell the pharmacy. Obviously it is not viable. It is one of the uneconomic pharmacies. What of the 1000 people in the township and the people living around the town?  Mr Rushbrooke  wrote: 
I wish to stress that I am not in any way seeking to improve my own position, if the shop had to be closed I could merely transfer the stock to Moree and suffer no financial loss myself. 
However, I am concerned for the population of Collarenebri who would be severely disadvantaged by such a move. 
If a subsidy could be paid by the Federal Government to isolated pharmacists in towns like Collarenebri then perhaps more pharmacists would be willing to give it a try. 
This is a prime illustration of an uneconomic pharmacy giving a vital service to a country town. It is interesting to note that doctors received increases of 1 80 per cent in their fees for pensioners from 1960 to 1974. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is he aware that his reply to yesterday's question about briefing selected newsmen on Iraqi funds already being provided to the Australian Labor Party is being interpreted in some quarters as confirming that he did in fact provide such a briefing? 
It gives me a deal of pleasure to support the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  in this debate on the establishment of a Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. I think it is only fitting that the national Parliament should take a deep interest in matters affecting our environment. As the Parliament is concerned with matters for the overall benefit of the nation as a whole, I hope that the House will unanimously support this motion. It is my firm belief that our environment and its conservation should be the concern of all. I know that in this Government Ministers of the Crown are very much aware of the problems with which they are confronted when it comes to implementation of a project and in the normal course of their duties. There are various agencies throughout the State governments for the control of our environment and its conservation. Indeed, we have a number of voluntary organisations which some people refer to as pressure groups. I believe that in the main these groups do an excellent job in our communities and keep a watchful eye on these very important matters of conservation and environment. 
It may come as a shock to a number of honourable members, but I also am aware that mining companies are extremely careful these days, no doubt as a result of having had certain matters brought to their attention in the past by governments and conservation groups. They are also extremely interested in the environment, even more so than most people in our communities would give them credit for. Some of the States have legislation requiring local authorities to demand environmental impact studies to be carried out. From these studies environmental impact statements are prepared. These are mainly concerned with large projects, subdivisional developments in local authorities' areas. I believe that that sort of control is essential because in the past we have been rather lax in this regard. 
I served for a few months in the Twenty-ninth Parliament when the honourable member for Scullin, whom we heard previously in this debate, was a  chairman  of the Committee. The last  chairman  of the Committee in the previous Parliament was the defeated former Labor member for La Trobe,  Mr Lamb.  I believe that the subjects that were selected by the then Minister for Environment and Conservation and discussed at some length by the Committee were of extreme importance to the nation. The wide application of the matters that are put forward for consideration by this Committee are, I believe, very important. We should not be parochial but, if possible, should look at matters that affect the whole of the nation. 
Airport noise, as mentioned by the honourable member for Griffith, is of course important to him and indeed to the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  in Queensland. It also affects a number of other electorates, more particularly in our capital cities. Noise pollution should be considered. Other than that, subjects that are of some national significance to our nation include the Great Barrier Reef, which extends only off the Queensland coast but is of national importance indeed. In the electorate of the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  we have the Fraser Island issue which is really a hot potato in that area. 
I should like to refer briefly to the 1 9 clauses in the motion. The most important is clause No. 1 . This tells us the purpose of the establishment of this Committee. The clause thereafter- possibly it was one that was mentioned by the honourable member for Scullin- is clause No. 2 which refers specifically to the co-operation of the States. The honourable member for Scullin made some mention of some State governments being highly suspicious when it came to co-operation. I was not serving on this Committee for the length of time that the honourable member for Scullin was. I can only say that in my association with the Committee it appeared to me as though the States were co-operating to the fullest. I agree with the honourable member for Scullin that it is important that our State governments assist this Standing Committee to the fullest, because the matters that are discussed often overlap into State areas of responsibility. 
The previous committees that were referred to by other speakers were first appointed in May 1973 in the Twenty-eighth Parliament. Of course this Committee continued in the Twenty-ninth Parliament. I believe it has been a productive committee. Along with the honourable member for Scullin I take to task the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  in that he claimed that the Standing Committee on Road Safety was the hardest working committee. I do not think that there should be any competition in this but rather that all committees should do their utmost to produce results for this Parliament and of course for the benefit of the people of this nation. One of the areas that were researched and investigated by the previous committees was the operation of the Softwood Forestry Agreements Act of 1967-72. This research entailed looking at the destruction of our fauna and flora and the need for softwood plantings as weighed against the damage to fauna and flora. It entailed looking at the types of soil that were tilled for the production of softwoods. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was pointing out to the House some of the inquiries that had been conducted by the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in the 28th and the 29th Parliaments. I move on to the inquiry which was conducted into development pressures on Jervis Bay. A very valuable inquiry was also held into land use pressures, that is, subdivisional development, on the outskirts of some of our major cities. Another very  important  inquiry was conducted into Christmas Island. In October 1974 there was released a report entitled 'The Conservation of Endangered Species on Christmas Island'. It looked at mining, flora and fauna. A report on the impact of freeways on our environment was another important report put out by the previous Committee. One of the most interesting though when I came to the membership of the committee in 1975 was that on trafficking in fauna. A number of interesting matters was uncovered, including the fact that there were endangered species throughout Australia. It highlighted problems that I believe made the community aware of what was going on in relation to fauna trafficking. The transport not only interstate but also overseas of reptiles and birds was rife. The inquiry uncovered the fact that a multi-million dollar business was being carried on. 
An inquiry which was mooted by the Committee but which at the dissolution of the Parliament had not been undertaken was an inquiry into off-road vehicles. It was to be concerned basically with the use of beach buggies and trail bikes. I think most honourable members will realise the problems that are associated with the pastimes or sports, as some people like to refer to them, involving both these vehicles. We have thousands of beach buggies and trail bikes in our communities today. They damage sand dunes, parks and reserves. Another inquiry was into the environmental impact of mining. Most of us are aware that open-cut mining is being carried on throughout this country and is a great problem to many State governments. They naturally want to tap the resources but of course are faced with the problems of restoration in areas where open-cut mining is carried on. Of course sand mining comes to mind with most people, but perhaps it is not of as great a consequence as the general open-cut mining. So we have to look at restoration methods and revegetation in certain areas, particularly where there has been sand mining. I believe that the mining companies have been made well aware of the problems that are associated with mining and are prepared to cooperate with governments, provided of course that governments insist that proper restoration of mined areas is undertaken. 
I referred earlier to Fraser Island in the electorate of Wide Bay. I know that the honourable member for Wide Bay is deeply concerned about the problem affecting Fraser Island. No doubt many honourable members have journeyed to Fraser Island and viewed the natural beauty of that island and also realised the great wealth that lies in its mineral sands. As a member of the previous Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation I say to honourable members that sitting on the committee was an education that should not be taken lightly by honourable members. I think all members of committees realise the valuable contribution that is made by all the committees, be they standing committees or joint committees, to the running of this Parliament. 
Finally, I refer to some of the extreme views that are taken by people in relation to conservation. I would consider myself to be a moderate. I take issue with the hard line conservationists, many of whom I believe, had they arrived in this country when it was in its natural state, would have us all today living in bark huts. It is true that many people would not have us touch a tree, mine any of our natural resources or indeed till the soil for food. I think that most important in relation to our environment is ourselves as  human beings. I believe that I take a rational approach. I adopt what I consider to be sensible measures. I realise that there has been considerable despoilment of our natural environment and that man has interfered with and endangered many species of plant, bird and animal life. Despite this, man is still the most important thing on the face of this earth. We have polluted our creeks, rivers and oceans. We have polluted our air, not only with noise, which was referred to earlier in this debate by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  but also with our factories. This of course is regrettable. But we have made great strides in the past 15 or 20 years in the abatement of this pollution. Man through his lack of discipline, one should say through his ignorance, and through his greed has caused a great deal of this pollution. Our health, which is surely of paramount importance to all of us, has been seriously impaired by pollution, particularly air pollution. I strongly support the establishment of this Committee and ask the House unanimously to support its establishment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. Recently, Brisbane's Lord Mayor Walsh has made statements claiming that funds will be forthcoming from the Australian Government for the staging of the 1982 Commonwealth Games. Has the Lord Mayor been given a firm commitment by this Government? If so, can the Treasurer inform the House of details of the promised financial aid and whether a ceiling has been placed on the amount of this Government s financial assistance or whether there is to be an open-ended arrangement with the Government sharing an agreed percentage of the staging costs? 
I cannot recall the name of the journalist who recently wrote that the Australian Labor Party looks more comfortable in Opposition than it ever did in government. After viewing members of the Opposition and listening to them in the last few weeks, and indeed in this debate in which they have had their heavies such as the former Minister for Housing and Construction and the former Minister for Urban and Regional Development, I want to say that they are more comfortable in Opposition than in Government. I believe that they have a very small appreciation of the problems that face this country. The honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  talked about the disinterest of this Government in housing. Of course he failed to tell us- as did the last  speaker,  the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)-  about the record Budget deficits we had under Labor. Quite frankly, I cannot understand why the Labor Government did not double or even treble the Budget deficits that it had in the 1974-75 and 1975-76-the current financial year- Budgets. I did not hear any words of wisdom from the shadow Treasurer as to why the former Government did not double or treble the deficit. 
The honourable member for Hughes also referred to the level of funding under the LiberalNational Country Party Government as against the level of funding under Labor. He failed to tell us about the 1 6 per cent to 20 per cent inflation in the period of the previous Government's administration and the fact that we could run a government and come up with deficits that were not nearly as high and as damaging as those of the Labor Government. I do not call the present deficit a mythical deficit as the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Went worth)  does, and fortunately for the Government, very few government supporters do. The honourable member for Mackellar drew the analogy, and drew it so beautifully, between the disaster of the Labor Government's administration and Darwin after cyclone Tracy. I thought that was a gem. 
Moving on to the legislation, I want to refer to the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill and also to the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement Act. After all, this Bill and the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement Act are tied very closely together. This Bill, of course, is the appropriating legislation. The Housing Agreement Act 1973, which was amended in 1974, embraces an agreement entered into with the States for 5 years. 
In looking at the total housing program it is interesting to note that it is funded as to approximately 13 per cent from government sources and as to 87 per cent from private sourcesthe private sources being mainly building societies, finance companies and savings banks. In Queensland the level of funding from government sources is as low as 10 per cent. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  seemed to be boasting, to say the least, about the level of government funding in his State. The reason why government funding is up to 13 per cent on average is that the level of government funding in South Australia is about 20 per cent. 
We should look at where the 2 major parties, the Australian Labor Party and the Liberal Party, and with it the National Country Party of Australia, stand on the philosophy of home ownership. These philosophical views are very important and I want to deal with them in a little more detail. Seven out of 10 Australians today own their own homes or are paying off their homes. This is a significant figure, and it can be largely attributed to the good management and the pursuance of the policies of Liberal and National Country parties in 23 years of government. Australia has one of the highest rates of home ownership in the world. Home ownership is the great Australian dream. I hope it remains the great Australian dream and that the dreams of those in the community who are not as yet fortunate enough to own their own homes are fulfilled. I believe that the stability of a nation can be measured by the level of home ownership. 
It did decline under Labor, as my colleague reminds me. In looking at home ownership we have to discuss the importance to this nation of the stake that the people who own their own homes have. Such people are accumulating wealth; but they also have pride- a pride in their own person, a pride in their families, a pride in their own homes which flows on to a pride in their community and nation. To me this is of considerable importance. I want to compare that pride with the attitude of people who live in rental accommodation. I acknowledge that it is necessary to have in our cities and towns a certain volume of rental accommodation available, be it houses or flats. With few exceptions we find this inbred feeling in people who live in rental accommodation that: 'This place/is not mine, so why worry about it'. This is a very dangerous attitude, and it is an attitude that unfortunately was perpetrated by the Labor Government to the detriment of this nation. In most instances rental homes are abused. In most instances the yards, the surrounds, the footpaths and everything else that goes with a rental home shows neglect. This, of course, leads to a lack of pride on the part of the individual and a lack of pride in his family which, quite often, is reflected in the children of that family. Such people become less community minded, work becomes a drudgery to them and they finish up in the lower or disadvantaged groups. So the people whom the Labor Government felt it was helping were being disadvantaged even further. 
What worries me is that this attitude tends to divide our communities. On the one hand there are people who own their own home and who have a pride in their person and community. They get on. They improve and become more affluent but not necessarily wealthy. They have something to strive for. Their standard of living rises. On the other hand, there are the renters who unfortunately in many instances could not care less. They tend to slip back. Their standards worsen. I object to this division in our communities. Surely our objective should be to raise the standards of all people to the extent where we attain or very nearly attain 100 per cent home ownership. 
I return to the philosophy of the 2 major parties. This matter really goes deeper than the question of encouraging home ownership. On the one hand, the Liberal and National Country parties encourage a person to be his own master, to fend for himself, to build up his pride and assets and to stand on his own feet. On the other hand, the Labor Party adopts the attitude that the Government will provide these amenities; so why should a person strive. The Labor Party creates the impression that the big brother Government will be there to look after you. 
I am pleased that the philosophy of the Liberal and National Country parties supports the encouragement of home ownership. At question time this afternoon a question was asked about the reintroduction of the home savings grants scheme for first time home buyers. I believe that every government has to assist people, particularly young people and people who are endeavouring to obtain their first home, because one of the most difficult periods faced by home buyers in the initial stages is the bridging of the deposit gap. The Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay),  who is sitting at the table and who was the former shadow Minister for Housing and Construction, realises exactly what I am talking about. The Minister had much to do with the formulation of our policy when we were in Opposition. He is to be congratulated for the work he did in that area. 
I repeat that it is necessary to have some rental accommodation, because there are itinerant residents in all communities. It is necessary for young married people to have somewhere to go in the early years of their married life while they are getting on their feet and saving hard for thenfirst home. But surely rental accommodation must be considered to be only a stop gap measure. Our long term aim must be home ownership for everyone. 
I turn to the housing position in Queensland because I am a little disappointed with the sum of $3 1.01m allocated to Queensland in the Bill. I do not say this as a criticism of the present Government because the Bill, of course, was introduced back in late August by the former Labor Government. The sums in the Bill were set in the Labor Government's Budget. I was disturbed to note that Queensland is to receive only 8.5 per cent of the total amount of $364m for welfare housing. 
It is the biggest cut back in all the States. In addition, Tasmania and Western Australia lost $4m. Queensland in total lost $ 12.8m. One wonders why the Labor Government in framing its Budget saw fit to cut the allocation for welfare housing in respect of Queensland, Tasmania, and Western Australia. The stage was set by the previous Government As I have said, this Bill was originally introduced by  Mr Riordan,  the former Minister for Housing and Construction. Had this Government altered the content of the Bill it would either have had to increase the total quantity of funds or rearrange the amounts in the original legislation. Bearing in mind the present economic climate, which Labor members today see fit to ignore, and the fact that my Government has instituted expenditure cuts, there was only one course open to it; that was to introduce the Bill as it was originally introduced by the previous Labor Government. 
I want to talk a little about the Queensland Housing Commission which like the housing authorities in all the other States is doing a very fine job. Housing authorities throughout Australia are all flooded with requests for houses. When one looks at the number of applications that are being received by these authorities one can see that an inadequate number of houses are being constructed in all States. The Queensland Housing Commission does all of its construction work by private contract, and that is in line with the private enterprise approach of both this Government and the Queensland Government. 
-As the honourable member for Darling Downs reminds me, they get it more cheaply. In other words, by putting the building of homes out to contract the Queensland Government is able in the long run to construct many more homes than it would otherwise. The only work force that the Queensland Housing Commission has is a maintenance gang. All of its capital construction work is carried out by contractors. But the disturbing thing, apart from the backlog that has to be caught up in Queensland, is the fact that many reputable builders who have built up a close association with the Queensland Housing Commission over a period are going to be left without continuity of work. As I said earlier, I cannot understand why the former Government cut so drastically the amount of funds allocated to Queensland. The Queensland Government has seen fit to try to alleviate the situation by providing some funds out of its own Budget, but the backlog at the moment is something like 6500 families with applications before the Commission. I understand that about one-third of those are of fairly high priority. 
I have spoken to the new Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Senator Greenwood)  in relation to amending the current housing agreement. It is a 5 -year agreement and there are 2 aspects of it that I believe should be amended. The first aspect which should be looked at very closely relates to the means test provisions, which I believe are unfair. There are a number of applicants now who do not qualify but who, in the considered opinions of the Housing Ministers in some of the States, should qualify. That point should be considered very closely. The second aspect, and this is a more serious one, is that the States should be able to determine what percentage of the funds they receive should go towards sale and rental accommodation. Obviously the percentage will vary from State to State and I do not know how we can sit here in Canberra and determine exactly what is going to happen in respect of each State. The original agreement provided for a maximum of 30 per cent of the funds to go towards salable homes, except in Tasmania where the maximum was as high as 50 per cent. In keeping with its philosophy on home ownership and its encouragement of home ownership, I hope that this Government will look at the housing agreements and amend them accordingly. 
I want to refer briefly to low interest rates, because they are very attractive to borrowers. In accordance with the housing agreements, the interest rate is 4 per cent to the State housing authorities and 4 1/2 per cent to their home builders accounts. As the honourable member for Hughes said earlier, the fact that a maximum of 534 per cent is charged to borrowers is attractive. That is very important because with welfare housing we are looking in the main to the disadvantaged and low income groups. Despite the comments of some members of the Opposition, a number of members on this side of the House do show a deep concern for these matters. Indeed, the Government as a whole shows a deep concern. Honourable members opposite might dispute that but their statements are not correct. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  referred early in his speech to the needy poor. There is no doubt that quite a number of people in our communities are in the category to which he referred, but let me say that there are many other people who refuse to deprive themselves of some of their comforts and I believe that they should deprive themselves of them. They will not cut out gambling or the luxuries they enjoy in order to save for this very important item- the family home. Because they will not do that they want somebody running to their assistance, and of course they look to the Government. They think that governments have inexhaustible supplies of funds. It does not matter what level of government- local, State or Federal- one looks at; they all need to work to a budget. Of course, we did not see that with the Labor Government but the fact is that this Government does work to a budget. There is always a day of reckoning, and for the Labor Government that day of reckoning came last December. 
I will refer briefly to the problem that exists in Queensland in relation to the building societies and was covered fully by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  There was a disastrous run on the funds of the building societies in Queensland and that has depleted the ready liquidity available for housing in that State. It is a very serious situation and a great blow to home building. Finally might I say that I believe that our family life, when it takes place in a home owned by the family, stands our nation in good stead for the future. 
-I present the first report of the Publications Committee. Copies of the report have been circulated to honourable members in the chamber. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
The Queensland secretary of the Transport Workers' Union,  Mr Arch  Bevis. The article continued: 'If my contention can be proved, and I believe it can, then the Government should reduce the present dole rates,' he said. 
I wish also to quote a passage from the  WestAustralian  attributed to the honourable member for Hindmarsh who was then the Minister for Labour. The headline is: 
'- It is not normally my procedure to refer to the lack of numbers in the House but in a debate as important as this one I believe that it is quite significant to mention it.  (Quorum formed).  I remember an old friend of mine, who was incidentally an Australian Labor Party supporter, saying to me after he had scored a point in a rather tough debate: 'It is an old dog for a hard road and it is footpaths for puppies'. I accept that the illustrious honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is the old dog and that I am the puppy on the footpath. He scored a good point in drawing attention to the state of the House. I was about to make the point that there is so little interest in this debate on the part of the Opposition. I think this is an appalling state of affairs. Most members of the Opposition have now walked out of the chamber again: At no stage were there any more than 7 members of the Opposition present during this debate. 
The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  treats this matter with the utmost sincerity of approach. He places a great deal of importance on this issue. To the best of my knowledge there were no debates on ministerial statements when the Labor Party was in government. If there were any- I cannot recall them- they were surely held on rare occasions. Even in the short time that this Government has been in office we have seen many debates on ministerial statements. I support the statement by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. There has been gross abuse of the payment of unemployment benefits. Of course the objective is to reduce the abuse by tightening the unemployment benefit work test. These abuses are not new. The problem was exacerbated by 3 years of Labor administration. To illustrate that these problems are not new I refer to the front page of the Brisbane  Telegraph  dated Friday 14 February 1975. The headline is: 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What were the monthly payments in unemployment benefits from July 1 970 to February 1 976, inclusive. 
What monthly amounts in part (1) were paid to people who were subsequently found to be ineligible for the benefits. 
How many individuals, giving the monthly figures, were involved in part (2). 
How many successful prosecutions, giving the monthly figures, were entered against people for illegally receiving unemployment benefits during the same period. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that expensive restricted drugs have been obtained by the passing of fraudulent national health prescriptions to chemists in Queensland? If so, have the offenders been apprehended and were many people involved in the racket? Can the Minister advise of the steps being taken to block the loophole in the system and will the unsuspecting pharmacists be compensated for the drugs supplied? 
-I present the Second Report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Of the total accounts submitted for payment by patients under Medibank for the months of (a) November 1975, (b) December 1975 and (c) January 1976, what was the number and the percentage for (i) each State, (ii) the Australian Capital Territory and (iii) the Northern Territory of (A) paid accounts and (B) unpaid accounts submitted. 
-On behalf of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation I present the first report of the Committee on land use pressures on areas of scenic amenity. A limited number of copies of the report is available in the Bills and Papers Office and copies of it have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. Additional copies will be available for general distribution in the near future. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek the leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Do the Government's proposals for Medibank mean that people on middle and higher incomes will be forced out of Medibank and into the private health insurance funds? 
-The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs (  Mr Howard  ) is to be congratulated for bringing the Psychotropic Substances BUI before the Parliament. It is one thing to recognise national conventions; it is another to ratify them officially. As was mentioned by the Opposition spokesman on this subject, the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  this BUI covers only one aspect of the United Nations Convention on Psychotropic Substances but nevertheless it is a step in the right direction. The BUI seeks the approval of Parliament to the ratifying of that Convention. I trust that the remainder of the Convention Will be looked at at some time in the near future. 
Tonight I want to draw the attention of the House to two or three matters relating to drug trafficking and drug abuse in this country. In speaking about the importance of this Bill I particularly want to mention a report produced by a Senate Committee. Probably little is known in this Parliament or indeed in this country about this report on drug trafficking and drug abuse. I believe that the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse produced it after some two or three years of deliberations. It points up the problems that exist in this country. In passing this BUI relating to a particular section of the international convention I believe we are tightening up just one other loophole that exists or could exist. LSD, or lysergic acid diethylamide as it is correctly known, is a drug which, as stated by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Tangney  (Dr Richardson),  can be brought into this country in small containers. It is a very powerful drug, as was mentioned by the previous  speaker  who is a medico. Its ease of concealment means that it is very easy for it to be introduced into this country. 
The report produced by the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse is worthy of the attention of every honourable member. It deals not only with the abuse of drugs that are readily available in this country but also touches on the important aspect of the over-supply of drugs by the medical profession, and this is a real problem. The hard drugs that are mentioned are coming mainly from SouthEast Asia, India, the United States of America and parts of Europe. 
I understand that the Minister wants to get this Bill passed through the House before it adjourns. I have much pleasure in supporting its passage but I want to refer briefly to the excellent work of the men of his Department. In my capacity as  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation I have had some contact with these men. I know of their dedication and of the excellent work they are doing in the drug detection area. I trust that the Minister will give them every encouragement in the future to rid Australia of the scourge of drug trafficking that is so detrimental to the health of an affluent nation such as we have in Australia. 
-I present the Third Report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
-This debate has really degenerated so far as contributions from the Opposition are concerned. Talk about hypocrisy. I think the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has left the chamber now but he is one person of, I understand, something in the vicinity of 70 per cent of Australians who have kept private health insurance fund contributions going since Medibank was introduced. Yet he just stood up here and said that he was going to advise the people of this country and the electors of Hindmarsh to opt out of the private funds and stay with Medibank. I do not think more hypocrisy has been spoken by any member of the Opposition in any debate in this House in the 2 years that I have been here. 
I want to enter this debate and refer to the issue brought forward by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  about public hospitals vis-a-vis private hospitals. I do not think anyone would dispute that in the main the equipment and facilities available in public hospitals are better than those provided in the majority of private hospitals. But there may be among us people who want to go into public hospitals for severe operations that are going to require a great deal of technical equipment that may not be available in the private hospitals. 
Good heavens, hundreds of thousands of Australians are hospitalised in private hospitals, as the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  knows only too well, without serious complaints or ailments and they are very happy to go there. 
-I do not know that he does know. I would like members of the Opposition, not only the four or five in the chamber at the moment, to indicate whether the are insured with a voluntary health organisation. I would say that the majority are so insured, if not fully then at least partially. 
-I would like to see the figures. I believe they would be quite interesting. I want to move on to the Canadian system. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  was the great designer of this Medibank scheme and I would like him to tell us a little more. I wonder why he has not talked about the Canadian rip-off. I ask honourable members to look at this headline which states: 'Billions in Medicaid Ripoffs Can anyone stop it?' 
-No, it is not. This headline is in the  U.S. News and World Report.  The honourable member has missed again, as he missed the boat so frequently when Minister for Social Security and when Treasurer in the previous Government. I will quote part of this article. It says: 
Federal officials estimate the loss in tax-supported healthcare programs runs into the billions, perhaps as much as $ 1 in every $10 spent for medicare and medicaid. That would mean waste of more than 3 billions a year in programs that cost 32.4 billions this year and will approach 40 billions in 1977. 
-The point I am making is that there is nothing free in this world and people have to be kept honest. The voluntary health organisations have to be kept honest- the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in his second reading speech on this Bill mentioned this- and of course also the doctors have to be kept honest. If we look at the figures we see- this is to refute the comments that were made by previous Opposition speakers- in actual fact, that in a full year there will be savings of $8 10m. The rich and the high income groups will be contributing largely to these savings. Contributors to private insurance will contribute $470m and the levy of  2Vi  per cent will raise $3 10m. The savings in administration and costs recovered from workers compensation and third party will amount to something like $30m. I think members of the Opposition fail to realise that the Liberal and National Countries Parties in Government are indeed interested in, and in actual fact have done more for, the lower income and disadvantaged groups than the Opposition did. The biggest subsidy will go to pensioners and the lower income groups. I believe that point ought to be emphasised and re-emphasised. 
I want in the few minutes remaining to me to refer to the medical profession. The honourable member for Maribyrnong and the honourable member for Prospect I hope will agree with the general comments I make and be in sympathy with what I have to say. I hope also that colleague from Western Australia, the medico who interjected, will agree. At the root of most of the evil of the existing Medibank scheme, and indeed in the future scheme, has been and will be the medical profession. I am going to say this at the risk of attracting the wrath of the medical profession. I have had a lot to do with doctors over the years. To begin with, I say in their defence that I have a great admiration for the medical profession. Of course, in the main doctors are decent, honest Australians doing a great service to our community. All of us know that in time of need we call them. It does not matter whether it is the family doctor, the specialist, the ear nose and throat specialist, the pediatrician, the obstetrician or a member of that branch of the medical profession that is providing diagnostic services, we all appreciate exactly what is being done by the profession. Nothing is more important to anybody than his health. Whether a doctor is providing straight health care or is acting, as doctors often do, as a social worker, a comforter of people in a time of stress- indeed in distress- we need doctors, one could say, before the cradle to the grave. 
But having said that and having placed emphasis on the importance of doctors to people-be it for that little old lady of 80 or 85 years who looks forward weekly to the visit from her doctor for her comfort and the repeats of her medicine and so forth and the comfort he brings to her- I want to say that doctors are  not  immortal and they have been largely responsible for a great deal of the rip-off that has occurred under Medibank to date and no doubt they will be responsible for some of it in the future. I do not know what can be done about this. We have heard about peer review committees. I commend the Minister for Health for this. However, I can quote cases- I know there are others who can also quote such cases- of doctors who had incomes somewhere in the vicinty of $25,000 to $30,000 a year pre-Medibank who now have incomes of from $80,000 to $100,000 a year since Medibank began operations. It is all right for the honourable member for Prospect but he knows as well as I do that it is the indiscriminate exploitation within the ranks of the medical profession- I do not include the majority herewhich has caused the problems. I emphasise the point that this does not apply to the majority but it does apply to a lot of doctors. It is to be hoped that the medical profession will take a long hard look at those members who are not doing the right thing by this scheme. 
I return to the question of people who receive the services. We find that members of the public have a tendency to go to their doctors and worry them for drugs and for services that are unwarranted and if their doctors do not give those things to them the patients tend to go to other doctors. But in the final wash up it is the medical profession which in many instances determines the cost to this nation of this important branch of health care. 
I do not think there has been much discussion in this debate in relation to the unions, but I am appalled at the reports of recent days, since the announcement of these important changes to the Medibank scheme, of the attitude of the unions of Australia. Frankly, if we see strike action by the unions over this issue I think it is time for a head-on confrontation with them. I notice the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  looking at me. This is a serious matter. We have seen disruption by unions over trivial matters in the past. Who runs the Government? The report in yesterday's  Australian  was indeed apt, in particular the cartoon which shows the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  asking: 'With unions like this who needs an Opposition?' I sincerely hope that the unions show restraint in this area and we do not see union action over this matter. 
I do not think it unreasonable for members of the Opposition to adopt the approach of 'I told you so' about this legislation. I thank them for doing it ~so graciously. One would wonder whether they have lost their sting. Perhaps if they get a new leader in the near future they will regain the vigour that we know they have. 
-If the honourable member for Port Adelaide would like a personal fitting I will oblige. I want to refer to our approach to this legislation when we were in Opposition. When we were in Opposition we were hopeful of preventing this legislation from proceeding. We adopted this position because we knew of the great escalation of costs involved. I think we ought to recall those debates. We opposed the levy because we opposed the scheme in total. At that stage it was fairly well documented that about 8 per cent of the population was not covered by voluntary health organisations. Indeed, the figure was estimated to be even as low as 4 per cent. That is why the Opposition of the day- we in the Liberal and National Country Parties- did not want to see this legislation proceed. We knew of the dangers in allowing this sort of scheme to come to fruition and we opposed it vigorously. But we are with it today. It is a fact of life. We have recognised that. I just wanted to make that point in answer to the claims by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  that this is in fact mirror legislation of that which he introduced when the Opposition was in government. 
I take up the point that was made previously by the honourable member for Maribyrnong (  Dr Cass).  I think he did it so well that he added considerably to this debate. He mentioned the way people tend to hero worship their local doctortheir family doctor. I can understand this. He is the one to whom they go in times of trouble to themselves or their families. Families get their local doctors out at all hours of the day and night. However, I think we have to look to the controlling of fees. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in his second reading speech makes specific mention of this fact. If the demands of the medical profession proceed as they have in the past obviously something will have to be done. In view of the remarks that have been made by the Minister and members of the Opposition I feel that the medical profession will be on trial from now on. I sincerely hope that it is proven conclusively and strongly to be not guilty, wish to finish these few comments by quoting from the Minister's second reading speech because I believe this is something that should be pursued. It states: 
In the United States of America health insurers have made substantial progress in developing methods of monitoring the usage of services, in co-operation with the medical profession, in order to eliminate unnecessary expenditure and so restrain costs to contributors. In Australia these developments have, so far, been totally neglected. The Government intends that this situation should now change. 
I think that that is one of the most significant sections of the Minister's speech. As I said earlier, I think that the contributions in this area of this debate have been extremely valuable. 
-I present the Fourth Report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Since the production of influenza virus vaccine by Commonwealth Serum Laboratories began, how many doses annually have been (a) produced and (b) exported. 
To what countries or regions throughout the world is the vaccine currently exported. 
Is it the practice to give priority to export orders over local orders; if not, what method is used to determine the proportion supplied in each category. 
How long does it take to produce each batch. 
What is the maximum number of doses that can be produced in one batch with the present facilities. 
When was production of the 1976 vaccine commenced. 
In respect of the 1976 production how many (a) batches and (b) number of doses in each batch have failed, to date. 
What is the production target figure in doses for 1976 and what percentage of this has been achieved to date for ( a ) export and (b) Australian use. 
Is current production all being supplied for distribution through accredited drug wholesalers in the States; if not, what other outlets are being used and what percentage is supplied through drug wholesalers compared with other outlets. 
Of the total 1976 production to date for Australian use, how many doses have been distributed to each State and what was the determining factor in apportioning such amounts. 
Since production began, what has been the (a) annual value of turnover of the vaccine and (b) value of turnover expressed as a percentage of the total Commonwealth Serum Laboratories turnover. 
12) Is Australia the only world producer of this style of vaccine or do other producers engage in the export of their vaccines. 
In view of the non-returnable condition placed on firm orders and bearing in mind that some doctors may not vaccinate after a certain date if stocks of vaccine are unavailable, will recently received and pending receipt stock be returnable or capable of cancellation. 
14) What measures are proposed for future years to eliminate the recurrence of the current shortage of supply situation which has prevailed almost every year since production began. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) In respect of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, where are its outlets or distribution points operating in Australia. 
What are (a) the staff numbers and (b) the operating costs of each. 
What activities are pursued and duties performed by officers in (a) capital cities and (b) other provincial city outlets. 
Is it possible for the operations or part of the operations of some or all of the provincial city outlets to be handled alternatively by wholesale druggists; if so, has consideration been given to closure of some of these outlets or at least to some rationalisation of their operations. 
Are all stocks of serums and vaccines, etc., held at provincial distribution outlets also stocked by wholesale druggists; if not, which ones are held exclusively by Commonwealth Serum Laboratories outlets and would it be possible for these to be stocked by wholesale druggists. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What was (a) the annual cost to the pharmaceutical benefits scheme since the year 1970-71 of the relatively low cost laxative preparations recently removed from the list of pensioner benefits and (b) these figures expressed as a percentage of the total cost of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. 
What was (a) the annual cost to the pharmaceutical benefits scheme since the year 1970-71 of the relatively low cost compound vitamin preparations recently removed from the list of pensioner benefits and (b) these figures expressed as a percentage of the total cost of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. 
What were the principal reasons for the recent removal of the relatively low cost drug pentaerythritol tetranitrate from the list of general pharmaceutical benefit items. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the approximate weekly cost to the Commonwealth Government to maintain a person in receipt of the standard rate pension, giving a breakdown of the major component costs excluding administration. 
What is the approximate weekly cost per person for the administration of (a) the Pensioner Section of the Department of Social Security and (b) all other fringe benefits available to pensioners from the Commonwealth or Commonwealth Statutory Commissions. 

 -Mr Speaker, I think it is appropriate that a member of more recent vintage and certainly one with a less chequered career than yourself and the 6 previous speakers should make a few comments on this occasion. Very pleasant duties such as this do not present themselves very frequently in this House. Today is one such occasion. I, as a back bencher and as the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on Publications, should like to add a few remarks on this occasion when we are honouring the departure of  Mr Bridgman  after long service. I first met  Mr Bridgman  when I came to this House a couple of years ago. Briefings were being carried on for new members and apart from the Chief Librarian,  Mr Bridgman,  as the Principal Parliamentary Reporter, was present. As was stated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  I found him to be very courteous, knowledgeable, pleasant and helpful in every way. 
He was a very industrious worker. After listening to the lengthy list of all those recent strikes throughout this country given by the Minister for 
Transport  (Mr Nixon),  I wondered whether  Mr Bridgman  had ever been on strike in his long term of office. I wonder whether he ever had a 'sickie' as distinct from a genuine illness. My guess is that probably the answer is no. In his 41 years of service here no doubt there would have been some very interesting incidents. I, like the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  would hope that  Mr Bridgman  would reconsider his view and write his memoirs. I have spoken to him about this and I hope that he will reconsider the matter. Too frequently, long and dedicated and meritorious service goes unnoticed and unmentioned, particularly when performed by persons who have held a position such as  Mr Bridgman  held for so many years. 
I wish him a lengthy retirement. I hope that he will come to Queensland and enjoy some of the sun and beautiful climate that we have to offer. I hope that he is spared for many years to do so and to grace the floors and corridors of Parliament House and to mix with the many friends he has made. 
-First of all, I must say that I am surprised that the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  should be criticising and chiding the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh).  One thing that the Labor Party failed to realise when in government was that things have to be done gradually and that the progress that is made in any nation has to be undertaken within the resources of that nation and not, as the Labor Government tried to do, all in a few years. Nobody denies that a lot of the projects that were undertaken were quite worthwhile but progress should have been made more slowly. The Labor Party saw the results of its actions when we went to the people in December 1 975. 
It gives me pleasure to support the 2 members of the Opposition and my colleague, the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite).  In particular I want to make a few comments about the honourable member for Dawson because I was very touched with his knowledge of the subject. Obviously the constituents of Dawson are being extremely well looked after by the honourable member. He obviously has a concern for his constituents. They are well represented. He knows the Proserpine area, as a part of his electorate, extremely well. I congratulate him upon his contribution in this debate. 
The subject of this debate, of course, is not very popular. This is a small Bill, but it is very important to the people in the area concerned. Although it represents a total expenditure of some $936,000, of which the Commonwealth's share is 40 per cent it is important to the people in the township of Proserpine and in the surrounding and adjacent districts. It is interesting to note the history of this project to date because it had its origins, as far as the national Government is concerned, on 13 November 1974 when the former Minister for Northern Development in the Labor Government,  Dr Patterson,  who incidentally happened to be the former member for Dawson, introduced the Bill which provided $120,000 of Commonwealth money. Their money to be matched on a 40-40-20 basis- 40 per cent to be provided by the Commonwealth, 40 per cent by the State of Queensland and 20 per cent by the Proserpine River Trust Fund. So that has meant that the first stage which has now been completed cost $300,000. As was stated by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr 
Keating) this legislation was originally introduced on 30 October 1975 when he was Minister for Northern Australia, but unfortunately was not able to be passed in that session of Parliament due to the double dissolution. So the project has in some respects been slowed down until this Bill was again introduced by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  on 3 June this year. It provides, as has been stated previously, some $374,400 of Commonwealth funds as a non-repayable grant over a period of 4 years. So the total cost of the project is some $ 1 .2 m. 
I want to outline some of the work undertaken in the project and the purpose for such work. It will provide, as has been stated by previous speakers, protection for the town of Proserpine and the very rich adjacent cane fields. It is a plan for flood mitigation which was drawn up to give protection against floods to a frequency of 1 year in every 10 years. I think some explanation is necessary, in case honourable members are not aware of it, of what is meant by the terminology of a frequency of 1 year in so many years. For example, if an area has a flood frequency of 1 year in 10 years it means that a flood would normally be expected to occur once in every 10 year cycle. Unfortunately, we find that a 10-year frequency flood can occur perhaps one day and then another 10-year frequency flood will occur in a week's time, but on an average a 10-year frequency flood will happen once in every 10 years. 
Proserpine, which is situated on the Proserpine River, is in a very low lying area, and one would doubt the original wisdom of the establishment of a township on that site. However, it is a fact of life. Proserpine is a thriving township in a thriving district which needs protection. Much damage is done by severe floods to the town of Proserpine and, of course, to the very rich cane lands in its close vicinity. I think it is very important to mention the benefits that will flow to the town's people, to the shire of Proserpine and to the cane fields nearby. Benefits will flow particularly to the residents of Proserpine in that their very valuable assets- I refer to the infrastructure that is provided in any town or city, such as roads, drainage, kerbing and channelling, parks and gardens, playing fields, water supply and sewerage- are severely damaged by flood waters swirling through the area. So it is important that the levee banks, the channels, the overflows and so forth which are provided for in this work are constructed. 
The Proserpine Shire River Improvement Trust is responsible for the preparation of the plans and specifications for this project. It is in fact an autonomous body. I think it is good to see Commonwealth and State money flow to a trust, a local body which has representation from the Proserpine Shire Council. A responsible body of people administer this trust Of course, it should be borne in mind that the Queensland Irrigation and Water Supply Commission has to vet all plans and keep a close watch on the progress of the work. It is interesting to note also that the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation has offered expert advice on this scheme. 
The main items to be undertaken in this project are outlined in the Schedule to the Bill. Basically they include the construction of levee banks on either side of the Proserpine River to contain the flood waters and the provision of breaks in the levee banks in order to divert some of these flood waters to some of the low lying areas. I think one such area- the honourable member for Dawson would know this- is Lagoon Creek. Having visited the area on a number of occasions I know of the difficulty that exists in relation to this low lying country. There are some roadworks in progress, and some extension work downstream from the town which is referred to as a breakaway channel. It is important work, and I do not think that we should underestimate the value of the project to the area in terms of the protection of private property of ordinary citizens in our electorates whom most of us do not see affected in this way. 
The sugar industry is a very buoyant industry in this country today. It is bringing a great amount of revenue not only to the State of Queensland but also to the country, and many thousands of acres are cleared and prepared for planting in Queensland each year. It is an important industry to Proserpine, and indeed to the whole of the electorate of the honourable member for Dawson. There will be savings of millions of dollars, not only to the local authority but also to individuals in the township and district of Proserpine. The project will also help to reduce the trauma and tension that these people must experience when heavy flood rains fall in the headwaters of the Proserpine River. The project will akron protection for them. There will be flooding from time to time but at least it will be on a much reduced scale. It must be remembered, of course, that floods occur at all hours of the day and night, but these people will receive a certain amount of benefit because the money is being spent and these important works are being carried out. 
I want to say a little about flood mitigation, quite apart from this particular project, because it is an important matter in a number of States in 
Australia- in Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, indeed in some fashion in every State. The devastating floods that occurred in Queensland, particularly in the south-east, on Australia Day 1974- the Minister mentioned this in his second reading speech- cost the people of the State of Queensland, particularly those in the Brisbane area, many lives and many millions of dollars. Severe damage was done in the Gold Coast area in the electorate of the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Robinson),  who is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. One cannot underestimate the value of flood mitigation works in terms of the cost in lives and in dollars, as well as the adverse psychological effects on thousands of people who are subjected to flooding. One has to look at the water conservation angle and the flood mitigation component which so frequently is not added to the tops of dams to allow sufficient protection for the people in the districts downstream. Today water conservation, which is most important to our daily lives, is given top priority. Although it is very important, provision should also be made in all the major dams in our catchment areas to ensure that a sufficient flood mitigation component is built in and that that mitigation component remains and is not allowed to be used as further water storage. 
I want to mention the Wivenhoe Dam because it is so important in the Brisbane area. The dam will bring considerable relief to many thousands of residents of Brisbane and Ipswich. The existing Somerset Dam, when brought into play with the new Wivenhoe Dam, will substantially reduce the flood risk and the frequency of flooding in Brisbane and Ipswich. In January 1974 there was a flood in Brisbane which was of the order of a one year in 50 frequency. With proper control, once the Wivenhoe Dam is constructed that risk may be reduced to one year in 150 frequency. The Wivenhoe Dam is progressing quite well at the moment. About 70 per cent of the land has been acquired, certain road relocations have been undertaken, the design of the dam is well in hand, and I understand that a minor contract has been let for the foundations. It is important to Brisbane and Ipswich that more flood mitigation work be carried out. Incidentally, the Wivenhoe Dam when completed- and I understand it is scheduled for completion in 1983-84-will have cost a total of some $70m. I am led to believe that that cost will be funded entirely from loan funds. It is interesting to note that the water storage capacity of the dam will be 1.14 million megalitres and the flood mitigation component will be 1.4 million megalitres. This, I believe, is quite significant. As I said earlier, it is to be hoped that that flood mitigation component will be allowed to stay for that specific purpose. 
It is interesting also to note that in association with the Wivenhoe Dam there will be what is termed a pump storage hydro scheme. I must congratulate the Co-ordinator-General's Department in Queensland, and in particular some of its dedicated, competent and experienced men led by  Sir Charles  Barton, the CoordinatorGeneral,  Mr Sid  Schubert, the  Deputy  CoordinatorGeneral, and  Mr Don  Young, the Regional Co-ordinator (Southern). Those men head an extremely good team of engineers and designed this pump storage hydro system in association with the Wivenhoe Dam. Briefly, for the information of the House, I add that power from thermal stations that cannot be otherwise used in the off-peak periods is used to pump water from the dam proper to a higher storage area. This water is then used during the day-time period to generate hydro-electricity when the demand is greatest. This does not save any coal, but of course these thermal stations cannot be closed down and there is a period when a deal of power that is generated cannot be used for other purposes, and that is usually in the off-peak or nighttime period. This is an effective way in which we are able to generate more power cheaply for use when the need is greatest. Brisbane is eagerly awaiting the completion of this Wivenhoe Dam, not only from the water storage viewpoint but also, and particularly, as I said earlier, from this flood mitigation viewpoint. 
Finally, I wish to make particular reference to Commonwealth-State relations because the money provided by the Queensland Grant (Proserpine Flood Mitigation) Bill is a section 96 grant, in other words a specific purpose grant. It has to be remembered by the States that under the federalism policy there will be a lessening of these specific purpose grants. In my view the States have to be kept honest in this regard. They should not expect increased untied grants and still more section 96 grants. Too much Canberra bashing goes on these days. The States are playing their own politics. I believe that this federalism policy will keep them honest. I notice that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  who represents the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony),  is nodding his head in approval. There will be a day of reckoning for the States. They will get their share of 33.6 per cent of personal income tax collections. They have then to determine their own priorities. This is terribly important because the Canberra bashing that goes on regardless of which political Party forms the national government is to be deplored. 
The States have the freedom, the autonomy, that they so dearly want and will do anything to preserve. They have the right to choose their own projects and I am not denying them that right, but they will have to stand by their decisions on projects and accept any criticism or odium that might flow as a result of the selection of those projects. They should not go to the people and say: 'We are not getting enough funds from Canberra. ' Let them be honest to their electors. If a project is not included in their priority list and cannot be undertaken, let them go to their electors and explain the situation and not blame the Commonwealth Government for their lack of finance. The States have to stop bleating about not getting sufficient funds from Canberra for this or that project. The State governments have received increased payments in this Budget of some 21 per cent or $643m over the 1975-76 figure. I think that the Treasurer stated this amount represents approximately $89m more than they would have received under the old formula. In addition, the States have had their Loan Council programs increased by some 5 per cent over the allocations for 1975-76. 1 mention this because it is terribly important. This is a special purpose grant for the Proserpine flood mitigation scheme. I wanted to make the point in relation to Commonwealth-State relations. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
BUI read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-I present the Fifth Report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
LOAN BILL (No. 3) 1976 Second Reading 
Debate resumed from 19 August, on motion by  Mr Eric  Robinson: 
That the Bill be now  read  a  second  time. 
-Is the Treasurer aware of reports attributed to the former discredited and infamous Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley -  (Opposition members interjecting) 

 Mr ACTING SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I suggest to the honourable member for Petrie that he reframe his question. 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Speaker.  Is the Treasurer aware of reports attributed to the former Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley - 
I feel compelled in my initial remarks to take up a couple of the points that have been mentioned by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass ). It always amazes me how the Labor Party - 
I hear an interjection from the honourable member for Oxley. He is the official Opposition spokesman on defence in this House. I suggest that we have heard little from him in that regard in recent times. One could perhaps call him the  de facto  shadow Treasurer, the  de facto  shadow Minister for Health and the  de facto  shadow Minister for Social Security, because they seem to be the areas in which he is most interested these days. But I return to the point made by the honourable member for Maribyrnong. He made the assertion that there was a generous donation of $50m towards the reinsurance fund. He keeps telling us that the little people- those little people, incidently that deserted the Australian Labor Party in droves at the December election- in actual fact are subsidising the person who pays for shared hospital accommodation. I remind the honourable member that the bulk of funds for hospital and medical expenditure for 1976-77 will not come from these little people. These are estimates. As the honourable member said in his speech, estimates are always subject to change. But it is interesting to note that the Commonwealth's contribution will still amount to $1,1 20m of the $3,320m estimated expenditure in this area, but that State revenue will contribute something like $840m, that insurance premiums will contribute about $985m, and that the levy payers will contribute something like $375m. So we see that in actual fact the levy payers will contribute by far the least amount. If one cares to examine the Commonwealth revenue figure to ascertain who contributes proportionately the greater percentage, one finds, of course, that it is the person on the higher income who pays the higher taxes. If one looks at State government revenue, no doubt one will find that the higher taxpayer is the higher income earner. Of course, the insurance premiums for the private health fund contribution will also come from the higher income people. 
The honourable member was also critical of the levy payers who took out extra hospital cover in public hospitals. Of course, we have heard the honourable member for Maribyrnong in the past in this House sing the praises of the public hospitals. One cannot deny that the equipment and the services provided in most public hospitals in this country are second to none. But the fact of the matter is that people do want independence. People in this nation are prepared to pay for private hospital cover. They have done so despite the fact that Medibank has been with us. It is a fact that some 70 per cent of Australians have kept going some form of private health insurance. Even if that irks the honourable member for Maribyrnong and the Opposition, it is factual. So once again the honourable member says that the little people will be subsidising. In actual fact the lower income earners will benefit from the subsidy that is provided to people taking out extra hospital cover. 
In his second reading speeches the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  went into some detail to explain the amendments proposed. Insofar as the Bills are concerned, it is my intention to comment only on the major or significant aspects of the proposed changes. The principal thrust of my arguments will be directed to outlining the reasons for the changes, the philosophy that prompted the changes, and to emphasise the fairness of the scales of charges for the services received. 
Probably the most striking features of the Health Insurance Amendment Bill are the provisions dealing with changes relating to payments for pathology services. No one with any knowledge of medicine denies that pathology tests are essential to determine an accurate diagnosis of many ailments. Medical practitioners would be failing their profession and the patient if they did not apply these tests in certain circumstances, and, indeed, the rechecking process to ascertain changing patterns and to update a patient's history demands pathology tests at intervals. Fortunately, a majority of specialist pathologists are honourable in the pursuit of the profession and conduct their practices in a highly ethical fashion. But it is widely known in the medical profession that a number of ruthless operators, often in league with general practitioners or other specialists, are fleecing the Government and the public by conducting a wide range of unnecessary diagnostic tests, occasionally with the general practitioner receiving a kickback from the pathologist. Some of the tests performed are purely mechanical processes carried out by comparatively unskilled staff, yet at considerable expense to the patients, the Government and the health insurance funds. 
It is because of abuses of the system that the limiting changes have been made. It is regrettable that it is necessary to effect changes to any system which results in those in command of the ordering of the services- in this instance the medical profession- being restricted should their better judgment demand otherwise. I am aware that the Minister may direct that the provisions not apply in certain cases but the point I am making is that the actions of those responsible for the changes, those who have abused the system, are deplorable. It is a profession in which one would have hoped that such unscrupulousness was unheard of. Unfortunately that is not the case. 
I am pleased to say that these amendments, and others to be announced in the near future, have been recommended by a pathology services working party. The fact that the medical profession has played such an important role in effecting these changes is indicative of the genuine concern exhibited by the profession as a whole to uphold high ideals and ethical standards. The unethical ones have now partly killed the goose that laid such a golden egg for so many years. It is appalling that some professional people with incomes many times greater than the average would be engaged in dishonest practices. 
The other major provision in the Health Insurance Amendment Bill is in relation to the Commonwealth entering into agreements with the States for hospital services. Commencing on 1 October this year, new agreements which have been determined after consultation with the State governments will put an end to the open ended arrangements entered into by the previous Government and will rightly allow the Commonwealth a say in how its money is being expended. The repeal of schedule 2, which is the Heads of Agreement, and the substitution thereof with a new Heads of Agreement schedule will enable the States to receive 50 per cent of the net operating costs of recognised hospitals, or the amount paid by a State from its own resources towards those costs, whichever amount is the lesser. 
I now want to make a comment in relation to the Health Insurance Commission Bill. This amending legislation will allow the Commission to conduct medical and hospital benefits funds; that is, to establish Medibank Private. Medibank Private, of course, will be a registered organisation and subject to all of the regulations relating to the conduct of medical and hospital private funds as set out in the National Health Act. Existing staff and buildings will be used for the conduct of the operation. The cost of the operation will be carefully apportioned between Medibank and Medibank Private. Medibank Private will have no competitive advantage over other private health funds. Although a statutory body, and therefore normally exempt from taxation, it will be required to meet all costs that the private health funds pay, such as payroll tax, sales tax and stamp duty. The money from these costs will be paid into Consolidated Revenue. The apportionment of costs and the annual financial statements will be scrutinised closely by the Auditor-General. Medibank Private will, indeed must, operate on equal terms with other private health funds. Medibank Private financial statements and annual reports will be tabled in each House of Parliament and therefore will be subject to scrutiny by Parliament. The Health Insurance Commission will be required to operate separate bank accounts from 1 April 1977 in order to separate its Medibank Private operations from its existing operations. An amount of $10m has been provided in Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1976-77 to enable Medibank Private to commence. It is interesting to note that, with the Treasurer's approval, the Commission may borrow moneys for and invest moneys in the credit of its medical and hospital funds. In no sense of the operations of Medibank Private is it intended that the Commission will have an unfair advantage over other private health funds. I think that point should be stressed. 
I turn now to the National Health Amendment Bill. One of the main purposes of this Bill is to provide a government subsidy to registered hospital funds in respect of persons who contribute for intermediate or shared hospital accommodation, in addition to paying the Medibank levy. This will benefit particularly the low to medium income earners- this is the point I made in relation to what the honourable member for Maribrynong  (Dr Cass)  said- and will allow them a choice of their own doctor while in hospital. I think it is important that we look at the reasons for the introduction of the levy. When we were in Opposition we opposed the levy as proposed by the Labor Government. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that the Labor Party when in Government proposed a flat levy of 1.35 per cent of salary. We rejected that because we rejected the total concept of Medibank. We understood and knew at the time that it was costly; that it was a monster that would get out of control. Therefore, we rejected the levy because we rejected the total concept of Medibank. One has only to look at the massive payouts that occur in the United Kingdom and Canada under their schemes, which are similar to Medibank Mark I. 
I think it was quite conservative to suggest that about 92 per cent of people had cover with private health funds. This meant 8 per cent of people were not covered. They included wealthy people, doctors, and other people who for various reasons decided that they did not want to take out health insurance. It also was estimated that 4 per cent of low income earning Australians were not providing themselves with health insurance. If we were to have the scheme over again, my wish certainly would be to have a scheme to cover the 4 per cent of people or the percentage of people who were not able to take out their own private health insurance. The remainder would continue with a private health fund in the way that operated before Medibank Mark I. It is interesting to note that Medibank cost this nation $ 1,400m in 1975-76. It was estimated to cost $2,000m this year. There is no doubt that taxes would have had to be increased or that spending in other areas would have suffered. One could do as the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  did when he was Treasurer of this nation, and let the finances of this country get completely out of hand and have massive deficits. We started out looking at much lower deficits than occurred. 
It should be remembered that nothing is free. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who is at the table, has stated in this House on more than one occasion that there is no such thing as a free lunch and that everything has to be paid for. In Queensland we have a so-called free system of hospitals. This has meant that Queensland has suffered in many other areas. That system has operated for more than 2 decades. One also has to look at the philosophy behind the decision to introduce direct contribution from the people. With this so-called free scheme, there is a tendency for people to say: 'What does it matter? The Government pays'. This means that there is no restraint on the part of the provider of the service and no restraint on the part of the user of the service. Surely people must not be mollycoddled from the cradle to the grave. They have to learn to stand on their own feet and to pay their way. If the cost to the individual is little or nothing, he will seek the service without much concern for the cost to the Government and, of course, the quantity of care increases out of all proportion. People must be made to appreciate the service and to use it only when necessary. Expenditure can be curbed only if people realise what the real costs are. Under this scheme there is an identifiable cost. The members of the public now know that the scheme is costly and that they must share directly in that cost. 
I believe that there is some confusion in the community at the moment, but it is not confusion as to whether people have to pay; it is only confusion concerning the details of the scheme. The Labor Party, in Opposition in this Parliament, has done its utmost to promote confusion in the minds of the people. Confusion existed when Medibank Mark I was being introduced. I venture to say that it will be only a matter of two or three months before there is no confusion. It is interesting to note that certain classes of people are exempt from the Medibank levy or exempt from paying any contribution for health insurance. They are age and invalid pensioners, repatriation beneficiaries, defence personnel, families earning less than $4,300 yearly and single people earning less than $2,605 yearly. All others must pay. It ought to be stressed- I hope that honourable members in their electorates will promulgate this fact- that people who pay the levy do not have to take out private health insurance and that the reverse also applies. There are people in our community who believe that they have to pay for private health insurance and pay the Medibank levy. 
-They are being misled by the socialists, as my colleague the honourable member for Bendigo says. People can elect, if they wish, to pay the levy or to join a private health fund. .  Mr Hunt-  They have to make up their minds before 1 October. 
-They have to make up their minds before 1 October, as the Minister for Health has just stated. I submit that Medibank Mark I is one of the worst socialist schemes that we have ever had introduced in this country. It promotes the attitude: 'Big Brother Government will look after me and, what is more, I do not have to pay'. 
-The honourable member for Prospect keeps interjecting. The fact is that people now know that they have to pay for their health insurance; they now know exactly where the costs are. The costs are being identified for them. 
In the couple of minutes that remain to me, I would like to take up a point that the master architect of Medibank Mark I, the honourable member for Oxley, who is to speak in this debate, had to say about reserves. For some time he and the Labor Party, in Government and in Opposition, have been critical of the reserves that have been built up. I quote the following from a booklet entitled,  Towards a New Australia,  containing an article attributed to the honourable member for Oxley and entitled  New Horizons in Health and Welfare Services: 
These figures show an enormous increase in reserves, in each case at a faster rate than the provision of benefit payments. That is, dead money. I am sure you will be interested to know that the funds' reserves stand at an all-time record for hospital and medical insurance of $ 1 17m. 
It is staggering to note in the medical side of the scheme that reserves increased at almost twice the rate of benefits to contributors. 
The point I make is that the honourable member for Oxley and other members of his Party have been critical of the reserves that have been built up. We note now that almost daily there are articles in our newspapers in which they are being critical of the reserves being used. They say that the private health funds are undercutting Medibank in order to destroy it. Yet the reason, I gather, that the rates of some of the funds will be lower than Medibank is that they will be using up some of their reserves. 
-That is good, as the Minister has said. I would hope that the honourable member for Oxley would withdraw those types of remarks because in actual fact the funds are now doing what he has been advocating for some time. The same sort of remarks have been attributed to the  de facto  parliamentary leader of the Labor Party,  Mr R.  J. Hawke, and they also have been widely reported in the Press. I just want to quote this: 
The Funds would 'kick the guts out of Medibank' by undercutting,  Mr Hawke  said. 
Medibank was made to issue its rates before the private funds so they could have the opportunity to undercut. 
What utter nonsense we have from  Mr Hawke  on this issue. 
-Earlier today we heard an excellent speech from the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon),  who spoke about the Government's federalism policy and in particular addressed his remarks to the subject of local government. Likewise I want to talk tonight about local government and the Government's federalism policy. 
With the implementation of Stage 1 of the federalism policy the States are to receive 33.6 per cent of the personal income tax collected. This amounts to some $3,7 16m, which represents an increase of 2 1 per cent or $643m. It has been estimated that the States will receive some $89m more than they would have received under the old formula. Loan Council funds are to increase by 5 per cent to some $ 1,356m. Specific purpose payments to the States under the Labor Government increased at a rapid rate. It is interesting to note that in 1974-75 the increase was 92 per cent and that in 1975-76 it amounted to 34 per cent. This year the increase will be 9 per cent. In total, payments to the States and local government will increase by 13 per cent and will amount to in excess of $9,000m. 
The States will receive greater amounts in untied grants. It will be up to them to decide their own priorities and their own programs. I think it should be emphasised to the House that the States cannot have their cake and eat it too. They cannot get increased revenue from personal income tax revenue sharing and still expect substantial increases in the tied grants or section 96 grants as we know them. Let me quote an example. 
The Queensland Minister for Local Government and Main Roads,  Mr Hinze,  has been bleating about a reduction in sewerage funds. It is true that expenditure under the national sewerage program has been reduced. In Queensland the figure has dropped from $ 14m to $ 1.3 m- a reduction of $ 12.7m. But I want to point out that a good portion of the money that has gone to local authorities has been repayable at the bond rate of interest. What  Mr Hinze  has omitted to tell the people is that the Grants Commission's allocation of funds to the States has increased by 75 per cent from $80m to $ 140m and that it is all untied money and all non-repayable money. Queensland's share has increased from $ 13.8m to $24.2m- a net gain of $10.4m- none of which has to be repaid and none of which is directed to any specific purpose. 
Recent reports have stated that $4m is needed this financial year for the Brisbane City Council's sewage treatment works at Luggage Point near the mouth of the Brisbane River. Brisbane, with two-fifths of the State's population, can expect several million dollars in Grants Commission money. Application of the formula of 30 per cent on a population basis and 70 per cent on a needs basis means that the Brisbane City Council's share should approach $10m. If the increase were applied to the sewage treatment works it would mean that the amount required for that works had been more than covered. 
The State governments must be honest with their electors and inform them of the priority given to projects and not use the Commonwealth Government as a whipping-boy to cover up for their lack of honesty. It is easy to determine one 's priorities and then, when political pressure is applied as to why this project or that project is not being proceeded with, to claim that the Commonwealth Government will not provide adequate funds for it to be done. The day of reckoning has arrived for the States. They must tell their electors the truth and accept any odium that flows from their doing so. On the one hand the States are claiming that they are not receiving sufficient funds from the Commonwealth and on the other hand some are abolishing or contemplating the abolition of certain State taxes. I am no going to debate the merits or demerits of the taxes proposed to be abolished, but the States should be made aware that they cannot expect the Commonwealth Government to pick up the tab for their reduced revenue. 
I turn now to the subject of local government. I want to pass a few comments about local government's responsibilities and the assistance that it receives from the States. Now that the local authorities are to receive a regular share of personal income tax revenue it must not be assumed by them that they can shirk their responsibilities insofar as rate revenue is concerned and substitute in part their rate collections with the money received from the Commonwealth. Local government must carefully calculate the funds that it is to receive from traditional sources and ensure that its own revenue sources keep pace with inflation. No new moneys received must be considered to be in lieu of local government's capacity to source funds. Local government must rid itself of the Cinderella syndrome or the child of the States syndrome that it has attached to itself in past decades. It has a great deal of autonomy. It is carrying out vital functions of government. Therefore it must look upon itself as being mature, responsible and a vibrant arm of the 3- tiered system of government. 
Many councils, large and small, have not levied rates and charges at an adequate level in past years. Some have not provided the services that their neighbouring councils have provided and, as a result, have been able to keep rating down. Now they are faced with huge rate increases to bring their residents to an equal standard of living. The provision of sewerage facilities in my State of Queensland is a prime example. Those councils that forged ahead with sewering their cities and towns ten or fifteen years ago have an annual rate to cover their operations and repay interest and redemption on capital of perhaps $40 to $60. Tardy councils that are commencing schemes today are faced with annual rates per tenement of $ 100 to $ 120. 
Whereas the local authorities must be kept honest and keep up their level of rating, they face an even bigger task maintaining their present level of assistance from the greedy States. It is incumbent upon the States to ensure that the levels of financial assistance to local authorities are not diminished now that they are sharing revenue with the Commonwealth. There will be a greater tendency for the States to say to the local authorities: 'You are now on your own'. That is unacceptable to local government. It is my tip that local government is in for a torrid time if it does no exercise all the political influence and muscle it can muster on the States. I understand that there are already rumblings in some States that the levels of subsidies are to be reviewed. 
An examination of Table 99 on page 123 of Budget Paper No. 7, which is a summary of the Commonwealth Government's payments to or for local government authorities, shows that if the $94m for the Regional Employment and Development scheme were removed from last year's figures, local government would be receiving an increase of $15m from $180m to $195m. In view of the fact that I have mentioned the RED scheme I should point out to the House that this scheme was abolished by the Labor Government. In fact, the Hayden Budget provided some $135m to finalise projects that had been commenced or were in the pipeline, but no new projects were to be commenced in the 1975-76 financial year. It was appallingly administered. When the Liberal Party came to power and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  took over the responsibility, he was faced with one tremendous mess that the Labor Government had got the RED scheme into in its period of office. 
Finally, I believe the Budget is a responsible Budget, coming in difficult times after 3 years of disastrous Labor rule. All taxes are iniquitous in the eyes of the people. The public wants taxes reduced or abolished on the one hand, but on the other hand it expects expenditure to be maintained or, preferably, increased. Indeed, the people expect the impossible. 
-I present the sixth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No. 1) 1976-77 Second Reading (Budget Debate) 
Debate resumed. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Recent reports attributed to Queensland Premier Bjelke-Petersen and Western Australian mining magnate Lang Hancock outline proposals for a rail link from Mount Isa to Western Australia. As such a rail link would traverse Commonwealth territory, has the Government been informed officially of the proposal? If so, have any detailed discussions taken place with the Government and has any request been made for the Commonwealth Government's financial participation in the scheme? 
-In joining in this debate I want, first of all, to take up one point that was made by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  He mentioned that social welfare benefits in this country were the rights of certain people. The question that I think that any government has to ask itself is just how far we go with these rights. I would agree with the honourable member's comment that in an affluent society we do have a responsibility to look after the disadvantaged, the aged, the sick and the underprivileged. I think it is also incumbent on any society, regardless of whether it is affluent or not, to sharpen up in the provision of its social welfare benefits, because otherwise we are in danger of creating a welfare state. I think Australia has slipped in that direction during the last five or six to ten years. We must ask ourselves the question: Are we creating disadvantaged people? Are we encouraging people to be less industrious? 
I want to look particularly today in speaking to the Social Welfare Commission (Repeal) Bill at the role of the Commission and its association with government and also its association with the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  I want also to look at where the Social Welfare Commission went wrong. The honourable member for Maribyrnong mentioned some of the background to the Social Welfare Commission. He said that it was established in 1973 by the Labor Government and that is correct. It was a statutory body. Some of its activities in the social welfare context were referred to the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. A little later I would like to refer to the Coombs Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration in the context of the Social Welfare Commission. 
I remind the House that it was the decision of the Labor Government to abolish the Social Welfare Commission. That decision was announced by the then Prime Minister, the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  on 5 June 1975. The establishment of the Commission was in line with the Labor Party's admirable policy of having available to the Public Service alternative sources of information. I say it was an admirable policy because I believe it is necessary for every government to look on occasions outside the Public Service and, outside the capabilities of its own members for people to provide information. So other commissions were established, such as the Hospitals and Health Services Commission, the Children's Commission, the Cities Commission. A great deal was expected of commissions and other statutory authorities as  ad hoc  committees. The Leader of the Opposition placed great emphasis on these sorts of bodies in his 1972 policy speech. In that speech he made reference to the Preschool Commission, the Schools Commission and the Fuel and Energy Commission. In that policy speech he said: 
These bodies will not merely be exercises in more efficient, more expert administration of public affairs. They will be an expression of our determination to keep the public involved in the public debate on the great national affairs and the great national decisions. 
Importantly, they also represent the externalisation of a great fear in the minds of many Labor Party people- the fear that because the Public Service had been under a LiberalNational Country Party government for so long there could be some conspiracy by public servants to impede a Labor government at every turn. This should not be underestimated in understanding the rationalisation of establishing bodies such as the Social Welfare Commission. Significantly, although the Leader of the Opposition mentioned the Australian Assistance Plan which was generally associated with the Social Welfare Commission, he made no mention of the Commission at that stage. The Leader of the Opposition's rationalisation for utilising commissions is best summed up in his statement on the establishment of the Children's Commission, when he said: 
There were not enough qualified people in the Public Service to provide such advice. 
The present Leader of the Opposition is reported in the  Australian  of 1 November 1974 as having said this: 
The whole idea of the commissions is to get expert people to express their views publicly and make a report to the Government, which publishes it. 
It should be noted also that the Social Welfare Commission was established as a statutory body, and it must be differentiated from the numerous other advisory committees or task forces. 
I turn now to the Social Welfare Commission Act 1973 which outlines the basic functions of the Commission. I shall summarise those functions by citing a few of them. They are as follows: 
1 ) To ascertain the social welfare needs of the community and report these to the Minister. 
To make recommendations for the establishment of a nationally integrated social welfare plan including: 
Priorities of programs 
Devolution and regionalisation of programs 
Wider public participation 
Co-ordination of welfare activities- State, local, voluntary 
Recommendations to prevent duplication. 
It is significant to note in the Social Welfare Commission report covering the period to 30 June 197S that the Commission chairman, Marie Coleman, said at page 10: 
Traditionally, the function of a statutory body has been specifically service-delivery with policy formulation remaining with the Minister and Department. The Commission is one of a number of statutory bodies set up under both Liberal and Labor governments which have policy functions. Examples of this new type are the Universities Commission, the Schools Commission and the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. 
However, unlike the Universities Commission and the Schools Commission, the Social Welfare Commission has only advisory powers and cannot exercise executive powers. The Social Welfare Commission was directly responsible to the Minister for Social Security. On page 13 of the Commission's report is set out quite adequately the philosophy of the Commission. The report reads: ... the Social Welfare Commission regards social welfare as a basic integrated institution in society ensuring not only the provision to all of primary material needs, but also genuine opportunities for social and cultural satisfaction. 
Social policy is therefore intended to bring about improvement in the standard and quality of life for all individuals and to ensure a redistribution of resources within the society. 
I think the key words are 'a redistribution of resources within the society.' If one looks at the Commission and the then Federal Labor Government, I think it will be seen that philosophically it was in line with the Labor Party's policy. I think it is quite pertinent to quote from page 21 of the report of the Social Welfare Commission: 
The Australian Government has made a considerable number of moves to improve its income support to disadvantaged groups and to low income earners generally, and has initiated inquiries to recommend further action within the next 12 months. 
It talks then about amending the income tax scale and continues: 
The Government has attempted to affect wages and salaries, the main instrument of income distribution . . . 
It states also: 
Considerable increases in pensions and benefits have been made in the last 12 months so that at the time of the last increase the basic pension was very close to the target of 25 per cent of average earnings. 
I want to point out now to the House that that target of the Labor Government did change from 25 per cent of average earnings in relation to the pension rate, to be in line with the present Government's policy of increasing the pension rate twice a year in accordance with movements in the consumer price index. 
If one looks at the reasons for the abolition of the Commission I think they can be pin-pointed to two main areas: Firstly, the Minister for Social Security may have found the Social Welfare Commission dysfunctional and duplicating work done by the Minister's department, and may have found its reports contributing little to the area of social welfare. Indeed, the Commission instead of rationalising social welfare, only contributed further to the fragmented nature of social welfare. Although the Commission talked a great deal about regionalisation of social welfare, it was the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration which conducted practical experiments into this procedure, which were done at Ringwood, Victoria. It was not the Social Welfare Commission which did them. Secondly, the abolition of the Commission may  be seen in the broad context of  Mr Whitlam  's realisation that the usefulness of such bodies did not measure up to original expectation. 
I want to turn to the report of the Coombs Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. I believe that two or three paragraphs I shall quote bear out that point. The report reads: 
Governments have been aware of these problems for years, and a series of partial inquiries has been conducted here and overseas to illuminate them. The Whitlam Government, for instance, set up a series of statutory commissions which it hoped would progressively invoke order in this confusion. Thus, the Social Welfare Commission received a charter which apparently was intended to give it authority to review the whole field of welfare programs and to advise on their rationalisation both from the point of view of policy content and administration. Others, such as the Children's Commission, were to be concerned with the impact of the programs on an important section of the community. The work of these agencies, as well as that of other more  ad hoc  bodies of inquiry, has thrown valuable light on parts of the problems. However, before the Whitlam Government came to an end it had become less optimistic about statutory commissions as effective instruments of change. 
Certainly, too much had been expected of them. They were intended not merely to evolve a general foundation for a multiplicity of programs, bringing greater understanding and expertise to the work of the bureaucracy, but also to be the instruments of greater participation by non-government experts, by other levels of government, by voluntary agencies and by the clientele itself. In some instances the statutory commission was itself to be involved in administration, sometimes replacing, sometimes paralleling bodies already in existence. 
Furthermore, it seems that on occasions at least, the statutory commissions failed to establish satisfactory working relations with the existing bureaucracies. How far this was due to their failure to see this relationship as critical to their work and their future, and how far to passive, possibly active, resistance to their ideas and ambitions, is impossible to judge, and indeed judgment would be purposeless. 
The Commission's response to the announcement of the abolition was that it believed there still ought to be an independent and efficient apparatus to assist in the development of social policies. It proposed an amalgamation of the Social Welfare Commission and the Health Services Commission. 
I now go back to 1965 when the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, made a statement in this House on the Australian economy. There had been a committee set up called the Vernon Committee of Economic Inquiry. I want to quote part of a speech made on 2 1 September 1 965, reported in  Hansard  at page 1079, because the problem of commissions of inquiry and commissions to assist governments is obviously not a new one. This will be clearly understood from this speech by  Sir Robert  Menzies. He said: 
Secondly, it follows that, when it deals with statistical or technical or objectively economic matters, this report is entitled to and will be studied with profound respect. My own 
Government will derive great value and assistance from it. But where the report makes what will doubtless be regarded as advices on political policies, such advices must be regarded, in the well-known legal phrase, as obiter dicta, and not as possessing some binding authority. No government, from whatever side of the House it may come, and indeed no parliament, can abdicate its own authority and responsibility for national policy. It will welcome the assistance of experts, but its tasks will take it far beyond the limits of economic expertise. Political policy in a democratic community does not depend upon purely economic considerations. 
I think that the quotation from  Sir Robert  Menzies' speech is very pertinent to this debate today for the repeal of the Social Welfare Commission Act. 
I conclude by saying, as I commenced, with comments in relation to governments employing experts. Politicians in the final run must make the decisions. It is important that we have staff at all levels of government. It is important that ministers and governments sift the information that is put before them by these experts. But it is the Minister and government that finally make the decision. I think we must bear this in mind always in the consideration of advice that comes to governments from any outside body that is set up. 
-I never cease to be amazed, when I listen to the speeches of Opposition members in the Budget debate, at how they always criticise the Government for making expenditure cuts. It is my experience that most people in this nation agree that there should be expenditure cuts. Yet, when one talks to them about their interest area they say: 'Oh, but please do not cut the funds in that area; cut them elswhere but not in my interest area'. This Government has followed the disastrous government that we saw in power for 3 years. That government plunged this nation into great debt. It could not budget and, as I say, plunged the nation into debt. Thus, I fail to understand how Opposition members can rise in this debate and suggest to this Government how to run the finances of the nation. In speaking to these setimates which deal with social security, welfare and health, I want to remind the Committee and the people of the nation that of the $24,32 lm estimated total Budget outlay, social security and welfare will account for $6, 187m or 25 per cent of the amount. If we add to that the health budget of $2,909m or 12 per cent, we find that in total these amounts represent some 37 per cent of the total outlays or a little over $9,000m. That is a tremendous amount of money for any nation to spend on social welfare and health, particularly when we compare it with the education expenditure of $2, 204m and the defence expenditure of $2, 178m both of which represent approximately 9.6 per cent of the gross national product. 
I want to direct attention to the multitude of programs that are undertaken by the Commonwealth through the States. We tend to forget these. Some are small programs and some are large programs. Firstly, I will deal with school dental services. This financial year, $2 5. 4m is being provided to the States, this amount representing an increase of $lm over the amount provided last financial year. These services will be provided to all primary school children. I have made an inspection of one of these clinics in my electorate of Petrie and I must say that they are exremely good installations. What is not recognised by the States- I take them to task for this- is the fact that 90 per cent of the capital cost of these clinics is being provided by the Commonwealth, in addition to 90 per cent of the operating costs of training facilities and 65 per cent of the actual operating costs of the clinics. I am appalled when I see that in many cases little or no recognition is given by the States to the Commonwealth for providing these funds. I wonder how many of the people who go to these centres know that they are Commonwealth funded? I wonder how many children or parents of children who receive attention at these clinics realise that the bulk of the funds is provided by the Commonwealth. Of course, what is worse is that when the centres are opened by State Ministers, they frequently and conveniently omit to tell the people that the Commonwealth is funding these projects. In short, the States are hiding the fact that the Commonwealth is generously funding such projects. They want to hog all the kudos for themselves. 
I direct my remarks also to community health centres. The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  who preceded me in the debate mentioned community health centres. This year, $70. 8m is being provided, an increase of $ 16.2m over the 1975-76 figure. I wonder whether the people who are treated in these centres know that they are Commonwealth funded. I wonder whether the disabled or aged person who is treated and given advice by the social worker from one of these centres knows that these projects are funded by the Commonwealth? The States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act that came into force in 1974 provided an amount of $30m over a period of 3 years. In this financial year, an amount of $ 10.8m remains for expenditure at the end of the 3-year period. These grants go towards the provision of self-contained dwellings for pensioners, units that are rented out at a reasonable cost. Once again, these are funded largely from the Commonwealth. I wonder whether, when the State governments make announcements in the Press about these schemes, they give due recognition to the Commonwealth for the provision of these funds. In my electorate of Petrie there are a number of these aged persons 'units. 
In addition, there are the States Grants (Home Care) Act of 1969 and the States (Paramedical Services) Act of 1969 which provide services for aged persons and senior citizens centres on a $2 for $1 subsidy basis with the States. I wonder whether the State governments and the Ministers give recognition to the Commonwealth when these projects are being announced. I can only say to the Committee that in my State of Queensland little or no kudos goes to the Commonwealth when these projects are being announced or opened by State Ministers. The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jul!)  is extremely interested in a public nursing home at Wynnum in his electorate. Recently there was an announcement in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail-l  think on 3 September this year- that a contract was to be let for a further stage in the construction of this nursing home. An amount of $652,000 is being provided by the Commonwealth. Of course, there was no mention in the article of the Commonwealth government providing those funds. 
I realise that we are debating the health and social welfare areas. But this happens in all areas in which State grants or section 96 grants are provided. It is the people's money and I do not want to haggle over the matter of from where it comes. The fact is that the Commonwealth is providing these valuable funds to the States . The States have a great propensity to erect edifices to themselves and usually to adorn them with plaques. It is my guess that, as has happened in Queensland, little or no recognition is given to the Federal members. I urge my Federal colleagues to monitor carefully these programs which are funded by the Commonwealth and demand that due recognition is given to that fact. Some State Ministers even see fit to exclude Federal members from the official parties when some of these projects are being opened. I find this extremely embarrassing. It is rude on the part of the States. Indeed, it shows a lack of respect, a lack of protocol and a lack of common courtesy. It is my view that Federal members represent people. Regardless of whether they be Labor State governments or Liberal-National Country Party State governments or whether the member concerned happens to come from this side of the chamber or the other, he should be entitled to due recognition. 
I cite to the Committee an example which took place recently in my electorate and which was followed a few weeks later by a similar example. The Minister for Local Government and Main Roads opened a section of freeway, followed by another section of roadway, almost completely funded with Commonwealth funds. He did not extend the courtesy of inviting me to join the official party. I believe that this is the sort of thing that is occurring in most States. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  told me of a case in which a school building funded completely from the Commonwealth was to be opened in his electorate. Because it was erected on State government ground, he was unable to perform the official opening. These sorts of things should not be condoned by any government. I suggest to honourable members that although the Canberra bashing will continue probably unabated and unrestrained, they take careful note of all of these programs in the Budget for which Commonwealth funds are provided and ensure that they- the members- are included in the official parties and that the Commonwealth is given due recognition when these projects are being opened or announced. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice 
1 ) Is a Soviet shipping line, known as FESCO, transporting Queensland beef to Japan. 
If so, (a) are FESCO's shipping charges cheaper than its competitors and (b) has its operations affected the economic viability of Australian shipping companies. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Are there any arrangements whereby money raised by the Federal Government from excise duty on petrol is supposed to be returned to the State Governments for the construction of roads. 
If not, what is his attitude to claims that these arrangements should apply. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Queensland Government ever applied to the Federal Government for the construction of an extra 2 traffic lanes to augment the existing Hornibrook Viaduct linking the City of Redcliffe with the Brisbane suburb of Brighton. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice: 
In view of the 75 per cent increase in Federal Government aid to local government via State Governments, what machinery has been, or is intended to be, established by each State for the distribution of this money to the various local government bodies in the State. 
I am astounded that such an experienced parliamentarian and politician as the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  would leave himself so open to criticism in the manner in which he has moved the amendment that is before the House. The fact that the honourable member for Oxley was a former Treasurer and a former Minister for Social Security indicates to me that all of these matters that he raises in this amendment should have, indeed if he were genuine in his approach, could have been implemented when he was in government. Let us not forget that the Labor Government was in office for 3 years. Yet I do not recall any of these matters having been dealt with when the honourable member for Oxley was Treasurer of the then Whitlam Labor Government. We may well have added perhaps an amendment that the Government deplores the previous Government and the previous Treasurer and former Minister for Social Security in not implementing measures outlined in the amendment of the honourable member for Oxley. Indeed we might have had another amendment deploring the previous Government's failure to hold the Budget deficit to the figure budgeted for, thereby plunging the nation into a tremendous debt. We hear this fine talk from the former Treasurer about what this Government should be doing at the moment. Let us look at his record and the track record of the Government of which he was a part. The deficit that was budgeted for in 1974-75 was $570m- not an unusually large deficit. The Whitlam Labor Government year finished up with a deficit of $2,567m. These figures are factual. 
-Well, the mere fact that the Government of the day has budgeted for a deficit of $2.6 billion is largely a result of the bungling of the previous Administration. Let me go a little further. The deficit that was budgeted for in the year that the honourable member for Oxley was Treasurer was $2,798m. When the Fraser Government took office in December last this deficit was heading for a figure in the vicinity of $4.7 billion. It could not have been held anywhere near the budgeted figure of $2.8 billion. It was only with careful planning and restraint that we showed in the remaining months of government that we were able to reduce this deficit to $3.5 billion. I repeat: These are factual figures. The honourable member for Oxley should be the last person to stand in this House and condemn or criticise this Government. 
The honourable member for Oxley has been misleading this House. I should just like to quote some of the things that he has said because he stated in his speech that it was Australian Labor Party policy that pensions be maintained at 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. It may well have been Labor Party policy at one stage but I shall quote from the 1975-76 Budget Speech of the honourable member for Oxley. I ask honourable members to remember that he stated that the Australian Labor Party's policy was to maintain pensions at 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. He said: 
The standard rate of social service pensions and benefits will be increased in the Spring of 197S by the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index between the December quarter 1974 and the June quarter 197S; and again in the Autumn of 1 976 by the increase in the Consumer Price Index between the June and December quarters of 1 975. 
That quote is from the Budget Speech of the honourable member for Oxley when he was Treasurer in the Whitlam Labor Government. Therefore the Labor Party and the Labor Government had the same policy as we have today and that is, to increase pensions in accordance with movements in the consumer price index. Let us look a little bit further at what he has had to say in relation to this amendment when he talks about immediate and automatic increases. Automatic increases were in my Government's policy but not immediate increases. The honourable member for Oxley has put forward a rather spurious argument. 
I also wish to take up a point that was made by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  He talked about no unemployment benefit being paid to school leavers until February of next year. I suggest to the honourable member that it is the duty of parents to look after their children once they leave school. Surely to goodness they cannot expect to be rid of the responsibility of their off-spring just because the school year has ended. I would have thought that it would have been the wish of every parent- it surely is in my own case- to look after his children immediately they leave school, and indeed, for as long as is necessary until such time as they find their feet. Who would suggest that any parent should discard a child immediately that child has finished his or her education? Perhaps the honourable member for Prospect would be a party to that sort of thing, but certainly I would not. Enough of the remarks of the Opposition. 
These Bills abound with initiatives of the Fraser Government. I want to talk about some of them. I do not want to waste any more of my time dealing with the unimportant matters that have been raised by the Opposition. I want to look at pension increases and at the increases that flow on to unemployment and sickness benefit recipients. These are automatic adjustments despite, as I said earlier, what is being claimed by the Opposition. The adjustments are automatically made in accordance with movements in the consumer price index. The single rate pension is up $2.25 to $43.50 a week and the married rate pension is up $4 to $72.50. These increases will be payable from 1 1 November next. Unemployment and sickness benefits will increase by the same amount except for recipients who are under the age of eighteen. 
Let me look at what the honourable member for Oxley had to say in the Budget Speech he made when Treasurer in relation to those people under 18 years of age. He said: 
There will be no change in the rate of unemployment or sickness benefit payable to persons under 1 8 years of age. 
That was a move made by the Whitlam Labor Government when the honourable member for Oxley was Treasurer in this House. Surely we must provide incentives for young people to work, to pay taxes, fares, and a Medibank levy or voluntary health insurance fund payments. A person in the 16 to 18-years bracket in receipt of payment for services rendered would be not much better off than someone receiving a single rate benefit of $43.50 a week if the benefit were to be increased from the present $36. 
I want to look at the total outlays from the Lynch Budget in the area of health and social security. It is interesting to note that some 25 per cent of total outlays go to social security and welfare. The amount is about $6. 1 billion and that of course does not contain the $2.9 billion or 12 per cent of Budget outlays that is the responsibility of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  Something like 37 per cent or $9 billion of a total Budget outlay of $24.3 billion- a lot of money- is spent in the area of social security, welfare and health. These adjustments to pensions and unemployment and sickness benefits will be automatic. No legislation will be required for the adjustments in future. They will occur in May and November; in May as a result of movements in the September and December quarters in accordance with consumer price index movements; and in November in accordance with March and June quarter movements. This is a tremendous breakthrough for these low income and disadvantaged people. It is security for pensioners that has not been known in this country before. Of course there is inbuilt protection for the pensioners in cases where the consumer price index may drop. Who knows, in the future it may well drop; but this will not mean a reduction in pensions. 
I want to talk a little about the new income test for pension entitlements. I believe this is another extremely important initiative of the Fraser Government. The test will be operational from 25 November this year. Previously people who were thrifty, people who decided that they did not want to live off the Government as they got on in years and who were unable to fulfil job opportunities, were penalised. Consequently vast numbers of people in our community decided that they would sell their assets. How many honourable members can recall people coming to them and saying that they had better sell such and such and go for a trip, that they had better spend their money so that they could become eligible for the pension? We have now removed the necessity for these people to do so. All governments should be committed to removing anomalies. Firstly, the anomaly has to be recognised. Secondly, a plan has to be put into operation for its removal. Rectifying anomalies is usually a costly process and they cannot always be removed in a short time. 
Let us look at an example of a person or a married couple who meet the age criteria for receipt of a pension. They may have an asset in property, perhaps of $100,000. It may be a cattle property or a grazing property that they cannot realise on. It may be a piece of vacant land, the value of which has dropped. The market at present is depressed and the people cannot sell or, if they did sell, they would lose a great portion of their capital. The income from the property may be nil or, perhaps, let us say, $50 a week. These people cannot receive a pension under the present system because of the high value of their assets. Yet they get little or no return from that asset. At the moment one could well ask the question: How do they live? Many people today are finding it very difficult to live because they have assets that are not earning them any appreciable income. They are finding it very difficult even to exist. The initiative of the Government with its new income test will allow these people to receive a pension. 
Let us look, for example, at 3 pensioner couples. Example A, we will assume, is a married couple living in their own home which is valued at $50,000. They have no other assets. They will receive the full pension of $72.50 a week and of course will receive the fringe benefits that go with it. The fringe benefits will cost the Government many dollars a week in the case of a married couple. Let us look at another pensioner couple. We will call them pensioner couple B. They live in their own home which is valued at about $20,000. They have another $30,000 invested at 10 per cent. They have an income of $3,000 a year or approximately $60 a week. Their pension would be about $60 a week. They would receive no fringe benefits. They would be forced to pay a Medibank levy or to take our private health insurance fund cover. Let us now look at pensioner couple C. Let us assume that they are in rental accommodation. They may pay $40 a week. They have their $50,000 nest egg invested at 10 per cent and have an income of some $5,000 a year or $100 a week. They would receive a pension of approximately $40 a week but would receive no fringe benefits. They also would have to join Medibank or a private health insurance fund. The 3 examples I have given show that the couples concerned are placed on a fairly equitable basis. Their assets are similar but of course they have decided to have their assets in different forms. One couple's only assets are their home, personal effects and perhaps a car- a total value of $50,000. Another couple lives in rented accommodation and the other in a cheaper home with the remainder of the $50,000 invested. We find that their assets are the same yet the anomalies which previously existed have been largely removed. 
I want to look a little further at the income test. A study of the changes made shows that no fringe benefits apply when the weekly income of a single person exceeds $33 and in the case of a married couple $57.50. If we look at the amounts that can be earned without interfering with the full pension rate we find that the single person can now receive up to $107 a week and still retain a small pension and a married couple can receive up to $ 179.50 and still retain a small pension but, once again, without receiving fringe benefits. The rate of pension diminishes but does not cut out until those figures are attained. 
-That indicates just how much the honourable member for Prospect knows about the legislation that is before the House. After the age or invalid criteria are met the new income test only applies. I believe that this is the most generous method of determining eligibility ever introduced by any government in this country. This Government is a compassionate government, but the Opposition would have the people of this nation think otherwise. It is a government that does care for people. Indeed, if one were to have a look at the record of the Liberal and Country Party governments over the period of some 23 years in office one would find that the initiatives for nearly all of the major benefits that apply today were taken by a Liberal-Country Party government. 
I want to use up the remaining few minutes of my time to talk about the handicapped child 's allowance. It is currently at $ 10 a week and is to be increased by $5 a week to $ 1 5 a week. 
I am not criticising the government of the day which brought in this benefit. I applaud the benefit. 
-I am not being critical. I am just telling the House and the nation that I applaud the introduction of this benefit. I think that most honourable members in this House would know people who have handicapped children and would know the great strains, stresses and extra burdens that those people have to carry. This benefit is payable to the parents or guardians of those unfortunate handicapped children who are under the age of 16 years. I believe that the increase in this respect is a much needed increase. It is a 50 per cent increase- from $10 a week to $15 a week. I believe that it is desirable, if at all possible, that these children be kept in the atmosphere of the family home and not be institutionalised. I believe that most of the parents of these children would prefer to keep their children in their own homes if at all possible. 
The Handicapped Persons Assistance Act benefit is currently at $3.50 a day. It is to be increased by $1.50 to $5 a day. It is payable to eligible religious, charitable and voluntary organisations and to local government bodies which provide approved residential accommodation. There has been a significant increase again in this area. Currently- I think that this was stated in the second reading speech of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)-  86 homes or 1400 handicapped children are covered by this Act. I am sure that honourable members will agree with me when I say that many of these homes could not operate and others would operate with great difficulty but for the subsidy. This is yet another humanitarian program that is supported by this Government. 
It gives me great pleasure to support these Bills. I hope that in future debates members of the Opposition will refrain from being so critical of the tremendous outlay that is involved in these Bills and that will be of great benefit to the low income and disadvantaged people of this nation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) With regard to his comments, as reported in the  Courier Mail  on 7 September 1976, on the possibility of the Government registering private funds, companies or community groups which want to set up health maintenance organisations based on preventive medicine, what investigations have been made by his Department into the feasibility of the proposals. 
Has his attention been drawn to comments expressed by  Mr Walker,  actuary for the Hospital Contribution Fund, on this matter as reported in the  Australian  on IS September 1 976; if so, what is his attitude to these statements. 
-On behalf of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, I bring up the report of the Committee on trafficking in fauna in Australia. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
-I present the seventh report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted.  ( Quorum formed) 
-When the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  commenced his contribution to this debate he used the words 'it is a curious subject'. I could not agree more with the honourable member for Murray and I suggest that the arguments put forward by both Opposition speakers are nothing less than spurious. This matter of public importance in my view is a non issue, not in respect of the subject matter but in respect of the arguments put forward. Let me assure the Opposition that pensioners and aged people in this nation are of paramount importance to the Government. As a member of the Government's health and welfare committee I can assure the people that we show deep concern. Ours is a compassionate government and the majority of the programs that have been instituted over the last 20 to 30 years were brought in by a LiberalNational Country Party Government. 
I want to refer to some of the arguments which have been put forward and to rebut them. The honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  talked about a halving of the subsidy and the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  also is guilty of making such a statement. They referred to a halving of the subsidy under the Aged Persons Homes Act from four to one to two to one. It sounds like a halving of the subsidy. Two is half of four. But when we look at it more closely, we find that a four to one subsidy means that four-fifths are provided by the Government and one-fifth by a church or charitable organisation. In other words, it is 80 per cent to 20 per cent. A two to one subsidy means 66% per cent is provided by the Government and 33W per cent by church or charitable organisations. I hope the honourable member for Oxley is listening; the honourable member for Maribyrnong has left the chamber. It is not a halving of the subsidy. The organisation will be required to provide 13 W per cent more. Let us not forget this. It is true that it is a reduction but by only 13VS per cent, not by half. So let us have no more misleading of the House and the nation with spurious arguments like this. 
It is true that the slightly decreased subsidy will mean the provision of more hostel and nursing home beds. It is true that a greater effort will be required on the part of the community, but I believe that the community is prepared to accept that challenge. The fact that the subsidy has been reduced from four to one to two to one should not be stated as being a reduction as was suggested by the honourable member for Oxley and the honourable member for Maribyrnong- that is, as a halving of the subsidywhen it is not. I want now to talk about the abolition of the means test. The Hayden Budget Speech is a handy document to keep in one 's hands, and I want to refer to it. The honourable member for Maribyrnong was rather critical of this Government for not further abolishing the means test for persons 65 years and over, so I quote from the Budget speech of the honourable member for Oxley on 1 9 August 1 975. Under the heading ' Abolition of the Means Test ', he said: 
For budgetary reasons the Government will not be able to complete the final stage of the abolition of the means testfor those aged 65 to 69 years- as quickly as it had hoped. Nonetheless we intend to make as much further progress as economic circumstances allow. 
What an admission from the honourable member for Oxley and his Labor Government! Yet they are critical today and call on this Government to abolish the means test. Of course it is part of our policy to do so. Of course it is part of the policy of the Labor Party to abolish the means test for those 65 years and over, but the facts speak for themselves. The Labor Government could not do it 12 months ago in its Budget either. One has only to look at the current outlays to see that this Government places a great deal of importance on social welfare. Twenty-five per cent of total outlays of this Government of $24,32 lm, namely $6, 187m is being spent on social security and welfare. That is not to be confused with the extra $2,909m or 12 per cent provided for health programs. When we compare that funding with the funding of education and defence, both at approximately $9,600m, we see that this Government really has concern for the aged and the disadvantaged. 
Let us now look at the consumer price index increase and at what was contained in the Hayden Budget. The honourable member for Maribyrnong was quick to tell the House that the Government was increasing pensions twice a year in conformity with the increase in the consumer price index but that there was a lag of 3 months. I quote from the Hayden Budget Speech once again to show that what is stated there is exactly in line with what this Government has done. It is good enough now for the Opposition to criticise us but when it was in government it did not do what it is saying we should do. Under the heading 'Social Security Benefit Rates' the Hayden Budget Speech stated: 
The standard rate of social service pensions and benefits will be increased in the spring of 1975 by the percentage increase in the consumer price index between the December quarter 1974 and the June quarter 1975; and again in the autumn of 1 976 by the increase in the consumer price index between the June and December quarters of 1 975. 
That is exactly the policy that this Government is following. Pensions and benefits will be increased twice a year in May and November in accordance with movements in the consumer price index with a lag of 3 months. Another spurious argument put forward by the honourable member for Maribyrnong was based on our slogan 'Turn on the Lights'. I suggest that in 3 years the Labor Government plunged this nation into the dark depths. Look at its record and at the way in which the finances of this nation were handled by the honourable member for Oxley and his predecessor bar one, the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who was the only Treasurer in the history of this nation who never brought down a Budget. The expected deficit in 1974-75 was $570m but was in fact $2,567m. What an abysmal record! The honourable member for Oxley in 1975-76 budgeted for a deficit of $2,800m. He finished with a deficit in the vicinity of $4,700m. Only a tightening or reining in of expenditure by our coalition parties when we came to government in December last reduced this figure by in excess of $ 1 ,000m. 
The honourable member for Maribyrnong also talked about Medibank and bulk billing. It is true that I as a supporter of the Government deplore the action of some doctors in charging pensioners, but there is no change in this practice from what was going on previously. The doctors are able to bulk bill and get 85 per cent of the standard fee. If they so desire they can charge pensioners full price. There is no change in that situation. Those who hold the pensioner medical service card pay no Medibank levy. I deplore the actions of those members of the medical profession who see fit to charge pensioners rather than bulk bill them which I believe is what should be done. The honourable member for Maribyrnong also said that Labor was not claiming that it had solved all the problems. Heaven's above, when one looks at the record and at some of the things I have mentioned today, and time will not permit me to go into too many of them, the Labor Government created many problems but did not solve too many. 
I now move to some of the issues that concern the aged. One has only to look at this Government's record on pensions to realise that the Government is compassionate. In fact it has increased pensions as it stated it would. I refer honourable members to the 1972 policy speech of the then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon).  He said: 
We have also decided that age, invalid and widows' pensions, and war and war widows' pensions will, in future, be increased in line with increases in the consumer price index. 
Our actions since illustrate that we are true to our word. The opening speech of the 1974 Federal election by the then Leader of the Opposition, now  Mr Speaker,  contained this statement: 
All pensions and benefits will be automatically adjusted every half year to changes in living standards. The first increase- not less than the consumer price index rise- will be introduced immediately Parliament sits. 
From  The Way Ahead,  the title of the LiberalNational Country Parties' policy document of 1974, comes this statement: 
We guarantee that age, invalid, widows' pensions, war and war widows' pensions, and other weekly social security and repatriation benefits, will in future be adjusted automatically, every half year to changes in living standards. 
An earlier statement released by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  on 20 October 1975 stated: 
Protecting benefits from erosion by inflation through automatically adjusting benefit levels every 6 months, according to movements in the consumer price index. 

 Mr LLOYD (Murray)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Will he outline the full terms of reference of the committee established to inquire into the care of the Aged and Infirm. 
Who are the members of the committee. 
When is it proposed that the committee will make a report on its investigations. 
Will the report be made public. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, concerns the very important general issue of the protection of our environment and the Government's and the Minister's attitudes to environmental issues. Has the Minister seen a copy of  Moonbi 30,  the newsletter of the Fraser Island Defence Organisation, which was recently circulated to all members of Federal Parliament? Is the Minister aware that the newsletter alleges, among other things, that he has adopted a position hostile to conservationists and abrogated his environmental responsibilities? 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Are orchids, other flowers and greenery imported into Australia; if so, from which countries. 
) What was the value of these imports in the last 3 financial years. 
Who are the importers. 
What measures are taken to ensure no diseases are introduced and how do quarantine requirements or treatments prior to entry differ from those enforced for fruit and plants. 
-The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  is well able to defend himself. But, as I have the call, I believe I should express my strong resentment at some of the statements that were made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  To castigate the Minister, as he has done in relation to sewerage programs, is most unfair. I have discussed the sewerage program with the Minister. There is no denying that the amount allocated in this area has dropped from $ 130m last financial year to about $S0m this financial year. But the Labor Government, of course, always spent money that it did not have- and plenty of it. 
The Government recognises that there are many areas of need. Indeed, the Government has had to show restraint in an endeavour to restore economic stability to Australia. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition talked about taxation concessions to the mining companies. I can assure him that the taxation concessions that are permitted are allowed for a specific purpose, that is, to provide more employment in this nation. If the Opposition likes to tell the nation that it is not interested in reducing the rate of unemployment, I am sure that it will sink even further than the depths to which it sank in December 1975. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition also spoke in a derogatory way about the Queensland Government. Let me come to the defence of the Queensland Government in relation to the establishment of national parks and wildlife reserves. I have no doubt that the honourable member is well intentioned. He indulged in spending moneys that he did not have, and that the Government of the day, of which he was a Minister, did not have. He came forward, as did the former Government, with a multitude of grandiose schemes that were pursued with great vigour to the economic detriment of this nation. I think that he has missed the point because the Minister, in his second reading speech, made specific mention of the fact that it was an overriding objective of the Government this year to return economic stability to this nation. There lies the Government's strategy in restraint in spending in this area. 
This Bill amends the States Grants (Nature Conservation) Act 1974 and should be welcomed by all State governments. In particular it should be welcomed by Ministers, responsible for the acquisition of land for national parks, from the point of view of their responsibility for the control and management of these national parks under their national parks and wildlife services. The principal amendment is contained in clause 2 (b) of the Bill. In essence it provides that, in addition to land acquisition, the Commonwealth can agree with a State on programs of management and the provision of facilities in parks and reserves in connection with nature conservation. This is a major breakthrough for the States in the area of nature conservation. It gives them the flexibility that we so often hear them claim that they require. If a State decides that it has adequate tracts of land set aside for nature conservation purposes, it can select its priority by saying to the Commonwealth that it wishes to apportion its share of the Commonwealth funds to the management and control of those parks. It is one thing to acquire the land; it is another to be able to provide adequate rangers and supervision to ensure that those parks are not lost to vandals and to people who would plunder the flora and fauna therein. 
It was interesting to note in the Second Report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation into 
Trafficking of Fauna in Australia which was recently completed and tabled in this House by myself that the view was expressed on numerous occasions by senior officers of the national parks and wildlife services in the States that, whilst this acquisition was essential, they were having difficulty in providing adequate funds for management and control. Of course, these recurring costs are not inconsiderable and are rising each year. In the case of, I think, South Australia large tracts of land had been set aside for national park purposes. The officers in that State were concerned for the safety and the running of these parks in relation, in particular, to bush fires and the fact that there were unscrupulous people who were prepared to go into those parks, destroy them and plunder the flora and fauna. 
This Bill gives the State governments the right to be able to set their priorities. If one looks at the State government budgets one sees that Ministers go before their own Cabinets and find, when it comes to consideration of the amount they have submitted in the preliminary stage, that invariably the amount is reduced. So it will be of great benefit to the States to be able to exercise the flexibility that the amendment to this Act provides. I want to make it clear to the House that although this Act came into force in December 1974 the States of course had been pursuing active programs of acquisition of land and establishment of national parks. I do not want anyone to gain the impression that it was the Commonwealth which initiated these programs. In other words, the States have done a commendable job in this area. 
I want to offer praise also to the dedication of the officers of the national parks and wildlife services that I have met in the various States as a result of my association first as a member and then as Chairman of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. This Act was enacted in 1974 following the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation which reported in October 1972. Incidentally, that Committee was set up under a LiberalCountry Party Government. I think that some priase ought to be given to the previous LiberalCountry Party Government for its foresight in setting up that Committee on Wildlife Conservation which was established in May 1970 and reported  2Vi  years later. 
The recommendations in its report contained a suggestion that a national policy should be established to acquire land for national parks and reserves to preserve flora and fauna in their natural state. It was also recommended that assistance be given to the States by way of section 96 grants to enable the States to acquire areas of land. An amount of $3.3m has been provided in this year's Budget for this purpose. The Minister made particular reference to an amount of $75,000 to be made available to the Tasmanian Government to establish a south-west national park. I want to make it quite clear that this Government is committed to a program of protection of our environment. I want to refute some of the misleading statements that were made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. In my opinion, his criticisms were in large part unwarranted. This Government is genuine in its approach towards the protection of our natural environment and towards the uplifting of our built or social environment. 
The Government has matched its words with actions and the appropriation of moneys in a time of national restraint. It recognises the needs for, and the Minister has stated and restated that the Government will uphold the principles of, the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. The Australian Heritage Commission, the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority and the National Parks and Wildlife Service have been provided with moneys by this Government and appointments have been made to these bodies. These bodies enjoy an important place in the operation of this Government and, more particularly, in the Ministry of Environment, Housing and Community Development. 
I assure the Minister that I for one am most appreciative of the service and the attention he has given to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. Through him, I also offer my appreciation to his staff who have been most attentive and helpful to the needs of the Committee. I feel I should inform the House of the pursuance of a vigorous program by the Committee to which I have just referred. There are 2 sub-committee inquiries currently being conducted- one into off-road vehicles and another into the Avers Rock and Mount Olga areas. There is also a full Committee inquiry dealing with the urban environment. 
I want to dispel the thoughts of the pessimists, particularly those on the Opposition benches, and to assure Australians that this Government is deeply committed to the preservation of the environment and the conservation of Australia's flora and fauna. In particular, I commend to the House and the nation the leaflets that have just been produced by the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. 
These leaflets, which are on Australian endangered species, have been produced by the National Parks and Wildlife Service. They are the first of a series. They are colourful, informative and educational. I hope that the production of these leaflets continues. They should be placed in libraries and schools right throughout this nation. I hope that they will be reproduced eventually in a booklet form. The Department is to be highly commended for the production of that series of leaflets. 
I turn to the report on trafficking in fauna in Australia to which I referred earlier in my speech. I refer the House in particular to recommendations (x) to (xiv) inclusive. Recommendations (x) to (xiii) deal with habitat preservation and research. Recommendation (x) deals with the habitat of rare and endangered fauna and with requiring environmental impact statements on proposed Commonwealth Government financed or controlled development. Recommendation (xi) deals with the Commonwealth taking account- this is what this piece of legislation is all about- of the financial capacity of the States to promote a program of land purchases and other measures for fauna conservation. The words 'and other measures for fauna conservation' are what the principal amendments to this Act are all about. 
The next recommendation in this report deals with the promotion of a large scale, intensive education program to encourage land holders to establish or retain wilderness areas on their properties. Many of the larger graziers, farmers and land holders in this country are now observing the very thing that is outlined in this recommendation of this report. Recommendation (xiii) deals with the biological resources survey which is involved in the obtaining of data. So little is known of some of the natural species in this country. We have paid so little attention to this matter over the years that it is often difficult to ascertain whether a particular species is rare and endangered or common. Therefore extra assistance and encouragement has to be given to the biological resources survey to ensure that we do know what populations are available in this country. 
Finally, I refer to the recommendation under the heading 'Wildlife Services' that the Commonwealth Government should take account of the financial capacity of the States to expand their wildlife services. This, of course, is being attended to in this legislation. The 2 bodies concerned insofar as this report on trafficking in fauna in Australia is concerned- the Department of Environment, Housing and Community 
Development and the Bureau of Customs- have shown a deep interest in the report and I am hopeful of some of the recommendations therein being implemented in the near future. 
Finally, I refer to the various areas of land contained in this continent. I believe that it would be an interesting survey if we were to go into those areas that have been completely cleared for farming and grazing purposes and to compare them with the areas that have been despoiled through mining operations. I venture to say that if we were able to count up the countless thousands of hectares that have been cleared for farming- that is, the complete destruction of the natural environment- and to add to that the countless thousands of hectares of partly cleared land that is used for grazing purposes and were to compare that land with the area that has been despoiled by the mining companies we would all be in for a shock. It is true that there are certain areas that were mined in the past and left in an appalling state, but the fact of the matter is that, with the stringent conditions that are placed today on, comparatively speaking, a very minute area of the surface of this continent insofar as the operations of the mining companies are concerned, we are finding in most instances that the rehabilitation and the restoration of the areas mined is of a particularly high standard. The mining companies are required to contour the land, to plant a surface crop- a covering cropand then to go in and plant native trees that are found in the area. 
I had the experience recently of visiting the Utah company's operations in central Queensland. There is no doubt that a tremendous amount of money is being spent and that a conscious effort is being made on the part of the company to ensure that the land that it leaves after the open cut mining is completed is left in a first class condition. So I will be extremely interrested in finding out whether those figures are available. Farm land is virtually lost forever to our flora and fauna. When one looks at the lack of criticism so far as the farmers and graziers are concerned and compare it with the mass of criticism that flows to the miners one must surely question the motives of some of the environmentalists and conservationists. 
-This is the second occasion this week on which I have followed the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  in a debate on environment and conservation issues. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition stands there in a pious and authoritative way telling this nation that the Government knows nothing and cares nothing for the environment. I assure him that the Government is deeply committed to these issues. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made many statements tonight with which I and all other Government supporters agree. But I assure him that he does not have all of the knowledge in matters of this kind. 
He stated repeatedly that the Government should give the States more money for this or that project. I think he referred tonight to providing further money to the States for hardwood forest plantings. His speeches are studded with references to spending money. He reminds me of the man who receives $200 a week and spends $300 every week. He is broke in no time. That is the very thing which he and the government of which he was a member were doing to this nation when it was in power for 3 years. 
It is rather unusual for me to speak in debates on Bills concerning rural industries. It is not out of disinterest for the rural community. I am well aware of the plight of many of the farming and grazing industries but I leave these matters to more capable people with much more expertise in the area. There are 2 of them in the House now. I refer to the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  and the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  who both come from rural communities. 
Although the Bill was introduced by the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  the matters that concern me are twofold. I am concerned, firstly, with the environmental aspects of this Bill and, secondly, with the fact that it is providing employment that is so needed today in this country. Although I am interested in the environment, I am not a rabid environmentalist. Nevertheless, I hope that I can present a fairly balanced view on matters concerning the environment and conservation. This BUI, of course, provides a maximum amount of $6m to be loaned to the States for a one-year period to continue programs that have now extended over 10 years for the planting of softwoods. It will provide some 17 000 hectares of softwood plantings in the 6 States. It will boost the program which was formerly pursued by the States. I make it clear to the House that the States had been pursuing quite vigorous programs of softwood plantings for many decades before the Commonwealth Government came into the area. In effect this BUI is a holding operation for 12 months pending further investigations and negotiations that will be carried on with the States to provide for future agreements. 
I want to refer, as did the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, to the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. I know that one of the following speakers, the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  wishes to refer to this report as well. It is gratifying me as the  Chairman  of this Committee and no doubt to the honourable member for Scullin who was the previous  Chairman  of the Committee to see that some of the recommendations that come out of the hard work that goes into the inquiries and the reports are being implemented by the Government. In this case the Committee looked extensively into the problem, heard many witnesses and travelled throughout the nation. It even travelled to New Zealand to look at its softwood forests. The report was presented in May of last year I think. It reported on the operations of the Softwood Forestry Agreements Acts of 1967 and 1972. 
I want to refer to some of the recommendations of the report, as did the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. Probably one of the most important recommendations- I would imagine that in future negotiations with the States this recommendation will be taken into consideration; it is indeed my wish that it Will be- concerns clear felling of native trees. Recommendation (vi) states that money should not be loaned to the States for the planting of softwoods in areas where native forest is to be clear felled unless, of course, a thorough environmental impact study is produced and various other aspects, such as sou quality, show such areas to be suitable for the planting of softwoods. The next recommendation to which I refer was dealt with by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. He was rather critical that the report of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics was not available to the House at the time of debating this Bill. I remind him that in spite of that this is a Bill to provide further funds for only 12 months. Recommendation (ix) states that an immediate study should be carried out by a body such as the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to determine the economic viability of the softwood planting program, etc. The Minister in his second reading speech made it clear that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics has decided that it is economic to plant softwoods in this country. 
I refer to 2 other recommendations. The first concerns the planting of softwood forests on marginal farming land. Recommendation (xii) states that an increasing proportion of the finance loaned to the States should be dedicated to the purchase of land already cleared for other marginal pursuits. No doubt a deal of land which is not currently very productive in this country could be better used for planting softwoods. Many farmers throughout the nation would, I am sure, dearly love to have their land taken over for softwood planting. 
The other recommendation to which I refer concerns small wood lots. Recommendation (xiii) states that financial assistance should continue to be made available to owners of agricutural holdings for the planting of small wood lots on their properties. The Minister, in his second reading speech, said that an environmental impact statement was not required on this occasion before these agreements were to be entered into with the States because the time taken would halt the industry. With our current high unemployment rate I think it is vital that we see a continuation of this program because it is fairly labour intensive. If, however, further agreements are to be entered into I would sincerely hope that environmental impact statements will be required. The matter should be examined at an early date bearing in mind that this Bill provides finance only until June 1977. 
Once plantings are made one must remember that irreversible damage may be done. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition referred to the rather sterile environment that results from the planting of many species of softwoods. A number of people may refute this but I think the findings of the Environment and Conservation Committee clearly illustrate that a sterile environment is produced by the planting of many of these trees. The fact is that birds in particular and most of our fauna will not thrive and will live in only very small numbers in softwood planted areas whereas in native forests they will thrive and their numbers will be far greater. I restate that environmental impact studies and statements should be produced by the States for the various areas that they wish to plant with softwood forests in the future. 
I refer now to the section of the report that deals with fauna and flora. Paragraph 58 refers to the clearing of native forests. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition dwelt on this important point. We should be looking at the planting of the types of trees that we have in our native forests. I can recall clearly when I was a child in north Queensland thousands of hectares of beautiful scrub country- a lot of people refer to it as jungle country. Such exotic timbers as blackbean, maple, red cedar and so forth were cleared for farming purposes and in many instances the logs were burnt. We do not want to see this sort of thing happen in the future in other areas. At least we have controlled logging by most of the State government forestry departments. An excellent program to be looked at in the future would be the planting of some of our exotic and better trees from our native forests. 
Certain species of our fauna are termed in the report as non-dependent species. The report says as the adjective suggests that these may survive in an altered habitat. There is also the dependent category. These are the ones to which I referred earlier and about which I am particularly concerned. Another aspect I mention briefly is the important one of employment. Apart from the . purchase of land for the planting of these softwood forests the industry is, of course, highly labour intensive. We know the Government's concern in its approach to the employment position in this country and to the economy in particular. We have heard a deal today about the Fraser Island issue. The Government is most deeply concerned about the high unemployment rate. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  shows a deep concern for environmental issues. I refute the statement that is freque'ntly made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that this Government is not interested in this area of the' environment. 
-It is very interested, as the honourable member for Griffiths interjects. The employment position is important. The $6m will provide a lot of jobs in the months until the end of the financial year. To sum up, I believe the Government is taking a balanced view. The industry will continue. We are in a holding position for one year until new agreements are negotiated. I again stress the employment situation as being extremely important. The provision of the $6m will provide many jobs. Finally, I state again that the Government is firmly committed to the protection of our environment. 
-I present the eighth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say which States have established Land Commissions or Urban Land Councils and in what parts of the States they have operated. 
If so, in what years were these bodies established. 
What sum have these bodies expended in the purchase of land in their respective areas. 
Has there been any comprehensive survey carried out on the efficiency of these bodies and their effectiveness in reducing the price of land in their areas of operation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has any survey been held to ascertain how many Australians actually consult with their own doctor on a regular basis. 
If so, what are the figures. 
What comparative figures are available from overseas countries. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice. 
1 ) Are alien expectant mothers coming to Australia on visitors' visas for confinements in order to gain dual citizenship for their chilren 
If so, how many children have gained dual Australian citizenship in this manner during each year since 1970 and with what other countries is this dual citizenship shared. 
How many persons who have received dual citizenship in this manner have returned to take up permanent residence in Australia since 19S0. 
-Today I want to concentrate my remarks on what I believe will be one of the gravest problems facing the housing of our people during the next 2 decades. The problem I identify is the lack of rental accommodation available, and the seriousness of the situation should not be underestimated. There has been an alarming fall-off in the numbers of units being constructed for rent in recent times and the reasons for this trend I intend to outline in more detail. Before doing so, though, I want to make it clear to the House that I am of the firm belief that home ownership should be the prime objective. 
This Government stands for home ownership and has demonstrated its willingness to fulfil that objective by the reintroduction of the home savings grant scheme as a positive form of encouragement to first time home seekers. The seldom equalled stability of this nation is due in no small way to the large percentage of families who have acquired their own homes. 
Home ownership has often been referred to as the 'great Australian dream'. It is a goal that has been achieved by a high percentage of our families and is a clear indication that Australians place a deal of emphasis on home ownership. The dream of home ownership has become a reality for countless thousands of Australian families. These people have really staked their claim and having done so have developed a greater sense of pride in their person, families, cities and towns, and nation. We as a Government will continue to engender this feeling in bur people by providing incentive and encouragement towards home ownership. Our children and our children's children will be infinitely better citizens if they are cared for and brought up in the atmosphere of a home that is the property of the family. Although our objectives remain firm, we must not adopt an ostrich approach of burying our heads in the sand for at the present time there are clear indications that it is the desire of more and more single people, young marrieds and elderly and retired peopleto live in rented premises. 
Recently a comprehensive study in south-east Queensland titled  Moreton Region Growth Strategy Investigations  predicted that by the year 2000 the Moreton region would have a population of 1 800 000- an increase of 750 000-and that flat dwellers would rise from the present 12 per cent to an estimated 25 per cent. Last December a report titled  Housing for Australia  by a task force of the Australian Institute of Urban Studies found that failure of the rental market was one of the most urgent problems facing Australian housing. 
Whether we like it or not there is a tendency toward greater mobility of our population and this may be the reason for the drift to voluntary renting. Young people especially have developed a lust for travel both within Australia and overseas and this may well be sapping the capital that was previously being directed towards home ownership. 
Involuntary renters are being created by rapidly escalating building costs and high interest rates and the fact that local authority land development and building standard requirements are becoming more stringent. These factors are pushing costs higher and higher and putting home ownership out of reach of more people. The indications clearly show that whether they be voluntary or involuntary, renters are on the increase. Shelter must be provided and the rental accommodation component must be available to meet the demand. Rental accommodation falls into 2 basic categories, namely, public housing which is built and administered by State housing authorities and private housing. Both of these categories can be divided into rental homes and rental units or flats. 
In the case of public housing there is an on going need for State authorities to ensure that the maximum benefit is obtained from the capital outlay. There are many instances of families of two and three people occupying 3-bedroom homes long after they could have moved into lesser accommodation, thereby freeing the larger premises for a bigger family. Rents frequently remain at too low a level and act as a disincentive for people whose financial position may have altered to such an extent as to warrant their vacating to make way for a more needy family. In these circumstances if disturbance appears warranted and is contemplated, I recognise the need to view each case on its merits. There will be instances where health, age or other factors may indicate that a particular family should remain undisturbed. 
It is in the area of private housing for rental that my main concern lies. The increased demand will be met only if entrepreneurs can obtain a reasonable return on capital invested. At the present time, investors can expect a return in the vicinity of 8 per cent to 9 per cent which is inadequate when compared with returns from rented shops, building societies, bank fixed deposits and so on. Theinvestor may be prepared to accept the lower return if he knows there will be a substantial capital gain. If a large portion of the capital has to be borrowed at current high interest rates then servicing the loan will result in a much reduced capital gain. It is not surprising then to find that private other dwellings, which are principally flats and units for rental, showed a fall in the number of commencements during 1974- 75. In 1972-73 private other dwelling commencements in the private sector totalled 38 629. In 1973-74, this rose to 41 709 dwellings. We saw a fall in 1974-75 to 40 731 dwellings commenced. What is even more distressing is the fact that we had a dramatic fall in commencements in 1975- 76. Only 26 012 commencements occurred in that year. 
Now that the problem has been indentified, how best can the difficulties be overcome? Firstly, I believe the Government should set the Indicative Planning Council the task of a more in-depth study of the problem. A maximum of up-to-date data should be available in order that the problem can be accurately assessed and then a plan evolved to ensure that private sector confidence returns to this part of the housing industry. The Australian Institute of Urban Studies is to be commended for its work in this area. It explores the problem in some depth and detail and its December 1975 report on housing for Australia is a document worthy of consideration by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  and his Department. One recommendation of this report deals with specific pro-investment policies and suggests that private investment in rental housing should be encouraged by providing an investment allowance or depreciation allowance for income tax purposes. Until the yield on this sort of investment is improved, entrepreneurs will be lacking. 
The position is becoming quite critical and some action must be instigated to alleviate it otherwise thousands of Australians will be without decent shelter. It is well recognised that when supply is low and demand increasing, the consumer pays more. As rental accommodation becomes scarcer, rents will rise and only those who are better placed financially will be able to afford to rent. What then happens to the low income earners- the pensioners and disadvantaged groups? It is obvious they will have nowhere to go. It should be remembered and emphasised that the decline in availability of rental accommodation occurred under the Whitlam Labor Administration. From the figures that I have quoted, it is quite obvious that this decline occurred a little longer than 2 years ago. I trust that that Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development and his Department will have a serious look at this matter of the lack of rental accommodation. 
-This National Health Amendment Bill, of some 9 pages will amend a small but offensive part of section 99 of the National Health Act. Its emergence comes at a time when thousands of pharmacists were beginning to give up hope that they would ever see justice in the determination of their remuneration for dispensing prescriptions under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. Although successive governments may have been oblivious to the fact, a few words in section 99 have been the bane of scores of master pharmacists throughout the length and breadth of this country. No State or region has escaped the cancerous effects of the diminishing returns to pharmacists as a result of government and ministerial domination of the profession by the use of section 99. 
Over the years a number of senior bureaucrats have been blamed for the deteriorating position of the master pharmacist. It has been claimed that these senior public servants have been insensitive to the plight of pharmacy, that they have been toadying to their superiors and the Minister, and that they have been subject to extreme pressures from Treasury and the government to contain the overall cost of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. It must be remembered that despite substantial increases in the patient contribution for general benefits from SOc per item when a charge was first introduced in 1960 to $1 in 1971, then to $1.50 in 1975, and finally to the present charge of $2 which was implemented in March this year, the total cost of the scheme has mushroomed to $3 17m in 1975-76. That figure does not include about $95m, which represents the patient contribution. This year the estimated cost will be $3 10m, with the cost being contained owing to the full year of operation of the patient contribution at $2 an item. Nevertheless, the pharmaceutical benefits scheme has provided medicinal preparations for all Australians at a substantially reduced cost at the point of delivery. It has been of inestimable value in maintaining a good standard of health for our people. It surely must rank as one of the finest schemes of its type in the world. 
I return to the amendment to section 99 of the principal Act and illustrate to the House the offensive nature of but a few words which have proved to be the albatross around the neck of the pharmacists of this nation for more than a decade. Section 99 ( 1 ) states: 
The Minister may, after consultation with the Federated Pharmaceutical Service Guild of Australia determine- 
the rates by reference to which, and the manner in which, the Commonwealth price of a pharmaceutical benefit is to be ascertained for the purposes of this section. 
In effect, all that is required of the Minister for Health is that he consult with representatives of the Pharmacy Guild. He can ask them to morning tea, if you like, and then determine on his own the level of fees pharmacists are to receive. In practice, lengthy inquiries have been conducted by a Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements; but when there have been deadlocks on vital issues the Minister has had the final say, with no redress provisions being available to the Pharmacy Guild. 
What a coincidence it is that this massive Act, with more than 130 sections and more than 250 pages, should have the section for pharmacists' fee determination in such a form numbered 99. There is always something superstitious about 99. It has a rather eerie ring to it. Like the batsman dismissed one short of the coveted century, pharmacists have been one off. They have not quite made the grade in their bid for justice on fee determination. There is no denying that some chemist shops would have closed down had there been no pharmaceutical benefits scheme, or even without the squeeze applied to that scheme in recent years. Pharmacy must accept a fair portion of the blame for the overprovision of outlets. These circumstances are not peculiar to pharmacy. Most other types of businesses have experienced closure brought about by senseless proliferation of outlets and other factors. 
The pharmaceutical benefits scheme, particularly since its scope was widened in 1960, has been a major component of the retail pharmacists' turnover. In those earlier years the scheme was more lucrative, and there is little doubt that this factor lured more pharmacists into retail business. The refusal of successive governments to increase adequately the chemists' dispensing fee, coupled with diminishing wholesale prices, brought about by considerable pressure and bargaining by Commonwealth Department of Health officials, resulted in progressively lowering the return to the master pharmacists. The pressure and bargaining to which I refer, to obtain lower wholesale prices of drugs, was the result that flowed from the so-called negotiations by Department of Health officials with drug manufacturers. The plight of the drug manufacturers, resulting from years of exposure to these negotiations, should not be dismissed lightly. Their position must be reviewed urgently; otherwise many will cease manufacturing operations in Australia and conduct merely warehousing facilities. Should this happen, many thousands of jobs will be lost. 
With wholesale prices kept down to extremely low levels, it meant that the retail pharmacist was receiving less in money terms because his margin on cost remained, and still remains, at 33 to per cent. During these years normal overheads, such as wages, rents, postage, telephone and cleaning charges, etc., showed marked increases, certainly out of all proportion to the return from dispensing fees and profits from the mark-up on drugs. Therefore, the enchantment that existed within retail pharmacy in the early 1960s because returns from the pharmaceutical benefits scheme were fair soon vanished as the squeeze was applied. Many of those lured into opening a pharmacy quickly became disenchanted. It can readily be seen that the Government's pharmaceutical benefits scheme has played a significant role in the determination of the number of pharmacies in existence, through the widely fluctuating remuneration determined over the years. The normal free play of the market place which controls most businesses was not the controlling factor in retail pharmacy. Arising out of this situation, it is not strange to find that, despite a steadily increasing population, the number of pharmacies has decreased during the past 4 years. I seek leave of the House to have incorporated in  Hansard 2  tables which illustrate the downward trend in the number of approved pharmacies in the States and the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his Department made any investigations into the viability of establishing extensive bicycle freeways in major Australian cities. 
Has any request been received from the States for information on, or funding of, bicycle freeways. 
Is there any city, other than Canberra, which has these sorts of facilities. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. How did the Government arrive at the figure of 17Vi per cent for the devaluation of the Australian dollar announced last Sunday week? 
-I present the ninth report of the Publications Committee, sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. Copies of the report have been circulated to honourable members. 
Report- by leave-adopted. 
-I present a report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
1 ) What royalties are imposed per tonne by (a) the Commonwealth and (b) each State Government for extracting minerals. 
What was the total revenue earned by (a) the Commonwealth and (b) each State from these royalties during each of the last 5 financial years. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  Courier Mail  of 14 October 1976 that the Premier of Queensland criticised the Federal Government for increasing its foreign aid commitment by 400 per cent 
If so, how does  Mr Bjelke-Petersen's  figure compare with ( 1 ) PRESENTED BY THE Treasurer on page 14 of the Budget Speech where he said foreign aid was being increased by 14.6 percent 
Can he say how  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  computed his figures. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report in the  Age  on 27 October 1976 concerning the claim by the General Secretary of the Australian Teachers' Federation that the membership of the committee to investigate Australia's education system was stacked to provide recommendations in accord with the Government 's point of view. 
If so, what is the Minister's attitude to the statement. 
Has there been any communication between the Minister and the Australian Teachers' Federation. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to overcharging for car parts as reported by the Royal Auto Club of Victoria Insurance Pty Ltd in the Brisbane  Courier Mail  on 21 October 1976. 
Has he been officially notified by the RACV insurance Pty Ltd. 
3 ) What action does he propose to take on this matter. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice: 
1 ) Are there any statistics available on the extent to which flexitime is being used by employees of the Commonwealth Government. 
How many full days are taken by Government employees under the flexitime system. 
Is it a fact that in many departments flexitime and sign-on sheets are not being adequately supervised by senior officers. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has there been any consultation with, or request from, either the Queensland Government or the Brisbane City Council for financial assistance for the purchase of buses by the Brisbane City Council. 
2 ) If so, has the Federal Government provided any assistance. If so, to what extent, and for how many buses. 
Can he say what orders the Brisbane City Council has placed with the bus manufacturers, Volvo Australia. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the Australian Advisory Committee on the Environment's Report on Land Use in Australia which was presented in December 1974, what steps have been taken to implement or review the Committee's recommendations. 
Is the Department undertaking any further studies in this particular area. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Government presently considering a scheme to encourage the growth of existing provincial cities and towns. 
If so, what cities and towns are currently under consideration. 
What sort of measures does the Government propose to initiate this scheme. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware of the serious and high incidence of skin cancer in 
Australia, particularly in Queensland and the northern parts of Australia? What action has the Minister taken to alert Australians to the danger of skin cancer? Can the Minister advise the House what benefits are available to assist persons suffering from this unfortunate disease? Are such benefits also available to sun seekers who may expose themselves to greater dangers? 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that under the present rules for unemployment benefit when a person leaves a job of his own accord, and without a good reason, the Department of Social Security has the power to suspend the benefit for a period of up to 6 weeks. 
Is it also a fact that in the case of a person who is already in receipt of unemployment benefit and who has his benefit terminated because of his refusal to accept work or make himself available for work, he can immediately reapply and qualify for benefit on his new claim without even fulfilling a waiting period of 7 days because the refusal of work refers to his previous claim for benefit. 
If so, will the Minister give consideration to amendments to the rules so that those who refuse work are treated in a similar way to those who terminate their unemployment of their own volition. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article in the National Times of 10-15 January 1977, regarding the widespread existence of the destructive dieback fungus disease amongst Victorian and West Australian forests. 
If so, has the CSIRO been asked to investigate this disease. 
Did his Department make any submissions on this matter to the Senate Standing Committee Inquiry on the Environmental Impact of the Woodchip Industry. 
What action does he propose to take to ameliorate this problem. 
-I have the honour of presenting the tenth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
I have had the benefit of listening to the contributions made by both speakers from the Opposition side. I can say only that the Opposition must be desperately short of important matters to debate in this Parliament. I am bewildered as to why it would list as a matter of public importance the item that we have before us today. It is a complete waste of valuable parliamentary time to do so. 
I must say at the outset that my regard for the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  as a person is high. I am rather impressed by his performance as a member of my House of Representatives Standing Committee on the Environment and Conservation and indeed by his conduct in this Parliament. But, having brought forward as a matter of public importance the Medibank health insurance scheme, I believe that he is nothing more than a charlatan. The matter of public importance is a farce. Some of the most shallow arguments that I have ever heard brought forward in this Parliament on any matter of public importance have been brought to light today. 
I want to deal, first of all, with the remarks of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  He talked about the present Government as being the 'high tax government'. Let me remind the honourable member that it took the national Parliament 71 years to reach the stage of having a $10 billion Budget. Yet in 3 years under Labor this excalated to $2 1 billion. Let us have a look at the sort of taxation that was ripped off the public by the Labor Government. Receipts from personal income tax increased by some 89 per cent in the first 2 years under Labor and indirect taxation increased by some 28 per cent. Inflation, of course, was running at the rate of 4.5 per cent when Labor took office in 1972. It rose to something like 16 per cent during the time Labor was in government, and of course we saw the level of unemployment, which was generated as a result of inflation, rise from 128 000 to some 300000. Let not the honourable member for Oxley, who I am afraid did not have many troops behind him today to support him in his leadership struggle, say that this Government is a tax rip-off government. He also cited the example of Sweden as being a country to which this nation could look. Let me assure the honourable member for Oxley that Sweden is in deep trouble with too much social welfare being at the root cause of its troubles. I also want to say to the honourable member that Medibank is not a tax. Medibank is a charge for a specific purpose. The charge for 1 lb of butter, I lb of bananas or whatever is the same for the rich man as it is for the poor man. A visit to a doctor costs the poor man the same as it does the rich man. Medibank is not a tax in the true sense. It is a levy; a charge for a specific purpose. 
Let us look at the arguments of the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  What a lot of platitudes they were. He quoted journalists and one Phillip Cornford as an authority. The honourable member talks about abuses which he admitted were small in number but came mainly from the medical profession. He then quoted from the report of the health insurance organisations and talked about the underspending of, I think, $156m on Medibank. He then referred to 4 per cent administrative costs and praised this. Whatever sum may have been underspent in terms of what was estimated in the Budget, it still represented a tremendous amount of money out of the consolidated revenue, and the people of this nation had to be shown just what Medibank was costing them. 
The honourable member talked further of doctor abuses. Of course doctor abuses are to be deplored, but after all who was it that initiated discussions with the Australian Medical Association? It was none other than the present Minister for Health, and these discussions will result in the setting up of a Peer Review Committee. So the abuses existed under the previous Labor Government. No doubt the responsible people in the medical profession are also most unhappy about the abuses that we see from time to time. All I can say to the honourable member for Maribyrnong is that all abuses that are brought to the attention of the Minister are followed up, and it is the responsibility of every member of this Parliament to bring to the attention of the Minister and his Department any abuses which come to his notice. Of course abuses and malpractices have always existed, and if the honourable member for Maribyrnong believes in the shallow arguments that he has brought forward today that they are going to be abolished he has another think coming. 
Let us look at the Labor Party's position and the trade union movement's stance on Medibank. If I may go back some years, the honourable member for Oxley introduced this scheme knowing that only 8 per cent of the Australian population was not covered by private health insurance organisations. He proposed a 1.35 per cent levy across the board. We naturally opposed this because we opposed the total concept of Medibank as it was introduced at that stage. Once this proposal was defeated the honourable member then introduced the socalled free scheme. When are the champions of social welfare in the Labor Party going to realise that there is nothing free in this world? It has to be paid for. It is well known that  Mr Hayden  was deeply concerned at the escalating costs of the scheme. It was a monster that he could not control. What about the trade union movement's view on the whole matter? At one stage it advocated the introduction of a levy of 1.6 per cent. One could be excused for thinking that the Labor Party, the present Opposition, did not know what it wanted and where it was going in relation to this matter. 
I now turn to the Government's position on Medibank which has been quite clear, quite consistent and quite proper. We opposed any substantial change to the private health insurance scheme that was instigated and operated under the Liberal-National Country Party Government. That scheme had worked well. It had served the nation and the people extremely well. The policy prior to the last election was that we would retain but modify Medibank. I pay a tribute to the Minister for Health, who is seated at the table, for the tremendous amount of work that he put in to the modifications that were introduced to Medibank. So all of the things that the Government has said when it was in Opposition and indeed since it has been in office it would do, have been done. 
I thought that in introducing this subject for discussion, namely the failure of the Government's Medibank changes to satisfy the community's need for health insurance, the honourable member for Maribyrnong would have been looking at the scheme, how it was operating administratively and how well it was serving the public because after all it is the service to the public that really matters. The scheme has been in operation for 6 months. It is operating quite smoothly. One might say at the moment that the dust has settled. At the moment I find no criticisms of the scheme. Indeed, few complaints about it have come to me. I believe that the dust has settled. The people accept today that they have to pay for their health insurance. It is an identifiable cost to the consumer. 
Let us look at the costs for a moment because a number of people are quite in error in believing that they are paying the total cost of hospital and medical care in this country. I shall give the estimates for the financial year 1976-77. Commonwealth revenue is estimated at $ 1,120m. The State governments will contribute $840m. Insurance premiums will amount to $985m and levypayers will contribute $375m. That is a total of $3, 320m. So it is easy to see that the levy contributors and those who are contributing to private health insurance funds are paying less than 50 per cent of the total cost of the scheme although a good portion of that cost has been identified to the consumers. 
I briefly want to refer, if I may, to how well the scheme has served the public. It has served the public extremely well. Medibank in itself, as the Minister stated earlier, is the second largest private health insurance fund. The offices have been retained. The service is still there. I deplore the Opposition for bringing forward such a farcical matter for discussion as a matter of public importance. As I said earlier, it is a complete waste of the valuable time of this Parliament. It is another one of the matters of public importance that have been introduced in recent weeks by the Opposition that have fallen flat. They are meaningless matters of public importance. It is to be hoped that the Opposition can do a little better in future. 
-This morning  Mr Speaker  made a short speech informing the House of the resignation of the Australian Government Printer,  Mr Frank  Atkinson. I believe that he quite rightly spoke in glowing terms of the ability of Frank Atkinson and of the reforms he had intitiated at the printing works. I concur with  Mr Speaker's  remarks and those of subsequent speakers, the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren).  I did not speak this morning as I wanted to take a little more time to examine the reason why this talented person has ceased employment with the Commonwealth to take up the position of Victorian Government Printer. 
As  Chairman  of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Publications I have had the opportunity on numerous occasions to speak with  Mr Atkinson.  He recently gave evidence to the Publication Committee's inquiry into the parliamentary papers series. It is my impression that Frank Atkinson is a dedicated, loyal, deeply concerned and highly skilled key employee. This Government has lost a valuable employee. The Victorian Government can only gain from his ability and expertise. 
The reason why this competent person has resigned is attributable to the low salary paid by the Commonwealth in comparison to that paid to his counterparts in all States. It is an appalling state of affairs that we are witnessing a brain drain of highly skilled Commonwealth public servants to the States because of marked discrepancies in salaries paid for like work. I advise the House that efforts have been made by me personally and by the Publications Committee to retain  Mr Atkinson  by endeavouring to have his salary increased to a competitive level. My approach to the former  Chairman  of the Public Service Board revealed that the salary classification of the Commonwealth Government Printer had recently been reviewed but that the  status quo  was to be maintained. I was informed that the Commonwealth could not be a salary pacesetter. The position was also discussed with the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  but to no avail. I seek leave of the House to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table showing the relative positions and salaries of the 7 Government Printers in Australia. 

<graphic href="104131197703245_85_1.jpg"></graphic>

-It can be seen that the Commonwealth Government Printer is the lowest paid officer; he receives $2 1 , 1 1 6 a year. With 768 employees he is second only to the New South Wales Government Printer who has 990 employees under his control. Obviously, it is not going to be possible to retain men of high calibre at a salary of $21,000 a year when, as in  Mr Atkinson's  case, there is a similar position offering $29,000 a year. Not only will  Mr Atkinson  receive $8,000 per annum more, but he will have provided a car which must be worth an extra $3,000 annually. The New South Wales Government Printer receives $10,240 per annum more than his Commonwealth counterpart plus a car and $450 expenses. Even the Tasmanian Government Printer, with 153 employees, is $ 1 ,700 per annum better off. 
The question that arises is: Who is right- the Commonwealth or the States? What distresses me greatly is the repeated calls by the States that they are not receiving sufficient funds from the Commonwealth. Yet this is a glaring example of a complete lack of restraint in the fixing of salaries. Not only are the growth rates of the State Public Services outstripping the Commonwealth, but the salaries paid, if this is a typical example, are out of hand and indeed far higher than they should be. I restate my support for the 

<graphic href="104131197703245_85_1.jpg"></graphic>

federal system with the States enjoying autonomy of government; but I ask them to take a long hard look at their Public Service growth and salary rates and suggest that if they are not prepared to curb these they ought not to come bleating to the Commonwealth about not receiving enough of the taxation revenue. Most members in this Parliament are sick and tired of listening to State governments calling for more funds when they are not prepared to indulge in selfrestraint. 
Insofar as the salary of the Commonwealth Government Printer is concerned, I appeal to the Minister and the Public Service Board to review the position again with a view to increasing the salary to at least somewhere in the middle of the spectrum, which is about $27,000. I believe Frank Atkinson would have been retained if the salary had been around this level. I am aware that at the time his application for the Victorian position was being considered another very senior officer from the Printing Office was also considering applying for a vacancy in another State. This raises the serious question: Can any vital department such as the Printing Office afford to lose senior staff in this fashion? How long will it be before the newly appointed Commonwealth Government Printer is lost to one of the States? 

<graphic href="104131197703245_85_1.jpg"></graphic>

-On behalf of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, I present a report of the Committee entitled, 'Off-Road Vehicles- Impact on the Australian Environment '. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
-I present the eleventh report of the Publications Committee sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. Copies of the report have been circulated to honourable members. 
Report-by leave- adopted. 
-On behalf of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, I present the report of the Committee on the management of Ayers Rock-Mount Olga National Park. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Women's Affairs. Is it a fact that all States, except Queensland, are funding women's refuges from Commonwealth grants under the community health program? Is it also a fact that the Brisbane and Townsville women's refuges and the Brisbane Women's Health Centre are short of funds? After the initial refusal by the Queensland Government to fund such refuges from Commonwealth grants, did the Prime Minister again raise the matter with the Queensland Premier, seeking reconsideration of his State's decision? Is there any likelihood of women's refuges being established and funded in Queensland by the Commonwealth Government? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) How many persons have been relocated in employment under the Relocation Assistance Scheme since its inception. 
) What is the total amount of relocation allowances paid to these persons. 
How many relocated persons remained in their jobs following payment of the allowances. 
Is it the intention of the Department to continue surveillance of those relocated to ascertain to what extent the Scheme is being exploited. 
-I present the twelfth report from the Publications Committee, sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Has he received any reports that some employers are dismissing existing staff and replacing them with employees eligible for the $59 per week subsidy from the Federal Government under the Special Youth Employment Training Program. 
) If so, what action is he taking on these reports. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of the closeness of the polling day for the 4 referendums, will the Prime Minister inform the House when he proposes to open the campaign? Is it his intention to campaign in all States? Will he inform the House of the extent of support being given the 4 proposals by all major political parties? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
Has his attention been drawn to the United States Food and Drug Administration ban on saccharin and a similar ban by the Canadian Government. 
Has his attention also been drawn to the research on the effects of saccharin which has been completed by the United States Food and Drug Administration. 
What studies have the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee and the National Health and Medical Research Council done on the effects of saccharin. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
What proportion of the total Federal Government's expenditure on Aboriginal affairs was made on legal aid in each of the years 1971-72 to 1975-76. 
-As Chairman of the Joint Committee on Publications, I wish to make a short explanation in relation to this motion. In 1970 amendments were made to House of Representatives standing order 28 and Senate standing order 36 which gave the Joint Committee on Publications quite broad powers to inquire. However, the Committee does not have the power of most other parliamentary committees to travel and move from place to place. Currently the Publications Committee is carrying out what I consider to be a very important inquiry into the operations of the Australian Government Publishing Service. The Service, together with the Government Printer, has a turnover in excess of $25m annually and a staff of over one thousand. The reason for the request is to allow the Committee to move in the first instance to Sydney and Melbourne to inquire into and inspect the book shops and other operations associated with the Publishing Service in those 2 centres. A minimal cost will be involved to take a few staff members and  Hansard  with the Committee. As Chairman of the Committee, I intend to have the matter referred to the Standing Orders Committee so that in future it will not be necessary to make this request to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I want to comment on a point that was made earlier by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  If my memory serves me correctly, he expressed some doubt whether a patient would be likely to want to save the Government certain expenditure- he used the sum of $100 or $120- on pathology tests if there was any doubt as to whether those tests should be carried out and said that the patient would be inclined to say: 'Go ahead and complete those tests'. I suggest to the honourable member that this Government has made certain amendments to the Medibank scheme introduced by the Labor Government that have gone partly along the way towards alleviating that situation. But in my view there must be a larger patient contribution and until such time as we call for a greater proportion of the cost to be met by the patient we will have people giving their authorisation to the performance of the tests and services that they would think about very seriously and deeply if they had to pay a greater proportion of that cost. I believe that this is a case of easy come, easy go. Something for nothing is rarely appreciated. 
This Bill is a fairly complex Bill- some 27 pages- to amend the Health Insurance Act. In my estimation it is one of the most important amendments to the Health Insurance Act that has even been brought into this Parliament in the 3 years that I have been in this place. The amendments contained in the legislation are designed to continue services to the public. The public, in my view, will lose nothing as a result of the amendments. Services will not be diminished. Yet the amendments will tighten up the scheme and effect certain considerable cost savings. The genuinely ill patient and the scrupulously fair doctor have nothing to fear. I commend to honourable members the detail that is contained in the second reading speech of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt). 
The Government continues to recognise the value of pathology tests in the pursuance of good medicine and improving the health of Australians. Modern technology and procedures in medicine demand access to pathology tests. If a doctor is to diagnose a complaint or to eliminate any suspicion he may have at the time of his first consultation or at subsequent consultations or if he wants to confirm the preliminary diagnosis he has made, it is often necessary to carry out pathology tests. Indeed if he suspects a serious complaint he will want accurately to pinpoint the nature of the condition. So it is essential that blood, tissues, urine, faeces, spittle or any other exudation or by-product from the human body be subjected to tests as are deemed necessary by doctors or specialist doctors. 
I want to emphasise that the Government recognises the need for the operation of a modern efficient pathology service. The aim of this Bill, as I said earlier, is to maintain the accessibility of that efficient service to the public at large and to contain costs. We have seen a tremendous rip-off by the medical profession and certain individuals particularly in this area. We must have the correct utilisation of services which means the elimination, if not in full at least in part, of the abuses that have been practised in the past. 
I want briefly to refer to the pathology services working party that was set up in April 1 976. This group released an interim report in July of that year. A number of its recommendations were implemented by this Government in October last year. In particular if one looks at the membership of the group under the chairmanship of  Dr Sidney  Sax one finds that only 2 other members were from the Commonwealth Health Department. One was from the New South Wales Health Commission, two were from the Australian Medical Association, one was from the Royal College of Pathologists and one was from the Society of Pathologists which is made up of pathologists in private practice. I mention this point because there is a tendency in our community today to label governments as being under the control of bureaucrats. Here we have a working party that is comprised of four people from outside in the free enterprise world of medicine, three from the Commonwealth and one from a statutory authority of the New South Wales Government. This is a balanced group whose membership is not weighted in favour of the Federal Government or of the free enterprise system. The working party is to meet again next year to review the situation and the reports that it has produced to date. I sincerely hope that the working party will continue to operate in its present capacity and advise the Minister in a probing and investigating way. 
I want briefly to mention the cost of health to Australia because I do not think it does any harm to remind honourable members and the public what is involved under the heading of health. This area can be divided mainly into 2 sections. Funds provided by the Commonwealth in this financial year have been budgeted for to the extent of $2,909m, or some 12 per cent of total Government outlays. When we add to that the substantial amount of funds that are provided by the States, it is not hard to see that the health of this nation is costing the Australian taxpayer a considerable amount. Of course, in addition to that social welfare costs another $6 billion or 25 per cent of Government expenditure. Therefore Australians really pay very dearly for their health and social welfare. I mention this because we must ask ourselves the question: Are we getting value for money, and is it possible to effect savings without impairing or diminishing the services available? 
In regard to the Bill that is before us today, I think it must be agreed that the amendments to the Act are designed to reduce exploitation of what is already a very lucrative profession. I want briefly to refer to the medical profession. Fortunately, most members of the profession are highly ethical and honest. But many who would have the community believe they are of high repute and adopt impeccable medical standards are nothing short of scoundrels. They are worse than the bank robber or the housebreaker who steals valuables. They are wolves in sheep's clothing. They operate under the cover of a highly respected and ethical facade and exterior that one associates with the medical profession. Like the bad apple in the case they tend to make all the profession bad or suspect. Fortunately the reputable, who are by far the majority, headed by such organisations as the Australian Medical Association, the various pathologists ' groups and the General Practitioners' Society are determined, along with the Government, to stamp out any immoral practices. I applaud the leaders of these bodies for the part they have played in participating in the working party and the cooperation they have shown this government and the Minister for Health. 
Let me illustrate the seriousness of this rip-off by quoting what has been said by such reputable people as  Dr Vince  McGovern, the  president  of the Royal College of Pathologists. An article headed 'Too many tests: pathologist', which appeared in the  Age  of 26 March 1 977, stated: 
Taxpayers would save $30 million a year if pathologists were barred from Medibank 's direct billing service, the  president  of the Royal College of Pathologists,  Dr Vince  McGovern said yesterday. 

 Dr McGovern said some doctors had fallen into the habit of ordering too many pathology tests. 
By direct billing Medibank for the tests some large scale pathology services could disguise the size of their bills. 'At present many  pateints  do not know what pathologists are charging',  Dr McGovern  said. 
I go a little further and quote what  Dr McGovern  said in the  Medical Journal of Australia  of 5 March 1977. He said: 
For some years the Royal College of Pathologists of Australia has been campaigning for legislation to curb abuses in pathology services. These abuses have now grown to the extent that the cost of non-hospital pathology to Medibank is increasing alarmingly. 
One could search the medical journals of this country and quote numerous similar instances. I want to congratulate the Minister for Health who, on a number of occasions both inside and outside of this House, has deplored the actions of a number of pathologists for introducing this legislation and showing that this Government is prepared to act to right a wrong that was created by the former Labor Government. I think that point ought to be emphasised. The Minister has taken a deep interest in matters of this nature. He should be congratulated for not diminishing the services and for introducing legislation to prevent exploitation and rip-offs that I believe were encouraged by the previous Government. 
I want to bring to the attention of the House a conversation that I had with a general practitioner in my electorate. I am sure that this man does not bear any malice because I have known him for many years. He was quite genuine in his approach. He told me of a case in which one of his colleagues treated a patient for minor staphylococcal infection. This was not a serious infection by any means. There was no prior treatment of this patient. The infection was not known to be difficult to heal. The patient was given some ointment to put on the infection. He was told to come back in 2 days. On returning the patient was sent to a pathologist for extensive blood tests. After no fewer than 5 visits to this general practitioner costing tens of dollars-my friend the doctor assessed the cost to be of the order of $200 to $250-the patient's complaint was acclaimed by his doctor to be finally under control. That sort of situation arises time and again in this nation. Every day there is exploitation of the so-called free schemes in the health field. 
Some exploiters, because they pay high personal income tax, believe they have a right to rip off the system. Those in this category justify their actions by claiming that they are returning 66c in the dollar to the Government in tax. After a time they cease to suffer from pangs of conscience and any qualms they may once have had seem to disappear. If one looks at the various kickback schemes which operate in relation to pathology tests, one can only say that they are to be deplored. I refer to the increased utilisation of pathology services in this country. If we look at the figures for the half year ending 31 December 1974 we note that something like $22.3m was expended under the medical benefits pathology service section. In 2 years during the 6 monthly period ending 31 December 1976 the figure had increased to$53.1m. 
The money which has been ripped off through the system to date cannot be returned to the Government. We can only hope that the measures introduced in this Bill will prevent similar occurrences in the future. I recognise that costs have increased in that period. But when we look at the figures we see that the increase to the nation has been 138 per cent. We have had a slight increase in population and there has been an increase in fees. It is an astronomical increase in the figure when it is considered that it is as high as 138 per cent. I refer to the abolition of direct or bulk billing provisions which are provided for in the Bill and return to the pathology services working party report on direct billing for pathology services. 
One of the pleasing features in the report is that all major associations of the medical profession are opposed to bulk billing. The Royal College of Pathologists of Australia, the Australian Medical Association, the General Practitioners Society of Australia, and the Society of Pathologists in Private Practice have all recommended and been a party to the report recommending the abolition of bulk billing except for eligible pensioners and the dependants of those eligible pensioners. The report also refers to the fact that people must be personally liable for part of the cost. Indeed, the cost should be identifiable on a form which is provided to the patient. 
I have some doubts about Medibank as it exists as a medical benefits organisation in the private health insurance system. I would like to see a greater patient contribution. In my view that contribution is far too low at the moment. Even as recently as yesterday I had some discussions with people from the Australian Dental Association. They referred to some points in relation to the dental scheme which is operating in our schools today. I believe that the system of providing services free of charge means that we tend to mollycoddle people from the cradle to the grave. I would encourage any system whereby the public pays a greater proportion of the costs of any services provided in the nation today. 
I refer, finally, to the penalties which are being increased in this legislation. I sincerely hope that members of our judiciary will take note of the seriousness of the breaches and that where breaches are serious high penalties will be imposed. The penalties are to be increased from a maximum of $500 and 6 months gaol to $10,000 and 5 years gaol. If a severe breach is there, I believe it should be met with a high penalty. It is my impression that this is good legislation. It will allow the continuance of the services and, at the same time, effect considerable savings for Australia. 
-I present the thirteenth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
-by leave-The Joint Committee on Publications has asked me to draw to the attention of the House the unsatisfactory arrangement whereby only 9 copies of the report of the Australian Assistance Plan, which was tabled in the House this morning, have been made available to the Parliament for distribution to members. The Committee regards such an arrangement as totally unsatisfactory because it makes it extremely difficult for interested members to have access to the report. The Committee has asked that I draw to the attention of all Ministers and departments the need to ensure that adequate copies of all reports to be tabled are made available for all senators and members. Clear guidelines are set down as to the format to be adopted for the preparation and printing of publications. Additionally, 330 copies are to be provided to the Parliament for distribution to senators and members, to the Press, to research officers, to the Bills and Papers Office, and to other interested people in and around the Parliament. Frequently the Parliament is supplied with only a few copies of very important reports which are much sought after. I have instanced the example of the Australian Assistance Plan report merely to highlight the problem. Indeed, that report is dated March 1976, which means that we have added insult to injury in this case because the report has been available for some 1 5 months. Many other departments are guilty of not fulfilling this important requirement. The secretary of the Publications Committee has provided me with a list of reports tabled in the Parliament where less than 20 copies were made available to the Senate records and papers office for the period June to December 1976. I seek leave to incorporate this list in  Hansard. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice on 26 May 1977: 
Has his attention been drawn to statements by the Premier of Queensland, the  Hon.  J. Bjelke-Petersen, in the  Sunday Sun  of 17 April 1977 in which he stated that Australia's aid program should be reduced. 
If so, has he received any submissions from the Queensland Government on this matter. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 17 March 1977: 
1 ) In which Federal electoral divisions, giving the names of Commonwealth Employment Offices, have Community Youth Support projects been (a) initiated and (b) approved. 
) What is the total cost of approved projects to date. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
Has the Commonwealth Government recently transferred its powers on environmental protection and environmental inquiries to the West Australian Government. 
If so, are agreements of a similar nature to be signed with other State Governments. 
) On what basis has the Commonwealth transferred this power to the States. 
Has his attention been drawn to  Dr Mosley's  comments on these transfers which appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  of 24 May 1977. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
1 ) Has any study been carried out on the effects of Australian anti-pollution legislation on motor vehicle fuel consumption. 
If so, what were the results of these studies. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
What is the total number of Federal Government employees. 
How many, and what proportion of the total, come under the ambit of the Public Service Act. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
How many interdepartmental committees are presently in existence. 
2 ) What topics are they investigating. 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to a published statement that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said that he condoned violence by anti-uranium demonstrators? Does the Government intend to be deterred from carrying out its responsibilities by the actions of an anti-democratic minority? 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article which appeared in the  Townsville Daily Bulletin  of 25 May 1977 in which the Premier of Queensland, the  Hon.  Joh BjelkePetersen, is reported as saying that he would seek financial assistance from the Federal Government to aid the housing industry in Townsville and that interest rates should be lowered. 
If so, has the Commonwealth Government received any submission from the Queensland Government on these matters. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
When and for what purpose was the fish species European Carp introduced into Australia. 
Was the CSIRO or other governmental authority aware that the fish were being imported into Australia; if so, what tests were undertaken to ensure that the species was not a potential pest. 
If these authorities were not aware of its importation, what was the reason. 
How widespread is its occupation of the Australian inland water system. 
Have the habits of this fish species resulted in the killing off of Australian native fish in many areas of Australia and, particularly, in the Murray River system. 
Do the habits of this fish species convert what have been clear river waters into very muddy conditions; if so, what effect does this have on those towns which rely on these waters for their town water supplies. 
Is the CSIRO undertaking any research to rid Australia of this pest; if so, what have been the results of the research. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 26 May 1 977: 
How many statutory bodies were established by the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975. 
What are the names of these bodies. 
Who have been appointed to the boards of these bodies and what is the length of their appointments. 
How many statutory bodies have been established by the Fraser Government since 1975. 
5 ) What are their names. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I listened intently to two members of the Opposition, the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  The only thing that impressed me was their lack of enthusiasm in this debate. From the point of view of participation by the Opposition it is probably one of the dullest debates I have witnessed in this House for many a day. The honourable member for Maribyrnong made a few interesting points about the situation in Sweden. He talked also of inflation increasing the patient contribution in nursing homes but said that there would be annual adjustments. I think the honourable member for Prospect made the same point. No one is denying that inflation will have an adverse effect but one can just imagine what it would have been like had the Labor Government been in power, with inflation raging on towards 20 per cent. As least this Government has taken positive steps to reduce the rate of inflation and has made a considerable achievement in this area. 
More recently we heard an entertaining speech- one can say no more for it than that it was entertaining- from the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  I do not know what is happening to the Opposition. We see little enthusiasm for this debate and indeed little enthusiasm for most debates. I rise to support both the Bills before the House. 
-The honourable member for Wills says that I have to. I want to support them. Indeed honourable members opposite are supporting them as well, so apparently they want to. I direct my comments first of all to the National Health Amendment Bill which is designed to amend section 9 (1) (b) of the National Health Act 1953. Most of the comments in this cognate debate have been in relation  to the other  Bill but I want to make a few points on this Bill which deals with charges for pathology services from the Commonwealth Health Laboratories. Initially I want to examine the position as it stands at present. At the present time a patient can obtain pathology services free at any one of 14 
Commonwealth health laboratories throughout the country, and additionally here in the Australian Capital Territory. After this amendment to the National Health Act is passed those same patients- I emphasise that- will be able to receive the same treatment but they will have to pay. That applies to people other than very low income earners and most pensioners. 
At the present time we have a situation of unfair competition. A private pathologist has to compete with an excellent free service offered by the Government. It is the intention of this Bill to remove that unfair competition. No longer will an ordinary patient be able to obtain free pathology services at a Commonwealth laboratory. The cost saving to the taxpayer- which of course means a saving to the Government- in a full year is a staggering $5.3m or $3.3m for the remainder of the 1977-78 financial year. These points were made in the second reading speech of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  Privately insured in-patients of hospitals, privately insured outpatients of hospitals and patients referred by medical practitioners to Commonwealth Health Laboratories will be charged directly from 1 October this year. Those patients who are members of medical benefits funds will be able to make a claim in the normal manner whether they belong to Medibank Private or to a private health insurance organisation. 
At this stage I want to direct a few comments to the medical profession. The Government, in good faith and in keeping with Liberal and National Country Party policy of the promotion of the  private enterprise system,  is removing an anomaly. The Government is removing unfair competition. But I want to direct these comments specifically to the medical profession because many members of that profession are not playing the game with the Government. We see gross exploitation. I want to emphasise that I am not referring to the total profession but to a minority of medical practitioners. They are exploiting the scheme with over-usage. Many of them have an obsession with making money. My impression is that it is not unusual for an ordinary general practitioner to earn something like $80,000 to $100,000 annually. So they have this obsession with making money. I have no sympathy - 
-I repeat that I have no sympathy for those caught abusing the free medicine scheme. The honourable member for Wills asks whether I support it. I support those in our community who honestly earn their entitlement I believe that there are many medical practitioners in this community who honestly earn that and who are entitled to it, but to those who see fit to exploit the scheme I would extend no mercy. Indeed the Government should be backed by all members of this House, both Government and Opposition members, the public, the Australian Medical Association, the Society of General Practitioners and any other body that represents groupings of the medical profession in this country. I believe that offenders should be severely punished. Repeatedly we hear of cases of doctors defrauding the scheme, which in effect is defrauding the Government and the taxpayer. As I said earner, I have no sympathy or mercy for them. 
I want to turn now to the National Health Acts Amendment Bill. It is proposed in this Bill to increase benefits paid by the Commonwealth for eligible uninsured patients in approved private nursing homes and to provide for registered hospital benefits organisations to pay the benefits of contributor patients in approved private nursing homes. Once again I want to examine the position of patients at the present time. Many private nursing home patients have serious difficulty in meeting the difference between the fees charged and the nursing home benefits paid. The gap is too great for many of them. A great deal of anxiety is caused to those patients and to the relatives and friends of patients in these nursing homes, and sometimes we see a dwindling of the meagre life savings of these people who are unfortunate enough to be so hospitalised. 
Having examined the position of patients at the present time I now want to look at what the position will be after the Act is amended. From 1 October benefits will be increased and then adjusted upwards annually. I think one of the previous speakers from the Opposition side seemed to doubt the Government's honesty in this matter. I think the honourable member concerned was the honourable member for Prospect. I have no doubt about the Government's intention and indeed I hope that the honourable member is vigilant about this matter as well and that he will remind the Government if this is not carried out. 
When we add to this increase the statutory minimum patient contribution which is at present $6.70 a day, some 70 per cent of patients will be fully covered regardless of what State of the Commonwealth they are in. This means that seven out of ten patients will remain in private nursing homes for a $46.90 personal contribution. Pensioners, of course, will still retain approximately $5 a week from their pension for personal use. 
Let me sum up. The uninsured, who are mostly pensioners, will have a greater Commonwealth contribution towards their private nursing home costs. The insured will receive similar benefits but these, of course, will be paid by their registered hospital benefits organisation. I just make one other comment in relation to the terminology in this Bill because an intensive care patient is now an extensive care patient and of course that benefit is being increased from $3 a day to $6 a day. 
I draw particular reference to the pre-Budget Press speculation which I believe was mischievous, untrue and damaging to the health and wellbeing of tens of thousands of patients in private nursing homes. The Minister for Health made an announcement on 16 June this year that the Budget would contain certain increases. Due to certain Press speculation by individuals, who I believe have a desire to paint this Government as a non-compassionate one, thousands of ill and old men and women were subjected to stress and anguish. Those reporters responsible should hang their heads in shame. I trust that this sort of thing will not happen in the future. This Government is compassionate. The honourable member for Prospect tried to interject a few moments ago. Of course, what he fails to tell this nation is that most of the health and social welfare advances in this country were instituted by a Liberal-Country Party government. Indeed let us not forget all the schemes that were introduced in 23 years of Liberal-Country Party government. So the Government is compassionate and does not treat lightly such matters as ill health, old age and disadvantaged groups in our community. 
I turn in particular to clause 1 1 of the Bill because this clause lists the basic daily benefit payable by the Commonwealth for nursing home care for an uninsured nursing home patient. Victoria attracts $19.65; South Australia, $17.40; New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory, $13.65; Tasmania, $14.85; Queensland, $11.80; and Western Australia, $1 1.75. The initial question I ask is: Why are the amounts to Victoria and South Australia so much higher than to other States? It costs the Commonwealth for the same patient with the same condition $7.88 or 66 per cent more per day in a Victorian nursing home than in a Queensland nursing home. The second question I ask is: Are Victorians superior to Queenslanders and West Australians? 
Let me examine the reason for the variation. The States I believe are stubbornly imposing their own nursing standard conditions. Victorian and South Australian standards are higher than the standards of the other States. Victoria and South Australia require more registered nursing hours per patient per week and more unregistered nursing hours per patient per week than do the other States. The next question, of course, that should be asked is this: Are standards too high in Victoria and South Australia or are patients being disadvantaged in Queensland, Western Australia, New South Wales and to a lesser extent Tasmania? I believe this is a ridiculous state of affairs. If State government health departments want to set these high standards it is my view that they should pick up the tab for the difference. It is time that the Commonwealth and the State Health Ministers conferred with the Federal Minister for Health and sorted out this mess and reached some uniformity in standards. As I say, if the States want to continue with those higher standards, with a greater number of registered and unregistered nursing hours per patient per week let them foot the bill from their own State revenues. As a Queenslander, I am most unhappy at having to subsidise Victoria and South Australia as no doubt are all Queenslanders, Western Australians and New South Welshmen. 
-Well, Queenslanders are not second-rate citizens. Let me inform the honourable gentleman, who is out of his place, that there is better substance in Queenslanders than there is in most South Australians. I repeat that we are not second-rate citizens, but we are being treated as such by being forced to subsidise Victoria and South Australia. As I said earlier, I trust the Minister for Health will take this matter up with the States and at some time in the future introduce legislation that will solve this problem. 
I conclude on a matter that has concerned me over a period of time and on which I have had some discussion with the Minister for Health. I refer to the fees control system as it applies to private nursing homes. An income control system has applied since 1972- in other words, specific nursing homes have had their fees pegged. There are a number of inequities throughout Australia. First, I would like to give an example. Let us assume that proprietor A builds a nursing home of ordinary standards and amenities and provides an ordinary standard of care. His return on capital investment is reasonable, as it should be. But proprietor B who built a nursing home in 1970- a better quality home than that of proprietor A- and provides a superior service is pegged in the return he receives because of the fees control system. His return is based on an inadequate capital value because the capital value for assessment purposes is pegged at the 1 970 cost and no allowance is made for inflation. However, if proprietor B sold his nursing home I understand a new capital value would be placed on it for the purposes of assessing return for the new owner. Unless this situation is rectified as time goes on relativities will worsen. I have one particular home in mind where this stituation occurs- the Crana Nursing Home which is owned by a constituent of mine. This 87-bed home is situated in the Federal electorate of Brisbane. I understand that there are scores of others throughout the Commonwealth. I sincerely trust that the Minister for Health will see fit to rectify this anomalous situation in the not too distant future. 
-Is the Minister for National Resources and Minister for Overseas Trade aware of continuing claims that there should be a referendum in Australia as a means of settling the dispute over the mining and sale of Australian uranium for peaceful purposes? Does the Government have a view on the referendum proposals? 
-I present the Fifteenth Report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave-adopted. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) What Federal Government funds have been spent in the electoral division of Petrie in each year since 1972. 
On what projects were these funds spent. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, in 16 August 1977: 
1 ) What grants have been made under section 96 of the Constitution to the State Government of Queensland in each of the financial years since 1972. 
Have there been any instances where funds provided to the Queensland Government under section 96 of the constitution have not been spent by that Government and have had to be refunded to the Commonwealth Government; if so, will he supply details of the projects affected and the amounts involved. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
To whom are Cabinet Minutes circulated. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 7 September 1977: 
1 ) What recommendations of the Review of the Continuing Expenditure Policies of the Previous Government by the Coombs Task Force of 1973 were implemented by the Whitlam Government. 
What savings in Government expenditure were affected by these recommendations. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to tests carried out by the Australian Consumers Association on the germicidal product Fiesta, and reported in their magazine  Choice  in November 1975, which proved that the product's germ killing capacity was practically nil. 
Did the Association write to the Trade Practices Commission in December 1975 informing them of the results of its tests. 
If so, and as a result of this correspondence, did the Commission request the manufacturer of Fiesta to change its advertising claim that Fiesta 'killed germs in the wash' to 'kills most germs in the wash '. 
Has his attention been drawn to recent advertisements for Fiesta which claim that the product kills the bacteria Pseudomonas Aeruginosa, even though the Consumer Association's initial tests in November 1975 proved that this was one bacteria which was totally unaffected by the use of the bleach and that this finding was stated in their correspondence to the Trade Practices Commission in December 1975. 
If so, should further action be taken by the Trade Practices Commission in order to stop the present misrepresentation in the advertisements made for the capabilities of the Fiesta germicidal bleach. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 15 September 1977: 
How many medical practitioners were authorised to dispense prescriptions under the National Health Act during each of the last 5 financial years. 
How many prescriptions did they dispense and what was the value of the dispensed prescriptions for each of those years. 
) By what formula are such prescriptions priced for payment to the authorised medical practitioner. 
Has there been any variation in the method of pricing; if so, (a) what changes were made, (b) when did they come into effect and (c) at whose request was the alteration made. 
What is the criterion for granting an authority to dispense to a medical practitioner in private practice. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
How many (a) black and (b) white Rhodesians have been granted residency under Australia's immigration program during each of the last three years. 
) Do the criteria for entry of Rhodesians vary from that applied to applicants from other countries. 
I found it rather difficult to follow the earlier remarks of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  but I gathered he was critical of the determination in respect of medical fees, as announced in this House yesterday by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  I would remind the honourable member that the increase of 8 per cent was far less than the increase of 31.9 per cent in the previous period to 30 September 1974, as was stated in the report, and the 20.S per cent that applied for the ensuing 12-months period. It is not my intention to enter in any detail into the multitude of aspects that apply in these particular areas of health and welfare. 
I want to deal with one particular point because there is one facet of our health program where the Government is being defrauded of countless millions of dollars and, likewise, the public directly through the private health insurance funds. An unidentified number of medical practitioners is ripping off these millions of dollars through abuse of the position of trust in which they are placed. Much of this fraudulent practice is known to the Government and, I beeve, to the hierarchy and to the honest practitioners of the various medical associations. Let me emphasise at this point that it is not a practice that is followed by a majority of doctors but, nevertheless, it is all too widespread. I am alarmed at the increasing number of convictions of doctors for offences under the Health Insurance Act. Almost weekly doctors are being brought before the courts and successfully prosecuted. Illegal practices were highlighted recently when an Adelaide dermatologist,  Dr Welch,  was fined $14,200 with $47,500 costs on 71 offences relating to Medibank. It was reported that he repaid $110,000 directly relating to charges against him and a further $100,000 relating to matters not dealt with by the court. 
In my estimation, medical practitioners in private practice fall broadly into four categories. Firstly, the honest practitioners. They are scrupulous, do not overvisit or overtreat patients and uphold the highest ethical standards. Indeed, they are impeccably honest. Secondly, there are the blatant cheats who quite massively indulge in a variety of practices to boost their incomes and are most likely to be caught and prosecuted. They are, no doubt, in the minority but are involved in such actions as claiming for nonexistent services, claiming for out of hours charges when in hours charges should apply and requiring pensioners to sign more than one voucher for one visit. It is my experience that pensioners are reluctant to raise the issue for fear of vindictiveness by the doctor and will not change doctors because of their medical history record being with that particular doctor or because they are satisfied with the treatment by their doctor. Then there is probably the most common abuse- that is, overconsultation of patients instigated by the doctor. This is the most difficult abuse to detect and to sustain a case about. It is not practical to set up a panel of doctors to determine whether a medical service is required. It is then left to the discretion of each individual doctor as to how many consultations he deems necessary for the well-being of his patient. This practice of overconsultation is rife with pensioners and private patients, whether they are covered under the Medibank levy system, Medibank Private or a private health insurance organisation. It applies also to repatriation patients. 
The remainder of private practice doctors fall into two categories- the smart or cautious doctors and the not so cautious doctors. The more cautious doctors are indulging only slightly in all or some of the practices and will probably never be found out whilst the less cautious ones are defrauding to a greater extent and are more liable to be investigated and successfully prosecuted. What motivates a private practice doctor to be so greedy? Quite apart from the normal lust that grips some doctors, many are moved by wanting to keep up with the Joneses. It becomes a status symbol to own a large home with an expensive car, a second holiday home, a unit or a farming property. It is the possessions and affluence of their colleagues and business associates that often pushes them into fraudulent practices. 
Most medical practitioners in private practice, provided they maintain a sound name and are prepared to work and show an interest, or even appear to show an interest, in their patients can determine the extent or magnitude of their incomes, certainly up to a figure of some $100,000 annually and, indeed, many up to $ 1 50,000 annually. Some quick arithmetic shows that an average private practice general practitioner who does not do surgery or assist with surgery, working eight hours a day and five days a week, can easily earn in excess of $100,000 annually. He needs to see only a modest 50 patients daily at the new fees announced yesterday by the Minister for Health as will apply from 1 January 1978- in New South Wales it will be $8.90 per consultation in hours- and work 48 weeks of the year in order to gross in excess of $100,000 annually. 
To the defrauders and exploiters yesterday's fees increase announcement by the Minister for Health will be laughable. They are grossing so much money that the eight per cent increase is really quite unimportant to them. It is rather ironic that many of the doctors who cheat and who supported funds to wage campaigns against the introduction of Medibank are now ripping off the system. Another unfortunate side to overconsultation by doctors is the fact that it is often associated with over-prescribing of drugs. Frequently, to justify the visits the doctor prescribes unnecessarily. While many patients do not question an accumulation of drugs but merely take them, some more alert ones often ask their chemist: ' What am I taking this for? ' 
What are the answers to the problem? How can the Government, the public, the Australian Medical Association and other medical associations involved overcome or at least lessen the problem? There are a number of ways in which the problems can be tackled. In my mind, the patient contribution or identifiable cost is far too small. At the moment for a little more than $1 a patient can consult his doctor. Because he has to ave medical insurance he can keep going back at $1 a visit. This is not a deterrent cost to the patient. If the patient contribution were, say, $4 per visit with a proportionate drop in insurance contributions he would be inclined to take more notice of frequent visits. There should be abolition of bulk billing except for pensioners. There should be more stringent policing by the Government and by medical associations of the practices of private practice doctors. The public should be made more aware of the possibility of overconsultation. Although penalities for Medibank offences were recently increased to a maximum of $10,000 or five years imprisonment they are still not adequate. 
Finally, I believe that the Government should give consideration to a catastrophic insurance scheme. This sort of scheme would insure the patient against major illness or accident only and make him responsible for ordinary visits to general practitioners and specialists. Insurance premiums would be vastly reduced under this type of scheme. If a person had to pay $9 per visit out of his own pocket he would be more careful of the costs involved. I conclude by once again emphasising two things: Firstly, this matter of fraudulently ripping off the Government by private practice doctors is a serious problem costing many millions of dollars annually; and secondly, it should be clearly understood that my comments about medical practitioners are not allembracing. There are still many good, honest, decent doctors in our community. 
In spite of what the honourable member for Robertson says, there are a lot of medical practitioners in this nation who earn what they get, but unfortunately an increasing number today are taking down the Government and the public. I want to pay a tribute to the Director-General of Health. If honourable members have looked at the annual report of the Director-General of Health for 1976-77 they could only be impressed with the emphasis that is being placed on various matters. I know that the Director-General has given a lot of attention to such things as the drug education program and the treatment and rehabilitation facilities for alcohol and drug dependency. This is a case of prevention being better than cure. The DirectorGeneral is to be commended for pursuing these various programs. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 September 1977: 
How many air traffic movements have occurred at Ayers Rock airstrip during each year from 1 970. 
How many F27 and DC3 aircraft movements have occurred during the same years. 
On how many days has the airstrip been nonoperational because of flooding during those years. 
What is the largest fully loaded aircraft capable of landing at the airstrip. 
What is the nature and cost of maintenance of the airstrip. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
How many Commonwealth public servants have been granted paternity leave since its introduction in 1 973. 
What was the cost of the paternity leave scheme in each of the financial years since its introduction. 
How many persons have (a) applied for and (b) been granted maternity leave since its introduction. 
What was the cost of this leave in each of the financial years since its introduction. 
How many persons granted maternity leave have returned to work in the Public Service and for what period of time have they continued in the employment of the Public Service. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 7 September 1977: 
When was Saturday morning trading at official post offices abolished. 
Prior to that date, how many non-official post offices were in existence in each State, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
How many non-official post offices were in existence during each of the financial years in each State, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory since the abolition of Saturday morning trading at official post offices. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
Has the Department of Social Security undertaken any studies of the New Zealand system of national superannuation; if so, is the investigation complete and will details be released. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
Is it a fact that when the Hancock Committee was investigating a proposed national superannuation scheme for Australia the Attorney-General's Department was unable to tender any legal advice concerning the constitutional validity of such a scheme. 
Has any legal opinion been sought of the AttorneyGeneral since the Hancock Committee published its report; if so, what is the nature of the advice received. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) How many persons employed by the Commonwealth Government have been dismissed by the Public Service Board in each year since 1972. 
In what departments were these dismissals made and on what grounds. 
How many Commonwealth employees have been retired because of inefficiency or incompetence in each year since 1972. 
-On behalf of the Publications Committee, sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate, I present the report of the Committee entitled Inquiry into the Purpose, Scope and Distribution of the Parliamentary Paper Series' together with the transcript of evidence. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
1 ) How many meetings have been held between Federal and State representatives to discuss the implementation of the Bailey Report on Social Welfare. 
Who were the individuals involved in these discussions. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 7 September 1977: 
How many persons have been relocated in employment under the Relocation Assistance Scheme in Queensland since its establishment in 1 976. 
What has been the total amount of relocation allowance paid to these persons. 
How many persons have been relocated (a) from different areas within Queensland and (b) from outside Queensland. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 6 October 1977: 
Has the Queensland Government ever put forward a proposal either directly or through the appropriate Commission for the establishment of a technical college at Redcliffe in the Electoral Division of Petrie; if so, on what dates were the submissions made and what was their nature. 
Can the Prime Minister tell the House about the attitudes to Australia's uranium policy expressed to him by heads of government during his visit to Europe earlier this year? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
How many pharmacists were employed in each State and Territory in (a) public and (b) private hospitals during 1974-75, 1975-76and 1976-77. 
-I present a report, together with minutes of proceedings, from the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, being a report that the Committee has been unable to complete its inquiries. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-There is no doubt that the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  is one of the most vociferous members in this House. He has always been heavy on words and light on action. I am sure that his being heavy on words tonight in his criticism of the Queensland Government will win him no friends whatsoever. It just shows how much out of tune he is with the people of Queensland. At present his party in Queensland holds one out of 18 Federal seats. The Queensland Opposition led by Tom Burns has 11 members in a Parliament of 82. It is often referred to as the broken-down cricket team. It cannot even provide a twelfth man. Of course, one can understand the honourable member being a little out of tune. He cannot make up his mind. He is too preoccupied with whether he is economic spokesman for the Opposition, whether he is to take the portfolio of Treasurer, the portfolio of economic manager or the portfolios of Defence and Foreign Affairs combined. 
The people of Queensland are thoroughly satisfied with the State coalition Government. They will reflect that satisfaction come Saturday week, 12 November. The people will have their say then, and all of the loose words that have been spoken tonight by the honourable member for Oxley will be meaningless. The people rejected the Australian Labor Party in December 1974 in the State election, and they repeated their action in December 197S in the Federal election. They will do it on 12 November in the State election and again on 10 December in the Federal election. The honourable member for Oxley implied that Queenslanders are less than astute. They will not forget those words. Queenslanders have their feet firmly planted on the ground. They know what they are doing, and that will be reflected in their vote in the two forthcoming elections. They will not forget the comments of the honourable member for Oxley. 
The honourable member had the temerity to stand in this Parliament tonight and tell us what extra money should have been spent in Queensland and how the Queensland Government should run its Budget. Let me remind him that when he was Treasurer of this nation he budgeted for a deficit of something like $2.8 billion- a large deficit, to say the least- and after only three and a half months the deficit was heading for $4.5 billion. Yet tonight he had the temerity to tell this House what the Queensland Government should be doing with its Budget. If I remember correctly, inflation was running at 4.5 per cent when the Labor Government came to power in December 1972, and it was running at 17 per cent when it left government in November 1975. The Labor Government inherited an unemployment figure of about 100,000. When Labor left office the figure was about 260,000. There was a wages explosion under Labor. All of these issues came about as a result of the bungling of the Labor Party when in government. I suggest to the honourable memer for Oxley that he might need a bullet-proof vest in Queensland, not the Premier,  Mr BjelkePetersen. 
It is my view that the Queensland Government will be returned with a handsome majority. There has been an unbroken period of 20 years of stable government for the State of Queensland. The Government has developed the State's resources of coal and bauxite well. Queensland has a stable sugar industry and other primary industries. It has developed a road network that certainly needs work done on it, but this will take time. The electrification of Brisbane's rail system is proceeding now at a time when electrification will be viable. It was not proceeded with when the Labor Party wanted to develop it 20 years ago. There were then insufficient people to provide the necessary support for such a system. Hospital and medical services are being developed m the State and I believe that they are second to none. Queensland is the most decentralised State in Australia, with one million people living in south-eastern Queensland and a further one million people spread throughout the remainder of the State. There are first class port developments right up the coastline. Schools have been built, and a multitude of other services and programs are in the pipeline. 
It is my view that the people of Queensland want stable government. They have expressed that in Federal elections; they have expressed it previously in State elections; and they will do it on Saturday week, when in my view the Labor Party will be lucky to get 35 per cent of the total vote. So much for the honourable member for Oxley talking about gerrymanders. What can he expect with 35 per cent of the vote? It is my view that that is roughly the proportion his party will get. The Queensland Government will be returned because of its record- I repeat 'because of its record'- and because of its forward policy program. 
I refer now to the speech made by the honourable member for Oxley in this House yesterday. He ought to be ashamed of that performance. It was a savage speech. Indeed, I believe that it was a merciless speech. It was unwarranted and it was a deceptive attack on the Utah Development Corporation in particular. The honourable member conveniently made no reference in that speech to the massive benefits that - flow to Australia and to Queensland as a result of the operations of Utah in Queensland. I noticed that he made no reference to the rail freight revenues that flow to the Queensland Governmentsomething like $56m in 1976. He made no mention of the taxes and royalties of some $2 1 m that flowed to the Queensland Government in the same year. A letter from John Bailey of Brighton, Victoria, which appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  yesterday, set out quite clearly the position in relation to the Utah Development Corporation.  Mr Bailey  quoted figures from the annual report of that company for the year ended 31 October 1976. 
If the honourable member for Oxley has visited the central Queensland coal fields that are operated by Utah, as I understand he has, I am surprised and ashamed that this man can put forward such a story. I say to all honourable members that if the opportunity arises they should visit such townships as Dysart, Goonyella Peak Downs and Saraji. The Utah Development Corporation has constructed railway lines to Hay Point. It has also constructed loading faculties at Hay Point. I wonder whether the honourable member for Oxley has talked to some of the employees there. 
I can assure the honourable member for Dawson that he has been there because I checked it out today. But let us look at the amenities that are provided- squash courts, a golf course, shopping centres, swimming pools and so forth. The average wage earned in the central Queensland coal fields operated by Utah is $16,000 to $17,000 a year and that does not include management wages. 
As the honourable member for Bowman interjects, that is the average. That average wage does not include management wages and salaries. 
-I shall move on to that matter in just a moment. Labourers earn about $12,000 a year and semi-skilled people earn up to $20,000 a year. I wonder whether the honourable member for Oxley has talked to the men and women in those townships, the labourers and the plant operators, as I have done. They are extremely happy. He ought to go and talk to the management again because I can assure him that it is contented as well. 
As a Queenslander, I strongly resent the words spoken in this House yesterday by the honourable member for Oxley. The Utah Development Corporation has achieved much for Queensland. Indeed, if we examine its annual report to which I referred earlier we find that about 60 per cent of earnings went in tax to governments. I hope the honourable member for Chifley is listening because only 40 per cent went to shareholders. The estimate for this year is that S3 per cent of earnings will go to governments and 47 per cent will go to shareholders. What the honourable member for Oxley failed to tell the House yesterday was that there are total assets of the order of $500m invested there, with the Utah Development Corporation having invested about $43 Sm. The situation, as I understand it, is somewhat different from the distorted view conveyed to this House by the honourable member for Oxley. About $ 1 4m was paid to Australian shareholders and $1 17m was repatriated with the approval of the Foreign Investment Review Board. I should like the honourable member for Chifley to listen to what I am saying. I should like him to go to the central coal fields and talk to the men and women there who receive wonderful support from this company. They would run him out of town. 
A substantial portion of the $117m that was repatriated would have gone into the development of the Norwich Park coal fields only for trie actions of the seamen's union. I noticed that the honourable member for Oxley had nothing to say about this particular matter. Norwich Park will be developed at a cost of about $250m. What about the job opportunities that that will provide? I do not hear the honourable member for Chifley being quite so outspoken at this stage. I remind the House that the job opportunities that would arise from the development of the Norwich Park coal fields would not be confined to that particular area. Indeed there would be job opportunities such as those that arise now in workshops in Newcastle, Port Kembla, Sydney and other centres as a result of Utah's other operations in central Queensland. So the 3,000 jobs that were referred to as directly involved in Utah's operations in central Queensland would be increased to many more thousands, taking into account all the ancillary works that go to support that wonderful development. 
I wish to turn now to the fact that the States of Australia are doing very well under this Government. Indeed, there was no mention by the honourable member for Oxley in his earlier speech as to just how well the States are doing. 
When one examines the general revenue assistance, that is, the tax sharing assistance that this Government has provided to the States, it will be noticed that in 1976-77 about $3.6 billion went to the States. In the same year, for section 96 or specific purpose payments, about $2.4 billion went to the States. These figures are to be increased substantially to about 18 per cent this financial year and will total, for both general revenue and specific purpose payments, $7,24 1.7m. This is a substantial amount of money which flows to the States. I mention this in particular because too much criticism flows to the Commonwealth from the States. Whenever a State government cannot carry out a program, it invariably says that the Commonwealth Government is not providing adequate funds. I think this is reflected m the condition of the State budgets. 
I wish to refer now to the healthy condition of the six State budgets. In 1976-77 New South Wales had a deficit of $0.5m, Queensland had a deficit of $lm and South Australia had a deficit of $0.1 m. Queensland's deficit of $ 1.02m on its Revenue Account was arrived at only after allocating $Sm of the State's personal income tax sharing payment in 1976-77 for use in 1977-78. The budgets of the other three States were: Victoria, a surplus of $9.1 m; Western Australia, a surplus of $3.4m; and Tasmania, a surplus of $1.6m. Indeed, shows examination of the State budget estimates for 1977-78 again shows a very healthy picture. The States have reduced their taxes. That is entirely their business. Of course one of the great advantages of the present Government's federalism policy is that it allows the State governments to do as they will. All of the State governments have decided to reduce payroll tax in the 1977-78 financial year. I am not saying for a moment that this should not be done: I support such a move. Practically all of the States have reduced probate duty, stamp duty, land taxes and gift taxes. As I say, that is entirely the business of the States. But one does get a little tired of the way in which the States bleat every time they do not have sufficient funds. The States must be honest with their electors and tell them when they cannot carry out a project. They should not continually blame the Commonwealth. 
I wish to refer briefly to the rate of growth of the State Public Services. It is my view that while the Commonwealth has reined m in this particular area and cut back on the number of Commonwealth employees, the States have not been of the same mind. I think this is an area at which the State governments ought to look very seriously. The provision of $24.8m in this Bill to 
Queensland will be a great boost to that State's finances. The Commonwealth Grants Commission examines the position. I think one would agree that if a particular State wants to be a claimant State- and Queensland is the only claimant State at the moment- the four less populous States of Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania should not be disadvantaged. In this particular case the Government of Queensland, the only claimant State, is to receive $24.8m in 1977-78. It is more expensive to provide services to smaller cities in outlying areas in a vast State such as Queensland. Indeed a State such as Queensland cannot raise taxes as easily as can the standard States of New South Wales and Victoria. So this payment is compensation to Queensland for being a disadvantaged State. I trust that the people of Victoria and New South Wales will not mind this, as I believe it would be unfair if the people of Queensland had to pay higher taxes in order to enjoy a reasonable standard of living- In conclusion I want to mention a matter that affects my electorate. It is on rare occasions that I mention anything of a parochial nature. 
-If the honourable member for Prospect would like to come with me I will show him around. Let me add that his political party is having difficulty in finding a candidate. The honourable member can come and campaign for a candidate any day of the week and every day of the week between now and the Federal election. The matter I want to raise concerns the augmentation of what is known as the Hornibrook Highway, a project which will cost about $9m. In October last year I asked the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  a question on notice. He replied that the Queensland Government had not seen fit to include that project in any program. In answer to a further representation made by me the Minister replied today saying that the Queensland Government has not included any works on the Hornibrook viaduct in its submission for the 1977-78 urban arterial roads program as submitted under the States Grants (Roads) Act. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) How many outpatient prescriptions were dispensed by public hospitals in each State and Territory during 1974-75, 1975- 76 and 1976-77. 
How many inpatient prescriptions were dispensed by public hospitals in each State and Territory during the same years. 
What was the total cost of the drugs dispensed and the labour and overhead costs of the public hospital dispensaries in each State and Territory during the same years. 
What was the cost to the Commonwealth for both outpatient and inpatient prescription dispensing by public hospitals during the same years and what is the formula for cost sharing. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
1 ) How many staff are presently employed by the Commonwealth Ombudsman. 
2 ) In what locations does the Ombudsman have offices. 
3 ) How many complaints has the Ombudsman received. 
How many complaints have been investigated and how many have been partially or fully upheld. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 26 October 1977: 
1 ) Since answering my question No. 1 168 on 14 October 1976  (Hansard,  page 1931), has the Queensland Government applied for funds for the already commenced augmentation of the Hornibrook Viaduct, under the States Grants (Roads) Act. 
Has the Minister for Health seen reports that the Government is considering the forced closure of chemist shops? Is consideration being given to the rationalisation of chemist shops? If so, is the matter being done in consultation with the Pharmacy Guild of Australia whose members constitute some 90 per cent of Australia's retail pharmacies? 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Since the Industries Assistance Commission was established, how many final reports has it produced listing (a) the title of the report and (b) whether the principal recommendations were accepted and implemented. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
What sums were paid in direct assistance to nongovernment schools as a result of recommendations of the Schools Commission in the electoral divisions of (a) Bowman, (b) Griffith, (c) Lilley (d) Moreton, (e) Oxley, (f) Petrie and (g) Ryan during 1976-77. 
In entering this debate I must say at the outset that I appreciate the tenor of the comments made by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  Indeed, I believe he was being helpful. But does he suffer from a guilt complex? I believe that he does when it is considered that the health costs of this nation have escalated to the extent outlined by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  under the Government of which he was a member. I just wonder how much influence he had with the Labor Government. It appears to me that he now intends to close the gate after the horse has bolted. 
Let us look at the deficits we had during the three years of Labor Government. During two of those years we had a deficit which totalled $6 billion. In 1974-75 the deficit was $2.5 billion and 1975-76 it was $3.5 billion. I strongly refute the statements that were made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  when he referred to the unsatisfactory arrangements for medical services that were provided by the private health insurance funds prior to the establishment of Medibank. I remind the Leader of the Opposition that 92 per cent of Australians were covered by health insurance. They voluntarily covered themselves in that period. Only 8 per cent of Australians were not covered, for whatever reasons. I believe that some of those people who comprised that 8 per cent did not have themselves covered because they could not afford it; they were low income earners. But a considerable number of those who comprise that 8 per cent elected, for other reasons, not to cover themselves with health insurance. 
The Leader of the Opposition said much about the increase in health costs as a percentage of gross domestic product. Indeed, that percentage did increase. Health costs as a percentage of gross domestic product increased, but proportionately they have been decreasing. In 1974-75 health costs increased by 15.4 per cent; in 1975-76 the increase was 8.1 per cent; last year the rate of increase dropped dramatically to 3.9 per cent. 
I think we ought to look at the record of the Labor Government, recognising of course that the problem of rising costs is with us. Let us look at the facts of the Labor Government's record. In 1973-74- these figures were extracted from the Budget papers- $947m was outlaid under the heading of health. In 1 974-75 the outlay for that item rocketed to $ 1,283m, which represented an increase of $336m or 35 per cent. In 1975-76, $2, 953m was spent by the Commonwealth Government on health matters. That represented an increase of $ 1 ,670m or 1 30 per cent. 
Maybe some of it is a transfer, but the fact remains that the Liberal Government was able in 1 976-77 to curtail that cost, because it was reduced by 14 per cent or $4 10m to $2, 543m. It is true that an increase of some 10 per cent is predicted for this financial year. To put on today's Notice Paper a matter of public importance expressing concern at the Government's failure to deal with rising health costs is really a laugh and a lot of humbug. 
Maybe it is bookkeeping, but the fact of the matter is that someone has to pay and the escalation in costs is basically directly attributable to the Labor Government during its three disastrous years in office. It was responsible for rocketing inflation and a wages explosion. Wages in this country increased with the backing of the Labor Government of the day. Now we are paying the penalty for it. Labor was the big spending government. We saw the explosion in the size of the Public Service. One could go on and mention many measures that have contributed to the economic mess and to rising health costs. So I suggest to the honourable member for Prospect that he should not waste the time of this House in future by putting senseless matters of public importance on the Notice Paper. 
This Government has expressed concern repeatedly at the escalating costs of health care and has acted. I intend to outline some of the measures that have been instituted by this Government and taken by the Minister for Health. He has established a number of committees of inquiry aimed at containment of costs. The 1977 medical fees inquiry is just one example. There have been amendments to legislation to curtail the activities of pathologists who were over-utilising pathology services. There have been increased penalties for breaches of the law. This is a deterrent to the medical profession. No leniency has been paid to doctors who abuse the system. Many medicos have been successfully prosecuted. The Minister's co-operation with honourable members from both sides of the House- particularly myself in the case of the prosecution of one particular doctor who, from bulk billing alone, earned $330,000 in one financial year and almost $200,000 in another financial year- about abuses of the system has left nothing to be desired. I want to express my concern at such practices and I believe that that concern is felt also by the hierarchy of the Australian Medical Association. 
Pharmaceutical services expenses were reduced in 1976-77 by $47m. It is true that, according to the estimates, we are to see a slight increase for this financial year. The measures outlined are a clear indication of the Government's concern over the rising health costs. 
-Positive measures have . . . 
. . . helped to contain these escalating costs. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I would like to take a few moments to outline some other measures and actions that I believe could be taken. I refer firstly to the Australian Medical Association peer review that has been the subject of discussion between the Minister and that body. I believe that the AMA has been too tardy in the establishment of a peer review group. A period of two years or three years has been mentioned as the time it would take to establish such a group. I cannot understand why that peer review group cannot be operating at an earlier date. There are many doctors in our community today who were violently opposed to the introduction of Medibank but who are now exploiting the scheme. In my view the initiation of this peer review group is overdue. Doctors in our community are in a position of trust that is, I believe, afforded to very few others. As the Leader of the Opposition mentioned, doctor initiated services are to be watched very closely. It is my view that the peer review system should be operating because in my estimation it is one of the best methods of curtailing the activities of the profession. 
I disagree with the Opposition in relation to the patient contribution. I am of the opinion that the service is provided without a real identifiable cost. In the case of New South Wales the standard in-hour consultation fee is $8.90 and the medical benefits payback is $7.60, meaning a cost to the patient of $1.30. Where else can one obtain $9 worth of service for $ 1 ? I would like to buy a $9,000 motor car for $ 1 ,000 because basically that is what it amounts to. Members of the public can go along as often as they wish for about a dollar a time. This means that we are not really identifying the cost. We must be able to identify the cost of health care. I disagree with the Opposition with regard to catastrophic insurance. I think it is an area that wants close examination. People pay the first $200 or $300 of their expenses or pay all of their ordinary consultation fees to the medical profession. Only when they have a major operation or accident would the catastrophic insurance come into play. I believe this is an area that wants close examination and if seen to be of benefit this should be introduced. I think the arguments put forward by Opposition speakers are spurious. The Government has clearly demonstrated two things. Firstly, it is concerned with the rising health costs and, secondly, it has taken positive measures to curtail those costs. I know that the Minister - 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Has  Mr Milan  Brych, the so-called cancer doctor operating in the Cook Islands, applied for a visa to enter Australia? If so, what restrictions will be imposed on the visa? Has the Queensland Premier stated that he is personally prepared to bring  Mr Brych  to Brisbane in the Queensland Government's aircraft if the Commonwealth refuses him entry or places restrictions on his entry? Does the Queensland Premier have the constitutional right to grant such entry or to issue a restriction-free visa to  Mr Brych  to visit Queensland? 
-Can the Prime Minister inform the House what steps the Government is taking to review ways in which health care is paid for and ways of containing its cost? 
-I present the First Report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
-I think it is only right and proper that there is at the moment a national debate on this very important and vexed question of the escalation of health costs. Indeed, the figure in respect of the cost of health care services nationally has increased beyond the 1976-77 level of $6.3 billion to approximately $7 billion. No wonder the public is concerned about this figure. I believe that the concern in the community arises from the level of contributions being paid yearly by individuals- that is, the family- at a base of $300 for contributors to Medibank and, of course, some $400 to $550 for contributors to private health insurance funds. 
I believe that contributors, particularly the young Australian family, look at the number of times they attend doctors in a 12 month period and relate the number and cost of consultations to the annual contribution they must make to Medibank or the private health insurance fund. It is obvious in that respect that many healthy young Australian families find themselves contributing far more to the fund than they are receiving by way of benefits. So there is no doubt that something must be done either to identify the cost to the Australian public or to put some ceiling on health costs throughout the nation. Whatever system is adopted and whatever amendments are made to the present system, I believe we must have adequate and good health care for all Australians. At this stage I will define what I believe is adequate health care. I believe it is to be defined in terms of the readily availability of health care for all Australians. A good standard of health care must be a standard that is acceptable by world standards and all Australians should have available to them this adequate, good health care regardless of their affluence, wealth or income. 
Having said that, I look now at some of the methods by which I believe we can contain medical and hospital costs in Australia. A number of options is put forward in this discussion paper,  Paying for Health Care,  by the Hospital and Health Services Commission under the leadership of  Dr Sax.  Firstly I look at something which has been mentioned by a number of speakers today: The method called front end deductibles. Front end deductibles operate with the patient paying the first $50, $100, $300, $400 or whatever the set figure is, before they actually start to take advantage of the insurance scheme to which they contribute. I look now at some of the arguments in favour of front end deductibles. No doubt such a system would result in a reduction in contribution rates. However, the extent of the reduction may not be as great as would appear on the surface because the premium rate would be reduced only in respect of the premiums necessary to cover the specified amount of the deductible. 
Another argument in favour of this system is that there is an awareness on the part of the patient- I believe this is vitally important- that he has to pay some of his health costs completely out of his own pocket. After all, everyone has to pay. I think, as the Minister for Health has said so frequently, there is no such thing as a free meal. The front-end-deductible system would identify the cost for the patient, and there would be less likelihood of patients making visits to a medical practitioner for what one might term minor or frivolous medical problems. In other words, they would tend to look after themselves a little more; they would go to their pharmacist; they would make themselves more aware of the procedures to adopt to combat very minor or unimportant medical problems that arise. 
Let us look at the pitfalls that one can fall into under the front-end-deductible system. Once the maximum deductible amount of $300, for example, was reached there would be no further incentive for a patient not to go to a doctor. Indeed, if a person had to go into hospital and spend two or three nights there the maximum front-end-deductible amount would be reached very quickly. The payment of the first $300 or $400 could result in undue hardship on some people. In other words, this payment may penalise some people who may be embarrassed because they may not be able to find that amount of money all at once if the expense came in a lump sum. There would be tremendous administrative difficulties involved in the front-end-deductible system. So all in all I believe that it would be unwise to adopt the front-end-deductible system. 
Similarly, the no-claim bonus system which applies to motor vehicle insurance would be unsuitable. Under this system if a patient made no claim or claimed below a certain amount in the previous year he would receive a bonus. A lot of people would find this system very attractive. 
-The healthy people, yes, as the Minister for Health reminds me. Let me say this to the House: People very often would tend to defer important medical consultations. I believe that it would be a tragedy if people under the no-claim bonus system deferred an important visit to the doctor which to them at the time may not appear to be important but may prove to be important in the future. Therefore I would rule the no-claim bonus system and the frontenddeductible system as being unsatisfactory for Australia. 
Let me look at some of the methods by which I believe we can contain health costs and make the public more aware, despite the claims of members of the Opposition. Of course in any scheme there will always be some inequalities. We would hope that we could work towards minimising the inequalities in any scheme. First of all, let me deal with patient moiety. In my view the patient's contribution has to be increased, and I differ strongly with the Opposition in this regard. Anywhere that there is a service that is free at the point of delivery there will be a tendency to abuse the service. At the moment there is an 85 per cent return to the individual for all standard consultations that a person has with a doctor. I suggest that we reduce that refund and make it about 65 per cent or 70 per cent. 
Let me look also at bulk billing. Unfortunately we have a system of bulk billing. I want to exclude of course from any consideration at this stage pensioners and the patients who are treated under the repatriation system because I believe that individuals who enjoy the benefits of bulk billing should be allowed to retain them. However, let me look at other categories of patients. At the moment many medicos in this country accept the 85 per cent of the common fee as the full payment for consultations. Therefore, there is no identifiable cost to the individual. At the moment the patient contributes a maximum of $5 for any one service. This is the figure that was set, I think, back in the Gorton Government days in the early 1970s. I suggest that that patient contribution of $5 be increased to $10 or $15 and that the refund be reduced to about 65 per cent or 70 per cent. 
Another area that causes concern and does not allow the patient to identify the cost is the fact that today a person can insure himself for the gap, that is, the difference between his contribution and the amount that is paid by the health insurance fund or by Medibank. I believe we should abolish gap insurance because at the moment people are able to insure themselves for that 1 5 per cent. They can go to their doctor, submit a claim and not have to pay lc for any visit they make to their medico. Unfortunately with bulk billing- I want to go into this a little morethere has been some gross exploitation by some members of the medical profession. It is unfortunate that people who purport to have high ethical standards would be involved in a practice such as the exploitation of health insurance schemes, not on a minor scale- I have spoken before in this House on the subject- but indeed on a major scale. In one particular case which was referred to me recently a doctor earned in excess of $300,000 in one financial year from bulk billing alone- one doctor on his own in one practice. In another financial year he earned almost $200,000 from bulk billing. It would be physically impossible at the current consultation rate for one person to see such a large number of people to earn that amount of money and, if he did see them, to administer reasonable care and attention to them. That is perhaps an extreme example of exploitation of the scheme. We must abolish bulk billing except in respect of the disadvantaged people in our community, such as pensioners and the repatriation patients. 
Another point I wish to make in relation to patient moiety concerns people who seek hospitalisation. At the moment a patient who receives medical and surgical treatment and nursing care in a hospital of course can be insured for the full amount. That is the position at the moment. Indeed, the cost of board and lodging is included. I think it is important to consider that all of us have to keep ourselves in our own homes. Yet, under the scheme at the moment we can go into hospital and receive hospitalisation, medical care and attention and all the ancillary services and be covered for full board and lodging as well. Until such time as we identify that cost I believe there will be no incentive for patients to leave hospital- not that they would want to leave earlier than their health permits. Nevertheless, when one considers that the administrators of hospitals have a tendency to ensure that all the hospital beds are occupiedthe provision of hospital beds is another pointand that their hospital bed occupancy is the highest in the country or higher than neighbouring hospitals there is an incentive for them to keep people in hospital unnecessarily. 
There are two or three other points that I wish to make. One of them once again is in relation to patient moiety. It concerns the outpatient departments at hospitals. I believe there should be a contribution by patients who receive treatment at outpatients departments in all of our hospitals. No service should be completely free at the point of delivery. I move on to the very difficult question of the provision of hospital beds. I want to make a couple of comments because, unlike some of the previous speakers, I believe that the number of new hospital beds should be restricted. I say this because at the moment the development program being undertaken in cooperation with the States is, I believe, in some areas at least, out of hand. 
The country hospital systems are important. I do not for a moment detract from that point. But with escalating costs and low occupancies they are expensive hospitals. They are expensive in a capital sense to provide and expensive to maintain. The cost per patient per day in some country hospitals is as high at $300. Indeed, in some of the larger centres and metropolitan areas it is as low as $150. Some hospitals with 10, 15 or 20 beds have a daily occupancy of only two or three. The aerial ambulance services and the flying doctor services could be utilised to better advantage. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

When I hear the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  sounding almost elated that we are of one accord on the basics of this particular problem, I become a little sceptical. If ever there was a disastrous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs it was the honourable member for Wills. He is a nice fellow, a gentleman and a friend of mine but he was just not a good Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. As this debate has proceeded over the past few weeks, I have become increasingly concerned that the welfare of the people who are caught up in the middle of the wrangle that is going on between the Commonwealth and the State- that is, the Aborigines- is in some danger. The welfare of the Aborigines is of paramount importance. 
-I hear a few comments from the other side. I probably have a greater affinity with these people than most members have. In the 1940s, in the Second World War years, I went to school with them. I saw quite a deal of them. That is probably more than most honourable members have experienced. The Aborigines of Australia have come a long way in the past 30-odd years, from the days when I knew some of them and went to school with them, when they lived on the fringe of Cooktown in shanties and communities that were known as 'blacks camps'. These people have moved forward. 
I visited a number of communities recently, and I was impressed by the intelligence of the people, by the fact that they are aware of their rights and by the fact that there is an awareness of the world around them. As well they have become more articulate, and that is all to the good of the Aboriginal people of this country. So the welfare of the Aborigines is of paramount importance. I hope that we do not lose sight of that fact in this continuing wrangle. We as Europeans have imposed our way of life on them. Who are we to say that our Western way of life is better for them? We have imposed it upon the indigenous people of this nation, and that imposition has caused a number of unfortunate problems which we are now trying to rectify. 
The Commonwealth's action in introducing this legislation has been precipitated by the Queensland Government's proposed takeover of the two communities of Mornington Island and Aurukun from the Uniting Church in Australia. Let me say here and now that, having visited both of those communities, I am convinced of the deep affinity that those people have with the Uniting Church. I heard the call go out from a senior member of the Uniting Church to the people of Mornington Island: 'If you want us to leave this community we will go '. Repeatedly the people of that community and the people of Aurukun stated that they wanted the Church to remain and that they wanted the Federal Government to be involved and not the State Government of Queensland. I emphasise this point because to my mind a conflict of policies between the Commonwealth and the State of Queensland has caused this whole problem in these two communities. 
At meetings of approximately 200 adults out of a population of about 750 in both communities again and again they cried out: 'We want the Uniting Church involved and the Commonwealth Government, not the State Government'. That did not arise because the Church had been brainwashing them. The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull), Senator Knight, Senator Bonner, Senator Martin  and I moved individually amongst the people. We talked to them in groups and individually. At no stage did we find a dissenter from the general view put at ordinary meetings or from the view put by the community councils. This legislation is enabling legislation, not compelling legislation. 
I want to touch on the issue of States rights, about which the Premier of Queensland is so vocal. It is not a States rights issue at all. Eleven years ago, in 1967, the people of the Commonwealth of Australia by an overwhelming majority voted in favour of amending the Constitution so that the Commonwealth could provide for Aborigines throughout the nation. It is not a States rights issue, yet the Premier of Queensland is saying repeatedly that it is an intrusion by the Commonwealth into an area in which the State has full rights. Legally and constitutionally it has no right at all. 
I am reminded by my honourable friend that Queenslanders voted overwhelmingly in favour of that constitutional change. In my research of the situation in 1967 1 did not find in newspaper reports any opposition at all to the proposal. There was no No case in the referendum. Although the State Government of the day was comparatively silent on the matter, the present State Government sees fit today to cry: 'This is an intrusion by the Commonwealth into an area of State responsibility'. I want to refer to the attitude of the Queensland Government. Under Fraser 's federalism we have seen a genuine devolution of powers and responsibilities to the States. It is true that the Commonwealth has made mistakes. The States have made mistakes. If we are to make federalism work there has to be goodwill on both sides. 
I believe that the Queensland Premier is playing dishonest politics in relation to this issue. In Queensland there is more conflict and more bickering going on than there is in the other five States put together. Let us not forget that three of those States are Labor States and have an opposing philosophy to the Commonwealth's philosophy. The Commonwealth Government has made mistakes and no doubt will continue to make them, but the Queensland Government ought to take a long, hard look at its approach to federalism and to its relationship with the Commonwealth as it has developed today. Longserving State Premiers, such as  Sir Henry  Bolte in Victoria,  Mr Dunstan  in South Australia, the late  Sir Francis  Nicklin in Queensland and  Sir Charles  Court in Western Australia, have been successful in their own right. As I see it, they have been successful quite honestly. Yet the Queensland Premier resorts to Canberrabashing time and again. 
What upsets me more than anything else is the bitterness which the Premier of Queensland is engendering in the minds of Queenslanders and the feeling that they are a separate State and a separate race. That is just not on. We are the one nation. Unfortunately, for cheap political gain Queenslanders are led to believe that down here in the Deep South, there are sinister southerners trying to take something away from them. I was born and bred in Queensland, which is more than some of the strongest critics of the Commonwealth can say. I am working as a Queenslander for the State of Queensland, but I am also able to take a national outlook. 
Let us look at what happens in relation to ethnic groups in Australia. The Government, assisted by the States, encourages ethnic groups to pursue their own religions and cultures. We nave ethnic radio and ethnic newspapers. Indeed even people of Danish parentage are encouraged to follow their religion and culture. Yet the Aurukun people, resident in this nation for over 30,000 years, are denied those rights. I can assure honourable members that at Aurukun they fervently want to maintain their outstations. Outstations are part of their culture. They do not want to return to the situation of 200 or 300 years ago, but they are quite adamant that they want to return to that style of life. They have done so, and I believe they have done so very successfully. Yet the Queensland Government had attempted to impose on those people a system whereby they were being asked to return to the central community of Aurukun. I suggest that those people are not nearly as Europeanised as the people of Cherbourg. 
The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull),  who is in the chamber at the moment, travelled with me on Friday, 31 March, to the Cherbourg mission after visiting Aurukun and Mornington Island. I am led to believe that Cherbourg is known as the show place of the Queensland Government's missions. A lot of money has been spent there, and in my view the people of Cherbourg are quite contented with what has been done for them by the Queensland Government. Indeed I do not doubt their loyalty because over a period a great deal of guidance has been given to them and a great deal of money has been spent in their community, but one could hardly compare Cherbourg, a Europeanised community five kilometres from the sizable township of Murgon, nestling amongst a number of communities with some farmers and graziers- a community in which I found it impossible to distinguish any full-blood Aborigines- with Aurukun and Mornington Island with 80 per cent or more of their populations being full-blood Aborigines. To compare 
Cherbourg, which as I say has developed in close proximity to Europeanised communities, with Aurukun and Mornington is nonsense. 
There has been more capital expenditure at Cherbourg. The funding situation in relation to those missions is very interesting because I was unable to obtain information- that is, accurate information- concerning the funding of the reserves by the Queensland Government. A lump sum figure is included in its Budget but I understand that the breakdown of that figure is not available to the general public. It is a scandalous state of affairs that funds are included in the Budget but that the Government appears to be not accountable for the individual expenditure in each of the communities. 
When we checked at Cherbourg, the show place of the State Government, we found that absenteeism from work was quite high. We checked at the sawmill, the joinery works, the sections where prefabricated homes are made, the pottery and the farm and found that absenteeism was high on that day. 
There is a European policeman at Cherbourg; yet Murgon is only five kilometres away. The Church has requested repeatedly that a European policeman be provided for the Mornington Island community. Mornington Island is several hundred kilometres from the closest European settlement- quite isolated- and yet repeated requests for a European policeman to assist the Aboriginal policemen in the settlement have been refused. 
As the honourable member for Bowman reminded me, they have requested a European policeman for seven years. In the case of the Hopevale mission and the Bloomfield River mission, both of which are near Cooktown, the need is not so great because a European police sergeant and a European constable are located in Cooktown. In the case of Aurukun also the need is not so great because at Weipa members of the Queensland police force are stationed. 
I found by questioning that at Cherbourg the people own no land of their own, but I detected interest by those people in the possibility of owning their own land. I asked the councillors at Cherbourg: 'Do you not believe that your people would be better off if they owned their own plots of land, say 24 or 30 perch blocks, like other Australians?' If those people owned their own blocks of land, in the future if they so desired they could sell their properties and live elsewhere. They would then have some funds to do that. I detected an interest in that proposal. 
A number of complaints, particularly in relation to health, education and law enforcement, have been made by residents of Mornington Island and Aurukun. It is an indictment of the Queensland Government if those services have been lacking because the provision of health services, schools and teachers- that is, the education of the people in those communities- and law enforcement in those areas is entirely the responsibility of the Queensland Government. It seems to me that those communities have been deprived of adequate services in the past although it was evident to us that education at least was up to standard. 
The visit to Mornington Island and the Aurukun reserve was interesting for the five of us who ventured there. In my view the Uniting Church in Australia and its predecessor, the Presbyterian church, have done an extremely good job with the Aborigines there. Let us not forget that for seven decades- in the case of Aurukun, from 1 904, and in the case of Mornington Island, from 1914- the Church has been operating for the good of those people. As far as I am concerned it has done a wonderful job in that time. In those seven decades governments, State and Federal, took little interest in the welfare of those people. One can understand their close affinity with the Church and their desire to have the Church continue to assist them towards selfmanagement of their affairs. 
I shall conclude my remarks by referring to the Queensland Director of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement because I believe that the intrusion by this gentleman into the political arena is something that must be quite unique in Australian politics. I want to read for the House a section of a letter from the Director,  Mr Killoran,  to the Minister of the day- it was dated Tuesday, 19 October 1976- in introducing his annual report to State Parliament. Among other things he said: 
The influence of the Christian Churches has in the past been an immense power for good within the Aboriginal community as a whole. 
That was a nice comment in praise of the churches- 
During the period of first contact when traditional Aboriginal people were experiencing immense trauma from a situation of violent social change, ministers of many religions provided for them a belief and ethic that filled the vacuum that had been created. 
It is unfortunate to note that the zeal for pastoral care has, in many instances, been replaced by a philosophy of materialism and political bias. The result is proof of the simple  statement that 'man does not live by bread alone', and this is instanced by a marked decline in the moral and physical standards of some communities. 
That is a scathing attack on the churches- on the Uniting Church in particular because it was obviously directed at it. For a senior public servant to become deeply involved in political argument of this nature I think is scandalous. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
1 ) Is he able to say whether the Australian Medical Association has made any substantial progress towards establishing a voluntary system of medical audit known as peer review'. 
Has he corresponded with the A.M.A. on this matter; if so, has he received any indication as to when the Association intends establishing 'peer review'. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 14 March, 1978: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the Natural Disaster Insurance Scheme for Australia discussion paper and particularly to paragraph 22 of the paper which states that the potential risks of earthquake in Australia are significant. 
Has the Department of Science or associated agencies made any investigations into the possibility of earthquakes in Australia; if so, what are the findings of these investigations. 
Is he able to say whether there have been any claims on insurance companies for earthquake damage during the last 10 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Department of Science made any studies into the effects of high rise development on coastal erosion; if so, will the Minister give details of this research. 
Has this material been made available to State Governments. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the recent discovery of highly radioactive soil and radon gas at Nelson Parade, Hunters Hill, NSW. 
Has the New South Wales Government made any approaches to the Commonwealth Government on this matter; if so, how will the Commonwealth assist with the elimination of the problem. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 March 1 978: 
Is he able to say whether the Queensland Government changed its intention of refusing to participate on the Advisory Council for Inter-government Relations; if not, has any further government to government approach been made in relation to this matter. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
1 ) Prior to the Government's decision to defer the third stage of exhaust emission controls on cars, did the Government conduct tests to find out the effects that existing and pre-existing emission laws have had upon the fuel economy of motor vehicles; if so, is data available from these tests. 
What prompted the phasing-in program of emission control laws for motor vehicles. 
Did widespread tests and monitoring procedures reveal that pollution levels were dangerous, thereby warranting emission control measures; if so, how and where were these tests and monitoring procedures conducted. 
-I am fascinated by the approach of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  in proposing this matter of public importance for discussion. It amazes me that he can predict what the Government will do when the Government has made no decision whatsoever at this stage. In answer to an interjection of mine he said that he received his information from the Government members Health and Welfare Committee. I suggest to the honourable gentleman that the Health and Welfare Committee does not know what the Government is going to do. So I am fascinated at the amount of speculation that is going on throughout this debate. Indeed, the very wording of the subject matter of this discussion, namely, 'the Government's intention to impose higher health care costs on the sick, ' is based on speculation. I would have thought that the honourable member for Prospect, who has been a member of this House for a number of years now, would have realised, whether his Party is in government or our parties are, that there is only one thing of which one can be certain in this place and that is the uncertainty of it. To list this matter of public importance for discussion today, to speculate on what the Government might do, is sheer nonsense. 
I should like to say one thing in relation to what was said by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe).  The Government has been concerned, and continues to be concerned, about the level of deficits. If any member of the Opposition cares to look at the Budget Papers he will find that in three years the Labor Government incurred an accumulated deficit of nearly $9 billion. It accumulated a deficit of $6 billion in two years. There was a deficit of $2,500m in 1974-75 and of $3,585m in - 
This Government inherited - 
-I shall read the figures. The deficit was $2,500m in 1974-75. In 1975-76 it was $3,500m. 
-That adds up to $6 billion. 
-That is right. In the next year - 
-That is right. The point I am making is that this Government inherited deficits in excess of $6 billion after two years of Labor rule. In our efforts to decelerate the rate of inflation and the rate of deficit, we are now having abuse hurled at us from the Opposition. The Labor Government created that situation but the Opposition is not now prepared to accept any blame for it. I return to what the honourable member for Prospect said. Instead of telling the Government that it should increase health costs, which escalated under the Labor Government, he should endeavour to persuade his own profession to contain its costs and the increases that it desires. 
I shall look at the situation in a different way. I suggest to the honourable member for Prospect that the Labor Opposition is on a merrygoround in the debate on health. As recently as 23 February the honourable member for Prospect listed a matter of public importance for debate in this House. It was entitled 'The failure of the Government to deal with rising health costs'. On the one hand he talks about his and his party's concern about rising health costs and on the other he complains about the Government's intention to impose higher health care costs on the sick. We had three and a half hours of debate on this subject in this House last week. I believe that all the options in relation to the Sax report were then canvassed. I suggest that the honourable gentleman and his party should find out exactly where they stand on health costs and health care. I think the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  raised that very point with him, that is, that the Opposition's policy is very much in tatters. 
The speculation by the Opposition continues. What will the Government do? The options are there. The honourable member talked about front-end deductibles. Bulk billing could be abolished. There is the no claim bonus system. There is catastrophical disaster insurance. 
I am not prepared to say at this stage what I am supporting. Does the honourable member expect me to show my hand? Let us look at the underlying inference in the listing of this matter of public importance, that is, that this Government is not compassionate. I assure honourable members that that is nonsense. 
Let us look at the past record of the Government in this area. In this House only yesterday the Minister for Health answered a question in relation to how much of the pension was left for pensioners in nursing homes. What did the Labor Government do in that respect? It reduced the amount of money left for the pensioner who is unfortunate enough to be in a nursing home. It reduced the amount from $6, which was established in 1972 by the Liberal-Country Party Government, to $4. We have now increased that figure to $7. It will be 12Vi per cent the pension in future. 
It is true. The facts are there for all to see and know. This Government has indexed pensions. The Labor Government talked about the unfortunate people, the low income earners and the pensioners. This Government has an excellent record in relation to pensioners and repatriation recipients. We have indexed pensions. We have built senior citizens centres. We have provided subsidies for welfare workers. We introduced the States Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act, the aged or disabled persons accommodation program, the Aged Persons Hostels Amendment Act and the family allowance scheme. The family allowance scheme is one of the greatest benefits of all time to the Australian family. The Labor Government stuck with the old system. When we came into office we introduced almost immediately the family allowance scheme. A family of four people receives $20.50 per week. That money goes to the wife of the family to look after the children. This Government is a compassionate government. The Labor Government knocked out the home savings grants scheme. We reintroduced it to enable young couples to purchase their first home and to bridge the deposit gap that makes it so difficult for them to do so. 
The Liberal and National Country Parties have demonstrated on many occasions both in the last two years and in their previous 23 years of government that they are concerned for little people. Let us get away from the idea that the Labor Party is the only party which has any concern for low income earners and disadvantaged people. The record is there for all to see. This Government has done more than a Labor government would ever have done. It is an economic manager. Despite what the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Lowe)  said and despite the interjection from the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  that it is not a business, the management of the economy is a business. The Labor Government sent the country broke. As I said earlier, it had a deficit of $6,000m. 
-The figure was $9,000m because the carry-over the following year was such that the Government could not decelerate the deficit rate any further. Inflation was around 1 7 per cent to 20 per cent. The Labor Government encouraged the wage grab, which helped to increase the rate of inflation. Our record in government is good. We introduced the tertiary education assistance scheme. We gave assistance to secondary students from low income families. 
It all has to do with health. Benefits cannot be concentrated in one area and left to run riot, which the Labor Government allowed. If Opposition members look at their own record they will not be so critical of this Government. I sugget that the user has to pay something in relation to health costs. There have to be identifiable costs. People cannot be mollycoddled from the cradle to the grave. That sort of philosophy is promoted by the Labor Party. The idea of the socialists is to have people eating out of their hands all the time. We want the people to stand on their feet and do something for themselves. We do not want them mollycoddled from the cradle to the grave, as the Labor Party wanted in the past and will want in the future. We want people to stand on their own feet and be self-sufficient. We also support the present health scheme. It is heavily subsidised by government. In excess of $7 billion is spent annually on the health costs of this nation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
What was the enrolment of (a) each Australian university and (b) each Australian college of advanced education in each year since 1972. 
-Can the Minister for Health inform the House of the number of private medical services covered by benefits, the cost of those services in the last three financial years, and emphasise the trends in usage and cost? 
-I present the second report of the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 14 March 1978. 
1 ) Have Australian meat exports ever been rejected by overseas markets because of excessive pesticide residue in the meat. 
Does the Commonwealth Government set any limits on the types and amounts of pesticides being used in each State when associated with meat production. 
Have there been any discussions to establish Australiawide standards. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
1 ) How many narcotics bureaux has Australia overseas. 
Where are they situated. 
3 ) How many staff are there in each bureau. 
What are their qualifications and experience. 
Which countries operate narcotics bureaux in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) What progress has he made in reviewing the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. 
Has an interdepartmental committee been established with the Department of National Development to review the Act. 
What has been the attitude of the Queensland Government to his Department's proposals for a federal role in environmental protection. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice, on5 April 1978: 
Is the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization Division of Entomology making any investigations into the genetic control of pests; if so, what is the nature of these studies? 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
1 ) Has his Department made any studies into the effects of high rise development on coastal erosion; if so, will he give details of this research. 
Has this material been made available to State Governments. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the massive oil spill in the sea off the north west coast of France from the stricken tanker  Amoco Cadiz. 
Has his Department initiated any moves to assess what procedures and methods are being used by the British and French Governments to deal with the oil spill and pollution of the coastline. 
Has there been any consideration given by the Government to sending a team of Australian experts to investigate this disaster. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the supplementary report of the Auditor-General tabled in Parliament on 22 February 1978; if so, did the report state in respect to the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories that expenditure by the Commission in 1 976-77 included $4 1 6,000 which was not in accordance with the Act in that it was incurred before determinations were made by him under section 1 9 ( b) of the Act. 
) What are the details of this mistake and what action has he taken to remedy this situation. 
-I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Finance upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
Is the Federal Government providing any funds for the construction of the Queensland Cultural Complex; if so, what are the amounts involved. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to recent claims that aerial spraying of weedicides 245T and 24D have been linked to the binh of deformed babies in the town of Yarram, Victoria. 
Has his attention also been drawn to a report by the World Health Organisation which revealed that compounds of TCDD which are used in the weedicides have caused deaths and defective births; if so, does he or his Department have a copy of that report. 
Is he able to say if there have been claims in New Zealand that birth defects could occur with the use of 245T; if so, has his Department made any assessment of these claims. 
What companies market these weedicides in Australia. 
Is the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation making any investigation into these particular weedicides. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
1 ) With reference to the Women and Work Newsletter, Vol. 1, No. 2, January 1978, has his Department made any investigations into the percentage of two income earners who are married. 
What percentage of married two income families have children. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 10 May 1978: 
1 ) Does the Government propose to have a joint FederalState inquiry into the rising building costs of government and non-government schools. 
If so, what will be the terms of reference for the inquiry. 
Who will be the persons conducting the inquiry. 
When is it proposed to have the report completed. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. What steps are being taken to ensure that the Queensland Local Government (Aboriginal Lands) Act is being put into effect so as to honour the Commonwealth commitment to the principles of selfmanagement and security of use and occupancy of the land for the two communities of Aurukun and Mornington Island? 
Initially I shall take up a couple of points made by the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett).  He roundly criticised the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who stated some time ago that there was a lack of statistics on which to make major changes, and then referred to the front end deductible scheme which is optional in the changes just announced. I ask the honourable member why the Labor Government, when it was in power from 1972 to 1975, introduced Medibank when it had an abundance of statistics that clearly indicated that Medibank should not be introduced in this country. One only had to look at the soaring medical costs in the United Kingdom, not to mention the United States of America and Canada. 
It is a good argument because Australia is a Western world country, as is the United Kingdom. The experience was clearly there in the United Kingdom, the United States and Canada that a universal scheme of that nature was not satisfactory. After all, Medibank, introduced by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  who was then a Minister in the Labor Government, was modelled on schemes overseas. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! There is no point of order. 
To take up my point: The Labor Party, when in office, flew in the face of all the overwhelming information that was available from a number of years of experience overseas and proceeded to establish Medibank. It had to pursue an ideology. It was a scheme which ran riot. The Labor Government made no attempt to contain the costs as that scheme ran rampant. The operative words in the matter of public importance put forward by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  are the increasing cost burden on the sick and the poor'. It is amazing that the Labor Party should seek to create in our community the impression that it is the champion of the underdog, the little person, the disadvantaged or the underprivileged. I ask members of the Labor Party to reflect on inflation and the damage that inflation did to the small people of this country, the low income earners, the disadvantaged. It is a fact of life that over three years inflation ran riot in this country and did more harm than any changes we have made to Medibank. The honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  referred to the fact that we had made major changes to the scheme. They have been gradual changes, not major changes, aimed at the containment of costs. I am surprised that any political party in this country would not want to see a containment of costs in this area. 
-I draw attention to the amount of suffering the Labor Party when in government brought to the small people of this nation and the fact that it allowed a wages explosion which put out of work tens of thousands of people- all those people in whom they now claim to be so interested. On the other hand let me examine what the Liberal and National Country Parties did in government over many years, what they are doing now and what they will continue to do for the next two decades or more in an uninterrupted fashion. They introduced a wide range of social security benefits; indeed, if we look at the total program that is in operation at the moment we will find that Liberal and National Country Party governments instituted most of those programs. Social welfare, I suggest, is a right and a privilege not to be taken lightly or abused, extended or increased only when the nation can sustain the cost. That is the basic difference between the Labor Government and this Government. We will make extensions and increase social welfare in this country but only within the context of the ability of the people to meet that cost. 
I believe that Australians suffer a hand-out mentality and that hand-out mentality was encouraged at length by the Labor Party when in government. It is an attitude that I believe must be altered. I return to those operative words: The increasing cost burden on the sick and the poor'. I am rather bewildered by the statements that come from the Opposition that people must have money in their pockets in order to go to see a doctor. There seems to be a grave concern about that. Of course they should have money in their pockets when they go to see a doctor. Honourable members opposite should go to a hotel and try to buy a beer or go into a supermarket or try to run a motor car and see how far they get without some money in their pockets. They should try to see their dentist or benefit from any other services or obtain goods that they want to purchase without having money in their pockets. Of course one should have money in one's pocket when one goes to see a doctor. I think this propaganda that comes from the Labor Party in relation to visits to a medical practitioner is quite outrageous. 
I want to examine the reduction of medical benefits from 85 per cent to 75 per cent and the increase in the gap to $10. What will it do to the underprivileged people, the sick and the poor? As far as the pensioner patient and that pensioner's dependants are concerned, there will be no change. Let us look at the effect it will have on famines, including low income families. They will now pay an increase of about $ 1 per ordinary or standard visit to the doctor. But, if there is a chronically ill person or persons in the family, they can insure by gap insurance and that will not mean much greater hardship to those people. If we look at the low income families and the pensioners with whom I take it the Opposition is concerned, we find that there is no difference in the case of pensioners and only a small amount of difference in the case of the low income family. 
I turn to the question of direct billing. Bulk billing in this country has cost this nation a tremendous amount of money. Now the pensioner will be able to stay in the position as he was in when bulk billing applied. I refer again to the medical profession. In my opinion the doctors should and, I believe, will accept 75 per cent of the common fee. I reiterate what I said to the honurable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  that many of these services were provided in this nation by him and his colleagues for so many years at no cost to the individual. I believe that the medical profession will assist by accepting 75 per cent of the common fee and that it will show restraint. 
Let us examine the effect this will have on the ordinary or low income family. Medibank Standard is there for those people if they so desire. It is there in relation to the introduction of optional deductibles. The low income family, if it wishes, can remain in Medibank Standard and the change will have absolutely no effect on those people. I submit to honourable members that the extra $ 1 that they will have to pay for a standard visit is an identifiable cost. I believe that there has to be a greater identifiable cost. If the user pays principle applies more than it has in the past- and I believe it has to- without burdening those people to excess, then I believe there has to be a greater identifiable cost. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The debate is concluded. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
1 ) Does the Commonwealth provide research grants to institutions investigating matters in which animals are used. 
What procedures exist for ensuring that these animals are treated in a humane way. 
Does there exist any national code for the treatment of animals used in experiments. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
Are any statistics available on the number of persons suffering from pesticide poisoning resulting from residues in food or from crop spraying; if so, what are the main offending chemicals, and how many persons have (a) died, (b) been seriously affected and (c) been mildly affected by each of these chemicals. 
-On behalf of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, I present the report of the Committee entitled 'The Commonwealth Government and the Urban Environment', together with the transcript of evidence and extracts from the minutes of proceedings. A limited number of copies of the report are available from the Table Office and copies have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. Additional copies will be available for general distribution in the near future. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-The report that has just been tabled is the first report of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation established in the 31st Parliament. The inquiry upon which the report is based was commenced by the Committee in the previous Parliament. 
The Committee took evidence from 132 witnesses representing Commonwealth and State departments and instrumentalities, local government authorities, regional planning bodies, private companies, community groups and private individuals. All State governments, except Queensland, participated in the inquiry by providing written and verbal evidence. It is disappointing that the Queensland Government refused to provide a written submission or to make a State officer available to speak to the Committee. This action was contrary to the spirit of an inquiry undertaken to examine the effectiveness of consultation and co-ordination between the three levels of government. 
The Committee's report deals with a number of recurring concerns which became apparent as the inquiry progressed. These concerns are: 
The perception of Commonwealth departments and instrumentalities of the direct and indirect impact of their policies and programs on the urban environment; 
Population planning and research; 
The delay in the processing of the 1976 census; 
Commonwealth environmental legislation; 
Location of Commonwealth Government employment; and 
I feel compelled at the outset to demolish one argument that was put forward by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  and by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  It relates to the statement that the States do not want federalism. Obviously neither of those speakers has researched the subject very well, because what the Commonwealth is about at the moment is endeavouring to keep the States honest. It wants some consistency from the States. If one looks at what happened at the Premiers Conference of February 1970- all the present Premiers with, I think, the exception of  Mr Wran  of New South Wales are signatories to this documentone finds what the position is. Only one, I believe, has shown any consistency in regard to the submission put forward by the Premiers, that is  Sir Charles  Court of Western Australia. I quote from part VI, Proposed Remedial Measures and Fiscal Re-arrangements of the States' case: 
. The Premiers adhere unanimously and firmly to the view that the general purpose Commonwealth payments to the States are income tax reimbursement payments and that the nexus between the payments and the income tax revenue yields must be restored. We are convinced that the present financial problems of the States stem from the loss of access to income tax as their major source of revenue and from the parallel loss of the nexus between the yield of income tax and the Commonwealth reimbursement payments. 
Not only do we believe that the States must have an access to revenues with the flexibility and growth features of income tax, but we accept that the States must take direct responsibility for raising a substantial proportion of their revenue requirements by means of income tax. 
I think that proves beyond doubt that at the Premiers' Conference in 1970- as I have said possibly five of the present Premiers were signatories to that document- it was clearly stated that the Premiers accepted responsibility to raise a substantial proportion of their revenue by means of income tax. That is the first point I wish to make. We have to keep the States as honest as possible. That is what the Commonwealth is about with stage 2 of the federalism policy in the Bill. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand made the usual cry or bleat that is heard now, particularly from Labor Premiers, in relation to double taxation. It is absolute nonsense; there is no double taxation involved in stage 2 of the federalism policy at all. At the moment the States levy their own taxes, as they have in the past. Stamp duty has amounted to something like 20 per cent of the revenues that States raise. Land tax and motor vehicle registrations represent approximately 20 per cent of the States' taxes. Payroll tax, which is reducing in some States, has amounted to approximately 25 per cent of the total revenue raised by the States. The States have been dishonest In recent times they have seen fit to reduce State taxes. 
I wish to develop an argument firstly in relation to Federal grants to the States and I shall, in some respects, orient my comments to the State of Queensland. Federal grants take two forms: General grants with no conditions, and specific grants with set conditions. In return for giving up income taxes, the States received Federal grants. These grants have benefited the smaller States such as Queensland whose own income tax rates were twice as high as those in New South Wales and Victoria. In 1977 Queensland received, in general revenue grants, $33 1 per head of population while New South Wales received $235 per head. As well, smaller States can apply to the Commonwealth Grants Commission for special consideration. Since 1971 Queensland has done that and has received almost $140m above its normal entitlements- $ 140m which New South Wales and Victoria have not received and for which those States could not apply. 
Queensland, with 15 per cent of Australia's population receives, in general revenue grants, excluding specific purpose grants, 17.1 per cent of the total income tax cake. Queensland, along with South Australia, falls below the overall Australian index. This means that Queensland in 1973-74 had a personal income per capita of 91.4 compared to Victoria at 103.8. In dollars, it means that personal income per head was $3, 1 84 in Victoria and $2,821 in Queensland. In 1972-73 Queensland was able to raise only 32.5 per cent of its total revenue needs. Thus, from the facts, it is sheer nonsense for Queensland to say that it would be better off with its own income tax powers. 
It should be pointed out that the States, even prior to the new federalism, had the legal power to resume State income tax, but if they did so they would lose the very generous federal grants whose formulae more than compensates for their loss. Politically, the previous system has allowed the States to whinge and whine about how they need more money and how they have no access to a growth tax and to blame the Commonwealth for their lack of funds. Thus, the States can, on the one hand, say they are not getting the funds from the Commonwealth for projects such as dams, and on the other hand, join the choir of complaints about high income tax. The Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  on 20 April last year said that income tax should be cut by 10 per cent. How magnanimous a gesture- a Premier of a State telling the Commonwealth Government to cut income tax by 10 per cent. Would he be willing to see Queensland take a corresponding cut in Commonwealth grants? 
The Bill now allows the Queensland Government, or any other State government, to reduce income tax on its residents. All that is required of the States is for complementary legislation to be passed in the particular State. Too many people think that the Commonwealth has a bottomless pit of funds. I have made this comment frequently in the House and in the public arena.  Sir Robert  Menzies said:  lt has proved necessary to point out publicly that the Commonwealth 's financial and economic powers are not unlimited. 
We heard a good exposition from the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  earlier on the financial position of the Commonwealth last year and favourable position of the New South Wales Government. A similar favourable position exists today in all States. The States refused to take up the offer of  Sir Robert  Menzies to return income tax powers. That offer was made at a special Premiers Conference on the matter.  Sir Robert  Menzies said: 
It became quite clear that no Slate really wanted its taxing powers back. 
If it did, it could no longer blame the Commonwealth for lack of money and high taxes. On 12 April of last year  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  asked the Federal Government to return income powers to the States. Yet, he subsequently made statements that he will not use the surcharge provisions of the new federalism. I ask honourable members to consider the duplicity of statements from the Premier of Queensland. Those statements were cheap politicking, on both occasions, to fulfil his own cause. I want to take the Queensland Press to task because I believe that if there were a more vigilant Press in Queensland it would be able to delve into what is being said and point out the duplicity of the Premier to the people. Thus, whenever the States have been given a growth tax, as they were in 1971 with payroll tax, they have tended to reduce it for political purposes. For instance, in 1976-77 Queensland reduced payroll tax so that it lost $ 12.5m in revenue. In 1977-78 it reduced payroll tax at a cost of $7.9m. I do not want to canvass the rights or wrongs of payroll tax,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but I just say to you that they are the facts. Yet Queensland cries poor. 
I shall now move to deal with specific purpose grants which, it is claimed, distort State priorities and infringe State rights. There has been a distinct growth in these grants, from 1960-61 when 23.7 per cent of the total revenue grants to the States were specific purpose grants to 1974-75 when the figure reached 43.6 per cent. However, not all specific purpose grants distort State priorities or lead to extra costs to the States. If a State has to provide a matching grant in order to obtain Federal assistance or if it has to reduce its spending elsewhere in order to establish a certain administrative machine, then that is true. It is important to realise that specific purpose grants do not have to be accepted by the States, as was pointed out by Chief Justice Owen Dixon in his judgment in the second uniform taxation case. Furthermore, many of the specific purpose grants in relation to welfare merely made the States the disbursing agents for areas of activity in which the States have long had an interest, or which resulted from State requests. For instance, the Commonwealth, through section 96 grants, contributes to the payment of State debts. As well as that, the Commonwealth helps the States to carry out their traditional activities, such as those involving hospital costs where the Commonwealth pays 50 per cent of the States total public hospital recurrent costs- that is, approved budgets under the Medibank Hospital Agreements. In 1977-78 Queensland received $125m under this scheme, and the scheme greatly assisted all the other States. Queensland, with its free public health services, had been spending a high proportion of its income on health, but with these new section 96 grants of assistance, Queensland has had much of its expenditure freed in this area. 
I want to move into another area and particularly take up the point which was made by the honourable member for Gellibrand. He said that double taxation is involved. It ought to be pointed out that under this legislation each State may increase its share of income tax raised within its boundaries by introducing a surcharge. The State has that right if it desires to exercise it. Alternatively, on the other side of the coin, it may reduce its share by a rebate for its taxpaying citizens. Thus we have the democratic principle that a government should be responsible not only for spending the taxpayers' income but also for raising additional funds through a surcharge. This ensures that the main beneficiaries of a government project will also be the main group responsible for its funding. In other words, there is accountability. This idea of giving the States a share of income tax and the power to have surcharges or rebates was put by a joint submission, which I mentioned a little earlier, to that 1970 Premiers Conference. I take up the point again in relation to the Queensland Premier,  Mr BjelkePetersen,  who was one of the signatories to that document. In his recent rejection of new federalism he seems to have conveniently forgotten his earlier support for such a scheme. 
The third aspect of the new federalism is that if a small State levies an income tax surcharge, it will receive an equalisation grant from the Commonwealth so as to bring its yield from the surcharge up to the average per capita yield which would have been raised if the surcharge had been imposed in New South Wales or Victoria. Obviously the smaller, less wealthy States are being protected. 
I conclude by taking up a point in relation to local government. I am a firm believer in the concept that local government has to stand on its feet and that it is a partner in the Commonwealth's federalism policy. Local government has to have the intestinal fortitude to put forward to its ratepayers three-year or five-year programs. I have before me a document which I believe has been distributed to most honourable member and senators. It comes from the Australian Council of Local Government Associations. That Council is urging, lobbying the Federal Government to increase the 1.52 per cent which applies now as a share of personal income tax from the Commonwealth to local government to 2 per cent in this coming financial year. It was an election policy promise of this Government to increase that figure of 1.52 per cent to 2 per cent over a period of three years. But the pressure is coming from local government at this stage. Having served for a number of years in that sphere of government, I know the problems that are faced in relation to services that are being demanded by the community. Of course, local government is responsible also for imposing a number of conditions, particularly in new sub-divisional areas, well above what I believe are necessary for its citizens. That is another story. 
I want to deal with the level of rating, because I believe that rates must be kept up by local authorities in this country. If we are to see the situation arise where a property owner is to be subsidised out of general revenue to any great extent, it will mean that the benefits that accrue to the property owner over the years will be met to some extent by the average taxpayer. I believe that the ratepayer has to stand on his feet and pay his fair share; and that is almost in total the cost of running a city, of providing services, of treating water and sewage and so forth. There are a number of inequities in all systems. I believe that if the Government succumbs to the pressure being applied at the moment to increase at a rapid rate that figure of 1.52 per cent, the inequities will be greater. I believe that local authorities have to have the intestinal fortitude to face their electors and their property owners and to ensure that the level of rates that they levy are in keeping with the standard of services that they provide and with the rate of inflation which is being experienced at the time. I reject the amendment moved by the Opposition and support the legislation which has been introduced by the Government. 
-Before addressing myself to three of the four Bills that we are debating tonight in cognate fashion I want to make a few comments about the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  I believe him to be a good and kind hearted member of Parliament and I extend that description to him in his former profession of medical practitioner, but I am indebted to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton),  who described him- he came over to deliver the description to me just a while ago- as the soporofic doctor of gloomy prospects. On occasions when he addresses this House he reminds one of patients to whom tranquillisers and hypnotics have been administered -not only those of medium action but also, if one may say so, those of long term action. 
I want to take up one point he made in relation to that very noble profession of pharmacy. It is a much maligned profession but it adds a great deal to the health of this nation. The pharmacist is a very important person in the health team. I think that the honourable member for Prospect would agree with me on that point. But he was rather critical of the abolition of bulk billing and the fact that, in his estimation, the pharmacist would benefit to a great extent. I put it to the House that the cost of the filling in of 1 5 of those claim forms for which the pharmacist will receive 60c- the honourable member spoke to me about this recently and I could not verify that the pharmacist would receive 60c for each of the claim forms that he filled in- is the equivalent of a visit to a doctor. There may be a pharmacist who is dishonest in filling out these forms, but that is a matter that can be policed. 
I suggest that the honourable member take a look at those doctors who are exploiting our scheme and have exploited it in the past and I believe that he will come up with the answer that it would be better to abolish bulk billing when the patient is really not disadvantaged or when only a very few of them are disadvantaged to a minor extent. It is preposterous to suggest that pharmacists in this country will be encouraging patients to come into their shops in order to complete forms at the rate of 60c a time. The chemist provides an essential service to the community far in excess of that for which the honourable member for Prospect gives him credit. Doctors are charging about $8 to $10 for an ordinary visit. I believe that the pharmacist, in the provision of the service to the community for which he will receive 60c a time for filling in a form, provides a great deal of value. 
I want to address myself particularly to a few matters in relation to three of these Bills. Firstly, in relation to the general pharmaceutical benefits patient increase from $2 to $2.50, 1 believe that there could be some hardship for some people in our community. I want to put forward to the House at this time two methods by which I believe the hardship can be alleviated. It is true that low income families- in his speech the honourable member for Prospect recognised that there are low income people, particularly those on unemployment benefits- could be disadvantaged by some of the changes, but I put it to the House that these people on low incomes, those whose pensions do not enable them to benefit from what are commonly called the fringe benefits, could go to their doctor if they are chronically ill or have a long term illness and claim from their doctor the right to one month's supply of pharmaceuticals and two repeats. 
On this point I want to take to task the many doctors throughout this nation who are too lazy to apply to the Director-General of Health to receive the necessary authority to allow them to prescribe one month's supply and two repeats for one fee. There are too many of them. I should hope that the Australian Medical Association and indeed the Press would give some publicity to the fact that a doctor can apply, on behalf of chronically ill patients or patients with long term illnesses, to the Director-General for an authority to allow him to prescribe, for the one fee of $2.50, one month's supply and two repeats. 
-As the Minister for Health says, in special circumstances, sometimes up to 6 months supply. A lot of people do not realise that that is the case where there is a hardship endured by people who are chronically ill. I believe that that is a matter to which the medical profession should address itself. That is one provision that exists and that has existed for some time which is available to the medical profession. 
I want to put forward another proposal which I hope will be given some consideration by the Minister and his Department. It relates to people who are generally considered to be disadvantaged. The proposal I put forward is a scheme similar to the one that was in operation prior to 1975, when we came to government. It relates to a subsidised health benefit scheme. I believe that the scheme that operated then- although it was abolished because of the expense to the government at that time, particularly the administrative expense- could be reintroduced for the disadvantaged. One must look first of all at its history and see how the scheme evolved from the time it was introduced in 1970 for certain low income families. 
I understand that this proposal was put forward in a revised form by the Pharmacy Guild of Australia to the medical profession for consideration. Prior to its abolition in 1975 it was costing about $2m per annum, with $ 1.3m of that being for administrative costs and $0.7m for actual benefits to patients. I believe that, with some modification, the very high administrative costs could be reduced. If this scheme were reintroduced it would be of considerable benefit to low income and disadvantaged groups. The plan would provide for these disadvantaged people to receive pharmaceutical benefits for a figure per item that could be determined- it may be $ 1 per item- with a further $ 1 .50 to be met by the Commonwealth. I believe that methods can be devised whereby those high administrative costs that amounted to in excess of 50 per cent of the total cost of the scheme could be reduced considerably. 
The next point I wish to make is in relation to the increase of $2 to $2.50 which will mean that a number of items will be deleted from the pharmaceutical benefits list. I would have hoped that the Government could have seen fit to delay the increase from 1 July to 1 August, because we will have a situation where something of the order of 250 items, or about 30 per cent of items, will be deleted from 1 July because they will then be below the $2.50 mark. That is assuming that there are no price increases; but on 1 August we will see price increases that will result, I understand, in something of the order of 1 50 of these items going back on to the list. It is rather unfortunate that we will have deletion of items to that extent and then a reintroduction of so many of them after the price increase. This will be a difficult period for both doctors and pharmacists as well as patients, because this explanation will have to be made to them by both professions. 
At this point I believe it is appropriate that I should inform the House- because I do not think it is generally known- that pharmacists will receive a higher professional fee for their service and a lesser mark-up on costs for all of the drugs dispensed. At the moment, for ordinary preparations- ordinary tablets and capsules and what we term ready prepared preparations- the pharmacist receives 33 W per cent plus a professional fee. This mark-up is to be reduced from 33  Vi  per cent to 25 per cent and concurrently there will be an increase in the professional fee. I believe this is a step in the right direction for the profession. There is greater recognition of the professional fee on extemporaneously prepared items. Although I understand it amounts today to something like four or five per cent of total items, the profit margin will be reduced from 50 per cent to 33  ]A  per cent and, of course, there will be the increase in the professional fee. That is not the end of the story because injectables that previously did not attract a fee will in future attract a dispensing fee. 
So there is a complete restructuring of the remuneration of pharmacists, the profit mark-up and the dispensing fees, which I believe will in the future be of considerable benefit to the profession. The House is probably aware that there is an independent body operating now under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Ludeke. That Committee is comprised of members of the Department of Health and of the pharmacy profession. Those increases will apply shortly and there is an increase in fee that will be retrospective. It is an increase of 9c and it will be retrospective to 1 July 1977. 
The next point I wish to make- and I believe it is an important one- I make as a member representing a city electorate, although the point relates to a benefit that applies to country people. I know the Minister for Health is extremely concerned and has been extremely concerned with the plight of many people in country areas. City dwellers do not fully appreciate the difficulties that arise when country people have to seek specialist attention in the city or in the larger provincial cities and towns. This initiative of the Government is to be applauded. City people can seek the attention of the medical profession right across the board, from the general practitioner to the best specialist in the land, without any hardship at all. Indeed, it may cost them only the expense of taking their motor vehicle to the doctor's surgery, or of ordinary suburban public transport. But take the case of the individual in a country area who has to travel many hundreds of kilometres after being referred by a general practitioner. There is not only the cost of the fares but also the cost of accommodation, quite apart from the cost of any service that may be rendered as a result of that trip. I believe that all political parties in this nation support a decentralisation policy. As I see it, this is a great initiative of this Government and I commend the Minister for Health for introducing this proposal in the National Health Amendment Bill of 1 978. 
The next point I wish to make is in relation to the restriction of benefits for services by registered medical practitioners outside Australia. We had the fiasco in this country of one Milan Brych, who is operating in the Cook Islands as a socalled cancer specialist. Without canvassing to any great extent the treatment, ability or success rate of this particular doctor, I want to say that our system in this country, which has operated now for a number of years, has always recognised the registration of the doctor in the particular country in which he operates. In this particular instance we have seen what I believe to be an unscrupulous man who will not reveal his treatments to the world. An analogy has been drawn by the Premier of Queensland between Milan Brych 's case and that of Sister Kenny, but I say to the House that they are totally different propositions. 
Sister Kenny operated many, many years ago and her treatments were fully known to the medical profession, although not recognised by the profession of the day. That particular case is entirely different from the case of Milan Brych. At least Sister Kenny's treatments were known and the medical profession of the day made its position quite clear. The difference between that situation and the one that exists with the case of a Milan Brych is that he will not reveal his treatment to the medical profession for assessment and evaluation. Are we to allow people to go to those islands, pay for expensive treatment and accommodation and fares, and have them hoodwinked by someone I believe to be a fraud? Good heavens, this is 1978. 
I do not believe that any nation would agree with a continuation of that policy. If a so-called medical practitioner has a treatment that he believes is of value to mankind, he should make it known quite openly. The opportunity was given to this particular individual by the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  and by the Queensland Minster for Health,  Dr Edwards.  I want to commend both Ministers for their stand in relation to this charlatan. We cannot have this son of fiasco repeated. Indeed, this is a very emotional subject. When people's health is at stake, of course they become emotional. Perhaps in no instance do they become more emotional than in the case of cancer sufferers, particularly those who have terminal conditions. 
Finally, I want to move into the areas of the changes to the health insurance system. The objectives of the Government have been made quite clear by the Minister. We are encouraging responsible use of one of the best health services in the world, and that ought to be recognised by all Australians. It is one of the best and most responsible health services in the world and we must encourage a responsible use of that service. We must ensure that we do not have abuse or over-use. I repeat that we must not have an abuse or over-use of health services. The honourable member for Prospect knows only too well that in this country we have scores of doctors who are only too ready to abuse the system. If that happens, this Government and any future government must move to minimise the abuse. 
Of course, we must obtain the best value for the taxpayers' money. Surely nobody would deny this. We must promote competition. This is the sole purpose of the options that are left open to the private health insurance funds in relation to front end deductibles. The changes are quite clearly identified. The patient will pay a maximum charge of $10. As I have stated in this House repeatedly, there must be a substantial identifiable cost to the patient otherwise he will treat the service lightly. I repeat that there will be no disability for pensioners and for repatriation patients. This is a very important point which should be publicised. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 5 April: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an article in the  Australian  of 23 February 1978 concerning the rigging by certain record companies of the pop music charts in the United Kingdom by strategic purchases of records from the limited number of retail outlets used in assessing the charts. 
If so, is he aware of any similar rigging by Australian record companies and has his Department conducted any enquiries as to whether this sort of activity is occurring. 
-Can the Minister for Health advise the House whether he and his Department has the matter of dangers associated with the use of the chemicals 2,4,5-T and 2,4-D under close scrutiny? Is his Department carrying out any special investigation into these chemicals? Is he aware of the concern expressed and stance taken by the Queensland Minister for Health, and that the South Australian Government has set up a special committee to investigate the possible link between the use of the chemicals and birth deformities? 
-On behalf of the Publications Committee sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate, I present its report entitled 'Inquiry into the Publication of Commonwealth Acts, Statutory Rules and Legislation of the Territories'. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-This is the fifth special report which the Joint Committee on Publications has presented to the Parliament since Standing Orders were amended in 1970 to give the Committee investigatory powers. It is the second special report which has been presented during this Parliament. The inquiry arises out of the Committee's concern regarding the delay in the publication of Commonwealth Acts, Statutory Rules and other Commonwealth and 
Territory legislation. It finds that the availability of most Commonwealth legislation in a readable updated form is in a most unsatisfactory state. I give the House examples: Very few pamphlet reprints of Acts and Statutory Rules, as amended, have been produced since 1973; the latest issue of the annual Acts volumes relates to 1974; the last issue of consolidated volumes of Statutory Rules covers the period 1901-1956; the latest volumes of consolidated laws of the Australian Capital Territory cover the period 1911-1956. 
I could go on further; however, I think the point has been made. It is almost impossible for members of parliament, the judiciary, members of the legal profession and the individual citizen to be aware of the Commonwealth legislative provisions which exist in this country. The Committee regards this inquiry as one of an interim nature and at a later date will undertake a more complete investigation into further .matters which relate to the Commonwealth's legislative publishing program. The Committee felt that, as a first step, it was more desirable to report the current parlous situation to the Parliament and to make recommendations designed to set in motion action to improve the situation. 
In the short time available to the Committee it interviewed officers from the Attorney-General's Department, who are responsible for the Commonwealth legislative publishing program. In addition, officers from the Australian Government Publishing Service presented evidence on production and selling procedures. The officers from the Attorney-General's Department advised that in the near future they intended to publish consolidated volumes of laws of the Australian Capital Territory, consolidated volumes of Statutory Rules and some annual volumes of Acts and Statutory rules. For reasons which are more fully explained in the report, the optimism suggested in the Department's publishing program was not shared by the Committee. The officers explained that they were having difficulty in filling vacant positions within its publications branch. They also stated that new procedures at the Government Printing Office which required additional proof-reading contributed to the delay. 
The Committee is of the opinion, however, that the delay in publishing the Commonwealth's legislative program is mainly due to the lack of forward planning. The Committee has made recommendations designed to rationalise the publishing program of the Department and laid down what it feels to be a satisfactory publishing timetable. This is to be found in paragraph 16 of the report. Basically, the Committee has asked that greater priorities be attached to the reprinting of Acts and Statutory Rules when substantial amendments have been made. Also, the Committee has suggested that, in future, all consolidated volumes of legislation, whether they be Acts, Statutory Rules or laws of the Territories, be produced on a regular basis at fiveyear intervals. The Committee is aware that the Department with its present establishment will have difficulty in meeting this suggested timetable, and therefore, it has recommended that a Public Service Board review of the branch be undertaken to ensure that appropriate resources are allocated to the Department to enable the Department to adhere to the Committee's recommended publishing timetable. In the interim, it suggests that a task force of officers be employed to overcome the present backlog. 
In conclusion, I would like to thank the Attorney-General and officers of his Department, and officers of the Australian Government Publishing Service, for the prompt assistance which they provided to enable the Committee to complete this inquiry. Finally, I draw attention of the House to the support and diligence which I received from the Committee in completing this inquiry. Without this, the investigation which was carried out at such short notice would not have been possible. I would like also to attract the House's attention to the fact that two members of the Joint Committee, namely,  Senator Donald  Cameron and  Senator Tehan  will not be with the Committee after 1 July, due to their retirement from the Senate. I wish to thank these gentlemen for the support which they have given me and the Committee over the years. I wish them well in their retirement. I believe it is worthy of comment that this inquiry was commenced only a fortnight ago. I wish to place on record my thanks to the secretary, the  Deputy  Usher of the Black Rod,  Mr Tom  Wharton, who of course operates as secretary of this Committee in only a part time capacity. I commend the report to the House. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 14 March 1978: 
What tertiary education institutions received Commonwealth Government grants for research in 1977-78 and what was the amount involved in each case. 
What specific matters are being researched with these funds. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 2 May 1 978: 
1 ) Further to the answer given to question No. 622  (Hansard, 7 April  1978, page 1256) relating to the Advisory Council for Inter-government Relations, is it a fact that a member of the Queensland Public Service Board came to Canberra to make a submission on behalf of the Queensland Government to the Advisory Council for Inter-government Relations on one of its present research projects. 
) What research projects are presently being conducted by the Advisory Council for Inter-government Relations. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to recent reports that the Victorian Government wants to renege on its present repayments of Commonwealth loans for the Albury-Wodonga Growth Centre. 
Has there been any submission by the Victorian Government to the Commonwealth seeking a new arrangement for the loan repayments. 
When was the agreement made, who were the signatories and what were the terms of the loan. 
Have there been any alterations to the original agreement. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 5 April 1 978: 
1 ) With reference to his predecessor's answer to question No. 1221  (Hansard,  18 November 1976, page 2930) on the matter of land commissions, has the Commonwealth 
Government encouraged any additional land commissions or have there been any approaches by other States to establish them since 1975. 
Has his Department or any other Commonwealth Government or State Government body conducted any surveys on the effectiveness of land commissions in reducing the land price spiral for serviced building blocks since 1976. 
Has there been any additional expenditure on land acquisition by land councils for 1976-77. 
What is the estimated expenditure for 1 977-78. 
What proportion of land acquisition expenditures has been borne by the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice on 2 May 1 978: 
1 ) Is the Queensland Littoral Society receiving any Commonwealth funds for research projects during 1 977-78; if so, what are those projects, 
Has there been any correspondence between the Director of the Queensland Littoral Society and the Commonwealth Government concerning the refusal of the Queensland Government to pass on Federal funds to the Queensland Littoral Society for research work; if so, what is the nature of this correspondence. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 6 June 1978: 
Did the Queensland Government apply for drought relief assistance in 1978- if so, on what date was the submission received by the Commonwealth? 
How much has the Commonwealth paid to the Queensland Government in drought relief assistance in 1978? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 2 May 1978: 
Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to the article in the  Sunday Mail  of 2 April 1978 concerning the conflict between the Family Law Court and the Queensland Government over the passing of jurisdiction of illegitimate children from the State to the Family LawCourt and, in particular, the statement that the Queensland Government seems certain to go ahead with a takeover of the Family Law Court system. 
Have there been any discussions between the Federal Government and the Queensland Government on this issue and what has been the outcome of these discussions. 
Which States have agreed to give jurisdiction over illegitimate children to the Family Law Court. 
Were there any discussions at the 1976 Hobart Constitutional Convention concerning the power of the Family LawCourt to assume responsibility for matters relating to illegitimate children. 
What was the outcome of these discussions and was there any dissent on any resolutions passed on this matter. 
Was the Queensland Government represented at the Hobart Constitutional Convention; if so, who were its representatives and what were their votes on this issue. 
If this matter was discussed at the Constitutional Convention, is the Family Law Court assuming responsibility for illegitimate children as discussed by the Convention. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 6 June 1978: 
Prior to the introduction of the present exhaust emission controls on cars were there any widespread tests and monitoring procedures which revealed that pollution levels were dangerous, thereby warranting emission control measures; if so, how and where were these tests and monitoring activities conducted and what were the results  (Hansard,  10 April 1978, page 1340). 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Defence been drawn to the AuditorGeneral's report concerning the inadequacies of fire protection services at Air Force bases, particularly at Amberley where the F 1 1 1 aircraft are based? If so, what assessment has been made of the conclusions reached by the Auditor-General? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22 August 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to recent statements by the Queensland Treasurer,  Mr Bill  Knox, which were reported in the  Australian  and the  Courier-Mail on  5 August 1 978 that a mistake in the Commonwealth census had miscalculated population increases for Queensland. 
Has the Queensland Government officially approached the Commonwealth on this matter. 
Has there been any investigations by the Commonwealth Government to verify whether  Mr Knox's  allegations are correct; if so, what has been the result of these investigations. 
-Is the Minister for Health aware of reports that inducements are still being paid to medical practitioners to encourage them to seek unnecessary pathology tests for patients? Is the Minister taking any action to review the operation of the relevant section of the Health Insurance Act to make such inducements illegal? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 August 1 978: 
Has a Task Force been established to assess information programs carried out by Commonwealth Government Departments; if so, what are the terms of reference of the Task Force. 
Who has been appointed to the Task Force and what are their present positions. 
Has the Task Force been given any time limit in which to present its report. 
-I present the third report of the Publications Committee sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. Copies of the report have been circulated to honourable members in the chamber. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 26 September 1978: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the fact that copies of portraits of Queen Elizabeth II for use in primary and secondary schools are presently unavailable. 
If so, for how long is it expected that this situation will prevail and what action is the Department of Administrative Services taking to remedy the position. 
-In this debate to date I have listened to two members of the Opposition for a total of 50 minutes. I want to comment briefly on two points made by the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  because, quite frankly, they are the only two points which I think are worthy of comment at this stage. One of the most laughable things I have ever heard in this chamber was when the honourable member talked about Medibank Mark  2Vi,  I think it was, and how the life of the changes that this Government has instituted is lessening. I say to the honourable member that Medibank Mark 1 was the biggest mess that this nation has ever seen in health care programs. He talked about the day when he hoped to see Medibank standard returned. I thought that members of the Opposition would have learnt at some stage but obviously the socialists of this country will never learn. The other point he made concerned disadvantaged patients. I am slightly in agreement with him, slightly sympathetic to the view he put, and I will talk a little about that later. 
I return now to the three Bills specifically under debate because they put into effect the changes announced by the Government in the Budget. I think the point ought to be emphasised that universal cover is provided for all Australians. But it is universal cover which is being instituted in a fashion far different from that in which it was instituted when the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  was Minister for Social Security in 1974. The new scheme provides for medical expenses to be paid to the extent of 40 per cent, with a maximum payment of $20 per service. On the hospital side, every person in this nation will be entitled to standard hospital accommodation and treatment in a public ward. I think that that ought to be emphasised. This is clearly the finest scheme we have seen in this country, the finest scheme to emerge since the dark days of the introduction of Medibank. If I have one regret at this point in time it is that the word 'Medibank' is retained. I ask the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  to take that into view in the future. I would prefer to see the word ' Medibank ' rest in peace. I am sure that most Australians would agree with that point of view, because at this stage we have a noncompulsory and yet universal scheme. In 1974 we saw the introduction of Medibank- the scourge of the nation, a scourge suffered by every nation that has introduced a so-called free health scheme. One has only to look at the situation overseas to realise that there are nations that wish that they could back off. We have been able to do this to date. I said that I have only one regret, and that is that the word 'Medibank' is to remain. 
I want to look briefly at health costs because they will not go away. Despite the number of changes that have been made- perhaps too many changes have been made to the schemewhat this Government has achieved is a slowing down, a lessening, in the escalation of health costs in this nation. I say to those deliverers and consumers of health care that they must respect the services that we have available. The deliverers, the doctors and the hospital administrators must realise that there is no bottomless pit, that somewhere someone has to pay for the cost of health in this nation. The consumers of health care- that is, all of those people, including myself, who avail themselves of free health care services at the point of delivery- must be made aware that those services at some point have to be paid for. So to the deliverers and consumers of health care I say that they must be well aware of the system we have and not abuse it. 
The extra cost of this new scheme to the Commonwealth in a full year has been quite clearly pointed out to total $62 lm, of which $305m extra will be spent on outlays and of which a total of $3 16m will be accounted for in loss of receipts because of the abolition of the levy. One must surely look again at the total health costs to this nation, because they have exploded from approximately $2.2 billion to $6.2 billion in the 5 years from 1971-72. The Minister for Health who is at the table has repeatedly made these figures available so that the people of this country could realise just what is involved. The cost of health care per person has risen from $104 in 1966-67 to $447 in 1976-77. So it has increased more than four times in 10 years. Outlays on health in this Budget are estimated to be $2.9 billion or 10 per cent of the total outlays of almost $29 billion. If we look at the rate of growth in health costs we find that they rose by 20 per cent in 1973-74, by a further 36 per cent the following year, by 27 per cent the following year, and in 1976-77 the rate of growth had slowed down to 19.7 per cent. Those figures are well worth bearing in mind. 
I move on now to deal with health insurance in particular. I want to issue a warning in relation to the new attractive rates that have been announced, because it is my belief that when the healthy Australian, and the healthy young Australian in particular, decides that he will not take out health insurance there will be no guarantee that these rates will hold. I accuse the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  the shadow Minister for Health, of encouraging people not to take out health insurance. Tens of thousands of Australians will be unhappy if they do not take out some health cover. Although we have seen fairly attractive rates announced in the newspapers in the last two or three days, I say that there is no guarantee that those rates will hold. Only time mli tell whether these particular health insurance funds can sustain the lower rates that they have recently announced. I believe that very many Australians will opt out. I just say to them that today's healthy person can be tomorrow's ill person. That ought to be recognised by the honourable member for Prospect and all those honourable members opposite who are advising people not to take out private health insurance. If I had a message for all Australians, if I could counsel all Australians, I would say that they should investigate the pros and cons and think very carefully. 
-The honourable member for Port Adelaide, of course, is one of the better off people in this country. He receives a large income. He says: 'Stay out'. I simply say to the people of Australia: 'Think carefully about it. Do not take the advice of the honourable member for Port Adelaide. Think carefully about it, Australians, and I think many of you will decide to take out health insurance'. To illustrate my point, let me refer to my own personal case. Up to the age of 40 years I had never been admitted to a hospital. Over the past three months I have incurred several thousands of dollars worth of health care costs. I do not know for how many years I have been a member of a health insurance fund, but certainly I have been a member for as long as I can recall. I simply say that today's healthy Australian might be tomorrow's ill person. 
Let us look at what will happen with the removal of compulsory health insurance. The abolition of the levy of 2.5 per cent will mean a minimum saving of some $150 for a single person or $300 for the family man. That is assuming that he does not take out the health insurance about which I have asked him to think very carefully. Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I interjected during the remarks of the honourable member for Prospect. I want to make particular reference to two statements that he has made. One was a Press release that he issued here in Canberra on 17 August in which he urged people not to panic. That Press release stated: 
The changes would only apply from November 1 and his advice to people in general was to drop private insurance unless they were particularly keen on a 'doctor of choice' in hospital. 
The Press release went on to state: 
Standard ward treatment in hospitals would be free without belonging to any fund and the Government would pay at least 40 per cent of medical fees incurred both in and outside hospitals. Those not taking any insurance should look for doctors prepared to bulk-bill. 
I take up the point that people 'should look for doctors prepared to bulk-bill '. What a scandalous state of affairs that is. The man who is shadow Minister for Health in this Parliament is encouraging and inciting people to beat the system. He is inciting people to look for doctors who bulk bill. Indeed, he is inciting doctors to be dishonest. That is what his statement amounts to. He makes no reference to low income or disadvantaged people in relation to whom bulk billing was specifically introduced, as has been stated so many times by the Minister for Health in this debate. Yet the honourable member for Prospect encourages dishonesty in his own profession, the medical profession. When one looks at the number of times that the Labor Party has incited anarchy and lawlessness in our community- I am sure it has incited people to exploit our unemployment benefit scheme- and when one hears a shadow Minister for Health, a man who aspires to be Minister for Health in this country, telling people to look for doctors who are prepared to bulk bill, one wonders what the motives of the honourable member for Prospect are, especially when he stoops to those levels to urge people to seek handouts to which they are not entitled. The scheme was not designed for that sort of thing. On 28 September 1978 the honourable member for Prospect in a grievance debate which took place in this House said: 
A sufficient number of people will not be aware of that fact. The private funds will have access to these people's records and will have their names and addresses and will bombard them with literature encouraging them to take out unnecessary- I repeat 'unnecessary'- health insurance. The funds make their money on unnecessary insurance. 
It surely will be unnecessary for most people after 1 November to take out medical insurance. 
I just say that he is encouraging people again not to look after their own insurance. I wonder whether he would take that to the extent of motor vehicle insurance, house insurance or any other form of insurance that people in this country take out for their own protection. As I said earlier, it is a scandalous state of affairs when a man who aspires to be the Minister for Health in this country urges people not to take out insurance. 
I want to move on to bulk billing and the bulk billing that is intended for disadvantaged people. My comments are not all-embracing but do cover a fair percentage of the medical profession. It is difficult to get uniformity of approach when one is dealing with professional people and some doctors are of independent means. I believe they will be too stringent in their application- this takes up the point I think that the honourable member for Bonython was making- and of course there will be other medicos who will be too lenient. I want to take to task those doctors in every sizeable community who are known as compo' doctors. The fellows from the railway yards, the waterside workers and so forth, get to know the 'compo' doctor, encouraged by the socialists on the Opposition side who say: 'Go and see doctor so-and-so, he is the "compo" doctor. He will give you some days off'. I have been too close to the medical profession to think that they do not exist: They do exist. The honourable member for Prospect knows they do exist. Encouraged by the honourable member for Prospect this will create a band of doctors who will be not only 'compo' doctors but also will be known as ' bulk billing doctors '. 
Yes, you hope so. You admit it and you ought to be ashamed of the fact. 
-The honourable member is inviting doctors in Australia to bulk bill. Unscrupulous doctors are easy enough to come by without him, as a member of the medical profession, encouraging them to do so. Word soon gets around in any community that you can go to doctor so-and-so and he will put you on compo for a few days. The word will just as easily get around that you can go to doctor so-and-so who can classify you as being disadvantaged. 
-You ought to be ashamed. That is a scandalous state of affairs. 
-No doubt there are people in our communities who will seek to be classified and indeed will be entitled to be classified as disadvantaged. There is no doubt in my mind that there are honest doctors who will classify them as such, but it is an area of concern to me and I think the honourable member for Bonython has pinpointed that area of concern. However, I would hope that the Minister and his Department would monitor carefully what is going on in this particular area in just the same way that they monitor those doctors who overprescribe or prescribe expensive drugs or drugs that are intended for specific purpose complaints, just as they monitor the number of consultations that various doctors have with pensioner patients. In the same way I would hope that they would monitor very closely to keep under scrutiny the fact that doctors will abuse this privilege that is given to them in relation to the classification of disadvantaged patients. I say that to the Minister and his Department. I hope this is something that will be kept under close scrutiny. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide who is in the chamber at the moment asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  a question yesterday I think in relation to disadvantaged patients. Quite frankly, I think it was extremely well answered. Of course doctors know more about the intimate matters relating to patients and their problems than anybody else in this nation, but I see no difference in that respect between an accountant, a bank manager and the Taxation Office. 
Of course he is, and the doctor knows more about those particular patients. 
-That is right. A doctor retains confidentiality. I see no problem in relation to that matter. I want to refer briefly to hospital services. I believe we must have a rationalisation of hospital services in this nation. Approximately 60 per cent of total health costs goes in hospital services. Insofar as the Commonwealth-State hospital agreements are concerned, if State governments want to involve themselves in pork- barrelling or political patronage I say to them that they ought to be prepared to pay for that particular political patronage themselves. I say to the Minister that there are glaring examples, I would suggest, certainly in the State of Queensland. 
As a country person first and foremost, having spent 16 years of my young life in the country, I defend the right of country people to have services. However, there are hospitals operating in country areas, sometimes no more than 20 to 50 kilometres away from another hospital with a low occupancy rate. I do not think we can afford this sort of luxury. We have improved transport, improved roads, air transport, yet we see hospitals with 20 or 30 beds with a one-third occupancy rate. I do not believe it is necessary that we should. 
I say that we should sustain these hospitals but we have to see a rationalisation of services. It is not only the capital costs of the hospitals, it is the cost of the equipment and the recurrent costs that are helping to feed the tremendous expense that we see today in hospital services in Australia. If we as a Federal Government are going to foot the bill to the extent of 50 per cent of these hospital agreements, it is dme that we took an extremely close look to ensure that our money is well spent. I repeat, I do not deny country people the right to adequate service, in fact there are people in city areas who sometimes have to travel greater distances and for longer periods of time to visit relatives and friends in hospitals than occurs in many country areas. It is just not good enough to maintain a hospital in a country area when it could be closed and the facilities perhaps upgraded in a neighbouring town. 
I cite an example in my home State of Queensland. We have the twin towns of Ayr and Home Hill on each side of the Burdekin River, each with a hospital. Is it really necessary for the two towns to have two hospitals no more than a few kilometres apart? I believe that the Minister has moved, is moving and will move more in this direction because if one examines the statistical divisions in Queensland one finds that in the country areas the occupancy rate of the beds gets lower. If one examines the Sax report one finds there is plenty of evidence that the more beds provided the more beds that are filled. 
I want to oppose strongly the amendment moved by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  He has had a big day today and he is rather half-hearted and tired at this stage. The suggestions contained in this amendment are the most preposterous I have seen in a long time. Before I deal with the points in the amendment individually- I will be very brief- I want to take up a couple of the general points made by some previous speakers in the debate. The Australian Labor Party Opposition seems to me to be obsessed with bulk billing. Honourable members opposite seem to suffer from the no-money syndrome when it comes to going to the doctor. I ask them: How much petrol will they get at a petrol station when they drive in without any money in their pocket? How many bets will they place at the TAB without any money? How many groceries will they get at the supermarket without money? 
-They are the same. They buy no meat at the butcher if they have no money in their pocket; they cannot place a bet at the TAB; and they get no liquor at the hotel. But honourable members opposite want them to be able to walk in and get a service from the doctor when they have no money in their pocket. It is about time that honourable members opposite stopped mollycoddling these people and let them stand up for themselves. That is part of the social program of honourable members opposite and it should be thrown out the door. It has been rejected by the Australian people time and again and they will reject it again in the future. It is about time we made these people stand up on their own feet I will take the suggestions in the amendment apart one by one because that is what they deserve. Medibank was introduced by that wonderful architect, the new Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  He will be the Leader of the Opposition for a while only because there are many vultures waiting to take his place. One of them is the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  who is sitting at the table at the moment. When Medibank Mark 1 was introduced the Labor Government decided that 85 per cent was a fair sort of figure. Now I notice that the first proposal put forward by the honourable member for Prospect in his amendment refers to bulk billing by doctors prepared to accept 75 per cent of the common fee in full. I can say only that he has conceded now that 75 per cent is better than 85 per cent. I take it that he wants to see a greater identifiable cost, although he mentions full payment. I wonder what the Australian Medical Association would think about that. I wonder whether he has discussed it with it. 
-He is playing into the hands of doctors all the way down the une. When Labor was in government doctors' fees exploded by 58.9 per cent in three years. Here again he is playing into the hands of the medical profession. Time and again I have heard members of the Opposition say that the medicos in this country are being paid too much. In this amendment they are playing into the hands of the doctors again. The third point of the amendment deals with the payment of a 75 per cent refund for medical bills. We are going to legislate that the Government pay 40 per cent of the fee and that there be a maximum charge of $20 per service. Once an amount in excess of $80 is reached the Opposition's proposition is less generous than ours. I do not know whether it has realised it but at $ 100 patients will be paying $25. What is more the Opposition is proposing an open-ended scheme, because the doctor could charge well in excess of the recognised fee. 
-The Opposition has made no mention of that in the amendment. It has put forward an open-ended scheme, once again playing into the hands of the doctors. I suggest to the honourable member for Prospect that he should withdraw the amendments and redraft them, instead of the Bill itself being withdrawn and redrafted, as he has suggested to the Government. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Department and each of the State Governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
Since the Home Saving Grant Scheme was reintroduced in 1976 how many applications (a) have been made for the grant and (b) were accepted. 
Of the successful applicants what proportion was gained by (a) single males, (b) single females, (c) married couples and (d) unmarried couples. 
My rephrased question to the Minister for Health is this: Is the Minister aware of conflicting public statements regarding the need for people to maintain private health insurance and not merely to rely on the Commonwealth medical benefit after 1 November? What is the Minister's advice to Australians in relation to the taking out of health insurance after 1 November? 
I want to highlight the serious divisions that exist in the Queensland Labor Party and the fraud that has been committed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  on his alleged ideals and ability to control the left wing trade union-dominated party in his State branch of Queensland. We have all heard how  Mr Hayden  purports to be a moderate democratic socialist. At the John Curtin Memorial Lecture this year he said that the Labor Party under his leadership was committed to objectives of progressive reform. We have all heard about his concern for ministerial propriety and about the need for consultation with the Australian public on matters ranging from uranium mining to technological change. What a fine person  Mr Hayden  appears to be. Indeed, it is easy when one is in Opposition to say everything in general and nothing in particular. It is easy when one is in Opposition to have honourable intentions but never be in the spot of having to deliver the goods. 
How can the Australian electorate assess the sincerity and real intentions of the Leader of the Opposition? Let me suggest to honourable members that perhaps the best way we can assess just how strong, how sincere, and how capable  Mr Hayden  is is by examining his record in his own branch of the Labor Party, the Queensland branch. On 24 September the Federal Executive, after a month-long investigation, resolved that certain reforms should occur in the structure and membership of the Queensland branch of the Labor Party. The Press reported it and made us all believe that this was a great victory for  Mr Hayden. Mr Hayden  had fought boots and all', according to the Melbourne  Age.  He had gone out on a limb to set in motion the reform of the left wing trades hall-dominated Queensland branch of the Labor Party. Indeed, one journalist not only said that 'he was the key instigator of reform in the Queensland branch' but also that 'he was prepared to be tough and to use all the prestige of a leadership to force through organisational changes'. That was reported in the  National Times  on 7 October. We are all led to believe that  Mr Hayden  is a party strongman. I want to say about the words of praise that indeed they are hollow words. I believe that  Mr Hayden  is nothing more than a cream puff, light and fluffy with no weight, with no power and with a facade- a facade which must be broken down so that the Australian electorate can see how the union left wing bosses still call the tune to which  Mr Hayden  so merrily dances. 
Let us look at the record of the Queensland branch of the Labor Party and examine its trade union-dominated structure by which rank and file ALP members in many cases are virtually excluded from the decision-making process. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  It takes a little longer. The Queensland branch of the Labor Party in the last four years can best be described as a five-time loser. In the 1974 Federal election Queensland was the only State not to elect five Labor senators. In the 1974 State election the ALP was reduced to a rump party. Indeed, it just made a cricket team. 
-No, they did not have a twelfth man. In the 1975 Federal election only the Leader of the Opposition could scramble back to hold his seat, out of the 1 8 House of Representatives seats in Queensland. In the 1977 State election the ALP received only 43 per cent of the vote. In the 1977 Federal election the ALP in Queensland polled fewer primary votes than in 1975. That is hardly a record of trail-blazing success. But the real issue for many sincere ALP members in Queensland is the present structure and organisation of the party. The Queensland branch of the ALP not only is dominated by a small clique of left wing trade unions but also those people are unrepresentative of the rank and file Labor members in the Australian community in general. The Queensland Central Executive, with its 96 members, has 52 union delegates. Only once every three years is a convention called which gives the average rank and file member some opportunity to have a say. In 
Queensland the ALP is in effect dominated by trade union machinery men, the faceless men of Queensland politics. Because of this obvious lopsidedness, a group known as the Reform Movement gathered momentum during this year to make the Labor Party in Queensland a better reflection of Australian society. The goal of that group has been, and remains, to establish a party which will attract 'the broadest range of men and women' and whose structure will offer 'the maximum opportunity for participation at all levels and throughout the State'. The reformers want less trade union domination, an annual convention, a proportional voting system and a more open decision-making process. These demands are hardly startling or revolutionary but they have been resisted by the present power brokers in Queensland because, if met, the demands could mean an end to their incompetent administration. 
Where was the Leader of the Opposition when these demands were being stated? At first he stood timidly aside while the reformers were accused of being right wing and middle class academics. In one document circulated amongst ALP members they were described as 'grubs  . . traitors to the Labor cause'. Eventually, in July, Neil Kane, a member of the left wing Electrical Trades Union and a member of the inner Executive of the ALP in Queensland, said that  Mr Hayden  should not be leader of the Australian Labor Party, because he did not have the confidence of the working class. On this note the Leader of the Opposition himself finally decided that reform was needed. What did he say about the State of the ALP in his own State? Firstly, he said: 
The greatest need the Party has at the present time is to widen its membership considerably. It is the only way the Party can feel sure that it is in touch with what is happening in the community. 
Secondly, he said that the inner Executive:   . . has only seven members, is not representative effectively enough of the trade union movement in Queensland . . . there is no guaranteed representation of branch members . . . nor is there any guaranteed representation from the various parliamentary spheres. It is a closed shop. 
That was said during an interview he gave on QTQ Channel 9 on 12 July. Despite the attacks on the Leader of the Opposition by Neil Kane, the inner Executive failed to rebuke  Mr Kane.  Indeed, the Leader of the Opposition even asserted on the television program  This Day Tonight  on 12 July that  Mr Kane  had a serious health problem and should retire from the inner Executive. When asked about his views on the matter by BTQ Channel 7 on 12 July,  Mr Kane  only abused the reporters and articulated nontransmissionable expletives. 
These are the sorts of problems that the Queensland branch of the Australian Labor Party has. These are the sorts of people who run it. We must ask ourselves whether they are capable and responsible enough ever to be allowed to obtain government office. More importantly, we must ask ourselves whether the Leader of the Opposition carried out his assurances to members of the reform group, people whom he described as 'very fine people . . . inspired by the best of motives'- that was said on the program  PM  on 2 October- that significant changes would occur and that he would take a strong stand at the Federal Executive meeting on 23 and 24 September about these matters. The Leader of the Opposition backed off. The inquiry was a massive whitewash. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! There is no point of order. 
Instead of an annual conference as desired by the reformers, the Federal Executive has recommended a biennial conference. Instead of a fifty-fifty structure between trade unions and members for election of delegates to the State Conference and quarterly State Council meetings, it has been recommended that representation will be 60 per cent trade unionists and 40 per cent branch members. In line with this is the fact that voting remains first past the post instead of proportional representation as was promised by the Leader of the Opposition. Under these arrangements the new State Council which replaces the Queensland Central Executive will be even more dominated by trade unions than it is at present. Furthermore, it is still possible for trade unionists who are not signed-up members of the Party to participate in the selection of candidates. 
As the reform group stated on 2 October 1 978, the so-called changes are totally unacceptable. They do not have any real effect upon the present structure and nature of the Queensland Labor Party. They are a sell-out by some members of the national Executive but, in particular, the real sell-out is by the Leader of the Opposition. On the issue of proportional representation, only three delegates to the Federal Executive voted for its introduction in Queensland. So much for the Leader of the Opposition's assurances to the reform group. However, the Leader of the Opposition said that the reform group is 'wrongly informed' and that it will find these changes eminently satisfying'. He also said that the changes represent a compromise on the part of the Queensland Executive and that overall they are 'a vast improvement on what went before'. However, from what I have outlined to honourable members today about what the actual changes are, they can clearly see the disparity between what the Leader of the Opposition said he desired and what he actually achieved. No wonder members of the reform movement feel so sold out by the Leader of the Opposition. 
The Leader of the Opposition has been involved in the worst sort of short term politicking and grandstanding that we have seen for many a year. He has attempted to play out the role of a progressive, a reformer and a strongman when, in fact, there has been no reform and he has done what he has been told to do by the faceless left wing power brokers who dominate the Labor Party in Queensland. I suggest to honourable members and the Australian electorate that such a man would be incapable of keeping left wing policies out of a Labor government. If he cannot get his own house in order in Queensland, how does he expect the Australian electorate to believe that he has the strength and sincerity required of any national leader? I say to the House that the Leader of the Opposition - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! It being 12.45 p.m., in accordance with Standing Order 106, the debate is interrupted. I put the question: 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
1 ) Have discussions been held with State Ministers of Primary Industry to standardise meat inspection regulations for export beef. 
If so, what has been the result of these discussions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between the Department of Social Security and each of the State governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between the Department of Administrative Services and each of the State governments. 
) When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Department and each of the State governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
-I present the fourth report of the Publications Committee sitting in conference with the Publications Committee of the Senate. Copies of the report have been circulated to honourable members in the chamber. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Department and each of the State Governments. 
) When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
-On behalf of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation I present the report of the Committee entitled 'Oil Spills: Prevention and Control of Oil Pollution in the Marine Environment', together with the transcript of evidence and extracts from the minutes of proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I ask for leave of the House to make a short statement. 
Leave granted. 
-The report just tabled is the second report of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation established in the 3 1st Parliament. The inquiry upon which this report is based was commenced in the previous Parliament. The Committee recognises that land-based oil pollution contributes significantly to the pollution of the ocean. Some 41 per cent of oil entering the ocean is estimated to come from land-based sources. The Committee concentrated on spills from shipping, off-shore drilling rigs and shore-based facilities. Pollution arising from such sources releases, on a world-wide basis, over 2 million metric tonnes of oil into the marine environment. In Australia, this is an area where effective Commonwealth action could be undertaken. 
The problem of pollution of the marine environment by oil is, unfortunately, already common in Australia. Reports of marine pollution, both international and Australian, continually reminded the Committee of the topical nature of the subject throughout the course of the inquiry. Australia is not well prepared to cope with a major pollution incident, yet ship-sourced oil pollution, accidental or deliberate, is already a major environmental problem and the Committee believes that as Australia's reliance on imported oil products increases so will the problem. Concern not only centres on the fact that the volume of tanker traffic will multiply but also that the size of the vessels themselves will increase. Honourable members will recall the incidents involving the tankers  Torrey Canyon  and the  Amoco Cadiz  and the disastrous consequences of a mishap involving such huge vessels and the spillage of thousands of tonnes of oil. The Committee recognised that economic factors may eventually bring super tankers to Australian waters. Authorities must carefully assess the environmental implications before allowing such vessels to operate. The decision to allow such super tankers should not be based solely on economic considerations. The provision of alternative methods of unloading vessels also requires consideration. Existing draught limitations in the major Australian oil ports such as Botany Bay and Westernport Bay would mean that extensive dredging programs are necessary to accommodate super tankers and the use of restricted facilities may itself pose risks to these vessels. 
The environmental impact of marine oil pollution is difficult to predict not only because our knowledge of marine ecology is imperfect but also because there are no effective means of evaluating the physical factors which affect an oil spill such as tidal and wind movements. Information is essential if assessments of damage are to be made and strategies for the treatment of future oil spills are to be formulated. Evidence suggests there is little information available on the marine environment. The entire marine ecosystem is extremely complex and very little has been done towards understanding the functions and relationships of this system. 
Because of the scant data available it is not surprising that there is a lack of public concern over marine pollution. Researchers have reached widely differing conclusions about the dangers of oil pollution and many authorities pay little heed to the problem unless there is evidence of immediate physical effects among marine animals. 
It is well established that major oil spills have a disastrous effect on the marine environment. Oil is a conspicuous pollutant. It has a dramatic effect on marine life, sea birds, foreshores and pleasure craft. Beyond this initial emotive response the level of concern diminishes. At present little is known of the long-term effects of oil. Much of the information that is available is based on projections from overseas data; data which is not necessarily valid for Australian conditions. The Committee was concerned that the attitudes of some authorities charged with responsibility of combating oil pollution were as potentially dangerous as the pollution itself. Much of the effect merely involves the dispersal of the oil as rapidly as possible without consideration of the additional environmental damage involved in the wholesale application of toxic dispersants. 
The Committee believes that environmental authorities must be given the opportunity to become more closely involved in the monitoring and clean-up of small routine oil spills. There is an urgent need for expanded research programs into marine environment and ecology. Existing facilities which are at present underutilised, for instance those at Lizard Island, Heron Island and the Australian Institute of Marine Science, located south of Townsville, could play an important initial role in the development of programs without incurring otherwise prohibitive establishment costs. The aim of the program would be to encourage research in all States and develop a comprehensive body of data on the marine environment. 
Accidental pollution incidents such as the  Ekofisk  oil rig blow-out and the tankers  Torrey Canyon  and  Amoco Cadiz  are spectacular and release large volumes of oil. These spillages can usually be attributed to negligence or equipment failure. While it is likely that such incidents will never be entirely eliminated improved training techniques and maintenance programs would reduce them. 
The Committee believes the greatest source of oil pollution, and hence the greatest danger, arises from the deliberate discharge of tank and bilge washings from all shipping. Discharges are numerous and constant and, while prohibited by Commonwealth and State legislation and the terms of international conventions, this type of pollution is difficult to detect and occurs as pan of everyday operations. Approximately 1.5 million metric tonnes, or 25 per cent of all oil entering the oceans is estimated to come from such discharges. 
The Committee was concerned that while efforts are being made to improve methods of combating oil spills, not enough emphasis is being placed on methods of preventing spills. The Commonwealth plays an active role in the formulation of international conventions designed to limit marine pollution yet Australia has ratified only four of them. It is totally inadequate that the majority of these conventions, some dating back to the 1960s, have not been ratified. 
The safety of shipping was considered in some detail and the Committee has made several recommendations dealing with this aspect. The relationship between improved shipping safety and the reduced probability of damage giving rise to an oil spill is obvious. It is for this reason that the Committee considers improvements necessary in charting and the provision of navigation aids. Many of the maps in use are based on readings obtained since 1944. Other areas may be charted on the basis of much earlier and potentially inaccurate data. Chans in the area just south of Cairns are based on information gathered around 1911. While relying on such charts vessels regularly navigate in the Torres 
Strait and Great Barrier Reef areas assuming an under-keel clearance of a mere 1.5 metres. The inherent danger to the Great barrier Reef because of this situation is enormous. 
The Naval Hydrographer is presently working to a timetable of 45 years to bring navigational charts up to accepted international standards. The Commonwealth has a responsibility to ensure that the program is completed as soon as possible and every effort should be made to upgrade the facilities associated with and available to hydrographic work. 
The Department of Transport is responsible for the provision of navigation aids along Australia's coastline. On the evidence presented to the Committee there are areas where aids could be usefully improved and the Committee has recommended accordingly. The Committee believes that there are areas where consideration could be given to the introduction of compulsory pilotage. In hazardous areas where detailed local knowledge is required for safe navigation the use of pilot services would significantly reduce the risks posed to vessels. Although implementation of such a scheme is made difficult by existing conventions concerning freedom of passage in international waterways the Committee recommends that the Commonwealth, at an international as well as national level, encourage the acceptance of compulsory pilotage. 
Safety aspects of the existing 500-metre prohibited zone around oil and gas production platforms in Bass Strait were also considered by the Committee. The existing prohibited zone is supplemented by a 2.5 nautical mile cautionary zone around such structures. However, the infringement of this zone does not constitute an offence. The Committee appreciated that shipping movements in the area are moderate but the possibility of a collision and consequent pollution cannot be ignored. The extent of the existing prohibited area is limited by international convention. The Committee believes that to ensure the safety of off-shore structures the Commonwealth Government should make representations at an international level to have the restricted zones around Australian off-shore platforms extended to a distance of 2.5 nautical miles. 
The effectiveness of current surveillance procedures in the prevention and detection of oil pollution depends directly on the capacity of the surveillance system. Adequate surveillance is hampered by the lack of resources and the extent of the Australian coastline. These inadequacies will become more apparent with the introduction of the Exclusive Economic Zone. The Committee is not convinced that the enormous cost required to upgrade significantly the system to provide effective anti-pollution surveillance is warranted. The Committee has noted the potential for the use of satellite imagery to detect oil pollution and has recommended that the use of these satellites be monitored to determine their suitability for Australia. The 'fingerprinting' of oil cargoes and ballast with coded plastic pellets, to simplify the identification of polluting vessels was considered. Sweden has unilaterally introduced a trial scheme which has led to a significant decrease in pollution incidents. The Committee considers that the likely impact of the introduction of a similar scheme in Australia should be examined. 
Surveillance and detection will not of themselves limit the extent of pollution. It is up to the responsible authorities to take effective action against identifiable polluters. The imposition of substantial fines, as allowed under existing legislation, will promote sensible attitudes to the retention of waste oils and will dramatically reduce routine' pollution. To cope with the eventuality of an oil spill Australia has developed the National Plan to Control Pollution of the Sea by Oil. The aim of the scheme was to develop strategies to combat oil pollution and to marshal stockpiles of anti-pollution equipment. The National Plan is an effective program but it is limited. The resources available are adequate to deal with day to day problems only. However, the Committee believes that these resources would be inadequate to prevent the contamination associated with a large scale oil spill. The development of the National Plan was an important step towards combating marine pollution but further consolidation and development are necessary. 
The existing Plan, under the management of the Department of Transport, is planned and equipped to deal with the possibility of shipsourced pollution. The responsibility for dealing with pollution from off-shore rigs rests with the Department of National Development. The Committee is concerned that fragmentation of the responsibility to deal with oil pollution could cause unnecessary delays in the event of a major rig blowout. The Committee considers it appropriate that the Department of Transport, as controller of the National Plan, prepare contingency arrangements to cover off-shore rigs. 
Similar inadequacies in planning exist in relation to co-operation with the oil industry. The industry accepts responsibility for pollution abatement around industry facilities but in the event of a major spill the National Plan would be called upon. Again the Committee is concerned that there are no formal arrangements to coordinate the National Plan with the Oil Industry Marine Oil Spills Action Plan. There is no organisation for planning the use of equipment or for transporting it to the spill site. To ensure that adequate measures exist to cope with oil pollution the formulation of joint arrangements providing for a common philosophy, training and exercises, and equitable financial contributions are required. Although not coming within the scope of terms of reference the Committee believes that a real need exists to consider the extension of the National Plan to include the possibility of pollution by other hazardous substances. 
The Committee took evidence from 93 witnesses representing Commonwealth and State departments and instrumentalities, local government bodies, private industry, community groups, marine biologists and private individuals. All State governments participated in the inquiry by providing written submissions or by making officers available to speak to the Committee. The findings and recommendations within the report cover a wide range of matters and reflect the Committee's recognition of perceived omissions or inadequacies in our scientific knowledge or administrative procedures. The adoption of these recommendations, it is hoped, will go some way to better preparing for that eventuality. 
I wish to pay tribute to the staff of the secretariat. Too frequently we take for granted the valuable efforts of dedicated staff. The bulk of the research undertaken for the inquiry was carried out by  Mrs Lyn  Simons and  Mr Jeff  Lamond who were ably assisted by the clerk to the Committee,  Mr John  Cummins. I also acknowledge the work of Tarda Gorman who was involved in much of the typing associated with the inquiry and the report. On behalf of the Committee, I extend thanks to these people. Finally, I pay tribute to the members of the sub-Committee and, in particular, the honourable member for Latrobe  (Mr Baillieu),  who chaired the sub-Committee at one stage during my illness, the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  and the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe).  I commend the report to the House. 
asked the Minister for Special Trade Representations, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Department and each of the State Governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure, who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister for Finance upon notice, on 1 9 September 1978: 
1 ) What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Department and each of the State governments. 
2 ) When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister for Defence upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
1 ) What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Department and each of the State governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Department and each of the State governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Department and each of the State governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a jooint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
-In this debate on the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill, I will deal with four main points: Firstly, the Commonwealth 's generosity in relation to State finance; secondly, the historical background to the Bill; thirdly, the new federalism proposals that have been introduced by this Government and the new federation arrangements which have resulted; and, finally, Australia's economic problems, the role of the Commonwealth and the States and their recent records. This Bill has a background that extends back about 40 years. It symbolises the Commonwealth Government's long and historical commitment to assisting the States while, at the same time, placing national needs in an overall system of priorities. The Commonwealth Government has not been parsimonious with the States. Indeed, if we examine, as I will do later, the record of control by State governments over their own expenditure programs we will be struck by their almost freeforall approach. The States have continued to spend at the same rates of growth during the past few years of economic stringency as if the economy was still in the prosperous years of the 1950s and 1960s. 
The time must come when the States must pull their weight in the fight against inflation and the fight to restore the Australian economy to its former prosperity following the disastrous years of the Whitlam Government when expenditure by both Commonwealth and State governments skyrocketed to new heights. We all know the results of that spending syndrome. We all know that restraint is needed by governments- all governments- to 'restore private enterprise to some semblance of its former self, to reduce the size of the public sector in order to make room for private investment and to divert resources back to areas which are crucial to the long-term prosperity and security of the nation and to employment. Even the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  acknowledged this recently when he said: 
Governments do not have a bottomless pit to provide funds. 
I think that is a very significant statement from the Leader of the Opposition, particularly in view of the fact that he introduced a Budget, in the last year of the Whitlam Government's reign, which was very inflationary. Even such a socialist as  Dr Cairns  realised that the private sector could no longer be mauled by big Government. He said as much at the Terrigal National Conference of the Australian Labor Party. The States always take great pains to establish their sovereignty, their rights to determine their own spending priorities. But when it comes to assessing the impact of their spending decisions upon the national economy they suddenly act as though they were merely allocation agencies for Commonwealth money. They opt out of taking a responsible stand in the overall framework of Australia's economic position. Whilst the problems facing Australia are nowhere near the scale, severity or immediacy that they were during the 
Depression years from 1930 to 1933, we should not forget that the most important lesson from that period was not so much the actual policies of the Premiers' plans but rather the spirit in which they were made. Throughout the 1931 and 1932 meetings of the Premiers' Conference the point made by both Labor and non-Labor leaders, State and Commonwealth, was the need to have a joint approach to Australia's economic problems and the need for equality of sacrifice by all governments and all classes of people. As the then Labor Treasurer Theodore said at the May 1931 conference: 
There must be unanimous co-operation between governments. ... 
Unfortunately, in our present economic difficulties the States seem to have forgotten about cooperation and about the need for them to act in concert with Federal Government economic strategy. If this does not occur then the allusion to the Australian economy having seven different heads and going in as many different directions is unfortunately all too true. 
I now turn to the origins of this Bill, and in particular to its historical origin. We all know that the provision of Commonwealth Government loans to the States through the Loan Council arose out of changes to the Constitution in 1928. These changes were embodied in the financial agreement that became operative in 1929 and meant that instead of seven governments chasing foreign loans and competing against each other, with the unwholesome effect of pushing up interest rates, only one government, the Commonwealth Government, would be responsible for the co-ordination and raising of loan moneys for the States and for the Commonwealth. As well, the Commonwealth contributed to the interest and sinking funds of the States and took over State debts when necessary. As Prime Minister Bruce said, the new arrangements would mean the consolidation and mobilisation of the credit of Australia, in which direction it will be increasingly beneficial to the whole of the people'. That statement is to be found in the Commonwealth Parliamentary Debates of 14 December 1927. One of the consequences of these powers is that the Commonwealth can take over State debts and thus provide the States with revenue to spend on more current projects rather than pay interest. As the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said in his second reading speech, the effect of this is that it '. . . relieves the States of debt charges which they would otherwise have to pay and . . . accordingly have a substantial beneficial effect on the States' financial position'. This arrangement arose out of the February 1970 Premiers' Conference when the States decided that instead of pushing for powers over income tax they would accept- instead additional Commonwealth grants. As well, it was resolved to take over the burden of State debt charges by the Commonwealth accepting part of the existing State debt and also by providing a portion of future borrowing programs for State works in the form of interest-free capital grants. Overall, this meant that the Commonwealth had assumed responsibility for approximately $ 1,000m of State debts and for an annual capital grant in lieu of loan raisings. These are hardly policies of repression, as the States would have us believe. 
If we take the provisions outlined in this Bill with the new federalism arrangements we can appreciate how the States have enjoyed prosperity while the Commonwealth has had to tighten its financial belt. Firstly, the States now receive a fixed percentage of total personal income tax- approximately 40 per cent. This is shared amongst the States on the same relativities as in the previous financial assistance grants. There is a guarantee that no State will receive less than it would have received under the previous system. Thus the States have greater certainty of their future income and have access to a growth tax. These have long been demands of the States and they have now been satisfied. Under the new arrangements untied general revenue grants increased, and I want to specify the importance to the States of those untied general revenue grants. They increased by 19.3 per cent in 1976-77, which was an extra $603m; by 14 per cent in 1977-78, which was an extra $685. lm; and by 10.8 per cent in 1978-79, which is an extra $47 lm. The Commonwealth's own outlays rose by only 10.5 per cent in 1976-77 and by approximately the same percentage in 1977-78. In 1 978-79 the rise will be 7.7 per cent. Specific purpose grants have not risen as fast but, after all, that is what the States want. In other words, they want no-strings-attached grants. They can set their own priorities, and then I believe there should be no bleating to the Commonwealth that various projects cannot be undertaken. 
A second aspect of the new federalism is the ability of the States to introduce a surcharge or reduce income tax. What a wonderful measure this is for the States. If a State believes that it needs more funds to carry out various capital works projects it can have a surcharge added. On the other hand, if it believes that its position is such that it can reduce income tax then in fact it can make a reduction to its residents. This follows the democratic principle that the government responsible for spending public funds must also be responsible for raising them. I think we are all aware that there is a certain odium in raising public moneys. If we look at the three tiers of government- Commonwealth, State and local- we find that the level of government that suffers the least odium is the State government area. Local government has its own rates and charges. The Commonwealth is responsible for collecting all forms of taxation, be it payasyouearn, company tax or whatever. We find that the States are relatively free of the sort of odium that is experienced by local government and the Commonwealth Government. 
For too long the federal system we have had has cut across the democratic principle of responsible government. Not unexpectedly, the States are critical of this aspect of the new federalism policy. Yet any examination of Federal-State financial relations will show that the States have asked for income taxing power in the following instances: At the September 1950 Premiers' Conference and the August 195 1 Premiers' Conference. In July 1952 the Commonwealth said that it was willing to discuss arrangements for returning income tax powers to the States. Further discussions occurred at the February 1953 Premiers' Conference, the August 1953 Premiers' Conference and again at the March 1959 Premiers' Conference. I mentioned earlier the 1950 Premiers' Conference, when the Premiers expressed a desire to have instituted a system in line with the new federalism policy that, we have now. As Menzies so tellingly commented: 
It became quite clear that no State really wanted its income taxing powers back. 
It is my contention that it is no use for the States to criticise the lack of funds if they now have the ability to increase their revenue. The States have to become accountable for their spending programs on the one hand and their revenue capabilities on the other. What a preposterous attitude it is when one considers that on the one hand the States are exhorting Canberra to reduce taxes and on the other hand stating that they have inadequate funds to carry forward their favourite projects. 
I now want to outline Australia's economic position and the role of the State and Federal governments in bringing about recovery. The growth rate of Australia's public sector- that is, the State and Federal governments- rose too sharply under Labor. The Federal Government has played its part in stabilising its spending, reducing the size of its bureaucracy and making room for private investment. The Commonwealth's share of gross domestic product increased from 11 per cent to 12 per cent in 1977-78. The size of the Commonwealth Public Service has fallen from 400,500 in 1975 to 391,400 at December 1977. If we look at the record of the States, we find that all State and local government outlays rose from 2 1 per cent of non-farm gross domestic product in 1976-77 to 23 per cent in 1977-78. State public services throughout the 1960s and 1970s have outstripped the Commonwealth Public Service, and I want to examine the figures. Between 1960 and 1970 the overall growth rates in the public services were Commonwealth 41.8 per cent, New South Wales 68 per cent, Victoria 34.6 per cent and Queensland 77.8 per cent. From December 1972 to December 1977 the Commonwealth rose by 9.5 per cent, New South Wales by 15.8 per cent, Victoria by 24.7 per cent, Queensland by 21.6 per cent, South Australia by 32 per cent, Western Australia by 27.7 per cent and Tasmania by 23.8 per cent. We can see that the Commonwealth's increase was a low 9.5 per cent compared with the States, the lowest being New South Wales at 15.8 per cent, and rising to 27.7 per cent in the case of Western Australia. Given these figures, it is totally irresponsible and almost fraudulent for State Ministers to call for a cutback of the Commonwealth bureaucracy when their own houses are yet to be put in order. One of my favourite sparring partners on the Queensland scene, the Honourable Russ Hinze, the Minister for Local Government and Main Roads, is quoted in the  Courier Mail  of 1 8 July 1978. He stated: 
Federal bureaucratic extravagance was still a problem and the Commonwealth should make an effort to trim some of the excess fat off its bureaucratic carcass. 
This is hypocritical given the fact that in 1 976 the Commonwealth bureaucracy fell by 3 per cent while Queensland's grew by 1.5 per cent and by 4.7 per cent the following year. Furthermore, there have been numerous announcements by the former Treasurer, for instance on 2 1 May in the  Courier-Mail,  that Queensland's Public Service was frozen or experiencing minor growth. On 6 September also in the  Courier-Mail  it was reported that the Queensland Public Service may- I emphasise the word 'may'- decrease by 200 out of almost 142,000 employees. I think this  is  an indication that the States have to put their own houses in order. I believe that the Commonwealth has acted very responsibly over the past three years. 
I now turn to the meeting that took place in Melbourne earlier this week when the Commonwealth allowed the States to raise $ 1,767m over eight years for 12 specific resource based projects. I think that bears out the continuing generosity of the Commonwealth to the States to which I referred earlier. One has only to look at the type of program that will be undertaken by each of the States to see that not only will the projects be of substantial benefit to the development of Australia's resources but also a tremendous number of Australians will be put into work over the next eight years. This benefit will be obtained not only in the initial capital establishment stages of these programs but also on a recurring basis. I believe that the program will be of wonderful benefit to all the States of the Commonwealth. We ought to see the subsidence of the belligerence that seems to be so common when State governments cannot be honest and set priorities. They are continually critical of the Commonwealth because of the lack of funds. That sort of dogmatic, belligerent approach should subside with the Commonwealth's acceptance of the proposal to allow them to borrow overseas for specific resource projects. 
Finally, I refer to the local government personal income tax sharing arrangements which are part of the Fraser federalism. There has been a steady rise in the amount of funds going to local government. A figure of 1.52 per cent was set. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  promised in his last policy speech to increase that figure from 1.52 to 2 per cent over three years. That has been of tremendous value to local government. Although the increase has been approximately 10 per cent overall nevertheless the increase to individual local authorities has been as low as 2 per cent. The point I make is that the Commonwealth has not been responsible for the breaking down of the overall increase of 10 per cent which has resulted in some shires and cities receiving 2 per cent while others have received in excess of 10 per cent. It is the actions of the States grants commissions which have been responsible. 
This point needs to be made strongly. Certain people in local government and State governments have seen fit, because the increase has not been an overall 10 per cent as passed on by the Commonwealth, to blame the Commonwealth. I sheet home the blame to the States grants commissions. They may well be correct in their allocation of less than 10 per cent to some local authorities and a greater percentage toothers but the fact is that there was a clear 10 per cent increase in the Commonwealth's funding. Therefore, the blame must be sheeted home to the States grants commissions. If the position has arisen where States grants commissions are not acting as they should be and if there is political interference- I am not suggesting for a moment that there is- it is up to the State governments and the State members of Parliament concerned to investigate thoroughly the actions of States grants commissions to ensure that funds are being allocated on a fair basis. Personally I am sick and tired of the criticism of the Commonwealth for being responsible for reducing the amount when, in fact, that has nothing to do with the Commonwealth. The matter is entirely in the hands of the States grants commissions. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
1 ) Has the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs forwarded to the Attorney-General's Department a list of statutory authorities for advice as to whether they should pay customs duty. 
If so, when was the list received by the Department, and when does the Attorney-General expect the advice to be forthcoming. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
Is he able to say whether Chrysler Australia has introduced an electronic lean burn system (E.L.B.) to its 6 cylinder cars in order to reduce petrol consumption. 
Has his attention been drawn to an article in the  Australian  on 27 September 1978 stating that Chrysler Australia claimed that the E.L.B. device will improve fuel consumption by 20 per cent to 25 per cent; if so, has his Department instigated any investigation to assess the accuracy of these statements. 
If the ELB system is efficient, has any consideration been given to making it mandatory on all new cars sold in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
1 ) What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between the Attorney-General's Department and each of the State governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the Reports of the United States Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations of February 1975 entitled 'Federalism in 1974: The Tension of Interdependence' where there is mention on page 5 that each time a Congressional committee reports on a Bill providing new budget authority it must contain an intergovernmental impact statement explaining the Bill's financial effect on State and local government. 
If so, has he investigated these impact statements with the possible view of introducing them into the Australian context. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Department and each of the State governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between the Department of Education and each of the State governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Department and each of the State governments. 
) When were each of these arrangements established. 
3 ) If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 15 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Department and each of the State governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements exist between the Department of Science and each of the State Governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure, who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Department and each of the State governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committee and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Department and each of the State governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Department and each of the State governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Department and each of the State governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Department and each of the State governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Depanment and each of the State governments. 
When were each of these arrangments established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to reports in the  Financial Review  of 8 August 1978 that the Firestone Tyre and Rubber Company is presently facing investigation in the United States of America concerning the alleged unsafety of its SOO Series Radial tyres. 
If so, has his Department made any investigations to ascertain whether any of this type of tyre has ever been sold in Australia. 
Has his Department had any official contact with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, the body in the United States of America investigating the Firestone Company. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Department and each of the State Governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Department and each of the State governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to comments made by  Mrs Rosemary  Kyburz, Member for Salisbury in the Queensland Parliament, on 20 September 1978 concerning the Commonwealth Government's subsidy towards the construction of the cruiser M. V.  Melita,  including a statement that the owners of the cruiser received a subsidy of up to $250,000 for fitting alone and that the Federal Government is pouring money down the drain; if so, exactly how much was involved in the subsidy and to whom was it paid. 
Has his attention also been drawn to the fact that  Mrs Kyburz  also suggested that this vessel is going to be used for something devious; if so, has his Department checked the purpose for which M. V.  Melita  is to be used. 
Has  Mrs Kyburz  written to him or his Department concerning her complaints on this matter; if so, when was her letter received. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to a study being conducted by the Division of Mechanical Engineering Scientists in the New South Wales Department of Transport on ways to reduce fuel wastage by cars because of unco-ordinated systems of traffic lights and road planning. 
If so, does the Commonwealth Government assess the impact upon the flow of traffic and fuel consumption of motor vehicles for traffic lights it funds. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to reports on the ABC radio program  AM.  of 24 May, that a firm of aerial sprayers are being taken to court by the Victorian Environment Protection Authority over the alleged effects of their spraying the weedicides 2,4,5-T and 2,4-D in the Warrigal area last October. 
Has his attention also been drawn to a statement by a Gippsland farmer,  Mr Bill  Nolan, that his trees were substantially defoliated and freaked after the spraying and that a neighbour's skin was adversely affected after being exposed to the spraying. 
Has there been any contact by his Department with the Authority or  Mr Nolan  regarding these allegations; if so, what has been the nature of this contact. 
Has his attention also been drawn to allegations in the Courier Mail of 5 and 6 June 1978 concerning increases in the number of deformed births in North Queensland after the use of 2,4,5-T in aerial spraying. 
Has there been any contact between the Queensland and Commonwealth Governments on this matter and has he made available the document by the World Health Organisation entitled Environmental Health Criteria for Tetrachlorodibenzodioxin (T.C.D.D.) which he mentioned in answer to question No. 784  (Hansard,  23 May 1978, page 2364). 
Has his Department made any submissions to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation that it should investigate the effects of these chemicals on human health. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Depanment and each of the State governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon, notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Department and each of the State governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Department and each of the State governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report in the  Australian  of 29 April 1978 concerning an investigation ordered by the New South Wales Attorney-General of the birth records of people to discover if anyone suffered deformities from the chemical 2,4,5-T. 
Has his attention also been drawn to reports that the herbicide 2,4,5-T has been dumped in a number of garbage tips at Majors Bay, Homebush Bay and Menai in Sydney between 1949 and 1974. 
Has there been any communication between the New South Wales Government and the Commonwealth Government on this matter; if so, what are the results of that communication. 
Is the chemical 2,4,5-T manufactured in Australia or is it imported. 
Has the Commonwealth reviewed any existing import licensing of the herbicide. 
Has the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation been asked to conduct any inquiries into alleged harmful effects of 2,4,5-T. 
Is he able to say whether a number of States in the United States of America have banned 2,4,5-T; if so, have officials of his Department investigated these bans. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
1) Is it a fact that earlier this year he wrote to each of the State Premiers seeking their co-operation to rationalise Federal and state meat inspection services. 
What is the present situation regarding meat inspection services and is there undue duplication in the existing arrangements. 
Which Premiers have replied to his original correspondence and what has been the general response to the request. 
-On behalf of the Publications Committee of the House of Representatives sitting in accordance with the Publications Committee of the Senate I present the report of the Committee entitled 'Australian Government Publishing Service and its Role in Commonwealth Printing and Publishing 1964-1978' together with the transcript of evidence. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
Leave granted. 
-This is the sixth special report presented to the Parliament by the Joint Committee on Publications since investigatory powers were conferred upon it by amendments to the Standing Orders in 1970. The inquiry into the Australian Government Publishing Service was initiated by the Committee since it felt that, after eight years of operation, it was timely for a review of AGPS activities to take place. The Australian Government Publishing Service was established on the recommendation of the Joint Select Committee on Parliamentary and Government Publications 1964- often referred to as the Erwin Committee after its  Chairman,  the  Hon.  Dudley Erwin. Since it was anticipated that future oversight of AGPS activities, functions and responsibilities would be undertaken by the Joint Committee on Publications, the Committee determined that it was the appropriate authority to carry out such a review. Initially, the Committee was content to examine AGPS operations only. However, as the inquiry progressed, it became apparent that there was a need to broaden its scope to cover the part played by departments, statutory authorities and other bodies associated with the Commonwealth's responsibilities in printing and publishing. 
-At the outset I wish to mention a couple of points that were made by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  I apologise for not being present during the entire speech. However, he was rather critical of the Queensland Government in its provision of certain services. I say to him in relation to his selective criticism that the Queensland Government has an excellent electoral record over the past 20 years or so and indeed I think it has the best record of any State government or of any political party in any State in the Commonwealth. It is the democratic right of every State in Australia encouraged by the Federalism policy of this Government that the States have the right to select their own priorities. On occasions I am rather critical of the Queensland Government but the people of that State are happy with the government they have; their electoral record reflects their satisfaction. The people have rejected the Labor Party in Queensland and I would suggest to the honourable member that the Labor Party in Queensland would be the weakest of any division in the Commonwealth. One cannot get past the will of the people and the will of the people in Queensland is very strong for the non-Labor parties. 
I wish to speak tonight specifically to the fortyfifth report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission which recommends, as the honourable member who preceded me has stated, that Queensland receive a special grant of $2 1.7m in the 1978-79 financial year. This special grant is over and above the $795m that Queensland automatically receives from the Commonwealth as general revenue from the tax sharing arrangement during the same period. It is also over and above the $42 8. 7m which Queensland received from the Federal Government in the form of specific purpose recurrent grants- the third highest in the Commonwealth. One surely may ask the question: Who is it that says Queensland does not get enough Federal aid? It should be pointed out that since the Grants Commission was established in 1933, none of its reports has ever been rejected or modified by any Commonwealth Government regardless of that government's political persuasion. This reflects in no insignificant way the high regard and the impartial nature that have come to be hallmarks of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 
These are characteristics which are unique not only in Australia but indeed in federal systems throughout the world. Consequently, I will devote some time to considering why this is so and why the Grants Commission came into existence. A second aspect which I believe patently warrants some discussion is the concept of horizontal fiscal equalisation; that is, the equalisation between the States where this special grant is aimed towards equalising Queensland's fiscal limitations to that of the other wealthier or more affluent States. 
I also want to comment on the criticism that has been levelled against the Commission in recent years, criticism which is unfounded on any facts and based on uninformed observations which has led to what I term as illogical conclusions. I want firstly to look at the history and background of the Grants Commission. It became obvious a few years after Federation that the less populous States, namely, Tasmania, South Australia and Western Australia needed extra Commonwealth financial assistance. As a result special grants have been given to Western Australia since 1910-11; to Tasmania since 1912-13; and to South Australia since 1929. However, the threat of secession by Western Australia and the difficulties imposed by the Great Depression made the need for these equalisation grants even greater. What is more, special grants were being given on inconsistent sets of guidelines or by any one institution. Often it was given to the Commonwealth Public Accounts Committee to investigate the States' claims. In June 1931 the Public Accounts Committee recommended: 
The time has arrived when a permanent body should be appointed to make a continuous study of the financial relations of the Commonwealth and the States . . . 
Prime Minister Lyons said when he introduced the Bill to establish the Commission:  the Government feels that there should be a comprehensive investigation of the whole case by the one body. When one commission is sent to inquire into an application for a grant by Tasmania, and another into a similar application by Western Australia . . . it is not possible to obtain any degree of uniformity in the recommendations. 
That quote came from the House of Representatives  Hansard  record of 18 May 1933. Consequently Prime Minister Lyons went on to say: 
The Government now desires that a comprehensive investigation shall be made by an impartial body which does not owe allegiance to either the Commonwealth or the States. 
The Government let the Commission decide its methodology. The Commission very early rejected arguments that special grants should be based on the principle of compensation for disabilities resulting from Federation, for poverty of resources or for inequalities among individual citizens. Instead it adopted the following criteria: 
Special grants are justified when a State, through financial stress from any cause, is unable efficiently to discharge its functions as a member of the Federation and should be determined by the amount of help found necessary to make it possible for that State by reasonable effort to function at a standard not appreciably below that of other States. 
That quote came from the Grants Commission third report in 1936. Thus the concept of fiscal horizontal equalisation was clearly stated. Over the years, the methods and nature of special grants have changed. Firstly. there has been a shift from minimum needs to full Budget equalisation as the purpose of the grants. Secondly, there are new methods of calculation whereby the claimant State's financial needs have come to be assessed directly by reference to differences in revenue raising capacity and costs of providing services instead of indirectly by reference to differential Budget results. 
In recent years the proportion of funds going to the States as a basis of the Commission's recommendations has declined. This is partly because Queensland is now the only claimant State, partly because of the  success of the Grants Commission's operations and partly because of the use of equalisation measures in other Federal grants to the States which I will detail a little later. Suffice to say at this juncture that the Commission was founded on a semi-judicial basis. Appointments to the Commission were on fixed tenure, dismissal was only by approval of both Houses of Parliament, evidence was taken on oath and persons of very high calibre were appointed. This tradition continues today and the uniqueness and value of the Commission are best summed up by Professor Russell Matthews who stated: 
The Grants Commission's procedures almost certainly represent the most sophisticated and systematic application of equalisation principles in any country- federal or unitary. 
No other country has made provision for such detailed assessment of financial needs by an independent, quasi- judicial body. Central governments in many countries make equalisation grants to provinces . . . but, the grants are usually based on ad hoc or political assessments . . . 
The Grants Commission has helped the smaller States to overcome the haggling and bazaar-like bargaining which all too frequently pervade intergovernmental relations in Australia. It is, without doubt, an impartial body which should have the respect of all political parties and all units of government-State and Federal. Any State which believes it is facing certain problems can apply to the Grants Commission for an independent assessment of its difficulties. 
I turn now to horizontal fiscal equalisation. As well as the Commission's special grants, the smaller States such as Queensland have received further subsidy over the more populous States by, firstly. specific purpose grants provided under section 96 of the Constitution. They may be for roads, universities or other things. Many of these grants include equalisation factors- for example, for vastness of the State, distance to be traversed by roads and the number of school children. They are just a few examples. Secondly, these States receive further subsidy by financial assistance grants which operated up to 1975. They were based on formulae that had certain elements that would favour some States- for example, the number of children attending school, distance factors, wage and salary movements, et cetera. Under the new federalism arrangements equalisation is assured by the same State relativities for general revenue, tax sharing grants, as the financial assistance grants. The four less populous States remain free to apply to the grants Commission. State surcharges by smaller  States  were to be equalised by the Commonwealth. That point has not been generally recognised in relation to the operation of the Grants Commission and the Fraser federalism policy. State relativities and general revenue assistance per capita are contained in a table which I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="112131197811231_94_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="112131197811231_95_1.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. This table clearly shows that the average per capita payment was $272.08. Victoria received $223.60; Queensland received $323.72 and Tasmania received the most with $455.38. One can see from this table the equalisation that comes about as a result of consideration of the capacity of the less populous States to raise revenue. 
I want to look specifically at the position in Queensland and the criticisms of the Commission. I turn now to the question of Queensland's assistance from the Grants Commission. Queensland first became a claimant State in 1971. 1 understand that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  wishes to make a few brief comments in relation to this matter later. Since that time it has received special grants from the Commonwealth based on Commission recommendations. Once again I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a small table which indicates the figures. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="112131197811231_95_2.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. These finally adjusted figures show that in 1971-72 Queensland received $9m. The figure rose to a peak of $35. 8m in 1975-76 and in this financial year the amount is $21m. Thus the Queensland Government has considered since 197 1 that it requires special assistance from the Commonwealth over and above the extra equalisation grants which the State receives in the form of general revenue and specific purpose grants which I mentioned earlier. In 1975-76 Queensland received $416.28 per capita in general revenue and specific purpose grants. New South Wales and Victoria on the other hand received only $359.76 and $364.08 respectively per capita. The Commission in making its recommendations looks at the revenue capacity and expenditure needs of Queensland. I emphasise the words 'the revenue capacity and expenditure needs of Queensland'. I emphasise this capacity because the Commission calculates the capacity of Queensland to raise income compared to the two standard States of New South Wales and Victoria. It does not consider the actual revenue raised by Queensland but rather its capacity to raise revenue. That is the point I want to emphasise. Thus, if Queensland decides to reduce its taxes- as it has in death and probate duties and payroll tax, which I think was referred to by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)-  The Commission will not take this as a reduction of capacity by Queensland. Similarly, if Queensland decides to spend more money in certain areas such as forestry- I use that as an example- the Commission does not consider this a higher expenditure need as this is a decision which the Queensland Government has made. 
I turn again specifically to the Queensland situation. Queensland has received since 1971, including this year's grant, a total of $ 182.65m in special grants. To some members of the Parliament and the public this extra assistance, which no other State receives at the moment because the other States that were claimant States have not made such approaches in recent years, may seem to be somewhat incongruous. It may seem somewhat incongruous considering that the Queensland Government has been bragging constantly about Queensland's wealth, about its growth and about the significance of its mineral exports to Australia. I want the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  in particular to take note of what I am saying at the moment. It seems even more incongruous considering the Queensland Premier's oft repeated but never attempted threat to make Queensland secede from the Commonwealth. 
I am not particularly belting into the honourable member for Lilley. I just want to make the point specifically because he and I are at somewhat of a difference in relation to this particular matter. 
I take the point raised by the honourable member for Barton that the honourable member for Lilley should listen to what I am saying. In 1973-1 want the honourable member for Lilley to listen to this in particularthe Premier was reported to have said that he would 'not hesitate to take the necessary steps for a referendum on Queensland's secession from the Commonwealth if circumstances warrant it'. That was reported in the  Age  on 14 May 1973. On 1 August, the Press reported: 'Joh seeks full home rule for Queensland'. That again appeared in the  Age  on 1 August 1974. The report also stated that he was 'poised to call in the United 
Nations to investigate dissatisfaction over Australian rule in Queensland'. This is a laughable situation. The Premier of Queensland for whom, in many respects, I have a great regard, talked about going to the United Nations and expressing dissatisfaction over Australian rule in Queensland. It is strange indeed that  Mr Petersen  has attacked the United Nations in recent times, yet he saw fit at that particular stage to call on the United Nations to intervene in Queensland's position in relation to the Commonwealth. But, of course,  Mr Petersen  is well known for his inconsistencies. On 8 November 1976, the Premier again hinted at secession and said that Queensland 'did not really need the rest of Australia'. That was reported in the  Australian  on 8 November 1976. This view was expressed again on 24 March 1977, in the  CourierMail.  The Premier stated: 
Queenslanders are paying dearly to be pan of the Australian federation . . . 
He stated further  . . without Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania, Australia would go broke. 
What a crazy state of affairs this is. If that is the case why is Queensland- a claimant Staterequesting additional funds from the Commonwealth through the Grants Commission and also through the general revenue and specific purpose grants. It is interesting to note that Tasmania receives twice as much in general revenue grants as Victoria. Inconsistency and illogical statements seem to be the basis of the Queensland Government's action. I challenge the Premier and the Queensland Government to hold a referendum on the secession question and to stop talking such utter hogwash. As well, if Queensland is doing so well, then the State should not seek special grants because, according to the Queensland Government, it does not really need them anyway. I hope that the honourable member for Lilley is listening to my comments in relation to this matter. Queensland now has the power to raise extra revenue through an income tax surcharge. I hope the honourable member for Lilley recognises that point also. The Queensland Government has the power to raise this extra revenue through a surcharge if it believes it needs more revenue for local government or for the development of the State. That is the great virtue of Fraser federalism. 
-They could get a refund, as the honourable member for Barton has stated. If the Queensland Government believes that the residents of Queensland deserve a refund then it can make that decision. In 1976 the Queensland 
Premier signed a document- I have had a look at it- requesting that income tax powers be returned to the States in the manner established by the new federalism policy. On 12 April 1977 the Premier said that the Commonwealth should give back income tax powers to the States. Yet, only a fortnight before the Premier said that Queensland does not want to go into State income tax at any stage '. 
-Somebody said that the Premier of Queensland is a schizophrenic. I will not go as far as the honourable member who made that suggestion. I will say that there is a tremendous amount of inconsistency in the argument of the Premier of Queensland. I think that ought to be emphasised. Similarly,  Mr Petersen  has repeatedly requested Canberra to lower income taxes. That was commented on in the  Australian  on 20 April 1977. He even proposed that sales tax should be halved. These are laudable objectives but it is only cheap politicking because Queensland is always criticising the Commonwealth and asking for more funds. I have a file in which I place every Canberra bashing statement that comes from the Queensland Premier, a Queensland Minister or a Queensland member of Parliament. The file at the moment is so high that a kangaroo could not jump over it. The file, of course, has only been in operation for two years. The temporary Queensland Treasurer,  Mr Knox,  recently stated: 
Give Queensland a fair go or else. 
That statement appeared in the  Courier-Mail  on 15 March 1977. How can the Commonwealth reduce taxes and increase funds to the State? The States have to be realistic and they are certainly not being that. The question I ask is: Has Queensland tried to raise revenue within its own capacity? 
The answer is: 'Not to a sufficient level'. For years it argued that its mineral royalties were high enough. It said so in its original submission to the Grants Commission in 1971. Further investigation by the Commission showed that Queensland was making a relatively - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
1 ) Has the Queensland Government still refused to give the Federal Government full authority over family law matters such as custody, guardianship and maintenance as was reported in the  Courier Mail of  10 April 1978. 
Has there been any discussion with the Queensland Law Society on this matter; if so, what has been their attitude to the proposed changes. 
3 ) What States have agreed to the changes. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
Further to his answer to question No. 1387  (Hansard,  26 October 1977, page 2469) how many persons have been relocated in employment under the relocation assistance scheme in each State since its inception in 1 976. 
What has been the total sum of allowances paid to these persons. 
How many persons have been relocated (a) from different areas within Queensland and (b) from outside Queensland since August 1977. 
asked the Treasurer upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
Since the Foreign Takeovers Act was introduced in 1976, how many times has the Commonwealth Government intervened to block foreign company takeovers of Australian companies. 
What were (a) the names of the companies involved and (b) the dates when the Commonwealth intervened. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 18 October 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the report in  the Australian  of 12 October 1978, that the Atlantic Richfield Company of the USA is negotiating to buy the 38 per cent interest in the Blair Athol Coal deposit in central Queensland presently held by the Daniel K. Ludwig group. 
What is the present level of foreign ownership of the Blair Athol field, and what will the level of foreign ownership be in this field if the Atlantic Richfield offer is successful. 
Is this matter being considered by the Foreign Investment Review Board. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 14 September 1978: 
What was the state of Government finances on 10 November 1975. 
What funds, appropriated by Parliament, were still available to the Government at that date. 
For which paydays after that date were funds available for the payment of wages and salaries to (a) members of the public service, (b) employees of statutory authorities and (c) members of the armed forces. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to a reported statement of  Mr Russ  Hinze, the Queensland Minister for local Government and Main Roads, in the  Courier-Mail  of 1 8 July 1978, that federal bureaucratic extravagance was still a problem and that the Commonwealth should make an effort to trim some of the excess fat off its own bureaucratic carcass. 
What has been the rate of growth of Commonwealth Government employment in each year since 1 970-7 1 . 
Is he able to say what the rate of growth of State Government employment has been in each of the States since 1970-71. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
What co-ordinative and consultative arrangements presently exist between his Department and each of the State Governments. 
When were each of these arrangements established. 
If any of these arrangements are of a joint committee structure who are the members of the committees and how often do the committees meet 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to an article which appeared in the  Courier Mail  of 18 July 1978 in which  Mr Russ  Hinze, Queensland Minister for Local Government and Main Roads, was reported to have stated that the Federal Government should reintroduce a national local government unemployment relief program. 
If so, has  Mr Hinze  approached the Commonwealth Government with a detailed proposal on this program or has there been any correspondence from the Queensland Government concerning this matter. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
1 ) Did the Government require documented evidence of the promotional efforts made by the Iwasaki Sangyo Company to attract Australian equity in the tourist resort project at Yeppoon, Queensland. If so, what was the nature and approximate cost of the promotion. 
What is the total amount the company intends to invest in the project. 
Has the Iwasaki Project been exempted from Australian guidelines; if so, to what extent. 
What is the amount of Australian equity required for uranium mining and how does the Government ensure that the stated desired level of Australian equity is obtained. 
What Australian enterprises has the Australian Industry Development Corporation helped finance since it was first founded, and what has been its record in promoting Australian equity. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report on the current affairs radio program  AM  of 13 November 1978 that many brand new car tyres are not adequately round and that tyre companies secretly grade the roundness of their tyres. 
If so, has his Depanment had any discussions with State Government consumer affairs departments about the possibility of forcing tyre manufacturers to openly grade the roundness of their products so that the public are aware of the quality of the product they are buying. 
Has his Depanment, or is he able to say whether any other Commonwealth Depanment, has assessed the possible effects that this problem might have in road safety. 
-Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to a statement by the New South Wales Premier that his Government has proposed a joint Commonwealth-State task force to combat drug trafficking? Has the Prime Minister received any approach in this matter? If so, will the Commonwealth co-operate in this State initiative? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
1 ) Which CES offices in the Brisbane Statistical Division has Woolworths Pty Ltd approached in order to obtain staff for its supermarkets. 
Have any of the staff supplied by the CES to Woolworths supermarkets been eligible for subsidy under the Special Youth Employment Training Program; if so, (a) how many and (b) what has been the cost of the subsidy in each month during 1977-78. 
Has his attention ever been drawn to allegations or complaints that Woolworths dismisses staff obtained from the CES offices once they become ineligible for the Special Youth Employment Training Program. 
If so, will he take steps to investigate this aspect of the program. 
What action does the Minister for Health propose to take in response to the growing anxiety in the community about the use of asbestos in consumer products and the possible effect on human health? Are people living in fibro-cement homes exposed to increased dangers? Can the Minister inform the House of the types of asbestos products which are dangerous to health or the form in which asbestos is dangerous to health? 
I present the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation on the preservation of the Quinkan Galleries, Cape York Peninsula, together with copies of extracts of minutes and proceedings and the transcript of evidence. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-The report that has just been tabled is the third report of the Committee established in the 3 1st Parliament. The inquiry upon which this report is based resulted from the inspection of Aboriginal art located near Laura in north-east Queensland on the Cape York Peninsula. Committee members were impressed with the paintings and were concerned that this area which is clearly of national importance be properly preserved. The first major discovery of Aboriginal rock art on Cape York Peninsula was in 1 960. Since then, several hundred galleries containing thousands of paintings have been discovered. These galleries contain one of the largest bodies of Aboriginal art in Australia and were described to the Committee as one of the largest and most exciting bodies of pre-historic art in the world. The earliest art styles in the galleries could be more than 20,000 years old. In the past, the sites have been protected by their isolation. As roads in the area improve and the existence of the sites becomes more widely known, tourist pressures will increase and so will the potential for damage. The Committee believes that a proper plan of management for the area needs to be developed before tourist numbers increase to an extent that irreparable damage occurs. The Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service has developed plans for similar sites for the Northern Territory. While it is recognised that the Queensland Government is responsible for the management of the parks and reserves in the State, the Committee believes that the experience gained by the Commonwealth parks service would be of great assistance to the development of a management plan for the Quinkan reserve. 
The Committee has recommended that the parks service offer assistance to the Quinkan Reserve Trust. The Committee hopes that the Queensland Government will accept any offer that the Commonwealth Government may make to assist in the preservation of this spectacular and unique area of Australia so that the paintings can be maintained undamaged for the enjoyment of future generations. It is vital that areas of such significance should be preserved for posterity and therefore every endeavour must be made to ensure proper control and management of these galleries. The Committee also recommends that a research program be undertaken by the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies to determine whether the traditional owners of the art are still living. The Committee considers that unless the traditional owners can be located some of the myths and legends of the area will be lost forever. I commend the report to the House. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health and concerns the use of the herbicide 2,4,5-T. Is it a fact that an important research study recommending the banning or restriction of the use of 2,4,5-T in Australia is being deliberately kept secret? 
-We have just listened to a speech by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  which has confirmed my worst fears, and I am sure the worst fears of all members on this side of the chamber, about his approach. I believe that all Australians should read his speech because from it they will see that he is anti-business, anti-jobs for all, and is probably the worst centralist and socialist among the Australian Labor Party members in this chamber. It is my guess that the Opposition  speaker  to follow him will not be far behind him in this respect. Let me take up a couple of points which he made in relation to those who have been involved. He did not speak to the motion at all but talked about big business and those who are supposedly in high places- those in the banking institutions, financial institutions and generally in high business circles. He scorned them for the fact that those people are often included in the Queen's honours list. I suggest that he had his tongue at its vitriolic best in his speech today. 
The people whom he is supposed to protect, the so-called little people, suffered more in the three years between 1972 and 1975 when he and his colleagues were in government than they are ever likely to suffer under any free enterprise Liberal-National Country Party Government. He ought to hang his head in shame because the Labor Government and he wrought havoc on Australians in those three years through, for example, a high rate of inflation. When Labor took office in 1972 inflation was running at about four per cent, but when it went out of office inflation was raging at about 1 7 per cent. There was high unemployment and a wages explosion. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  stated in answer to a question this morning at Question Time, unemployment in this country rose by 200,000 under the Labor Government. This set the trend for the increase in unemployment that we have seen in the last two or three years. It was the wages explosion of 1974-75 that created a grea t deal of that high unemployment. 
The honourable member for Reid also attacked profitability. Let me state quite categorically that profit is not a dirty word, as is made out by the Opposition. The development that has taken place in this country over the last two or three decades would not have taken place if we had not had the introduction of overseas capital. Let us look at the operations of Mt Isa Mines Ltd in the early 1920s. At that time it could not obtain sufficient risk capital in this country to get that wonderful operation under way. The same thing applies to so many other mining developments about which the honourable member has spoken so disparagingly this morning. I suggest to him that he ought not to criticise big business that has come to this country, and helped to develop it and provide so much affluence for all Australians and so many jobs in which the honourable member says he is interested. 
I want to look briefly at the draft policy of the Australian Labor Party dated April 1 979 to point out a few factors. This is the policy that concerns urban and regional development. I suggest that right throughout this policy, quite contrary to the approach of the Labor Government in 1972, it talks about co-operation with the States and local government. The document reads: 
A Labor Government will . . . work closely with the States in developing co-operative arrangements for devising urban and regional policies to tackle the problems of the 1980s. 
Under the heading 'National Urban Strategy', the document states: 
In co-operation with the States, develop and implement a national urban and regional development strategy . . . 
The document continues: 
. negotiate with, advise and assist State and local government in the preparation and implementation of urban and regional plans ... 
I suggest that with all this so called co-operation that the Labor Party now sees fit to include in its policies, the States will not be hoodwinked. The Labor Party is just as socialist and centralist as it has ever been. It is not encouraging home ownership and free enterprise. I suggest to the House that the Labor Party is the same wolf that we saw led by one E. G. Whitlam between 1972 and 1 975 except that it is now attired in sheep 's clothing. The leopard does not change its spots. In this case the Labor Party is the same leopard that we saw in the dreadful years 1 972 to 1 975. 
I turn now to the Labor Party's urban policies in the document where it states: 
In co-operation with the States, intervene in the land market to ensure that the supply of land is adequate to meet demand and that land for urban development passes through public ownership as it is converted from rural to urban use; - 
The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  may well interject because on the front of this policy document there is a letter dated 4 April 1979 signed by him and the honourable member for Reid, so he obviously is very much a party to this policy. The document continues: 
in growth centres or land held by Land Commissions or urban Land Councils, residential land be freehold subject to improvement conditions and reservation' of development rights; 
commercial and industrial land be held on a leasehold basis, subject to an annual land rent with periodic review; and 
governmental land be held on a leasehold basis, subject to a premium lease payment. 
I suggest that this is the greatest centralist and socialist document we have ever seen in this Parliament. It just goes to point up, as I said a little earlier, that the Labor Party is the same wolf only it is now in sheep's clothing. It confirms our worst fears about the Labor Party's urban policy and, indeed, all its policies. 
I want to make a few more points in relation to the motion before the House and to look at the Commission's unfair competition. The honourable member for Reid was a great advocate of land commissions in this country. It was during Labor's administration from 1972 to 1975 that loans were made available to the States. A total of $1 13.6m was made available in loans and $ 10.9m in grants to four States, namely New 
South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia. On a State by State basis South Australia received a little more than 50 per cent of this figure. The honourable member for Reid who has just returned to the House ought to realise that he has forced growth centres and his regionalism policy on this country. I use the word forced' quite advisedly because basically I am not against the concept of growth centres or the concept of regionalism. However, I am against it when it is adopted in a forced sense, as he tried to do it so distrastrously in those three years between 1972 and 1975. 
The financial agreements relating to these programs which commenced during the period of the Labor Administration call for ongoing financial assistance up to and including 1977-78. The present Government has honoured these legal obligations. The bulk of the funds were made available to the States as loans to be repaid over a term of 30 years. This was done at bond rate interest. Where could any private developer in this country obtain funds over that period of time at bond rate interest which, for practical purposes, let us say would be about 10 per cent? The Labor Government also had built into the agreements that interest would be deferred for a period of 10 years. They are supposed to be competitive with the private enterprise area. At December 1978 the interest bills of the respective States were as follows: South Australia, $ 17.3m; Victoria, $6.9m; Western Australia, $5.9m; and New South Wales, $4.7m. The functions of the land commissions and the urban land councils, as they are known in some States, are concerned essentially with the acquisition and development of land on the fringes of Australia's major metropolitan areas for urban and associated purposes. At 30 June 1978 the following approximate areas of land had been acquired for urban development: In South Australia, 5,000 hectares; in Victoria, 660 hectares; in Western Australia, 5,100 hectares; and in New South Wales, 1,600 hectares. I suggest that this acquisition of land demonstrates just what a poor business manager the Labor Government was. Some of the State governments came into these agreements, and one cannot blame them in view of the attractive terms on which the money was offered. If we consider the land boom and crash that took place in the early 1970s, we find that from 1972 to 1975 the Labor Government led and exacerbated the land boom. The very thing that the honourable member for Reid has claimed he was trying to avoid, in actual fact he was responsible for. Over $ 100m was poured into land commissions throughout this nation. 
-The Whitlam Government of 1972 to 1975, and there has been no change in the attitude of the Labor Opposition to land councils and land commissions. I repeat that the Commonwealth Government of the day, the Labor Government, was responsible for creating the land boom and forced the resultant crash, which affected so many people. As evidence of that, the New South Wales Commission has taken action to write down the value of land acquired in 1975. The 1977-78 report of the Land Commission states: 
With undeveloped land held for 12 months or longer a provision for decrease in value of $3. 3m has been made where historical cost (including capitalised interest and holding charges) exceed current market value as determined by the Valuer-General. 
Given the level of housing demand, the New South Wales Land Commission considered it prudent to make a provision of that order. It will be surprising if similar adjustments are not made by the responsible authorities in the other States. 
I want to deal now with the position of the land commissions and land councils in the four States I have mentioned, vis-a-vis private sector development and point up the unfair competition that exists. Land has been sold at artificially low prices because it is subsidised from the public purse, and I hope that the honourable member for Reid is listening to this. There has been a subsidy from the public purse to enable land commissions to sell land at slightly lower prices. Most of my comments are directed to the South Australian scene, which is your home State,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because that is the first area that took up the Commonwealth Government's offer in 1973. They could not do it on a smaller experimental basis; they had to go the whole hog and spend massive amounts of money in four States. That money could well have been spent on other services, services that the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  and the honourable member for Reid purport to be so important to the little people. 
If the public purse subsidy figure were taken into consideration, allotment prices would be well above those developed by the private sector. I think that is a well established fact. For instance, the private sector developers borrow money at rates ranging from 12 per cent to 1 8 per cent- not at the 10 per cent at which the land commissions were allowed to borrow over a period of 30 years, with interest deferred for 10 years, all now capitalised. The private sector developers pay interest immediately. As I have said, it cannot be deferred and capitalised, as is the case with the land councils. Often the private sector developers are delayed by local authorities whereas the land councils get preferential treatment. That situation is quite well established, particularly in South Australia. The private sector developers are all subject to land tax; the land councils are not. An article in the  Australian Financial Review  states: 
We could be faced with payments of $300 to $400 a block, and that payment goes on to the price of the land the following year when it is sold, one of the developers noted. 
So the private developers face payments of anything up to $400 per block per year for land tax while the land commissions do not have to pay anything. I suggest to the House that it is for those very reasons that the private developer in some instances- I emphasise that- cannot match the figure for which the land commissions sell their land. 
Let me get back to the point that it is an unfair trading and development situation. The honourable member for Reid knows only too well that it is government subsidy- subsidy from the public purse- that has enabled the land commissions to trade as favourably as they do. I suggest that the establishment of the land commissions was a debacle, a debacle for which the honourable member for Reid is responsible. 
-Let me explain to the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  why it has been necessary to institute so many changes over the past three and a half years. I for one have not welcomed all these changes but it has been necessary to make the changes and to make them progressively because of the changes the Labor Party made when it was in office. If there had not been so many drastic changes to the way of life of the people in this country we would not be in the economic mess today- created by a Labor government- which makes it necessary for this Government to make so many progressive changes to the system. It is the magnitude of the economic mess created in the years 1972 to 1975 by the Whitlam Labor Government that has made it necessary for this Government constantly to review the economy in its efforts to bring it properly back on the rails. 
I take up the point that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  made. The Labor Party of course has no health policy. It will not spell one out. I wonder what the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  has in mind. He is keeping it under wraps for some future date. It is rather like the criticism by the Opposition of the purchase of the VIP aircraft by this Government. I suggest that we have not heard a categorical denial by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  that he will not sell the aircraft or that he will ride in them if he becomes the Prime Minister of this country. It is a similar situation in respect of health. 
I want to take up two or three points made by the honourable member for Prospect. He blatantly misrepresented four or five members on the Government side. I remember three in particular- the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean),  the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  and the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  He quite incorrectly claimed that they, among others on this side of the House, wanted higher taxation. Nothing could be further from the truth. 
-This Government and all of the back benchers on this side - 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Speaker.  All members on the Government side of the House are committed to lower taxation but governments cannot spend more and more and take less and less from taxpayers. Therefore cuts are necessary in some areas. Otherwise the Budget deficit blows out. This is another aspect in respect of which the Opposition will not state in what areas it would make cuts or indeed by how much it would increase the Budget deficit or taxation to meet its spending programs. I suggest to the honourable member for Prospect that he ought not to make these blatant misrepresentations in respect of members on the Government side. 
I suggest to the honourable member for Prospect that better wording for the matter of public importance which he has proposed for discussion today would have been 'the need for all Australians to approach health care and costs in a responsible way'. I turn to what is happening in this country today in relation to spending by people who are not responsible and the amount of money that is spent recklessly on gambling, at the TAB and on alcoholic liquor. When honourable members opposite talk about health care and services they say that the people should not have to pay for those services. I suggest to the honourable member for Prospect that he should go along to the TAB to see how many bets he can get on without money in his pockets. He should see how many groceries he can buy at the corner store without money in his pocket. The same thing applies to all sorts of goods and services. Yet when it comes to paying for health care- that is the point I am making- he does not want the people to have money in their pocket at all; he wants the Government to foot the bill for them. I suggest that if we want irresponsible people in this nation that is the way to do it- mollycoddle them and make sure that their health costs are paid for by the Government. We need to move away from the Labor Party mentality. Its view is: 'Don't save for the rainy day, don't look after yourselves, but spend up while the sun shines'. Consequently people will not- I repeat, will not- following promotion of that view, provide for the rainy day. Self-sufficiency or self-reliance is a wonderful virtue and those who sit opposite ought to take some notice of it. 
-People should not have to fall back on somebody else. They should plan their life, budget, learn to be responsible with money and learn to manage to get through the week, the month or the year. They should learn to provide for themselves and their families and put a little away for that rainy day. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  ought to take note of what I am saying. The Labor Party wants people to be reliant on government with government providing services free of cost and the individual not having to think too much for himself or plan too much for himself. The Labor Party promotes the hand-out mentality. Of course that is the fundamental difference between the philosophies of the Liberal and National Country parties and the Labor Party. 
It is necessary in health to have an identifiable cost. I am very pleased that we changed Medibank mark I and gradually made the cost more and more identifiable so that the people of this nation would know what health is costing. Free goods and services are rarely appreciated by the recipients As I said earlier, under Labor the next thing we would have would be a free motor car repair service or when the electrician or plumber calls the services would be provided free- all provided in some fashion by the Government. I abhor this approach. I believe that all decent Australians abhor that approach. I refer to the wording of the discussion of matter of public importance. It reads: 
The Government's further arbitrary changes in health funding which will create confusion and heighten inequality in the provision of health services, while fuelling both unemployment and inflation. 
I fail to see how the changes will heighten inequality. Those people in the community who are disadvantaged are being adequately catered for. The low income people, the lower income families, who may well have a member with an illness or indeed  Illnesses,  of course can be classified as disadvantaged. The Minister for Health spoke to me before this debate. He referred to the fact that doctors in the community are acting responsibly. They are identifying these people and people who are disadvantaged are receiving the benefit. We are all concerned for the welfare of the pensioners and to ensure that they get health services that perhaps they may not be able to pay for. I make the point specifically that the situation of the pensioners has not changed, nor should it be changed. In other words, we are caring for those who are actually in need. I suggest to the Opposition that ensuring the welfare of the needy is a worthwhile and a just objective. Looking at the disadvantaged area, we find that there are no changes. No one is further disadvantaged. Let us look at the hospital situation. As the Minister for Health said, there are compelling arguments for changes in hospital charges and there is a need for an inquiry. The efficiency of our hospital system leaves a lot to be desired. As the Minister pointed out last Thursday, in his statement, the bed occupancy rate is 68 per cent. I believe the States must co-operate, and cooperate fully and quickly, to ensure that this inquiry is conducted efficiently and effects a number of changes that obviously need to be made. 
At the moment the Commonwealth is spending on a 50-50 cost-sharing basis with the States for approved budgets of hospitals. I believe that in a lot of instances States have only to put up budgets and they tend to be accepted without a great deal of question. That position has to change. The hospital cost-sharing agreement with the States cost this Government $873m in 1976-77. In two years we have seen an increase of 22 per cent to $ 1,067m. They are the sorts of changes that are taking place. They are frightening increases and increases that need to be looked at very closely. There has to be a rationalisation of our hospital services, and if that means the closing of hospitals in some country areas then that may well have to be done. In-hospital patient charges are to be increased from $40 to $50 and from $60 to $75. It is necessary to meet escalating costs. If the Opposition believes the Government should be meeting those increases out of the taxpayer's purse generally, then I am afraid that the nation will not accept that sort of cost as a whole. In relation to the medical side, we have seen changes that now have identified the cost to the individual for all services under $20. That is a very desirable stage to have reached, despite the fact that it has been necessary to have so many changes in the last three and a half years. 
-Has the Minister for Health seen reports that the Queensland Minister for Health will not co-operate in the proposed national hospitals inquiry and that the New South Wales Minister for Health has expressed doubts about the inquiry? Is it a fact that 60 per cent of Commonwealth health outlays of $2.9 billion is expended on hospitals? Is it also a fact that the average bed-day cost is $ 1 54 and that the Commonwealth's contribution to the operating costs of the States' hospitals is in excess of $ 1,000m? Is it the intention of this Government to reduce severely hospital services and thereby deprive people of hospital care, particularly in country areas? Is it the aim of the Commonwealth to interfere with minor details and day to day operations of the State hospitals? Can the Commonwealth afford to sit back and let the States waste hospital health dollars when it is paying half the operating costs? 
-The honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  quoted me in the House tonight and the other day as stating that the last scheme that the Government introduced as an amendment to the original Medibank scheme was the finest scheme. He was rather critical of my description of it. I say to the honourable member that the Government is improving the shocking scheme which the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  introduced as Medibank Mark 1 about five years ago. Under the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  the Government is continually refining the scheme. For the major part of my speech I want to dwell on the hospital aspects of the scheme. I have had a running battle for some days with the Queensland Health Minister. I refer to a headline in the  Courier-Mail  last Saturday, 2 June which states 'Knox and Hodges in hospital clash'. From the outset I give credit to the Queensland Government for some of the desirable features of its scheme. The Minister for Health, in answer to a question last Thursday, outlined some of the desirable features. But that does not mean to say that the Queensland system is the ultimate. I hoped that the Queensland Minister for Health would have welcomed with open arms the national inquiry to be conducted into the operation of hospitals and hospital costs in this nation that has been announced by the Federal Minister for Health. 
Let me point out the desirable features that are in operation in Queensland at the moment. The other States of Australia would do well to look at these desirable features. Firstly, the central purchasing scheme of the Queensland hospital system could well be adopted by the other States. Secondly, specialists in Queensland are paid on a sessional basis. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  no doubt would understand that that is a desirable feature of the operation of our hospitals in Queensland. 
The Minister for Health in my State says that I advocate the closure or the severe cutting back of services in country areas. I refute that absolutely. It is not necessary in rationalising hospital services in Queensland by cutting back services to deprive people of necessary hospital services. The Queensland Minister for Health is reported in a newspaper article on Saturday, 2 June as saying: 
As for claims that I am not helping Federal-State relations, my concern is for the health and welfare of Queenslanders. 
But I can assure Queenslanders that  Mr Hodges'  public statements on health matters will not influence the State Health Department to cut bed numbers or close hospitals. 
I suggest to the House that that is a very belligerent approach on the part of the Queensland Minister for Health. He has a closed mind on the subject. The fact is that there are a number of areas in the State of Queensland in which we can see an improvement in services and indeed a saving to the nation. The Queensland Minister for Health went on to say- and I believe that this is an admission that there is something wrong with the Queensland system, although it does contain some of the better features that I mentioned earlier: 
We have a team working on an overall rationalisation of hospital and health services for some months. 
As I say, that indicates that there are problems in the Queensland system. We want to see the best possible value for our health dollar, not only because the Commonwealth is assisting the States by way of a 50-50 contribution for operating costs, but also because it is taxpayers' funds that are being spent. The Queensland Minister for Health went on to say: 

 Mr Hodges naively assumes we can leave huge areas of the State with no hospitals just to suit some statistician in Canberra. 
That is not true. I say to the House that I do not want to see services reduced for Queenslanders or indeed for any people in this nation who live in outback areas, because I came from an outback area in north Queensland and I realise the value of services to people who live in remote areas. Let me continue to quote from this newspaper article, the remarks of  Sir William  Knox. He is reported as saying: 
Queensland's second city, Townsville, had only a 49 per cent bed occupancy rate while occupancy rates at Mount Isa, Cloncurry, Goondiwindi and Ayr varied between 44 and 34 percent. 
I believe that that is an indictment of the Queensland system. The very point that I was making and to which  Sir William  Knox replies in this newspaper article is that there are inefficiencies in the Queensland system. The fact that hospitals, regardless of where they are, are operating with an occupancy rate as low as 44 per cent indicates to me that there is a lot of room for improvement. 
So we continue the running battle in today's  Courier-Mail.  In an article in today's  CourierMail  the Queensland State Minister for Health,  Sir William  Knox, told the Queensland people that the national inquiry proposed by the Minister for Health would face strong opposition from Queensland. That view was echoed, though perhaps in a milder form, by the New South Wales Minister for Health. The article reads: 
Yesterday the Queensland Health Minister  (Sir William Knox)  said his Government would resist any moves by Federal authorities to dictate policy on hospital services in Queensland. 
-As the Minister for Health has said, we are sharing half the costs. If the Queensland Government is prepared to waste taxpayers' money, I for one, as a supporter of this Government, am not prepared to follow suit, and I hope that everybody on this side of the House would agree with that. The New South Wales Minister for Health,  Mr Stewart,  was reported as saying that his Government wanted more information from Canberra before deciding on co-operation with the proposed Federal inquiry. He said: 
We won't co-operate until we know what the Federal Government intends, what its terms of reference are, who will conduct the inquiry and what rights States will have at an inquiry. 
I suggest to the House that this surely is not a time for resistance by the States. 
It is not. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports may well laugh. After all he made no progress in the Victorian scene after many years, and of course he will make less progress in this House. It is not a time for playing politics. It is not a time for pointing to constitutional rights or wrongs. The New South Wales Minister for Health asked: 'What are the terms of the inquiry? Who will conduct the inquiry? What rights will the States have?' I put it to the House that they are public funds that are being expended and therefore everyone, including the Labor Minister for Health in New South Wales, should be concerned. Expenditure of public money is at stake and whether those funds are from the Commonwealth or from the States' own sources surely is immaterial. The waste must not be allowed to continue. In sharing the net operating costs of hospitals on a 50-50 basis, the Commonwealth has a large stake in where and how the money is expended. If the States want to waste their funds on inefficient hospital operations, that is their business; they will be answerable to the electors. The Commonwealth Government has a right and a duty to ensure that wastage is kept to a minimum, thereby gaining the maximum for every health dollar expended. 
It is obvious from all investigations conducted and reports produced in recent years that the States have been less than careful with expenditure on public hospitals. Sixty per cent of Commonwealth expenditure on health is expended on hospital services. In the last few years the Commonwealth has entered into hospital costsharing arrangements with the States which in 1976-77 resulted in this Government spending $873m. Some two years later, in the 1978-79 financial year, it is estimated that the amount will increase to $ 1,067m, an increase of 22 per cent. The hospital cost-sharing arrangements provide for the Commonwealth to meet on a 50-50 basis the cost of approved hospital budgets as submitted by the States. 
The States have allowed their hospital systems to become inefficient. In Australia there is an oversupply of hospital beds. This fact is borne out by comparing Australia with similar Western world countries. The average occupancy rate of only 68 per cent of hospital beds is a true indication of the oversupply of beds. Indeed, half of our hospitals have less than a 60 per cent occupancy rate. The Federal Minister for Health has announced that a national inquiry will be conducted into the efficiency and administration of hospitals throughout Australia. The States have a duty to support this inquiry and to assist it to deliver an early report. One must surely ask why hospital costs have escalated to such a degree and why we have such a low bed occupancy rate. Why have the States, who are responsible for administration of the hospital system, not been monitoring operations to ensure such wastages are minimised? Political expediency must rank high on the list of reasons, particularly in my home State of Queensland. 
There are glaring examples of the need to rationalise hospitals, particularly in country areas, where no argument exists for the retention of some hospitals on the basis that people's health will be affected. Some country towns only a few kilometres apart support hospitals which have low bed occupancy rates and which just should not exist. I am not advocating cuts in services to country people, but merely a sensible approach with substantial savings to our system. Why have some of the services been retained and indeed some of these hospitals been rebuilt instead of being put out of service? They are retained because of political pressure. Many State members of parliament know that the facilities should be rationalised, yet exert pressure for their retention, in full knowledge that the services are costly and inefficient and should be abolished. Our health dollar must be put to better use and the States must be sensible and assist the Commonwealth to achieve this end. 
I point out to the House some of the glaring examples of hospitals in cities and towns in close proximity to each other in my own State of Queensland. I instance Cairns, which has a general hospital of some 348 beds and an occupancy rate of 69 per cent. Fourteen miles south of Cairns is the town of Gordonvale, with a hospital of 41 beds and a 52 per cent occupancy rate. Twenty-one miles south of Gordonvale is Babinda whose hospital has 40 beds and a 30 per cent occupancy rate. Sixteen miles south of that, Innisfail has a hospital with 1 73 beds, with a 46 per cent occupancy rate. The town of Mareeba in north Queensland has a hospital with 1 12 beds, with a 63 per cent occupancy rate. Atherton, 20 miles away, has a hospital with 130 beds with a 54 per cent occupancy rate; and 36 per cent of those patients are geriatrics. Twelve miles away from Atherton is Herberton which has a hospital with 44 beds with a 90 per cent occupancy rate; but 82 per cent of those patients are geriatrics. Looking at the twin towns of Ayr and Home Hill, Ayr's hospital has 108 beds with a 50 per cent occupancy rate; and 46 per cent of those patients are geriatrics. Home Hill on the other side of the Burdekin River has a hospital with 43 beds with a 3 1 per cent occupancy rate; and 75 per cent of those beds are filled with geriatric patients. 
I want to make a comparison between some of these figures. There are other examples in my own State of Queensland and indeed throughout all of the States. I want to point out to the House the conditions experienced by people living in these towns and cities that are in close proximity to each other and the distances and the travelling time it takes people in country areas to reach a hospital, compared with the travelling time and distances of people in some of the major cities to reach a hospital. There are good roads between these country towns. There is less distance and in many instances no traffic to be encountered. In the major capital cities people spend up to an hour, or two hours sometimes, travelling to hospitals. By comparison there are hospitals in country areas, with good roads connecting these towns, and no traffic to impede them. 
Obviously, there is a need for a thorough investigation of the continued existence of all the hospitals throughout the Commonwealth. An examination of the position in relation to geriatric patients is needed because many of them do not need full hospitalisation. It is true some ofthem do, but my guess is that many of them could bc accommodated in nursing homes. There is a need to reclassify beds to nursing home beds. It may well be that some hospitals can be closed as such and converted to nursing homes. This Government, I would suggest, is subsidising the cost of nursing homes and aged persons' accommodation built by church and charitable organisations while assets in the form of hospitals go begging. There is a waste of capital funds that must stop. When we look at recurrent costs and make comparisons, the average hospital bed in Australia today costs $154 a day to maintain. On the other hand, a nursing home bed costs of the order of $200 weekly or $30 a day. It is obvious from these figures that a reclassification is necessary. 
Let me sum up the position in relation to hospitals in this nation. It is not the intention of this Government to reduce severely hospital services and deprive people of hospital care, particularly in country areas. I do not want anybody on the Opposition side to make that claim. The aim of the Government is, of course, to see that we get better value for the health dollar. It is not the aim of the Commonwealth to interfere with the minor details and the day to day operations of State hospitals. I hope everybody will appreciate that fact. The Commonwealth cannot afford to sit back and let the States waste hospital health dollars when the Commonwealth is paying for 50 per cent of the net operating costs of hospitals throughout this nation. One could argue that costs will vary from State to State. I would not necessarily disagree with that. The question I ask is this: Should care and attention in a public hospital vary from State to State so as to cause an occupied bed day cost disparity of $1 19 in the State of New South Wales and $226 in the State of Victoria? They are points that ought to be very seriously considered by this House and indeed by everybody in this nation. 
-The figure for the next lowest State approximates $160 an occupied bed day. The differencial between about $120 and $160 a bed day is surely something that warrants close examination by all who are responsible for health care and our hospital system in this nation. 
It is a well established fact that the availability and the supply of hospital beds in this nation depend on the costs. If we look at the areas where the greatest number of beds are provided, we find that administrators tend to fill those beds. If one looks at the Sax report- a discussion paper on paying for health care which was produced in February 1978- there is clear evidence and cases quoted that where the hospital beds are provided they will be filled. The report states: 
Particularly in America the pressures - 
There are many hospitals in the nation, as I have stated to the honourable member for Prospect, where in actual fact we have 50 per cent or indeed less than 50 per cent occupancy. It is time that the States took notice of the inquiry that is proposed by the Minister and co-operated to the fullest to ensure that we get to the bottom of why some of these hospitals are occupied only to the extent of 50 per cent. It has been proved in the United States of America that, where there is what might be a comparative shortage of hospital beds, when a disaster occurs and hospital beds are needed those hospital beds will be found by making sure that the people who are occupying them indeed vacate them. So it is well established- 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in the  Canberra Times of  17 May 1979 entitled 'University StaffTell of Research Funds Crisis'. 
Is it a fact that research funding to Australian universities has been halved in the last ten years, in real terms. 
) If not, what are the correct statistics. 
What percentage of each Australian University's budget is allocated to research projects. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to an article in the  Daily Commercial News  of 1 1 April 1979, entitled 'It doesn't figure! ', which questions the basis upon which certain statistics are classified as confidential. 
If so, what is the criterion on which such a classification is made. 
How many substantiated cases of the leaking of confidential information have occurred from the Australian Bureau of Statistics during the last five years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in the Brisbane  Courier  Ma/7 of IS May 1979, entitled  'Black hearing ills high',  which claims that up to 40 per cent of Aboriginal children living in rural Queensland have hearing problems. 
If so, does the Department of Aboriginal Affairs have any specific information that would confirm or deny this allegation. 
What efforts are being made by the Department to improve this situation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in the Sun of 16 May 1979, entitled 'Aerosol Danger'. 
If so, what percentage of aerosol sprays sold in Australia contain fluorocarbons and what action has been taken to reduce this percentage. 
Are there economically viable alternatives to using fluorocarbons; if so, what are these alternatives. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. Now that development of uranium mining has commenced at Nabarlek, Jabiru and Yeelirrie and operations have recommenced at Mary Kathleen in Queensland, what would be the cost in terms of jobs if the Australian Council of Trade Unions and Australian Labor Party policy banning uranium mining were implemented? Were officers of the ACTU ever given information on the reasons for the Government's decision to approve uranium mining? 
asked the Minister for Employ  ment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 21 August 1979: 
) Are statistics available on employment in the Australian electronics industry. 
If so, how many additional persons have been employed in the production, sales and servicing of electronic equipment in Australia since1 July 1978. 
-On behalf of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, I present the report of the Committee entitled 'Environmental Protection, Adequacy of Legislative and Administrative Arrangements, First Report'. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-The report which has just been tabled is the fourth report of the Committee established in the 31st Parliament. The report deals with the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act and the Australian Heritage Commission Act. Originally, the Committee had hoped to examine the overall needs for environmental protection in Australia. However, given that the Government has the present legislation under review and in order that the Committee's recommendations were available to assist the Government in the finalisation of its review, the Committee chose to defer its examination of the wider issues until a later date. I am pleased to inform the House that the Government has agreed to delay any decision on this legislation until it has given consideration to the Committee's recommendations. The Committee believes that this is the proper course for the Government to be taking. 
We do not question the competence of the advice the Government is receiving on possible amendments. However, no matter how well informed Canberra public servants may be, there is a real danger that isolation in the national capital can lead to a lack of understanding of the problems and views of the people in the States. During this inquiry the Committee travelled widely speaking to State Government officials, conservation groups, industry associations and individuals with a wide diversity of views. I believe that the evidence gained together with the various experience of the members of the Committee means that the Committee has reached sound conclusions and recommendations that are worthy of close and careful consideration by the Government. To my mind these conclusions and recommendations must be reflected in the final amendments proposed by the Government. 
At the outset I point out that the report should be read in the light of the Committee's belief that within a federal system there are areas that are clearly the national responsibility of the Commonwealth, areas where there are shared responsibilities, and areas that are the responsibility of State and local government. I now turn to the specific discussions of the two Acts. The Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act is a major mechanism available to the Commonwealth to identify, evaluate and co-ordinate direct and indirect impacts of Commonwealth decisions on the Australian environment. The purpose of the Act is to ensure that those responsible for developing proposals and those responsible for taking decisions on those proposals think about and take account of environmental factors. 
The Committee noted in its report on the urban environment that the Act places proposals under scrutiny to a much greater degree and this has led to tensions. It is apparent from the evidence that we received during this inquiry that these tensions still exist in some areas. Although the Committee did not have the opportunity to speak to all Government departments and authorities, it believes those that did give evidence represent a reasonable cross-section of attitudes. The evidence suggests that the Act is operating effectively in the project area. Departments responsible for these activities have a good working relationship with the Department of Science and the Environment and appear to fulfil the obligations placed upon them by the legislation. On the other hand, there are a number of departments which are not happy with the legislation and it is apparent that, while some of these departments co-operate reluctantly with the Department of Science and the Environment, others use the discretion allowed under the Act to avoid referring any proposals to the Department. 
To help overcome these tensions and administrative inefficiencies and to ensure departments observe the spirit of the legislation, the Committee has recommended that memoranda of understanding be agreed to between the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator 
Webster) and other Ministers which would provide broad guidelines on the question of environmental significance and matters which should be referred for advice. This would give departments greater autonomy and would ensure that a multitude of minor matters were not unnecessarily referred. As a balance to the greater autonomy of departments provided by memoranda, the Committee has recommended that the Act be amended to allow the Minister for Science and the Environment to request and be provided with information on proposals. 
One matter which the Committee closely examined was the scope of the Act. The report notes that the current scope of the Act is very wide, potentially covering any matter embraced by a Commonwealth decision. It could be applied to areas not suitable to the environmental impact statement technique. The Committee believes that there should be a mechanism by which some items can be exempted from the provisions of the Act. We have recommended that the Act be amended to allow for a schedule of items to be exempted from its provisions. While recognising that for the Act to operate effectively some matters should be excluded from its coverage, the Committee is concerned that the schedule could be used to limit its application severely. I emphasise that the schedule should include only those matters that are unsuitable for the impact statement technique and for those matters for which it is administratively impossible to apply the Act. I further emphasise that the schedule should contain only specific proposals and not broad areas of Government responsibility. 
I turn now to the arrangements with the States. There is considerable potential for overlap between the Commonwealth and the States in environmental assessment. Arrangements have been reached with Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania and will soon be reached with New South Wales. Informal arrangements have been agreed to with Queensland. The objectives of these arrangements are to ensure co-ordination of environmental assessment and to avoid duplication of State and Commonwealth requirements. While the attitudes of the various States to Commonwealth involvement in environmental protection varies, all State Governments, except Queensland, stated that the arrangements are working well. The Committee is not in the position to comment on the attitude of the Queensland Government as that Government refused either to provide a written submission or to make Government officials available to speak to the Committee. 
Some industry organisations and in particular the mining industry believe that even with these arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States, co-operation has not eventuated and expensive and time-consuming duplication is now taking place. Information received from individual mining companies indicated that arrangements in most instances were working well. The conservation movement also was critical of the arrangements on the grounds that the development of administrative arrangements which rely on State assessments before the States have adopted proper procedures is a retrograde step. Despite the comments of the mining industry and conservation groups, the Committee concludes that the arrangements represent a desirable streamlining of procedures and leave the respective powers of the Commonwealth and the States unchanged. 
The Committee recognises the responsibility of the States in environmental protection and believes that the Act should be amended to acknowledge the States' role. One method would be to amend the Act to give the Minister for Science and the Environment discretion in the application of the Act if proposals have been subject to State procedures and that the State procedures are considered to satisfy the provisions of the Commonwealth legislation. The Committee has recommended accordingly. The Committee notes that Victoria is the only State which, at present, has comprehensive environment legislation. 
We believe that the Commonwealth should encourage other States to adopt legislation similar to the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. Accordingly, the Committee has recommended that the Australian Environment Council consider the need to introduce in each State legislation similar to the Commonwealth legislation. The Committee believes that until comprehensive legislation exists in each State the Act, its procedures and the administrative arrangements with the States should not be drafted or amended in a manner which would preclude an independent assessment by the Commonwealth of proposals being undertaken. The report emphasises that there is a need for the Commonwealth to maintain powers that would enable it to intervene in environmental matters of national concern. Even if the States do adopt legislation similar to the Commonwealth's the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act must remain to allow in some instances independent Commonwealth assessment. 
Finally, the Committee examined the public participation provisions of the Act. Public input is provided for by allowing comment on draft impact statements and by giving the public the opportunity to appear at public hearings directed under the Act. The Committee has made two recommendations in this area. One requires the Minister to give reasons for not directing an environmental impact statement and the other recommends an amendment to the Act to allow for round-table discussions between interested parties. 
The second piece of legislation which the Committee examined was the Australian Heritage Commission Act. The principal role of the Heritage Commission at present is the compilation of a register of the National Estate. The register serves three basic yet essential purposes: 
It is the foundation of the National Estate and as such is an important educational and cultural device; 
By identifying important sites, the register helps government agencies, private corporations and individuals to act effectively and in a way that will serve to conserve as far as possible the National Estate; and 
It leads to a much clearer identification of what is significant and ensures an objective measure for assessment and comparison. 
By formal recognition of those components forming the National Estate, the legislation attempts to ensure that cultural and conservation considerations are adequately accounted for in the development of projects for which the Commonwealth acts as an approving authority. Despite the views of some sections of the community, the Heritage Commission has a purely advisory role and has no direct authority to do anything in relation to a listed place. Listing of a place does not constitute a preservation order. The listing does not prevent a place being used for many different activities which might include mining, forestry, recreation or other activities. The major criticisms of the legislation which the committee received came from the mining industry. Of major concern to the industry were the delays incurred in the hearing of objections to listings. 
The Committee supports the proposition that a time limit be introduced in which objections to a proposed listing must be considered to ensure that parties are not affected by lengthy delays. The Committee believes a time limit of 12 months would be appropriate and has recommended accordingly. Should objections not be heard within 12 months the Committee believes that the proposals to list would lapse. In addition, the Committee believes that it should be mandatory for those persons or organisations likely to be affected by a listing to be notified in writing. 
The mining industry was critical of the practice of the Commission to list large tracts of land to protect the specific location of secret Aboriginal sites. As the Act requires all listings to be made public, the Heritage Commission lists large areas which act as buffer zones. We believe that the Act should be amended to allow for the establishment of a confidential register on which secret Aboriginal sites could be listed. With the consent of the commissioners and upon written application, detailed information on the location and the nature of the place listed would be made available to interested persons. 
The Committee received no evidence to suggest that any Government department is experiencing difficulties with the legislation. The only criticism the Committee received from Commonwealth departments was the cost associated with maintaining buildings which are listed on the register. A number of departments commented that maintenance of historic buildings should be from a special Heritage Fund. The Committee has recommended that the Heritage Commission and the Departments of Administrative Services and Finance examine the desirability of introducing a separate item into departmental appropriations for the maintenance of Commonwealth properties listed on the register. 
The Committee sought the views of the States to the legislation. The legislation was described variously by the States as vital, essential and of importance. No State government put to the Committee any suggested amendments to the Act. In conclusion, I would like to say as  Chairman  of the Committee that I am extremely pleased that the Committee was able to reach a unanimous decision on the many diverse and complex matters which were raised during the course of this inquiry. On behalf of the Committee I take this opportunity to thank the staffthat is the clerk to the Committee and the other staff members- for their co-operation and diligence during the conducting of this inquiry. I commend the report to the House. 
asked the Ministerrepresenting the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 3 April 1979: 
1 ) Has the Commissioner for Community Relations who is a statutory officer appointed under the Racial Discrimination Act 1975, received financial assistance, either direct or indirect, by way of air fares and accommodation from any organisation or person to enable him to travel (a) within Australia or (b) overseas, in the performance of his duties. 
If so, what organisations or persons provided the assistance and what was the amount of assistance provided in each case. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a recent Press article which suggested that arrangements for Australia's bicentennial celebrations are a 'bicentennial bungle'? Can the Minister advise whether arrangements for these celebrations are well in hand? 
-There is really only one matter that was raised in the speech of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  that is worth commenting upon and once again I feel compelled to comment in this House, on that matter, that is, the advice that the honourable member has been delivering to people for many months that they should refrain from taking out health insurance. This is most unsatisfactory. I would suggest to people that when they incur expenses that they cannot pay themselves they ought to refer the accounts to the honourable member for Prospect. I am sure that he would be only too happy to pay them. The people in this country who decide to be uninsured ought not to decide to do so until they have studied very closely the whole situation. After all, people do not have access to universal schemes to cover insurance for their cars, television sets or homes. They are compelled to look at the particular rates that are offering and to take the risk if they so desire. Quite frankly, I think the same situation should apply in this case of health insurance. It is typical of the socialist approach of taking over people's thinking and responsibilities. They are molly-coddled from the cradle to the grave. That is exactly what the honourable member for Prospect is about. I will not have a bar of it. 
The honourable member for Prospect and the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  spoke about people being unable to afford present rates. Those people have to get their priorities straight. Surely the most important thing to all of us is our health? If people in this country wish to spend their money at the TAB and in the hotels- it is nothing for the average man today to spend $10, $15 or $20 a week at the TAB and a similar amount in the hotels- and not bother about their health, are we going to stand by and pick up the tab? That is exactly what the Opposition is suggesting that we should do. Of course, that is what it did when it was in government. From the events of the past several months, it is patently clear that if the Australian Labor Party ever comes into government- I said 
IF because I doubt very much whether that will ever happen again- it will introduce a universal health scheme. I want to quote from the Labor Party's health policy document. This was part of the policy developed at the July conference of the Australian Labor Party held in Adelaide. The policy states: 
A Federal Labor Government will- 
Introduce a universal Health Scheme to be financed by an income related contribution enabling the public to choose between health care provided by health professionals remunerated on a fee for service, salaried, sessional fee, capitation fee or capitation fee plus bonus basis. 
The honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  asked a question of the Minister for Health in the House on Tuesday. The Minister stated in reply that this scheme would cost taxpayers $ 1,200m annually for medical benefits alone. 
-No in excess of $600m extra per annum. I ask the honourable member for Prospect: Where is that money going to come from? Is the Opposition going to increase taxes or increase the deficit? Perhaps, it is going to reduce expenditure in some other way. Knowing the Labor Government between 1972 and 1975 as I do, when all costs and expenditure exploded, I do not see it reducing expenditure in any particular area. Let me examine some newspaper reports on that policy at the time that conference was held in Adelaide. I quote from the Adelaide Advertiser of 20 July 1979. It stated: 
In his address,  Mr Hayden  said: 'We are committed to the staged restoration of Medibank- the first step of which will be taken in our first year of office. ' 
Introducing the health policy proposals yesterday, the Opposition spokesman on health,  Dr Klugman,  said Medibank had never been given a fair go. 
He said Medibank had not been run for an extended period under a Minister sympathetic to the concept and its funding had been chopped and changed- often for political reasons.' 
Also, in the  Advertiser  of 26 July it is stated: 
The Federal Opposition is preparing a new universal health insurance plan based on the original Medibank concept. 
The Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hayden,  served notice yesterday that the ALP would make health a major issue at the next Federal election. 
He said the Opposition was pledged to an alternative universal health plan to contrast with what it saw as the piecemeal approach the Federal Government had taken to health since 1975. 
What I cannot understand about the Labor Party is that this was a failed policy; it was feared by the Australian people; it was rejected by the Australian people. Yet, the Opposition now states that it is going to reintroduce this scheme if it ever comes into government again. 
-No, they never learn as the honourable- member for Hotham just stated. Any universal scheme without a substantial identifiable cost will be overused. Surety the Labor Party can see that. It happened during the three years or so of Medibank while the Opposition was in power. It will be abused and overused by the suppliers of the service. The honourable member for Prospect is a member of that profession which provides this service. It will be abused by the consumers. This has been proved time and time again. Yet the Labor Party states that if it comes back to power it will reintroduce a Medibank-type scheme. The members of the Australian public rejected it; they do not want it. They will reject the Australian Labor Party if it fights an election on this issue. The Australian public saw the cost of health escalate to such an extent in this nation that everybody became very frightened. Let me just repeat a few of the figures. Under Labor, health expenditure rose from $2, 500m to $5, 600m in three years. It more than doubled. There was an increase of 120 per cent. Under the present Fraser Government the increase has been from $5,600m to about $8,000m or a 40 per cent increase in a three year period. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  who is sitting at the table, despite the fact that a number of changes have occurred, is to be congratulated on at least curbing these costs. 
There are so many other points. For instance, doctors' charges were allowed to escalate quite freely. Indeed, I believe this was encouraged under the Labor Government. Certainly, it did not have its finger on the pulse in relation to doctors' fees. Although I have been critical of the medical profession in this House on a number of occasions, I believe the doctors need some commendation in relation to the restraint they have practised in co-operation with this Government over the past two or three years. This Government was faced with the unenviable task of tackling the medimess created by the Whitlam Government. The architect of that scheme, of course, was none other than the present Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who aspires to be the Prime Minister of this country. Labor has a poor track record in the health area and that cannot be denied by anybody on the other side of the House. We saw this massive escalation in costs. It is a high tax and a big spending party when in government. That is on record. The honourable member for Prospect has to accept that. On the other hand the Fraser Government has a good track record. It has curbed health costs over the last four years. Indeed, I am sure that the Australian nation is thankful for the fact that we have been able to curb the costs to the extent that we have. Most people learn from their mistakes, but not  Mr Hayden  and the Australian Labor Party. The Leader of the Opposition and the Australian Labor Party again demonstrate that a leopard really never changes its spots. He has been known of recent times as a big tax Bill and big government Bill. Quite frankly, those names will stay with him. 
I want to express a little concern about the present trends in health insurance. The Government must surely not overreact; it must not be panicked into any quick action. After all, the changes that have been instituted have only happened since 1 September. We are really still in the shakedown or settling down period. If the healthy are opting out of the health funds and if there is an intrusion by the friendly societies and commercial insurance companies that are outside the Health Insurance Act, into the medical insurance area, obviously this must be monitored closely by the Government. The Minister has stated today and on previous occasions that he is going to monitor very closely the actions of these groups. For the life of me, I cannot see why the elderly and chronically ill were specifically mentioned in the matter of public importance. There is an inference in the wording of the matter of public importance that this Government is going to create a situation in which the elderly and the pensioners will have to pay for health insurance and hospital care. This is not the case. It has to be refuted strongly. The elderly are covered if they have pensioner health benefit cards, and a majority of them have. Indeed, it is quite wrong for the Opposition spokesman for health to indicate through this matter of public importance that some extra taxation will be imposed on these people. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the state of rampant political and social disorder in Iran and, in particular, to the holding as hostages of personnel of the United States Embassy in Tehran. I ask the Minister: What is the attitude of the Australian Government to the seizure of United States Embassy personnel and property in Tehran by the Iranian authorities? What precautions are being taken by the Government to ensure the safety of Australian officials and citizens in Iran? 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 13 November 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report of the  Brisbane Sunday Sun  of 28 October 1979 claiming that about 500 of the dignitaries to be invited to the opening of the new High Court building in Canberra will be given commemorative medallions worth $2,000 each. 
Is it proposed to commemorate the occasion with a medallion; if so, (a) what is the estimated cost of the proposal and (b) who initiated the idea and was the matter considered by the Historic Memorials Committee. 
Who are the members of the Historic Memorials Committee. 
-Can the Minister for Health give any indication of the extent to which the medical profession adheres or conforms to the Australian Medical Association fee schedule and departs from the medical benefits fee schedule, which is fixed by an independent medical benefits tribunal? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 29 March 1979: 
Where were post offices (a) closed down and (b) opened in (i 1973-74, (ii) 1974-75, (iii) 1975-76, (iv) 1976-77, (v) 1977-78 and (vi) the period 1 July 1978 to date in each Federal electoral division. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a telex message from the Queensland Premier to the Minister for Trade and Resources following a meeting with a number of mining companies operating in Queensland, in which criticism is made of the Commonwealth Government's new mineral export guidelines. 
Has his attention also been drawn to an article in the Courier Mail of 17 November 1978 in which it was stated that the following companies had attended the meeting with the Premier: Conzinc Riotinto Australia, Utah, Comalco, Mt Isa Mines, Queensland Alumina, ThiessDampierMitsui, Thiess Bros, Houston Oil &amp; Minerals, Blair Athol Coal, Capricorn Coal Development, Consolidated Rutile, Cudgen R.Z., Murphyores, Collinsville Coal and Peabody; if so, is he able to say whether each of these companies was represented at the meeting with the Premier. 
What is the level of Australian ownership in each of these companies. 
Which of these companies export their mined products to either their overseas parent companies or companies in which they have an interest. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1979: 
What action has been taken to implement the recommendation of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation relating to the relaxation of the export policy to allow Government controlled export of aviary-bred birds and wild common pest species. 
Would the implementation of the Committee's recommendation contravene the provisions of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. 
