I second the motion. I endorse particularly the expression of loyalty to our most gracious Sovereign. I wish to bring with this expression of loyalty the expressions of the people of Dawson. It is difficult for a new member, among 30 other new members, to gain recognition. I wish to make a few remarks about  Dr Rex  Patterson, who was my predecessor, as those members who were here previously will know. I pay tribute to his 10 years of service to the division and to the nation. The fact that we have different political philosophies does not blind me to the fact that he at all times worked for the division. The initiative which he showed and the dedication which he injected into his work as representative of the division in those 10 years was rather tremendous. For 3 of those 10 years he was a Minister of the Crown. As honourable members will realise, he was the architect of northern development, first as  Deputy  Director of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, then as Director of the Northern Development Division, and then as Minister for Northern Development. Unfortunately he was never given the financial means to ensure that his idealism came to fruition. It failed because of lack of government financial support. 
One thing which will stamp him in the memory of the people of Dawson and of Queensland is his work on beef developmental roads which opened up quite a deal of pastoral country in western Queensland, particularly in the brigalow belt in my division. He will be remembered for this project. I hope that by applying pressure I will be able to see this project finalised. One other smaller project in terms of finance but more important in terms of discovery, I believe, will be his commissioning of the Kaiser engineering report into the Bowen coal basin. I believe that there are to be discovered in this basin possibly the richest mineral deposits in this nation. 
I have the pleasure of representing the division of Dawson. Mackay and Hay Point are the focal points of the division as far as ports and exports are concerned. I listened to the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury),  speak of the tourist potential of his electorate. I cannot speak too highly of the climate in Dawson and its attraction for tourists. It is the only division which has as one boundary the Great Barrier Reef for a length of about 450 miles. Across this Reef the Pacific Ocean washes on to the Whitsunday Islands and on to the golden shores of the mainland. We have an undoubted tourist industry. We have a great tourist potential. I hope that with assistance from this Government we can exploit this potential to the full. Although some people in this House will disagree, the fact is that very few other divisions in Australia have as much prosperity and contribute as greatly to the national wealth by way of income tax as the division of Dawson does. It certainly contributes to a greater degree than its representation in this chamber would seem to indicate. We export through Mackay and Hay Point 4.5 per cent of the total value of Australia 's exports, mainly in sugar and minerals. Without wishing to sound like a Texan, I would like to say that we have the largest bulk terminal in the world for the export of sugar and the largest coal handling export facilities. We handle over 50 per cent of the coal exported from Australia. I believe that the potential in the tourist industry, in the rural industry and certainly in the mining industry is such that they could double their present wealth. 
The amazing thing, if one examines the history of these industries and of the division, is that the wealth has been created by the free enterprise system and by people who were prepared to live under difficulties in the north. That private enterprise has had no assistance from departmental officers and has had no departmental services from which to profit. The GovernorGeneral's Speech states that we will be transferring from the public to the private enterprise system. I believe Dawson is an example of the success of the private enterprise system in Australia. 
The sugar industry has long been the backbone of the division, being centred in the Burdekin area and in Mackay itself. It supplies just under 50 per cent of the total amount of sugar produced in Australia. It started initially with the assistance of Kanaka labour, but it has built itself up into a great industry. It is fully mechanised both in the paddock and in the mill. It has been prepared to stabilise itself by voluntary restraint. At present it is prepared at a moment's notice to enter into any expansion in which the Australian Government might wish to engage as a result of increased exports or increased domestic consumption. The position in Dawson has been stabilised also because the Bowen coal mining basin and the mining townships of Moranbah and Dysart have added wealth through the coal industry. It is good to see the way in which diversification has taken place. But for all I say about the rural, mining and tourist industries we have yet to harness their full potential. The development that has taken place has been due to the assistance and involvement of private enterprise and the multinational companies in private enterprise. Very little assistance has been given by governments themselves. 
We talk in terms of decentralisation. But it has been only the private citizen in north Queensland who has enabled decentralisation to take place. By inhabiting the coastline and the hinterland of north Queensland private citizens have provided the only defence against the foreign invader. We have no protection against foreign fishing vessels which might fish in our waters and which might use our shorelines as a base. 
I realise that this Government is concerned about the Budget deficit and that it would want to cut expenditure to reduce that deficit. Might I suggest that it would be unwise for the Government not to realise the profit that could result from investment to enable the north to develop its full potential. The Parliament does not have a Minister directly responsible for the north and I believe it is up to each Federal member from this region to bring the potential of the north to the notice of the Government. 
Certain initiatives were taken by the previous Government in terms of the national highway. I want to mention some priorities that I believe people within my electorate would want me to raise. The Division of Dawson contains 85 kilometres of unsealed national highway- possibly the only unsealed portion within the State. Priority is being given to this matter. However, I would hope that higher priority would be given to the sealing of this section of national highway so that work can be carried out at a greater pace. The Pioneer River is spanned by many bridges, including the Rocklea Bridge at Mackay, all of which but one are subject to yearly flooding and damage. The other bridge is hardly sufficient to take local traffic. I might be asked: Where is the profit in providing these facilities? I say to this question that any investment that this Government cares to make to improve the road and the bridge system would be rewarded by the provision of an all weather road along the entire coast of Queensland which could be used for 12 months of the year for trade and tourism and which would be capable of being used for defence purposes if ever the need arose. 
The last project I wish to mention is the Burdekin River scheme. No project for the utilisation of our resources should have a higher priority than an irrigation scheme on the Burdekin or its tributaries. There is a sugar industry within that area. This industry can be expanded, but it has to be safeguarded. The rice industry in this area at the moment is being encroached on by the sugar industry but plenty of land is available for the industry to continue. At the moment the quantity of rice that is grown uses 25 per cent of the capacity of the mill that treats this product. The mill has received overseas export orders to the extent of 10 times its capacity. As in everything else the free enterprise system in the Burdekin would be quite capable of taking up any challenge the Government could put forward by providing a scheme and asking for its utilisation. Development of the Burdekin would not only benefit the sugar and rice industries and other rural industries but it would also double the water supply of the city of Townsville. I believe that if private enterprise is not given this encouragement- it has been given encouragement in the past but promises have not been fulfilled- then the spirit on which northern development has taken place will be soured. I speak here of the spirit of free enterprise, the spirit of the people in this area who believe in the old Australian tradition of hard work and honest labour. 
I noticed with interest the statement in the Governor-General's Speech that the Government intends to place more emphasis on the mining industry and through that possibly on the entire energy resources of Australia. I have mentioned the Bowen Basin which has been developed to the extent that 3 mines are now being operated by the Utah organisation and it is supplying 1 1.5 million tonnes of coal per year for export. Development in this area yet to take place consists of another mine to be operated by Utah and 3 mines to be operated by ThiessPeabodyMitsui. There is also the great deposit at Hail Creek near Nebo. There are problems faced by the companies but these problems with encouragement can be overcome. A rail line and port facilities are to be duplicated and townships are to be constructed. But these developments will more than double the export of coal from this area. The problem is that during the last 3 years development costs on any of these coal fields have doubled. What could have been done 3 years ago costs twice as much to do now. It is much more difficult to attract money today for this type of development. 
We also have a policy that foreign investment will have no more than a 50 per cent equity in an Australian project. I believe that the demand on Australian companies to provide this rate of investment will be too great. I would hope that when looking at this problem we will realise that the multinationals have provided development and employment and most of all have supplied the markets for our great mining industries. If it had not been for these companies which put at risk their own capital the coal and the minerals that Australia today is developing and exporting would still be in the ground. If it had not been for this action Australia would have been the poorer as it would not have gained the finances derived from taxes and coal export levies. I believe that we have to assess very carefully each individual case to ensure that maximum effort has been made by a company to acquire the 50 per cent equity. But if a company does not acquire this percentage I do not believe that we should penalise it. I do not believe that we should penalise Australians to the extent that the companies are not allowed to develop enterprises on the sites they choose because the longer any minerals stay in the ground the more costly mining and development will become. So I would hope that we would be realistic in our attitude to companies which are making the maximum effort to supply 50 per cent equity. 
There is a limit to Australia's reserves of energy. I believe that we should be looking very carefully at alternatives to our present energy sources. Some of these alternatives are made cheaper by the fact that the cost of oil has increased dramatically in recent years. Alternatives of 3 years ago that were then too costly can now be looked at. One of these energy sources is the production of the non-pollutant poweralcohol which is a derivative of sugar cane. At the moment this product is being tested by the Prichard Steam Motor Company. I believe that projects such as this should be encouraged and assisted by this Government. Such projects received limited assistance from the last Government; they should receive greater assistance from this Government. 
A great deal of energy can be obtained from the unlimited resources of water and sun. There is a tidal range of some 8.6 metres in the St Lawrence River which flows 4 times a day- in twice and out twice. This unlimited source of energy should be tapped and research conducted on its uses. Research should also be undertaken on the use of solar energy. I believe that the Government, to ensure the supply of energy for use by our future generations, should explore these fields as quickly as possible. 
Another aspect that was mentioned in His Excellency's Speech was the allocation of funds from our revenues to various sources. There was a commitment to people in the welfare area who through some misfortune become the have-nots. This is the section of people who through no fault of their own do not have sufficient to live on. I believe that we should keep this matter under consideration and allocate finance or assistance as it is necessary and in time to prevent a crisis situation from developing. 
I also believe that the Australian Assistance Plan, which is in its experimental stages, should be very well evaluated because there are many aspects of this Plan that are of assistance to urban communities and certainly to country and isolated communities. Mistakes may have been made in the initial stages of experimentation but I would hope that we could learn from them and continue with the Plan in some way. I believe that the Plan should be evaluated and redirected if necessary. 
We talk in terms of decentralisation. May I make 2 suggestions. One is that the Treasury should look very carefully when framing the next Budget on the provision of the zone allowance. The fact is that within Queensland 50 per cent of the population lives within 80 kilometres of the General Post Office in Brisbane. As I have said, northern development has taken place at the risk of the private person. Our north lies open more to the desires of foreign nations than it does to Australians themselves. May I suggest that the value of the present zone allowance be reassessed, the boundaries being redrawn to take in the mining developments, the high cost developments and having regard to the cost of isolation so that the allowance will encourage people to go further than the city and urban limits to seek a livelihood. I also suggest that those businesses which wish to decentralise be granted a special allowance on capital costs within a certain range of a provincial or urbanised city. 
I realise that when one comes into the Parliament as a new member one must come in with a touch of idealism, because if one had no idealism he would not be here in the first place. I have allowed myself the luxury of one small piece of idealism. I bring this straight from the area of private enterprise, but some of the older members in their period of office may have become a little divorced from it. I suggest that in preparing legislation we go further than the public sector in seeking advice. I believe that in 75 per cent of the cases the legislation we effect will affect private enterprise or the private sector of Australia. I suggest that we go to private enterprise and ask for its advice and and comments because that is were we find the practical people, the practising people, who maintain the standards of our legislation. If that is the case, I believe we should consult with them before we go to the legislating stage. 
It was mentioned yesterday on 2 occasions that the dignity of this Parliament might have suffered because of some lack of decorum in the last few years. The duty I have before I become a politician of too long standing is to express the sentiments of the private individual in the outside world. I believe the people feel that there has been a lack of dignity. They believe that the parliamentary rules of debate, while they apply to councils and to committees outside the Parliament, apparently do not apply inside. I hope that we can set a new era in this regard by raising the standard so that the parliamentary rules of debate throughout Australia will be acceptable to all. 
I do. 
Can the Minister for National Resources confirm reports published today that the Government has approved the development of the Hail Creek coal project in the Dawson electorate? Can the Minister outline the Government's requirements on Australian equity in the project and can he say what progress has been made in reaching agreement on the equity question in relation to other proposed coal developments in the Bowen Basin? 
I am indebted to the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  for covering such a large scope but he has left me with so little time in which to introduce my own subject. I would like to make a few comments in connection with Division 7 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. Earlier this week mention was made of certain investigations that will be made in connection with changes in this area. I am afraid that I feel that the changes will not go sufficiently far to be a real incentive to private companies which are now operating under some difficulty within the nation. For instance, increased retention allowance is proposed to be allowed but only for such things as an expansion of a capital nature. The flow-on of the recent increase of 6.4 per cent in the national wage has brought with it a particular problem for private companies in that they will require additional retentions and reserves to cover such things as increased inventories and the financing of debtors. I would hope that when the commission of inquiry looks at this aspect it will look further than leaving retentions only for an expansion of a capital nature. I hope it will look into other areas. 
I also suggest in relation to the Income Tax Assessment Act that we might look at the problem of the one-income family. It was mentioned that an option would be granted to shareholders of private companies to be assessed on a partnership basis. I think we should go further and look at the incidence of taxation on families themselves. A social problem is created where there is only one income earner. If extra money is required someone from the family is sent out to work. This is usually the wife and the mother, and this does create a social problem. I would hope that we would have a complete review of these matters. I hope that we can give some relief to these families which now suffer and also bring about the end of that social disease known as latch-key children. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! It being 11 p.m., the House stands adjourned until Tuesday, 16 March 1976 at 2.15 p.m. unless  Mr Speaker  shall, by telegram or letter addressed to each member of the House, fix an earlier day of meeting. 

 -Mr Speaker, over the last few weeks a lot has been said in this House about the situation in the beef industry, and the rural poverty situation has been the subject of a special report. I would like to speak tonight about an area that combines the problems of the beef industry and that of rural poverty. The comparison is all the more striking because this particular area fringes on probably one of the greatest and wealthiest mining areas in Australia. I refer to the Utah Development Company mines at Dysart and Moranbah. In 1967 the Brigalow Land Agreement Act was introduced by the Commonwealth to provide financial assistance to Queensland for area 3 of the Brigalow scheme. The project involved breaking down the larger leases previously existing into smaller living areas. 
The scheme was evolved through the active encouragement of the Queensland State Government and the Federal Government at a time when the beef industry was affluent and the future appeared bright. Conditions on the ballot blocks ensured a minimal equity by the settlers with the Queensland Land Administration Commission allowing for the block being paid off over a period of years, interest free. Further funds advanced through the Land Administration Commission by the Commonwealth were allocated towards improvements and the purchase of breeding cattle at a variable rate of interest, currently at 10.2 per cent, repayable over 20 years from the date of advance. The interest rate at the commencement of the loan in 1971 was only 7 per cent. 
Before full development could be undertaken in Brigalow area 3, and before the breeding herds could develop saleable cattle the beef market deteriorated badly. Interest rates on loans escalated dramatically and the political climate changed, thereby making unattainable the budgets and financial projections on which the original settlers had been accepted for the scheme. The changed circumstances were unforeseen by governments, financiers, stock and marketing specialists and particularly the settlers themselves. The changed circumstances must pose questions of future viability for some of the settlers, even if the beef market improves to a cut even point. 
Communications represent one of the elementary tenets upon which economic growth and development depend. Roads, transport, mobility of human resources and verbal communications all provide the necessary input and output information on markets and they provide a link of communication for medical services for people in this area. Communication facilities enable people to live in and be attracted to remote areas. The matter of telephone communications is therefore particularly important in the development of this area. Nebo exchange partially taps the top of area 3, and Isaacs River Exchange has suffered from procrastination and deliberate delays by the previous Government. The Dysart exchange, centre of a very prosperous mining area, bypasses some of the adjacent properties. A special arrangement exists for a dam project on the Mackenzie River that may be expanded in the future. 
In this problem of communications the need is pressing. Accident victims have been known to wait for 6 hours for attention, or days when the country is flooded. The matter can be one of life or death. The present limit of free extension and the expense of line reticulation prevents the settlers from providing the necessary funds even when partially subsidised by the Commission. Of all their social problems this one of communications is the most pressing. The Australian Assistance Plan operated from the Mackay Regional Development Committee has operated beneficially for the social good of these settlers. The people are firm advocates for the plan. 
While not being a problem unique to area 3, beef markets and stabilisation of prices form one problem in relation to which all beef producers are looking to this Government. The Federal loans that were advanced by the 1967 Act in area 3, with interest capitalised to 30 June 1975, amounted to $4,018,614. While appreciating the extended terms with no repayment, these initial redemptions will now be made while the beef industry and producers of the area are in an economic trough. 
That is the problem. To all of this there are answers. I am merely reporting on the problems that the settlers of the area consider immediate. I believe that the Government could, by following certain suggestion, which could be adopted by Ministers concerned in these particular areas, assist the settlers to a great extent. I name these recommendations. 
The Federal Government should continue to pursue every avenue to seek out long term world markets at better than cut-even prices. Interest rates on the loans mentioned should be reduced on all loans directly or indirectly to the industry from the Federal Government preferably to the 4 per cent presently applying to the rural reconstruction loans, these to include the special assistance to the Queensland Government and also Development Bank loans. The redemption of the above loans could be suspended until the industry became more viable. 
The Federal Government through the Income Tax Act could provide for the income equalisation deposits to allow taxation deductions at the point of purchase and to provide for their taxation at the point of redemption, as recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission in July 1975. These bonds could be made available to aU rural producers. A committee could be formed, perhaps within the framework of the IAC, to take evidence from the meat industry and producers to formulate recommendations to government as to how the industry in all aspects may be best assisted by the Government. There could be a return of the petrol price equalisation scheme which was removed by the former Government. Investigation should be undertaken of the needs of local governments in these areas that constitute predominantly depressed grazing industries especially for finance to enable them to continue to provide services without excessively rating the property owners. 
Within Brigalow Area 3 the particular problem would be that there must be an immediate consideration in the reduction of interest and deferment of redemptions and, perhaps in conjunction with the Queensland State Government, this Government could provide personnel to determine the immediate financial situation of the settlers and their long term viability, to review completely the whole scheme, and to investigate the residency and other conditions of the initial contracts to allow for an earlier sale or a deferment of development. The viability of each property must be ascertained and also the amount of further assistance individual settlers will require to inject into their properties to make them viable and profitable. 
This morning in the course of the grievance debate, the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr 0'Keefe)  mentioned particularly the Postal and Telecommunications commissions. In this area I think there could be real advantages if the commissions or if the Minister could look at certain aspects of these problems including sending an investigation team into the area to report on the needs of the settlers at Valkyrie, Isaacs River, MacKenzie River, Dysart and Moranbah. They could suggest acceptable alternatives where normal telephone communications cannot be made, that is, by 2-way radio or radio telephones. There could be a costing prepared on the minimum needs of communications with a view to the Government making a special grant to Telecom to carry out this work, and provision in the 1976-77 Budget for the erection of a translator to service the mining towns of Dysart and Moranbah with commercial and national television with Utah company assistance, which has already been promised. 
In the general area of post and communications I agree with the honourable member for Paterson when he mentioned this morning that there should be a re-assessment by the Telecommunications Commission in the 1976-77 Budget of rural telepohone charges to reduce the price of a local call to the charge prevailing at the city closest, most frequented or used for business by the settlers. Some latitude could be granted to allow for self-help in the reticulation of private lines to minimise costs. 

 Mr Speaker, I do hope that the Government and its Ministers will take note of the particular problems of these settlers. They are people who have chosen to follow this way of life and to develop a particularly rich area of land and who, through circumstances beyond their control, have fallen upon bad times. 
They are, too. I believe that if the Government could assist in the manner in which I have mentioned it would assist not only Brigalow 3 but rural areas throughout Australia and particularly the beef industry. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for National Resources. I refer to the announcement at the weekend of agreement to raise the Australian interest in the Nebo coal project to 55 per cent. When are this and other coal projects in Queensland likely to proceed now that the Commonwealth and the companies concerned have resolved the equity question? Is the Minister aware of the impact which the coal export levy will have on the prospects for these projects getting under way? Will he do all he can to persuade the Government to abolish the levy in the next Budget? 
I rise to support these 2 Appropriation Bills. I wish I had the wit of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  so that I could reply on his behalf. In rising to support the Appropriation Bills, I congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  the Cabinet and the Government on their determination to cut the extravagance of expenditure and the wastefulness of expenditure that have been evident over the last few years. To carry out an evaluation of the success of this determination one has only to look back to a similar period last year and compare the appropriations at that stage with the appropriations we intend to make this year and then compare the savings. The basic difference is that, whereas last year over $ 1 billion was being asked to be appropriated, this year the amount proposed is a net $28m. It has been the concern of this Government that the first priority must be the reining in of the expenditure that was running rife up to half-way through last year. I believe that these Appropriation Bills will stand as evidence of the success of the Government's determination of priorities in this direction. 
Before I continue I should like to mention 2 matters that were raised earlier in this debateone by the honourable member for Adelaide (  Mr Hurford).  In his speech yesterday he said: 
Australia is a great trading nation. We are affected enormously by the world-wide trade cycle. Our present troubles of inflation and unemployment to a large extent are the result of a world-wide trade cycle phenomenon. 
I would have hoped that by now the Australian Labor Party would have learned that one cannot import into Australia a product whose seeds have been sown in one's own environment. The seeds for the inflation we are experiencing at the moment were sown in the Labor support for the wage demands by the Public Service more than 2 years ago- demands that have flowed through to other trade unions in Australia. These demands have brought crippling cost to industry and have left inflation at the high rate at which it is today. The inflation may have been fanned by some world-wide influence, but the basic seed was sown by the Australian Labor Party itself in supporting those wage demands. 
Secondly, the honourable member for Adelaide and also the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who has just spoken, mentioned that the deficit has expanded because receipts have not been as they were expected to be as a result of the success of Labor's wage policy. This approach seems to me to be like having a dollar each way and, irrespective of the result, taking the credit for what happens as something that had been achieved through one's policy. I believe that this in itself is an indication that the Hayden Budget was nothing more than a hoax. It was a hoax in that the deficit was deliberately misrepresented as being low and comments were made at the time that the new rebate system of taxation would benefit middle class income earners. The only beneficiary from the rebate system of taxation of that Budget was the Government itself, through the collection of higher taxes. So I think we must look at those 2 aspects and try to put at rest the fallacies. Inflation was not imported. The Budget .which we are discussing at the moment and to which we are adding appropriations was nothing but a gigantic hoax foisted on the Australian public. 
I believe that revenue that the Commonwealth collects is held in trust- a trust that is sacred as far as the taxpaying public is concerned. It is our duty as a government to maintain that trust. We should allocate expenses according to the priorities expected by the people who pay the taxes. These basically fall into 3 broad regions. Firstly, there are the acceptable services that people come to expect from a Federal government and that cannot be provided otherwise. Secondly, there is the priority to provide incentives to put money back into the productive areas to make sure that they remain viable and profitable and as a result can contribute taxes into the general revenue. I believe that this is an important area. Thirdly, there is the giving of assistance to those people throughout the Commonwealth who cannot afford to help themselves, who are in a situation not of their own choosing and who need support. 
Over the last few years we have seen this assistance extended to people who could help themselves but never bothered to do so. That contributed a fair amount to the deficit we are discussing at the moment. But, more importantly, there are people who need assistance, people who in the past contributed greatly to Federal revenues and who need assistance at this moment. I mention the people in the beef, dairy and fruit industries spread throughout the Commonwealth who desperately need help at this stage. It should be part of our charter as a government to assist these people as far as we can, to last the distance until they get back to viable times. This trust that I mentioned is paramount. If we disenchant people by the way we handle their tax receipts, they will retaliate through the ballot box. I think we saw this evidenced on 13 December. The Labor Party lost that trust and the retaliation was complete, in that it lost government. But it is not fanenough for us in this House any longer- we have been doing this for 5 months- to try to create our reputation by mentioning that the Labor Party was a bad manager of the economy. We as a government must create our own reputation as managers of the economy. That is what we will be judged on in 2Vi years' time. We will be judged not on our handling of the legacy left by the Australian Labor Party but on the reputation that we establish for ourselves as good money managers. In this regard I come back again to the fact that the Treasurer, the Cabinet and the Government are to be congratulated for starting us back on the road to respectability within the Commonwealth sphere and for bringing to an end an age in which there was a handout mentality and where people were expecting to receive but not give in return. I see these Appropriation Bills as being a definite start in this direction. 
There are 2 other matters that I would like to raise which have some bearing on finances and the budgetary situation. One was mentioned yesterday at question time, the coal export levy. The Situation in respect of the Appropriation Bills that we are now discussing would have been $70m worse off but for the imposition of the coal export duty. That is the amount that was collected by the Commonwealth from that duty up to 3 1 March. Never before in the history of this Commonwealth has there been a duty that was designed to tax incentive- not to give incentive, but to tax incentive. It is a duty designed to cripple an industry that was viable and prosperous and that was prepared to help itself. There never has been a duty like this one, which was designed to stifle development in the area from which the tax is paid. 
I hope that the Government will be able to see its way clear to return in some way to the mining towns throughout Australia the $70m that has been collected from the export levy in order to give them the basic facilities and the assistance that they cannot give themselves in the form of telecommunications services and translator stations as well as provide assistance to those adjoining beef areas that I mentioned before. I believe that the best incentive that we as a Government can now give to the coal industry from the point of view of those who are producing at the moment, those who are expected to develop the rich coal basins that exist throughout Australia, would be removal of this duty in the 1976-77 Budget. That would be little enough to give them, but it would be incentive enough for them to get back into full production and to develop those fields which could be the cure-all for Australia's exports in the next four or five years. 
The second matter that I mention is the matter of the zone allowance. This again affects many of the isolated mining townships and the other developing industries throughout the length and breadth of Australia. Yesterday, as a matter of public importance, the Labor Party brought on a debate about decentralisation in the sense of trying to take people from the capital cities to adjoining lands. Within the zone allowance we have a mechanism available to us, if we use it properly, for decentralising people and for making sure that they are encouraged to seek employment beyond the limits of the capital cities. If one examines the record of the zone allowance one will see that governments since 1945 have paid little regard to this aspect. 
The zone allowance was initially introduced as an encouragement to people to seek employment in remote districts. The boundaries of the zones were first determined after a survey which took into account such factors as the uncongenial climatic conditions, the isolation, the loss of social amenities and the higher cost of living. In the land mass above the north of the Tropic of Capricorn, which encompasses approximately but not quite 45 per cent of Australia's land surface, lives a minimal population. We could not even defend that portion of Australia if we were called upon to do so. The boundaries of the zone allowance have not been reviewed in the last 31 years, except for the differences between Zone A and Zone B. I believe that if we reviewed those boundaries to take into account the isolation experienced by the people in these communities who are striving to bring productivity to our northern lands we could encourage people to go out into these regions to seek employment and thereby assist Australia in so many ways. 
We should review the boundaries. But, just as importantly, if we are to give any sting to this allowance, we should for goodness sake see whether we can apply proper values in respect of it. I take an example of zone B. In 1945 the deduction was worth $40. Now, 31 years later, it is worth $90. Under a rebate system it is worth $36 for every single person living within that area. That would not pay for a trip to the coast, let alone the other high costs which people are expected to absorb in this area. 
It would not. But they do not have telephones, in any case. In giving my full support to these Appropriation Bills and to the Government I ask for the support of the Government for these 2 basic items, namely, the zone allowance and the matter of the coal export duty. 
-We are taking clauses 1 to 9 together. I would like to refer to clause 8 and to the special depreciation allowance or the accelerated depreciation that has had effect since 1 July last year. The investment allowance has been introduced, and it is obvious that the Government cannot be so generous that it can also afford to allow accelerated depreciation. It has been mentioned in this Parliament that the investment allowance will cost $470m a year. I think that this must be offset to some extent by the fact that the double depreciation allowance will be withdrawn. This in itself will save a considerable amount of expenditure by the Government. 
I believe that the investment allowance will be a superior form of deduction and certainly a better incentive than the accelerated depreciation allowance, because all one does if one doubles the depreciation allowance is to claim a deduction earlier and not later. The total deduction is no more because one doubles the allowance in the initial years rather than spreads it out over the life of the asset. Although I do not intend to oppose clause 8, I think it should be clearly understood that there are throughout Australia some industries which, because of the implementation of the investment allowance and the withdrawal of the special deduction for depreciation, are paying unseen taxation for having had the courage in a period of uncertainty to place orders for quite substantial plant that could take years to fabricate. They will miss out not only on the investment allowance but also on the double depreciation allowance. 
I shall instance one industry, and .there must be throughout Australia other industries that are in a similar situation. The sugar industry was facing a position of expansion in the latter part of 1975. With the uncertainty that existed at the time of the Labor Government it took some courage for the industry to consider expansion. The expansion had been planned for 1977. In order to achieve this expansion large orders for plant were placed. Some of these orders totalled in the vicinity of $4m or $5m. They were placed prior to 3 1 December last year but they will not be fulfilled until the latter part of this year. The people in the sugar industry involved themselves in the acquisition of new plant worth $60m which should have been subject at least to the double depreciation allowance. Certainly it would have been subject to the special investment allowance if the orders had been placed after 1 January. Representation has been made to the Minister in this regard. I realise that it is necessary to have a cut off point at some stage. 
It must be understood by this Parliament that throughout Australia there are industries that will not enjoy the benefits of either the investment allowance or the double depreciation allowance. The people in those industries must be regarded as paying an unseen tax towards this incentive that we are now introducing. I should like to place on record reference to the courage and fortitude of the sugar industry which was prepared to consider expansion, but I must point out that at the time the industry did this in the hope and with the expectation that it would get at least the benefit of the double rates of depreciation. At this stage it would appear that with the implementation of this Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill this industry will miss out on a tax deduction for proportion of the amount of $60m that it spent on new plant. In addition to being an industry that contributes a great deal to our exports the people in the industry also are in effect paying an additional amount of taxation because they are not getting either deduction. 
As I have said, I do not intend to oppose the legislation. I just want to bring to the attention of this Parliament the fact that people in the sugar industry along with people in many other industries throughout Australia who have a lag between the time they place orders and the time they are ready and available to produce assessable income will be forfeiting a deduction as a result of this legislation. 
I ask the Minister for National Resources whether he is aware of comments made by the Senior Managing Director of Nippon Steel,  Mr Tanabe,  cautioning the Government not to interfere in negotiations concerning the establishment of major new coal projects in central Queensland. I ask the Minister whether  Mr Tanabe  need be concerned about the Government's attitude to these projects. 
-I support these 10 Bills. Much has been said by speakers on the Government side about their necessity. As a matter of custom more than belief, the Opposition has to oppose them. I believe that these Bills, taken together as the package they are intended to be, form the most innovative program presented in legislation before this House for many years. In using the word 'innovative' I pay tribute to the previous Labor Government. It introduced many innovative ideas but unfortunately it could not provide the good financial management necessary to back its programs. I believe that these 10 Bills represent an economic package backed by good sound financial business principles that this Government will exercise m the implementation of its policies. Without that type of management no legislation will be effective. I believe that the past 3 years will be a record of that in history. These Bills are innovative in that the financial, social and wage restraining aspects of the Government's policy are wrapped up in the one package. 
Let me deal with tax indexation. Previous speakers from the Government side have said that inflation is the main problem that not only the Government but also Australia as a whole has to overcome. I believe that tax indexation is an indication of the good faith of the Government in going to the unions and employees throughout the Commonwealth and saying: 'We have done our part. We expect you to do yours'. Tax indexation will be a curb on wage demands but more importantly a restraint and a curb on the Government itself. Inflation has only one beneficiary, and that is the Government through taxes. This measure will make the Government live within its own means. It will mean that the Government will take its share of inflation but no more. As was said earlier this afternoon, tax collections have doubled in the last 4 years because of inflation. Tax indexation is a means by which the Government will take its share and no more. 
May I just take as an example what the present wage structure throughout Australia is doing to our development. I will take the matter a step further by refuting and rebutting any suggestions in this House that multi-national companies are no good for Australia. I know, and I know that members of the Government know, that it is only as a result of the money and expertise supplied to Australia by multi-national organisations that we have been able to develop resources. I come from an electorate in which this is evident. I refer to the coal rnining basin of Bowen. If it had not been for the money put into these ventures by multi-national organisations, the Utah organisation in particular, the minerals would still be where  Mr Connor  wants them- in the ground. 
Having said that as a background I want to comment on the effect that inflation is having on our development, particularly in the amount being paid in weekly wages to Australians. I refer to an article which appeared earlier this year in the  Australian  and which states: 
Wall Street bankers see little hope of any significant resumption of the flow of American investment and manufacturing capital to Australia under present conditions. 
Why is this? It is because within the last 4 years the average Australian wage has outstripped the average American wage; at this moment it is $47 in excess of the American wage. Which multinational, unless it is desperate for resources, would want to invest in Australia with those difficulties operating against them? If we wish to continue the development that this country witnessed prior to 1 972, tax indexation is a means of doing so. With measures such as tax indexation we might get back to the old theory that wages should increase only in accordance with real increases in productivity, not just as a result of consumer price index increases. 
With these measures goes the indexation of concessional rebates for spouses and the various other rebates included in the Income Tax Assessment Act. I would particularly like to mention one matter that has been given some consideration by the Treasury, that is, the indexation of zone allowances. Special mention is made of the fact that zone allowances are to be indexed to the extent that they will increase in respect of the element of which is related to rebates for maintenance dependants and the allowances for children. Having recognised that the zone allowance is to be indexed, one wonders why the base rate was not similarly indexed. I draw the Government's attention to the fact that the last base rate increase was in 1958, and over a period of 18 years inflation must certainly have caught up with it. I suggest that at the same time, possibly in the Budget, the Government should consider if not indexing the 1958 base rate at least providing some considerable increase to make it effective. 
Happy as I am to see the measures taken in regard to tax indexation, I suggest that we still have further to go. I have mentioned that tax indexation will be an incentive to wage restraint but what we need in Australia today is some incentive to private industry or to manufacturing industry to get back to the job of improving productivity and thus increasing the nation's production. There have been many reports containing certain recommendations. In particular there is the Mathews report which has suggested that stock and assets be indexed in order to get, in the first instance, a more realistic value on stock and also to allow proper depreciation allowances on up to date costings of assets. This Government only recently passed through this House a measure relating to the investment allowance which was to be an incentive for business to invest and to produce. With additional incentive provided in the indexing of stock and assets for depreciation purposes we could certainly go a lot further. 
I want to mention another matter which was raised in a question on 2 March 1976 relating to Division 7 of the Income Tax Act, which concerns the retention allowance. In reply to a question asked by a Government supporter the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said, that 2 specific initiatives had been designed to assist the small business community. He said: ... the retention allowance will be increased to enable private companies to invest in capital equipment, and shareholders in private companies will be given the option of being taxed as a partnership in order to minimise the double taxation of private company income. 
I agree with the second part of that reply- that one initiative must be that we allow private company shareholders to be assessed as partners in a partnership. I suggest that the Treasurer should go further with his first initiative. Instead of allowing the investment allowance to increase for a specific instance of investment in capita1 equipment, Division 7 should be wiped out of the Act altogether and no penalty should be imposed on private companies over and above that applying to normal private and public companies, namely, tax at the rate of 42.5c in the dollar. If the Government benefits to that extent, that is sufficient. We should allow for natural forces acting within private companies, the managements and shareholders, to disgorge some of these things in the normal way. When I refer to 'the normal way' I do not believe it is normal that the management of a company should be asked to retain profits in proportion to a fixed formula. Each company has a different requirement, a different need, to add to its reserves in a period of inflation, not only for investment in capital but also to increase stock inventories and to finance debtors and such other working capital. Again I suggest that the Treasurer, in order to give proper incentives to businesses, particularly small businesses, should remove Division 7. 
In making suggestions relating to the small business area, I should say that it has been an anomaly for many years that depreciation on business buildings has not been allowed although the institutes and societies of accountants throughout Australia make firm recommendations that these assets should be depreciated when used for business purposes. More recently such people have suggested that stock be indexed and current price increases be taken for books of account. Again, provision for depreciation on buildings and provision for long service leave ought to be recognised tax deductions so that tax aspects and accounting aspects may flow more evenly. I believe that these types of incentives would cost the Government little, for what we would lose as revenue as a result of the deductions allowed we would gain because of the increased activity of small business. I do not believe that Australia will get back on its feet until we give these proper incentives to businesses, both small and large alike. 
I now mention Medibank. I notice that the Opposition has mounted an attack against the change, more because of custom than belief. I think that over the last 12 months Australians have generally come to recognise that Medibank has been a financial cancer which has been eroding our national economy. I believe also that they have not been duped by the fact that it was espoused as a free benefit given to the people by the Government. They realised that Medibank had to be paid for by someone. I believe that more recently they have recognised that they have paid for this benefit through inflation which in itself possibly is the largest unseen form of taxation we have had in Australia particularly over the last 3 years. Everybody has suffered through inflation; it is a hidden tax. 
I give full support to the recent Medibank changes. In doing so I realise that much advice would have been given to the Government, particularly to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  Many options may have been open to the Government. Certainly it would have consulted with the private health funds. As a result of all this advice and all the inquiries I believe we now have a package where the user pays. The one million people throughout Australia who could not afford health insurance 2 years ago, and for which 13 million other Australians had to pay, now recognise that they get free treatment but beyond that the user pays. I believe that any normal Australian would expect to pay for any facility he used. It has been suggested to me that there should have been a fifth option, namely, that anybody who so desired could take the consequences of opting not to take any insurance cover whatsoever and taking it upon himself. I believe that had we offered that option we could have led ourselves to more massive abuse of the system. An abuse which has been prevalent over the last 12 months would have been accelerated by letting anybody opt out of the system completely. So, all in all, I believe that Medibank in its new form will be a scheme that Australians are looking for. 
I turn now to the last aspect, namely, family allowances: Again, the provision of these increased allowances represents a complete shift in our social program as to the way in which we place money in the hands of those people who need it. Somebody said that perhaps we are doing this in an attempt to make some reconciliation with women. I do not believe that that is the case at all. I believe that, if women can get money in their hands to use as they see fit and also know that they are receiving it tax free, it will give the advantage that is intended. I refer to statements that have been made to the effect that the family allowance proposals will benefit the 300 000 families and their 800 000 children throughout Australia who could not take advantage of the previous system of tax deductions for dependants. I believe that the new system is a real advance in our social welfare program, bearing in mind that it provides that the taxpayer no longer has the right to claim tax deductions for his dependent children. 
I point out to the Parliament that this advantage was diluted in the Hayden Budget last year. These concessions were replaced by a rebate system on the basis of 40 per cent of the allowable deductions. So I have no hesitation in saying that, when one looks at the loss that might be suffered by taxpayers through the loss of the dependants' rebates and the imposition of the Medibank levy where it will be charged, and weighs these against the cash advantage of the allowances, one will see that this puts the Australian taxpayer practically in a fine ball situation. This also has been criticised by the Opposition. I see nothing wrong with this because in doing this we have made Medibank pay for itself and we have given an impetus to the people who want the advantage of the family allowances, namely, the poor and the disadvantaged. Tax indexation, when introduced, will be an advantage to all of those above the line ball situation we have at the moment. 
I have great pleasure in supporting this legislation. As a new member, I realise that at times we as backbenchers are called upon to support legislation about which we may not feel very deeply, but I can assure the Government that it is my belief that this package is the type of legislation that will improve the lot of the average Australian. It will provide a climate in which we can build better wage restraint, improve real wages, get back to productivity as the gauge for wage increases and give an incentive for all Australianswhether they be taxpayers, employers or employees- to participate in getting this economy of ours back on its feet. 
The Treasurer would be aware that no change has been made to the base values of the zone allowance since 1958. Further, the boundaries adopted for the purpose of determining residency for allowances in zone A and zone B have not been reassessed since the allowances were introduced in 1945, except for minor changes in 1956. Consequently, many isolated townships lie outside the boundaries, thus depriving their residents of this allowance. Recognising that the Treasurer intends to index the allowances so far as they refer to dependants, will he instigate an investigation to examine the boundaries so that they might more realistically reflect the purpose of the allowance, that is, to compensate for isolation, inconvenience, climatic conditions and high cost of living? Will he also increase the base value so as to give some tan.igible relief to taxpayers in those zones? 
-I support the Bill which is evidence of this Government's intention to honour the commitment made by the Labor Government before it was removed from office in 1975. 1 respect the Minister for Natural Resources  (Mr Anthony)  for persevering with this assistance which has been brought to successful fruition in this Bill. 
I feel it is necessary to outline for the benefit of honourable members the situation that exists in Proserpine in north Queensland following the cyclone of 1972 and the severe flooding of 1973 and 1974. The Proserpine River is a fast flowing coastal stream which is unique in that it has a faster and bigger flow capacity at its headwaters than exists in its lower reaches. In fact, while it is capable of taking high flood runoffs at the headwaters, this flow is funnelled into a smaller capacity channel which then has the effect of causing overflow from the main channel into surrounding agriculture lands further down the river during floods. In the floods of 1973-74 this overflow of waters extended and entered into the township of Proserpine, which stands adjacent to the river and which has a population of some 3600 people. On the lower reaches it also traverses a great area of agricultural land supplying sugar cane to the Proserpine mill, which in itself stands on the banks of the river. 
Over many years farmers on this river have individually placed their own levees into position. Until 1974 the river did not have the advantage of the discipline of one authority to construct compatible levels of levees along the lengths required. As a result, the 1974 floods created great damage within the township and also to the banks of the river. In fact, they extended an overflow breakaway which runs water directly through the surrounding cane lands. 
The sugar industry in Proserpine was worth $35m to the area in the year ended 30 June 1975, and $30m in the year ended 30 June 1976, despite the fact that some 80 000 tonnes of cane were left in the field unharvested because of the wet conditions. With a record crop of over one million tonnes of cane in the current season it is expected that the amount of income previously mentioned will be exceeded. From this income is gained the livelihood of most of the population of Proserpine. This income results from the produce of over 200 individually owned cane farms that in the last 12 months have increased in assigned area and production by some 12 per cent. The district has a potential to increase considerably its area and production yet again for future sugar requirements. 
The Proserpine River crosses the national highway. In fact, the highway suffered damage and was closed several times in the 1973-74 floods. This closure can be and has been a yearly occurrence. That in itself inhibits the flow of traffic to the adjacent tourist areas of Airlie, Shute Harbour and Cannonvale and the Whitsunday Islands. The tourist industry has great potential as a revenue earner. It is the recipient of much overseas income. Hayman Island, Daydream Island, Long Island and South Molle are all serviced from Shute Harbour and Proserpine. 
The amount being allocated by this Bill represents 40 per cent of the cost of the then estimated value of the works to be implemented by the Proserpine Shire River Improvement Trust. The Commonwealth had previously made a grant to the same extent of 40 per cent towards emergency work costing $300,000 that extended the levee banks below the Proserpine River bridge on the national highway. A contribution of 40 per cent is to be taken up by the Queensland Government and a contribution of 20 per cent is to be taken up by the River Trust itself. The Bill indicates that this represents a reimbursement of $374,400 by the Commonwealth to the State of Queensland for the work. It is intended to discipline this fast flowing river under the oversight of one authority- the River Improvement Trust. 
As has been mentioned, the Schedule to the Bill sets out the type of work that is intended to be covered by the expenditure of this money. Apart from improvement work it is for the construction, reconstruction and realignment of levees. It will also provide for the construction of spillways which will divert the flows from the Proserpine River into alternative water courses. It will also allow for the regrading of roads to enable the spillways to be inserted in the river banks and for the flow of water to be carried away safely to adjoining areas. Most importantly it will assist water course improvement work on the breakaway channel, which had its flow increased by recent floods. 
All in all, the type of work contemplated is expected to remove the flood threat from the Proserpine River in the Proserpine area. If this can be done successfully it will serve to protect the large manufacturing concern of the Proserpine sugar mill, which is capable of a throughput in excess of one million tonnes of cane a year. The capital invested in this manufacturing concern alone is substantial. In addition, the township- the houses, the facilities and the serviceswill be protected from the uncertainties of the north Queensland weather pattern. It has been a matter of concern in north Queensland over many years that the regular flooding of rivers puts the national highway out of action and thus deprives north Queensland of the benefits of the tourist trade from people from the south, particularly over the Christmas holidays. The expenditure provided for in this Bill no doubt represents a recognition of the advantages of having the communications and the highways fully connected at all times and will assist in the substantial tourist trade that can and does exist in north Queensland. The potential for tourism in the Proserpine, Airlie and Whitsunday area could in time make it a rival for the Gold Coast. Good communications will assist in the realisation of this great potential. 
However, I would like to alert this Parliament to some of the disadvantages still being suffered in the Proserpine area from river flood waters. The work now scheduled will not complete all the necessary work of protection. Some downstream farmers- five or six in total- still suffer grave disadvantages from the flood run-off going directly through their farms. This has been accentuated to some extent by previous work of a private or public nature. It is urgent that these people get relief from these annual floodings, which in the last 2 seasons have had the effect of reducing their crop potential to less than half of what it should be, with a consequent loss of income to not only themselves but also the district. The estimated total cost of this additional protective work is $300,000 to $400,000. 
The other difficulty is that the funds now allocated are based on estimates prepared for this work in 1974 and 1975. They do not recognise the effects of inflation between then and now or the effects of inflation between now and when the work is completed. Unless some recognition is given to the effects of inflation, the difference between the inflated cost and the cost of the scheme currently contemplated, under which the annual interest and redemption on the Trust share of the loans is $53,000, will be considerable. With the effects of inflation, the cost of the venture could rise to $ 1.3m before completion of the work. Without the Commonwealth assistance to cover 40 per cent of the additional cost, the State and the Trust would have to meet the additional cost on the basis of the Trust providing $2 for every dollar provided by the State, and the annual interest and redemption payments by the Trust would increase to $95,000. The Shire of Proserpine would be mainly responsible for meeting this commitment. But, as it has a rateable area valued at only $llm, this additional cost could well be outside the limits of what the Shire itself could bear. For this reason I request that the Commonwealth re-examine the proposal outside of its present commitment to the Labor Government's promise to assist further in this work and consider both the additions to the present scheme that I mentioned and the question of inflated costs. 
I believe that the Commonwealth's contribution represents a recognition that this Government should assist viable industries to retain their viability. The division of Dawson has proved that it is the food bowl of Australia. It contributes 7 per cent of the exports of our nation in value terms. Only on exports can our economy survive and improve. The Proserpine area, as I mentioned earlier in this speech, has a sugar mill throughput of between $30m and $36m annually and contributes substantially to the export income derived by Australia. We as a government must always be alert to such potential and to the encouragement we can give such regions not only to produce our domestic food requirements but also to supply the export markets for sugar and other products. 
We should return development and protective funds to these regions which provide so much of our national income in the way of taxes. Over the last 2 years the sugar industry has paid a substantial tax bill, especially during the 1976 financial year. It still contributes greatly to financial revenue. The residents of north Queensland have provided the best evidence of the success of decentralisation. Working mainly on their own initiative they have pioneered the rich and fertile coastline. They have played their part in the growth of this nation. While being prepared to suffer some of the disadvantages of living away from capital cities and paying a high price for playing their part, these people need to be encouraged in a tangible way. This grant from the Commonwealth Government provides encouragement for the people to remain and to expand the frontiers and industries which they have pioneered. For these reasons I give this Bill my wholehearted endorsement. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (5.16)-The honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  has given the House a pretty full coverage of the situation in the Proserpine River area. I do not think it would be necessary for me to go over the same ground. However, the honourable member mentioned that there is a lot more work to be done. He asked the Government to make further funds available for the continuation of this work. I join him in this approach. I wish to support the Queensland Grant (Prosperpine Flood Mitigation) Bill which authorises assistance to the Queensland Government for flood mitigation works along the Proserpine River in northern Queensland. I believe that we as a nation are not making enough progress in harnessing, controlling and conserving our water resources. Even after listening to the honourable member for Dawson I believe that the only way the present situation in Northern Queensland can be summed up is to say that the floods are just as severe and just as damaging - 
I do not want to discuss these things except to say that we see the same lack of planning in many other parts of Australia. No doubt, as pointed out by the honourable member for Dawson, the people in northern Queensland are just as concerned at the worsening of their water problems. I believe that the assistance for this project, by way of a non-repayable grant of $374,400 over 4 years towards the cost of specified works on a 40 : 40 : 20 basis of matching contributions by the Commonwealth, State and Proserpine River Improvement Trust, is little enough. 
Every honourable member who recalls the disastrous floods in Queensland in January 1974 and who knows the scarcity of job opportunities during this period of record unemployment would want to see this Bill passed as quickly as possible. But at the same time I believe that we all have a duty to see that flood mitigation is not carried out on a patchwork basis. Not only should the work be carried out on a State-wide basis but also it should be planned in such a way that it will dovetail into a national water harnessing, controlling and conservation scheme. Out of such consideration, following the 1974 floods the Labor Government invited Queensland to submit a State-wide plan for flood mitigation as a basis for Commonwealth assistance. The Proserpine and Pioneer Rivers in northern Queensland and the flood mitigation work in the Brisbane area were submitted for priority consideration. 
As was pointed out in the second reading speech of the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony),  up to date $2. 65m has been spent on that work. In addition, in 1974-75 $120,000 was spent for the restoration of the flood damaged levee banks along the Proserpine River. Many people in Australia and many people in my electorate know the value of an adequate and secure levee bank system. I point out that this $120,000 spent on a levee bank system will save some hundreds of thousands of dollars in flood damage. In the last few years I have had personal experience of this in Bourke, Walgett and some other towns in my electorate. Those towns that have an adequate levee bank system were saved from hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of damage. Unfortunately in some areas they did not have such a good system of levee banks and the damage suffered by some people was really crippling. 
No one who has had experience of flood damage would have been surprised when the Minister said in his second reading speech:  ... a detailed investigation of the flooding problem along the Proserpine River confirmed the need for an improved system of levee banks to provide adequate protection to the town and surrounding  canefields. 
They would not be surprised because the same situation applies along most of our river system. I say to the honourable member for Darling 
Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  who mentioned the 3 years of Labor Government, that no one could blame the Labor Government for this situation. As a matter of fact it has been brought about by so many years of Liberal-Country Party Government. In my electorate the only time anything was done about it was when I was able to inform the Ministers responsible for the Regional Employment Development scheme about the situation of the waterways in that area. Many hundreds of thousands of dollars were spent on the waterways and levee banks. Unfortunately, as we are so often reminded, the Labor Government was thrown out of office and that work stopped. 
I believe that, not only from the point of view of Queensland but also from a national point of view, our waterways should be protected. We must rectify the damage done to our waterways during so many years of Liberal-Country Party government. Instead of harnessing and directing the waters of our great rivers and streams, in many cases they were allowed to become obstructed and polluted. If the honourable member for Darling Downs doubts that I can take him out and show him the evidence that is still there. Water is one of our most necessary commodities. The quality and quantity of water not only influence the health and happiness of every person but also determine much of the beauty of our surroundings. An examination of the Proserpine River in times of controlled flow and following a severe flood would convince everyone of this. 
If the honourable member for Darling Downs wants to know what the Labor Party did about water conservation he should cast his mind back to the time when the Labor Party started the Snowy River scheme. This was one of the greatest waterway schemes that has ever been initiated in Australia. The honourable member should be ashamed that the Liberal-Country Party Government went out of its way to destroy and disperse the great Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric Authority. I believe that there is a need for much more work to be done on our waterways, in my electorate as well as in the rest of Australia. But let us get on with the work in northern Queensland that was planned and commenced by the Queensland Government in cooperation and consultation with the national Labor Government. The conservation, development and management of our water resources must take place within a broader framework, including overall economic, environmental and social planning. There has never been a better time for this work to be put under way. Instead of hiding behind the cry of inflation this Government should be starting such works and should do something to relieve the tragic unemployment situation that we have in this country. I support the Bill. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs will be aware of the loss of life and the damage suffered within the last few days as a result of the earthquake in the Philippines. Will the Minister advise what relief Australia will be giving to the people and the Government of the Philippines in this present disaster, realising the great immediate need for foodstuffs in such circumstances and appreciating our present surplus in dairy products and beef? 
-I support this Bill as it follows a concept, nationally, which has been adopted by the majority of the States of Australia. It will give a balance at the Federal level to those additional rights which presently exist for citizens at the 
State level. I am informed that it was  Senator Kathy  Martin, a fellow Queenslander, who brought this matter of the ombudsman first on to the Australian scene. In this matter we are doing nothing new except that the proposed ombudsman will be the first in the world to be established in a federal jurisdiction. The need today with the proliferation of services offered by governments and the numerical increase in size of the Public Service is greater than it has ever been. The habit of using the Public Service as a whipping post- in most cases unnecessarily and incorrectly- will have an alternative through the Federal ombudsman for correct and fair evaluation of the circumstances whenever a legitimate grievance is raised. The success of the Ombudsman in my own State of Queensland is sufficient for me to support this Bill and hope for a similar success through his Federal counterpart. 
There is a need for complaints and grievances to be investigated by a properly appointed authority with powers to act, if only to relieve parliamentarians of this function. Too much of a parliamentarian's time is being devoted to being an ombudsman for his constituents, with the risk that too little time is devoted to his main function of being a legislator. Not only is too much of our time given in this regard but also we do the job poorly. Ill-equipped in time, with no real powers of investigation, our role becomes a perfunctory one where we make the noises but do not really expect results. To investigate properly all grievances would require more time than that available to any one of us. The ombudsman will have the powers and the staff which will give the teeth to make effective legislation of this nature. Clause 5 to 14 of Part II set out the functions, powers and duties of the office. Powers to investigate complaints, to have information given in writing and to insist on production of documents will ensure that all matters can be thoroughly checked and reported upon. 
The history of ombudsmen in various States of Australia indicates that, of the complaints investigated, only a small proportion result in fault being found within departments. This does not indicate that the ombudsman is ineffective. The fact that such an office functions with its various powers will operate as a discipline on the Public Service if only by the threat alone that the office and its powers exist. Judging by the State situations, I believe that an ombudsman has a greater effectiveness than to operate only as a deterrent. Irrespective of the outcome of any inquiry, this watchdog approach and oversight of the Public Service will be sufficient reason for creation of the office. 
An example of the effectiveness of decisions made by ombudsmen is that given in the report to the Queensland Government upon the facts surrounding the attitude of the Aurukun people to the proposed mining venture. Such a decision could only be given by an impartial body, independent of government control and with full powers of investigation. If such a report can be given against the creator of the office itself, it serves as evidence of the high standard of performance that we can expect from our own ombudsman in the service of the citizens of Australia. 
Clause 7 provides that complaints under this legislation shall be made in writing. This is an important requirement because having details in writing enables the ombudsman to ascertain whether a complaint is within his jurisdiction. If it is, appropriate action can be more effectively implemented. It is also a measure of the sincerity of a person laying a complaint if he or she does so in writing, giving full details. Section 6 gives a discretion not to investigate or to cease investigation of a complaint. This will reduce the number of complaints to be investigated to those that are genuine and sincere. I believe that the public will observe the intentions of the legislation by keeping the complaints to those of substance. 
It is necessary for the public to realise that the office of ombudsman is not a complete end in itself. It is purely another piece of machinery to give justice to the ordinary citizen. One should not be too optimistic in the hope that the ombudsman will be the cure all for all matters in dispute. The exclusions of jurisdiction contained in sub-clause 2 of clause 5 indicate the other institutions and those other officers and arbitrators who assist in placing justice in the hands of the citizen. I see the introduction of an ombudsman as a further link forged for the rights of the individual and the citizen. 
-In rising to support this Budget brought forward by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  I do so on a note of congratulation to the Treasurer and the Government as I believe the Budget went further in providing benefits and a climate for recovery than the public expected, particularly in view of the disastrous financial legacy left to it by the previous Labor Administration. In view of that legacy and in view of the record of Labor's administration I have no intention of giving the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  my support. 
I would like to enter this debate on the subject of the coal export duty, a levy that this Government has reduced by 25 per cent and intends to phase out over the next 3 years. It is certainly a subject that has been well aired in this House during this debate. Let us look at the Labor intention in introducing this levy. It is nothing more than a tax on profits; a device to rid Australia of multi-national participation in the coal industry and a tax applied so indiscriminately that it rids Australia of any further developmental opportunity while that levy exists. The previous Minister in charge of national resources, with the support of the Labor Cabinet, except one member, effectively brought in the policy of letting our wealth stay in the ground. I was interested in the comment made by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  in this House on Tuesday, 24 August, when he said: 
You cannot fire a shotgun into a crowd and then apologise to the people you hit on the basis that they were not the ones at whom you were aiming. 

 Mr Connor's shotgun blast aimed at the Utah Muring Co. Whilst it hit that company, it inflicted only a minor wound but it inflicted a mortal wound on many an Australian based company and killed outright developmental prospects in Australia up until this moment. Far from an apology the complaints now issuing forth from the Labor benches indicate that the Opposition would have persevered irrespective of the great damage it had inflicted and would have continued to inflict on the Australian coal mining industry. Unfortunately the charge in the shot was not sufficient. The multi-national survived, but this is typical of the shoddy workmanship and the methods adopted by the Labor Party. 
Let us look at this question of multi-nationals. On Thursday 26 August we had a tirade in this House from the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)-  perhaps he will come back into the chamber- telling of the trials of unionists in the New South Wales mines and going back further into his history and describing the conditions his ancestors worked under in the mines in Wales where he intends to visit.  His  references to the Queensland coal industry were 13 years old. They are completely out of date. The honourable member is obviously unaware of the latest in mining techniques and conditions that have been pioneered in this country by the multi-nationals. Without a doubt, had not Utah Mining Co. been prepared to develop the Bowen Basin coal mines, to risk its capital, to use its know-how and marketing expertise that coal would be still where  Mr Connor  wanted it- in the ground. It was known to exist in the 1940s but no one with the local capital or Australian capital was prepared to take the great risks necessary to bring the venture to a successful reality. This is a story of a modern multinational- not exploitation of material and labour resources, but one of modern consideration, examination of risks, use of the most efficient methods and fitting in with local conditions. 
The Labor Party says that we are better off without foreign capital, knowing that that capital has always been the source of the development of the great nations. England built America, Russia poured money into Egypt and even the Labor Party sought foreign credit from the Arabs. Local capital is not sufficient for the type of development we need. Nor is capital the only ingredient required. The experience and the expertise brought to Australia from overseas provides Australia with the most up to date techniques, the use of which makes the mining of these vast deposits of coal a viable proposition. In fact, today the highest standard of expertise in the world in relation to modern coal rnining methods is centred in Australia. This expertise is itself a valuable and saleable commodity. While we have companies such as the Utah Development Co. to provide this capital and expertise I have no hesitation in saying that I believe in the system, I believe in multinationals. 
The Australian people are a blend of many nationalities. Why should our business activities also not profit from outside influences? In the instance of one area alone multinationals in their involvement in central Queensland coal have given employment to over 5000 persons. They have created and financed 3 townships at Blackwater, Dysart and Moranbah. They are currently catering for the needs of approximately 12 000 people, providing for rail and port facilities and they have established known reserves of over 2 billion tonnes of coal in the basin. The money used to create, develop and work these enterprises has flowed through the Queensland communities. It has given benefits further afield than those of direct employment, such as in railways, service and associated industries. 
All of this is far removed from the hard times described by the honourable member for Hunter. Like his thoughts they are wed to the past. The removal of the levy is not a loss to this 
Government. In the case of Utah, the Government recovers its 42.5 per cent in tax on money which would have been paid as levies. But in the broader sense the Government will profit from the development works of Hail Creek and Thiess Peabody Mitsui Coal Pty Ltd at Riverside, Por.trel and Wardswell mines. These mines could not have been established because of the great increase in the cost of development since 1972 unless the levies were removed. True to  Mr Connor's  promise this vast wealth would have remained in the ground. Only now, with the anticipated removal of the levies and the application of accelerated depreciation to capital expenditure on mining development can we expect this anchor, the concrete shoes in which the mining industry has stood for over 3 years, to be removed. One should never forget that the duty was a tax intended to be on what was an imaginary superprofit. It was therefore discriminatory and unjust. Legalising the tax made it no less than an immoral imposition. I ask honourable members to consider the precedent as it would apply to any other export from an industry which could claim temporary prosperity, such as sugar and grain. One can only agree with the decision that it should be phased out. 
I turn to comments made by honourable members opposite during this current debate, particularly to the announcement of Utah's profits for the last 9 months. If one could relate this profit to a percentage of capital committed, then one would possibly find that it would not exceed the modest return which anyone would expect from an investment in the security of a bank or building society. Because the profit is earned by a multinationalremember it has a percentage of Australian equity- the Labor Party expects that the company should necessarily have a lesser return or, preferably, a loss. Certainly Utah's profit, measured in millions, appears to be a large amount, particularly in comparison with the reduced profits and bankruptcy of business under Labor's administration over the last 3 years. The profit is a figure to which we are unaccustomed but related to the size and cost of the enterprise, related to the pressure from inflationary costs and related to the risks involved, the return, as I mentioned earlier is reasonable. Without a doubt  Mr Connor's  attempt at nationalisation was both clumsy and harsh. Nationalisation means a 100 per cent ownership in a loss as compared to a 42.5 per cent participation through tax on profit which is a certainty. Multinational companies have provided us with such a certainty. 
This is my policy. Opposition spokesmen have laboured the point that Utah's profits will be taken out of the country. This disregards altogether the Australian equity and the profits retained in reserves. 
Footslogging? Honourable members opposite put the concrete around their ankles. The principal point is not what Utah has taken out of this country but what it has left in this country. What the company has left in Australia is considerable and this is the principal point. The contribution to Australia has been major. On the central Queensland coal fields, the evidence is in the form of wages and salaries retained in Australia to provide a living for the 5000 working people who would have been unemployed under a Labor Government. Comfortable communities have been established in which 12 000 Australians currently live. There is also the benefit of payroll tax paid to State governments, royalties paid to States, freight to pay for railway lines, impeccable restoration of mined land, service and port facilities, the 42.5 per cent paid by way of tax collections on net profits and, until 17 August this year, $6 per tonne paid on coal exported. This is a tremendous contribution to Australia. It is evidence of thriving enterprise where the alternative under Labor would have been wastelands, hidden wealth, lesser economic growth but, worse still, lost opportunities. 
One way out of the present perilous economic situation lies greatly with a vibrant and prosperous rnining industry. We should not only welcome help from these multinational companies who can assist towards this end, we should positively encourage it. Even now, our equity guidelines on mining development do not always carry the same percentage of responsibility on Australians to raise the necessary capital. The burden for this is still falling heavily on overseas sources which are not encouraged by a small participation in profit. I hope the Treasurer and the Minister for National Resources will closely monitor this situation to ensure that our continuation of present equity guidelines does not slow down a return to full development. 
The mining industry is in its infancy, especially so on the huge Bowen basin projects. After an initial testing or trial period, the position in regard to royalties and freights will need review, just as will the expansion of our exports and the release of additional mining leases. I have been advised that in Queensland the equity question was intended at all times to provide for increased 
Australian participation in return for extended leases so that the Government and the Australian people would always be in increasing participation in income and management. This Government, through the Budget, has set the economic climate in the coal industry by declaring its intention to phase out the coal levy and in the mining industry generally- in exploration and development- it has set the climate by introducing tax incentives. It is now up to the industry and Australians to respond to the opportunities. 
While congratulating the Government on the presentation of the Budget, I would like to make mention of the prophets of gloom on the Labor benches who made wild forecasts of the contents of the Budget prior to its announcement. The chief leader in the chorus was none other than the previous Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden). His  forecasts were of massive increases in indirect taxes on spirits, cigarettes and petrol- commodities viciously attacked by increases during his Government's period in office. This attack was coupled with the withdrawal of support for the equalisation of petrol prices in country areas. Such a person, being the perpetrator of such measures and a member of a government that introduced these measures, as the Party's commentator, could be excused for being wrong once again. The Budget contained no such increases, direct or indirect, in such taxes. But did we hear an apology from this prophet? Of course we did not. 
The fact that has become obvious is that the honourable member for Oxley in the presentation of his 1975 Budget perpetrated the greatest ever fraud on the Australian taxpayer. The inflated wages were levied with more than inflated rates of tax, as also were overtime earnings. Those taxpayers now receiving demands for payment instead of refund cheques in respect of their taxation returns now bear painful witness to this fact. At a time when he boasted that his Budget gave tax concessions to the worker, including people in the middle class, in actual fact he was imposing a greater burden. The result has been that the will of the Australian worker to maintain productivity or increase it through overtime has been lost. In spite of indexation introduced by this Government, the will to work and the morals of the workforce are being adulterated. What is the purpose of overtime if taxation will take more than the worker himself will receive? I see this in my own area. It is a common view unfortunately adopted by too many Australiansemployee and self-employed alike. We believe that the road to recovery includes a return to productivity. But with intermediate income tax rates so high, the moral fibre of our workforce is being eroded. 
I believe that there is a strong case for the Government to provide a suitable climate and I agree with the Treasurer that the suitable climate possibly would be achieved best by providing partial tax relief on overtime wages or by a general reduction on tax rates of at least 5c in the $1 on incomes from $5,000 to $20,000. Quite apart from incentives, the wage brackets consisting of incomes of $5,000 to $8,000 are urgently in need of review because families in these brackets face a daily battle for survival and can ill afford the inroads taken into this bracket of income by taxes at the rate of 35 per cent. Such reductions could be of assistance in a situation where it is agreed that Australians are overtaxed. If in response the Australian people could accept productivity as their goal and if they could adopt a different approach to self-help as an alternative to Government handouts, we would be on the way back to recovery. 
An industry that has not been particularly assisted in this Budget is the tourist industry. Our Government's termination of the office of the Minister for Tourism has left a vacuum that even  Senator Cotton  's deep interest in the subject cannot fill, in view of his commitments to his total portfolio. 
I am referring to the previous Government and I pay tribute to it. The challenge that the tourist industry in Australia faces today is great. Overheads in the accommodation industry because of wage conditions are greater than in most other industries. Tourism is not a 5-day week industry. It is a 7-day week industry and the award conditions applicable to a 5-day week provided a formidable hurdle for owners when it comes to maintaining profits and competing with overseas attractions. New Zealand has attempted to assist its industry by penalising overseas travellers by charging a levy. I hope that this is not the answer to our industry's problems. There has to be a way in which we can encourage Australians to opt for a national holiday in preference to an overseas holiday. 
I believe that several avenues could be investigated to give local holidays a boost and the Australian tourist industry a chance to compete. Firstly, we would need a 7-day award, divorcing a 40-hour week from the penalty of high overtime rates. This would offset the little return to proprietors that is presently received on the cost of employees' meals and of providing the required standards of staff accommodation. Secondly, the buildings of the tourist and accommodation industries should be regarded as necessary items of plant for tax depreciation purposes. It is unfair and unjust that taxation depreciation is not allowed on business buildings for any purpose other than rural. This principle is accepted by accountants and it should be accepted by the Taxation Office. The tourist industry has a higher claim than most and a claim equal to that of the rural industry for a taxation depreciation allowance on buildings. Even a 5 per cent allowance would give some degree of recognition to its special difficulties and high rate of capital expenditure and would stilumlate the industry. 
Internal air fares are yet another problem and the cost is accentuated in so many ways by this Government's increase of licensing fees and landing charges. The current difficulties brought about and highlighted by air traffic controllers this week with their outlandish claims, strikes and work-to-regulations policies of its airline employees do not enhance the reputation of our air services or improve efficiency or reduce costs. The cost of the doubtful service of those who are expected to perform their duties is all part of a high air fare which makes it cheaper to holiday overseas than in Australia. Nor will anyone convince me that the accepted practice of parallel flights by the major domestic airlines does anything to cheapen air fares. The tourist industry received little benefit from the investment allowance because of the unit-of-plant interpretation placing too low a cost value on individual units for those expenditures to qualify the $500 minimum basis. Positive assistance would provide encouragement and economies to an industry with great potential but presently struggling under great difficulties. I give this Bill presented by the Treasurer my full support. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Overseas Trade. Is the Government aware of the serious fall in sugar prices? What action can the Government take, particularly in relation to securing more reasonable returns from the overseas market for that sugar not covered by long term contracts? 
The Minister for Primary Industry would be aware that one of the beef industry's most disturbing problems is the increasing debt burden brought about by high interest rates on loans. This specifically applies where interest rates were low at the time the debts were incurred but have significantly increased in the subsequent years. Many of these commitments are with the Commonwealth Development Bank. Can the Minister say whether the Government has any plans to assist graziers by reducing interest rates on their loans? 
Most people have welcomed initiatives by producer organisations and by the Commonwealth and State governments to improve the situation in the beef industry, an industry that has been in a crisis situation for some 2 years. This crisis has had the effect of making all sections of the meat industry look more realistically at its situation. Complacency, engendered by good years and high prices of previous years, has given way to concern and to the vigorous questioning of old and accepted ways, particularly in processing and marketing. There has been a reduction in the grazing industry on the everyday expenditure items. There has been a drastic reduction in the industry's labour force. This reduction in the labour force will be a permanent loss to the rural industry and future generations of Australians will lose as a result of the present rundown. 
There has also been a substantial reduction in capital expenditure in the grazing industry. This deferment of capital works will further contribute to this rundown in the industry. Most activity has been from the producers in forming new organisations and strengthening others and in submissions for stabilising and marketing schemes. The proposed restructuring of the Australian Meat Board has been the result of pressure born out of the desperate position in which the producers have found themselves in having their product sold substantially under cost. Recovery will not take place immediately. Eventually, it will depend largely in the forces of demand, particularly of our export markets. 
There are, however, other difficulties just as real to the survival of the industry that need immediate attention until adequate market prices are achieved. High on this list of priorities are interest rates. Capital debts incurred some years ago which could be serviced from the then profitable industry were contracted at much reduced interest rates- some as low as 6 per cent. The rise in these rates to their present level and the reduced prices which have produced loss situations have had the effect of seeing an increased capital debt which is now well out of proportion to the value of properties. In many cases, this increased debt cannot be serviced if the industry returns to only a moderate state of prosperity. Rates of interest on these types of loans range form 9% per cent to 1 114 per cent except for those loans of an emergency nature for droughts, floods and things of that nature. The extension of time for redemption of some of these debts, while appreciated and necessary, is not the answer if interest rates continue unabated at their present level. Producers who can see their debt structure progressively increase because of the influence of interest have been reduced in the majority of cases to situations of frustration, abject despondency and resentment. 
Assitance is required urgently. The Commonwealth should give a lead through its own Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia to rebating the interest to those levels at which the loans were originally negotiated to the beef producers. Hopefully, the rest of the lending institutions would follow this lead. As I mentioned earlier, the situation is desperate and the solution is urgently required. Secondly, the extension of unemployment relief conditions does not go sufficiently far, penalising those producers who are obliged to stay on their properties as compared with others who are able to leave them. Now that such relief payments are taxable, a case could be sustained to extend household relief and support in cases of real need, particularly where producers are forced to live on properties without income, not only to maintain the property but also to retain the security of their properties not always for themselves but in some cases for their banker-landlords. 
Fuel price equalisation, dropped by the Labor Government and as yet not revived by this Government, has added a further increase not only on direct costs but also on every item with a freight component. The previous Administration adequately demonstrated its complete disregard for the rural industry. This Government, by the re-introduction of the scheme, could demonstrate its confidence in and sympathy with the beef industry. Successful decentralisation requires incentives such as these. Even on a restrictive basis to ensure that fuel price equalisation applies only to rural industry and is not available to other and more prosperous industries, this would be an act to display the Government 's sympathy. I speak with the authority of knowing what is currently happening in the brigalow area of central Queensland. The circumstances of the people there are examples of rural poverty. They face a daily existence with fewer chances than their fellow Australians protected by government support from pensions, relief and tariffs. It goes further than the brigalow country. Those beef properties which cannot diversify are in the same position. The plight is universal- no liquidity, dwindling security and lessening hope. It is imperative that if the grazing industry is to survive urgent action be taken in respect of each of these matters. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to the article in the  Courier-Mail  today which reports that Taiwanese fishermen held on 3 vessels in Mackay awaiting court proceedings are alleged to be starving? Can he assure the House that these fishermen are not being left to their own devices while awaiting court proceedings? 
I address my question to the Treasurer. Following recent comment and criticism from business leaders relative to the 
Australian Bureau of Statistics, can the Treasurer advise whether the Bureau would be prepared to circularise private industry and business requesting details of relative costs incurred in answering the Bureau's questionnaires and the inconvenience involved in attending to the Bureau's requirements, as well as their comments as to the worthwhile nature and accuracy of the figures produced? 
-My remarks on this Bill concern the situation that exists in Queensland relative to the Federal legislation. The amendments to the federal legislation that are now going through are designed to alleviate a difficulty and to increase the level of the general exemption in the case of the death of a spouse and transfers between spouses whereas the Queensland Act, which will become effective from 1 January 1977, goes the full distance of abolishing death duty or succession duty as it is known in that State. I think it is pertinent at this time to examine the difference that exists relative to this matter and to question whether it might be necessary for the Federal Government to look more realistically at the way in which the States are administering their Acts. It has been suggested in the past that the Commonwealth should look at the total abolition of the duty, as the States are doing at this moment. Queensland has abolished it and Western Australia might do so. I rose only to bring out those points about the Queensland situation, although that State might be alone in this regard. 
Perhaps the Federal Government will take these amendments relating to deductions between spouses a little further in the future. Perhaps it will provide a total deduction and abolish the duty altogether or in some other way alleviate the situation. There has been some suggestion that the cost of collection is not very great, but as States move out of this area the costs will be greater. Then there will be better reason, I believe, for us to look more carefully at the matter with a view to providing total exemption in respect of property passing between spouses. 
This Bill goes only a short distance at the moment. Perhaps at a later stage the Government will go the rest of the way. I am not suggesting that at this stage Queensland is right, but if the other States are going to follow suit perhaps we should go the complete distance. I rose only to make those few points, particularly in defence of the Queensland Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Does the Minister for Defence have any information which would indicate that the Taiwanese Government has the capacity to stage an Israeli-type Entebbe raid into Australian territory in order to reclaim the 4 clam fishing trawlers and crews presently held in custody in Mackay, Queensland? 
Speaking to the Insurance (Deposits) Amendment Bill, it is interesting to note that it is reported in the last Insurance Commissioners report that the amount that is being held at the moment on deposit in connection with this Act is almost $43m. This total is made up of various amounts in respect of many companies. The maximum amount for a foreign company is $200,000 and the maximum amount for an Australian company is $160,000. This Bill when passed will allow the machinery to repay a considerable amount of this $43m back to the insurance industry. In doing so it must supply a certain amount of liquidity to an industry that no doubt could do with it at the moment. 
The fact that this Bill has the support of both sides of the House is, as has been said, a reflection on the success of the Insurance Act of 1973. The opening paragraph of the Commissioners report states: 
By 30 June 1976 the Insurance Act 1973 .... had made a major impact on the Australian insurance industry ... . One aspect has been the reduction in the number of insurers legally entitled to write business in Australia from nearly 400 prior to August 1974 to 2 14 at 30 June 1976. 
These figures are rather significant. While they do show a reduction, I believe that the 214 insurers that remain in the business and were authorised by that Act as at 30 June 1976 were dealing from a position of strength that possibly did not exist before. In fact it is becoming evident that the Act that supersedes the Deposits Act is probably a better control and effects a better oversight for the security of the depositors than did the Deposits Act. I think that this is generally admitted within the framework of the Minister's comments in his second reading speech. 
It is interesting to note that a regulation has been effected to extend the time of this Act for another 3 years, indicating that hopefully by 1979 the necessity for this Act will be no longer there, that the Act can be phased out and that the strength will return to the Insurance Act 1973. One can read the figures and say that the industry must have more solidarity now than it probably had earlier in the 1970s. But when one also reflects on the fact that the industry has gone through a period of the greatest pay-out for any catastrophe in Australia's history- the cyclone Tracy at Darwin- these figures are all the more significant. The figures from the Commissioners report indicate that cyclone Tracy cost the insurance industry that was established in Australia some $76m and that it cost overseas insurers $ 123m. In fact, the amount of $76m left only some $6.4m for the Commonwealth to pick up. So the final adjustment in respect of the payout for people uninsured at the time was a minimal amount compared to the damage that was suffered. 
The fact that these companies that are insuring at the moment went through a period such as the cyclone Tracy catastrophe and, despite the inflationary costs that they have had to incur, have reached the position they are in today speaks a fair amount for the effectiveness of the 1973 Act. As has been said, the Insurance Act 1973 is not an Act that is of monetary concern to the insurers; it provides for an oversight to be exercised by the Commonwealth through the lodgment of forms and the inspection of accounts which gives security to the insurer and also the depositors. 
I should like to address myself again to the period that the industry has just gone through. One wonders how far the insurance industry can go in meeting costs and absorbing losses, such as the ones that it incurred at Darwin, from the proceeds of simple premiums. Anyone who had had to pay an insurance premium over the last 6 or 12 months would realise that there has been a tremendous escalation in premiums due to inflated costs and the fact that the industry has also had to pick up the tabs that have existed through the Commonwealth. Certainly, the cost does not stop there. 
I believe that one of the aftermaths of cyclone Tracy was not only the increased premiums but also the fact that throughout Australia new standards have been set for building construction, both of a private and commercial nature. Some of the by-laws set by building authorities and local governments have been set unnecessarily high. These organisations have been framing their by-laws in an attempt to prevent or prepare for a situation such as a cyclone, the flood damage that occurred in Brisbane or any other unusual events. So we see that insurers, under the influence of local governments and other authorities which set standards are putting a price tab on the construction of both residential and commercial buildings that has risen over and above the inflated building costs. I have estimated that in some cases this could be as high as 15 per cent or 20 per cent just because of the additional building requirements which have been imposed as a precaution against the situations that I have outlined. This is not reflected in an insurance premium; it is reflected in the inability of some young people, and some not so young people, to get a home because they cannot afford these additional costs. I question whether these regulations are at all times necessary. I wonder whether we are trying to protect the reputation of some professional people or whether we are trying to prevent an unnecessary payout by the insurance companies. Whatever the case, the effect will still be felt by those people who cannot buy a house at this stage. 
One final matter that I would like to draw to the attention of the House is that catastrophes such as those I have mentioned have had the effect of insurance companies throughout Australia drawing, not the Brisbane line, but what they call the Sarina line. This means that anybody who lives in north Queensland or northern Australia above the Sarina line pays a penalty in terms of premiums over and above those paid by anybody else. This is the position irrespective of the fact that the greater catastrophes, apart from cyclone Tracy, have occurred below the Sarina line and not above it. Therefore in speaking to and supporting the Bill I should like to draw the attention of the House to these additional facts. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Much has been said in this chamber in the last few months by both Government and Opposition members about the building and housing industry. This is an industry that normally first feels the tightness of a recession and first responds to the surge of a boom. Whilst the former statement on recession no doubt will remain the same, it is questionable whether we can expect the industry to respond as vigorously to boom conditions in the future as it has in the past. The answer does not lie in the readiness of the developers and builders to get up and participate, but in the specific need for building constructions by consumers at the time when the economy shows signs of recovery. In one area, the building industry, we are losing consumer support to an extent that it may never return. That is in the residential type of construction. Costs of building, cost of interest, unrealistic demands for higher standards on construction and a housing grant that alienates lower income earners, has caused and will continue to contribute to a slackening demand for residential construction. 
To take these points one at a time, let us commence with costs. The cost of the average residence in Mackay where I live has substantially increased over the past 3 years to approximately $28,000 today. Granted, wages, which bear heavily in the increase in these costs, have similarly inflated. The present average wage base, while it can more than sustain the outgoings of the normal household and living expenditures, also has to withstand the pressures of increasing taxes. The balance of this base wage is not then sufficiently strong to support or service a normal loan commitment of the present day value of an average house of $20,000. Those people on a low wage base are committed permanently to being flat dwellers. Secondly, the cost of interest currently averaging 1 1V4 per cent on a daily basis is set so high on an average loan of $20,000 that prospects of servicing a loan and interest at that rate are outside the resources of all but those who have job security and a higher than average weekly wage. Again, those on the lower wage are doubly cursed to being tenement and flat dwellers for their lifetime. 
There is a problem which creates additional and sometimes unnecessary costs, where building standards are raised by a succession of authorities from local government, State governments and departmental authorities. These building standards are set to insure against acts of God- lire, flood, cyclone. They are set to provide maximum security on health standards, electrical wiring and for other regulations such as fire control. This inevitably requires additional costs in construction, double checking to ensure that standards are maintained and inspection fees, which all add up to a greater home cost but do not decrease the cost of fire brigade services, insurance premiums and rates and taxes. Is there not a limit or a degree of risk which we must ourselves accept? Do we have to provide in the construction of a house with a 50-year life, against a once in 500 years flood, a cyclone blast with windspeeds of 150 miles per hour or some other act of God as equally devastating and as unpredictable? If we do, we give our constructions a loading cost of a further 15 per cent to 20 per cent which deeper digs the grave of those present unfortunates without a home. Alternatively, as a society, we set ourselves the task through increasing costs to outwit all acts of God, but at what a community cost. 
Lastly, I refer to the home savings grant scheme. I do not subscribe to handouts to those people who have no chance either because of their own self imposed deficiencies or inadequacies, of servicing the balancing debt structure on a home. But the scheme could be altered to allow those who have the will, desire and determination to own their own home to be encouraged, in spite of a lower income, to participate through a formula of a percentage of saving over a 3 year period and not a monetary amount. It can be proved that a family with an income of less than $150 after tax, after meeting essential living expenses, rental on a present residence, providing for children, has insufficient left for savings, particularly to the degree necessary to qualify for the maximum grant. Those people who are unlikely through their past savings to supplement their income should be permitted to receive a percentage of income and not a fixed amount. 
-I would like to take up tonight a matter that was raised on the adjournment debate on 30 November in connection with the police force of Queensland. I regard this as not necessarily a matter of national debate but particularly a matter of State importance. I am glad to know that the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  is here. By inference, by omission, the honourable member indicated that the new Commissioner of Police in Queensland and the police force in Queensland are of a different standard to what has been accepted in the past in Queensland or in any other State. 
I worked in Queensland. I just do not know for whom the honourable member ever worked. I take up the comment that some ofthe references made were based on the experience of 194S, some 32 years ago. The honourable member indicated that he found certain evidence of corruption in the force then because police in similar situation to himself were able to spend twice as much as he was able to do. I think this is an admission of something we know as fact. The honourable member is known for his actual meanness and therefore he is quite capable of spending half as much as anybody else. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I will handle the honourable member for Hunter in a moment, too. I do not mean physically, either. I would be under a bit of a handicap. I mean the other way. 
Mention was also made of the same matter in the Senate on 16 November. There is no question about the integrity or honesty of ex-Commissioner Whitrod. I believe that by omission the honourable member was actually describing incoming Commissioner Lewis as a man of inferior capabilities. This I dispute. I think this allegation must be corrected for the whole police force. It has been mentioned by both  Senator Colston  and the honourable member for Hunter that there are grave consequences in this action; that it was a tragedy for the police and the people of Queensland because of the evilness which is present. I dispute all of these things. The incoming Commissioner has the support not only of the police, the rank and file, but also I believe of the people of Queensland themselves. 
Commissioner Lewis, as he now is, is a man who has had quick promotion. He is 48 years or 49 years of age and people have held this against him. But people have held the Prime Ministership of this nation at a younger age. I do not believe that the Commissioner's age has anything to do with the capabilities that he will express. I think it is important that people in public debate should take cognisance of the fact that if their statements are ill made they can undermine the integrity ofthe police force as it exists at the moment. It can create suspicions and foster further divisions. The police force of any nation or State works under very grave and difficult situations. They are called upon to implement laws irrespective of whether the laws are good or bad. If we start pointing the finger of scorn in illconceived statements we can only further undermine the integrity of the police and the thoughts of the public on the police. I am not saying that the police of any State are not without their blemishes, but I think that politicians ought to look to themselves first before casting aspersions in any other direction. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. In view of the Queensland Government's intention to abolish death duties as from 1 January 1977 and the stated intention of other States to provide relief in certain circumstances, has the Government any proposal to alter its method of assessment of Federal death duties in order to avoid a greater assessment of Federal duties as a result of the decreasing State collections? Alternatively, has the Government any proposal to extend complete exemption from assessment of estates passing to spouses or to the immediate family? 
Is the Minister for Overseas Trade aware of the continual decline in the price of sugar on world markets? What impact is that having on the Queensland sugar industry? What are he and his Department doing to help overcome this situation? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The Minister would be aware of the proposed amalgamation between the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union and the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemens Association. Does the Minister realise that grave concern and objection have been expressed by some of the rank and file members of the FEDFA towards this amalgamation? Will the Minister advise what steps can be taken to protect the interests of those dissidents to enable them to vote on the proposal? 
It is an honour for me to be able to rise and support the Address-in-Reply motion moved by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  and seconded by my National Country Party colleague the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie).  For those who have been in this House for much longer than I have perhaps the honour of speaking to such a motion has been dimmed by repetition. The passage of time may have contributed towards changed attitudes in certain members of this Parliament. Events of the past decade or so may have given rise to a complacency through which some may now view the monarchy in a different light from what they may have earlier. As the representative of the division of Dawson, representing some 100 000 people in that division in north Queensland, I take this opportunity to express to  Her  Most Gracious Majesty the Queen sincere expressions of their continued loyalty to the Crown. One may wonder how to do that with any sense of accurately assessing the feelings of so many people. 
The generations of centuries ago proved their loyalty by following the battle flags of the monarch with no thought of life or limb. They thought only of service to a way of life and a standard which the monarchy typified. In fact Australians in this century have fought for the same principles and the same monarchy in 2 World Wars. Coupled with these sentiments was a real sense of pride in an emerging nation, Australia. Thankfully the past 32 years have not given us a similar opportunity of showing such loyalty or devotion to the principles of the monarchy. There have been no such world wars. Over one-half of the present generation of Australians have been born or have matured in the post world war era. 
It has been mentioned here on many occasions, and the  Daily Telegraph  of 15 March reminds us, that somehow or other Queenslanders are a little bit different. Perhaps that is even more so in regard to North Queenslanders. Such is any State that its situation on this great island continent must produce certain characteristics which are different from others. As Queenslanders we do not profess to be any exception to that point. The particular characteristics of those who live in the Dawson electorate or those who live out of the greater metropolitan areas have to be different for this reason. There are changes- those changes are accepted- from the normal pattern of life in the metropolitan areas. Today we hear many people denigrating not only our economy but also our own national characteristics. We are fast becoming known as a nation of knockers. To live in North Queensland or anywhere outside the protection of the great metropolitan areas requires a determination that can be likened only to the spirit of the early pioneers. The challenge of opening up our developing industries of mining, of pursuing the already established rural industries, of expanding our tourist potential, of populating a vast area of the Australian continent, is done in the face of great difficulties and hardships. It is in the preparedness of the people of North Queensland and of the Dawson electorate in particular to accept these challenges and difficulties that there is truth that in these people there are feelings not dissimilar to those which motivated previous generations, of pride and loyalty to their State, to their nation and to the monarchy itself. 
It is my assessment that those who dedicate their daily lives to work and who show such productivity and who return so much wealth to their nation in a climate where in so much of the rest of Australia people knock the system, must surely be identified as people loyal to the principles of past generations and loyal to the Crown. The problems and challenges which face each of us are the lifeblood and the pulse of life itself. If these problems and challenges are removed there remains no real purpose for our existence on this planet. There is still ample evidence of the difficulties of living outside the metropolitan areas in this current up-to-date year of 1977. Strange as it may seem, but true, the problems faced in mining development are the creations of those who live outside the affected or benefited area. In fact the further away from the point of impact, the greater appears to be the ability of those persons to affect decisions influencing others thousands of miles away. 
Environmental issues are high on the list of these problem areas. Fraser Island will stand forever as a testimony to that fact in the future. The continued attack by those outside the developing areas against the multinational companies is not benefiting Australia nor does it provide a favourable reaction to getting development under way. The lack of support by government authorities to encourage people and enterprises to decentralise by providing services is evident in many ways in these developing mining areas. People in ivory towers, without any appreciation of the problems, removed by vast distances from the point of impact of their decisions, need familiarisation in the whole subject of development in these isolated areas. For instance, many people criticise the open-cut coal mining methods perfected by Utah Development Company. Few of them have been to the mine sites to examine at first hand the mines in the Bowen Basin and elsewhere in Australia. They should get out and look for themselves to see what is being done. Then there may be a better appreciation of the size and the efficiency of the operations- size which is impossible to achieve through Australia's own national resources and which makes foreign capital essential to the development of these projects. Efficiency gained from that size and experience gives employment opportunities to thousands of people and better living standards to many times that number. 
The mine employee enjoys an annual average wage in excess of that of his counterpart anywhere else in the world, but he has many difficulties to contend with in earning that income. The environment, after initial interruption, is being restored to better than original conditions. The mining company spends 20 times the amount of its commitment in ensuring that restoration is satisfactorily completed. There remain the deficiences of services in the north that have been provided to the more populous areas decades ago. For instance, there is no Australian Broadcasting Commission translator for a community of over 10 000 people in Dysart and Moranbah. These people have been deprived of the pleasure and the opportunity of watching the centenary cricket test and of sharing a sense of belonging to our race and country. The absence of a zone allowance that would give recognition to the greater costs of decentralisation and distances and the limitation of so many opportunities enjoyed by their city counterparts leads to a sense of frustration and a sense of being forgotten. 
They believe that they are regarded as secondclass citizens; that they receive no recognition for their efforts in populating and developing our vast hinterland. They are the modern day pioneers doing more than any other people in producing Australia's wealth and keeping up the past traditions that gave an image of the Australian as a hardy creature, not afraid to work, prepared to respond to incentives and challenges. So I suggest to the knockers and the critics that they get out to see what these developments are really giving Australia in export earnings, tax revenue and job opportunities, while being very careful in their responsibilities to the environment. 
Let us turn now to the rural industries of the north. These industries pioneered the early settlement of north Queensland and they still remain the backbone of the economy of the north. There has been so much change in a century amongst people whose history has been left almost unrecorded. The sweetness of sugar cane had been the underpinning influence that has given solidarity to north Queensland and certainly to Queensland itself. The sugar industry initially was founded on kanaka labour. The industry was highly labour intensive but it is now highly mechanised. It utilises vast areas of the coastline and possesses the most sophisticated research facilities. It is proud of its self help reputation. The people of today- the descendants of the earlier pioneers and kanakas- have mixed in their blood many of the European nationalities and they are again an example of people who are proud to be named Australians and proud of their heritage. Again there are knockers and there are many of them. Economists over the years who would have written off the industry and given away the north contracted to the capital cities and perhaps lived on imports purchased from other sources but from an unnamed source of wealth. That wealth is certainly one of the hallmarks of north Queensland as to what it can produce for the rest of Australia. Even now the academics who suggest that there are health risks in sugar could possibly find the same health problems in any processed food and, with the increasing use of chemical control, perhaps in any food line. However, the whole subject of sugar deserves more time in explanation than I have available to me in this debate. Suffice to mention that for every move made by these people to work in tune with the national interest there are those whose opposition which is unconstructive works against that interest. 
May I mention the grit and determination of a particular brand of people within the division of Dawson? I refer to the brigalow settlers. These people took over their land with optimism and enthusiasm at the turn of this decade and at this moment their attitude is not pessimism but revealing in that it demonstrates the adaptability of the human race, for these people will not be defeated nor will they retreat from their responsibilities. They are a handful of people clinging to their land with no immediate prospects but a faith in themselves to survive and to succeed. Their forefathers in the grazing industry opened up large areas of land and helped to meet community needs, debts and taxes. A great industry that has survived floods, droughts, fires and poor returns looks desperately to others and to governments to acknowledge its past contribution, and it looks for immediate relief measures and marketing support to enable it to survive. 
There is no satisfaction for any of us in letting rural industries go to the wall just for the want of a better price or market support. The history of low priced locally produced rural products can no longer be tolerated by the producer and long overdue recognition in the form of support is necessary if we are to keep these industries viable. Rural poverty is a term personally known to these people. They make no greater demand on the public purse than to be allowed to have reduced interest rates on their borrowings, a deferment of capital redemptions and communications with the outside world, which are so common to us but rare to them, to join them with those enjoying in the cities a better standard of living. Their demands are much less on the public purse than those of the shipbuilding and car manufacturing industries and those unproductive welfare areas where relief is a greater reward than theirs for working 50 to 60 hours a week. For the price of one  Blue Poles  a deferment of their capital commitment on a government loan could be achieved. Little enough to ask, but judged too much for society to pay. 
Tourism based on maximum protection and minimum exploitation of the environment flourishes in the north and for many good reasons. The north has better weather, better scenery the wonders of the Great Barrier Reef to back it. Pioneered by men and women of vision and enterprise it is slowly being suffocated by a lack of appreciation of the difficulties arising from a sick economy which was not pan of their mismanagement; high fares for air travel which make it cheaper for an Australian to holiday offshore than in Australia itself; unrealistic industrial awards; the high cost of capital for facilities; insufficient tax allowances or recognition to allow a subsidy against the tremendous cost of running a tourist establishment. Time will shortly overrun the small business or family concern on which the reputation for hospitality and service has been established within the northern tourist industry. Big concerns and companies will absorb the small industries which will in time become non viable. 
For the year ended 30 June 1976 the division of Dawson which comprises some 67 000 square kilometres of land and water boasted an export of over 7 per cent of Australia's total value of exports. These exports comprise coal through Hay Point and sugar, beef and other rural products through the other ports An estimated $40m was earned from tourism. Through taxes there is a certainty in the minds of the people in this area that they pay more per head than the average taxpayer in Australia. They are bigger contributors to the national purse than they are recipients from it. 
I have outlined all of this to explain my assessment of the feelings and characteristics of the people of Dawson whose expressions of loyalty I give in this speech. Why should people willingly deprive themselves of the privileges, the lower costs and the variety of capital city living for the problems and difficulties of the true Australia unless they were inspired by the long tradition of their forebears and acknowledge as sacred the heritage left them as a legacy to work for and improve upon? They have worked with a feeling of optimism in the past and they continue to do so. They have displayed a willingness through continued hard work to produce, to pay their taxes and to share their wealth and good fortunes with the less fortunate Australians. Surely this could only be achieved through a pride in their country, and appreciation of the past and a sense of loyalty to the monarchy. 
The confidence of these people in their way of living, in their ability to assist in providing for the needs of Australia is lacking only in one respect. There is a growing concern that their efforts which result in high taxation are not always matched or appreciated by others. In fact, in so many ways the reverse situation is evidenced by those to whom receiving has become a way of life. They view with growing concern public money being spent to cater for people in more populous areas while their own needs are disregarded. Projects in which these people can see an economic return which could be used by them to the nation's advantage are not given the priority these people feel they deserve, particuarly in the utilisation of water resources. While they are prepared to assist the cripples in the society they are not prepared to finance the failures. They view with concern the growing social problem being created through unemployment just as they recognise the economic implications of this problem. In the long term they are not prepared- they have publicly voiced their disapproval- to financing programs which exacerbate social problems at a time when bureaucrats and governments, with good intention perhaps, feel they are easing those problems. They resent paying for the creation of a life style which as surely as day follows night will destroy their own life style: free enterprise sacrificed for socialism- a republic at the expense of the monarchy. 
It is of interest that the 2 incidents publicised in connection with the arrests of persons for demonstrating against the Queen in New South Wales involved persons who were unemployed. Perhaps they incorrectly judge the system as being responsible for their own position in life. Perhaps they felt that pastures in another paddock may be greener and that a republic would be an acceptable alternative to the present paddock in which they live. Whatever the reason, unemployment represents itself as a problem with many serious repercussions. I speak with no degree of pride in my own region's figures for registered unemployed. They are abnormally high. 
It is not easy to interpret those figures propertly. For instance, some of these registered unemployed are transients who enjoy a holiday on our northern coasts. Others are seasonally unemployed. There are those who are waiting for jobs which will be created if and when further mining developments get under way. Any one of these factors would make a proper interpretation of the figures impossible. But there is a percentage who are permanently unemployed. Professional welfare recipients account for, I believe, some 60 000 of the total number of unemployed in Australia today. More distressing, many of these are young people who have not had the opportunity or perhaps the incentive to demonstrate that they wish to participate in our work force. For some of these unemployed welfare payments are permanent. We have therefore created a social problem by making too generous payments and too generous conditions applying to the program. If we have such a proportion of non-employables those with this disability should be recognised as a separate class and paid as such. My concern is not so much for the amount of the payment but the application and result of that funding. If other means of expenditure of the same amount can achieve more acceptable results, then we should be examining means of achieving that result. This, I believe, would find better acceptance in the minds of those contributing to the public purse. Each young person we encourage or perhaps do not discourage to take relief now, is promoted not to temporary security but to permanent instability because they may never feel the satisfaction of being self-sufficient and useful. 
They will be the forerunners which on the graph of normal and accepted practices of work responsibilities for the adult Australian will show as a permanent blip to remind us of our folly in thinking that money expended is the curb of all problems. Economically we may be able to fund the unemployed. Socially we cannot afford to create another division in this society. The problems that I have mentioned are in themselves evidence of a changing society, and changing characteristics and divisions that are continually being built within our society. Can monarchy survive with these changes? I believe that it can because in the past the monarchy has adapted itself to changed conditions. Our society has always been able to arrange its priorities to meet the needs. A changing monarchy can also cope and be effective. Only complacency can rob us of the initiative and challenge that life still has to offer each of us. It is my pleasure to add my wholehearted support to the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen. 
-In rising to speak in this debate I do not want to take up a great deal of the time of the House. Most of the points have been debated. I agree with most of the comments made by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  He suggested that perhaps the Asian Development Bank was not the best means of distributing aid or of showing that we have a concern for underdeveloped nations or for raising the standard of living of countries whose standards of living is lower than ours, but by doing this through the Bank we will have a permanent monitor to the type of aid- for it must be regarded as aidwhich we are giving. Until a better monitor comes to the fore- and I am not suggesting that improving the standards of local government in those developing nations is the answer- I am quite happy to have our aid given in this fashion because in so many ways when foreign aid is given it is open to abuse, it is open to rumour that the amount of funds we are prepared to expend as a nation is not spent dollar for dollar within the recipient nation and by the time it is spent on the cause for which it was designed to be spent the aid has diminished to a great extent. Therefore, I believe that the Asian Development Bank is a suitable means by which we can fulfil our obligations to these underdeveloped nations. I do not want to say that in any patronising way because there wil always be a dispute as to what is sufficient, what we should be spending at home, what we should be spending overseas. This debate will go on and views will differ from person to person. 
In respect of the amount of money to which Australia is being committed, one wonders whether the giving of money is intended to remove all obligations from a nation such as Australia. For instance, much has been said about the high figure  per capita  that is being given by Australia. In terms of our population it is a rather generous donation but is it generous in comparison with India which gives more? I consider it to be a fine effort by India which is a country in which the standards of living are so much lower than ours. I believe that they are the standards we should be aiming at, not standards based on the amount of money that is given. 
Quite a lot has been said in connection with what we would expect to receive in reciprocal trade for the amounts of money that we do forward and which are eventually lent. If these monies are expended in certain areas I would expect that in the short term our trade could increase considerably but I do not believe that that is the object of giving these funds. I was very interested to hear the figure cited by the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield).  He said that 37 per cent of these funds were lent in terms of agriculture. I agree with the emphasis the honourable member placed on this more so than with what the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  said when he suggested that we process the meat and food here and send it over as aid. This is an extremely short term benefit, very short term relief. It probably puts 3 meals a day into the stomachs of some person for just that one day but it does not give him permanent relief. I would like to see our foreign aid- and I believe that the Asian Development Bank is doing this- go towards raising the standard of agriculture. I refer to projects in Bangladesh such as the fertiliser project and agricultural credit. In Indonesia Java Fisheries Development is a recipient of this aid. Another project is palm oil processing. These projects will be continuing projects which will increase and improve the standards of living on a permanent basis, not as something temporary. After all, can we increase the standards of living for a person in these nations by giving him one meal a day. But if we are going to give him one meal a day let us do it on a permanent basis. 
I mention a project going on in Malaysia at the moment. This may not be covered by the Asian Development Bank but we should be exporting not only our money to these places but also our expertise. If the honourable member for Wills wishes, we can export our management, too. In Malaysia at the moment there is a project to develop a beef industry. I see this as being in no conflict whatsoever with our own export industry because Malaysia would probably never be able to afford, on the standards of living in that country, our imported meat. This project is only small. It involves converting jungle to pasture and raising beef for local consumption. I see this as a tremendous project. I see it as a project in which we have a constant monitor in that if we are supplying management and that management is giving the best of expertise and advise that Australia can offer. 
It is not only in rural industries that I believe Australia is a leader. We could export our mining industry expertise to any place in the world and it would be well received. We have the technical ability proven over many years in the Snowy River project which has been mentioned. I notice that a report from the Bank indicates that this is the type of assistance that we should be looking at and I would hope that this is what Australia takes into account when it brings together its foreign aid policy. We should be doing something of this permanent nature. 
Foreign aid, particularly within the South East Asian region, within the South Pacific area, must always be regarded as a means of trade for Australia but more importantly as a means of defence. The honourable member for Wills indicated that he was disillusioned at the fact that much of the exports from developed nations to underdeveloped nations was in cold hard cash which was required for munitions and for defence. I believe that we are giving aid in a cheapened fashion but on a more permanent basis by giving aid to these areas which are our neighbours and with which we will be trading in the future. 
That is one item I think we probably could export without giving them the expertise in growing for these places do not have the advantages of the Queensland coast where sugar can be grown. 
It is in these areas that we establish our reputation, not as people trying to cleanse our consciences or the consciences of 13 million people just by giving a handout of funds and saying: That is the amount of money; we consider it enough, you can play with that '. If we do it in this other way by exporting expertise and management and monitoring projects we can make sure we are catering for the needs of these people and not simply providing the items which we think they need then I believe we will go a long way in our foreign policy and particularly in our defence. 
I did say I was not going to speak for a great length of time. I just wanted to bring forward these additional points because many Australians today are questioning the amount of money we are spending on foreign aid and how it is being applied. I for one do not believe that money given by us to other governments is a complete answer. At all times we must match it with the necessary expertise and management to make sure that the money is better spent. We should have a consistent and constant monitor on what we do, and I do not believe that only the Public Service can give us this constant assessment of a project. There are many people throughout Australia who have in a practical sense been able to demonstrate their ability. They have been successful here. They are the type of people we should be sending overseas. 
I direct my question to the Minister for National Resources. What is the situation regarding development of coal resources at Norwich Park in the Bowen coal basin in Queensland? 
-In rising to speak on this matter of public importance I say it would be appreciated in this House that no new proposal or policy that is brought forward and that is particularly as sensitive as this one on tax sharing arrangements could be introduced without quite a lot of debate and without a certain amount of opposition because the eventual proposal, program and policy will depend upon this type of discussion. We can expect the Labor Opposition to speak against the proposal because we know that in the 3 years in which it was in government it was dedicated to the principle of centralism and we know that any move by the Government to change that flow back to the States would be something that the Labor Opposition would bitterly oppose. It has been already indicated by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  that the type of centralist government that the Opposition introduced is the one to which it would again be dedicated if ever it were returned to the Treasury bench. 
We would also expect opposition and critical debate from the State governments themselves because the principle of the legislation that is being brought forward gradually over a period- it was introduced last year- is something of which they would be a little suspicious because it intends to give those State governments responsibility for the recurring expenditure that this money is supposed to meet. Of course, there will be criticism of the shortcomings from both of those lobbies- from the Opposition and those governments- in this connection. But when we look at the intent of this legislation- certainly the technicalities of it in terms of what is going to be given to the States- we find that what is going to be given to the States is also being given in conjunction with a certain restraining influence on not only the Federal Government's finances but also the finances of the State governments. One would be led to believe from listening to some of the Opposition speakers that if a Labor government were returned to power it would do so without having learned the lesson that the expenditure of unlimited amounts causes more problems than it rectifies. One can see the result of its 3 years in office in the record inflation rate and the record unemployment rate. The fact of the matter is that the previous Labor Government was spending money as a centralist government to provide services at the expense of certain taxpayers in the community. 
The proposed tax sharing arrangements intend to give responsibility to the States for expenditure in certain areas. They will be given as a right- not as a result of a wrangle every 12 months over funds for their individual States- a certain percentage of the personal income tax collections. That percentage, which will be provided on a population basis, will be fairly easy for the States to determine and they will be able to bring it forward into their Budgets at the relevant time of the year. The subject of the payment of income tax, whether it be imposed by a State government or the Federal Government, is one of rather academic debate unless one thinks in terms of whether the individual concerned classes himself as an Australian or a resident of a State when paying that tax. Their situation depends upon the results that such persons seek from the payment of that tax at a Federal or State level. 
This Government has already indexed personal taxation, which was not done previously. That has meant a cut in the rate of tax that people would have been paying because of inflationary pressures if that cut had not been applied. The Government has given private company relief in certain areas. The trading stock proposals that are now coming forward under the recommendation of the Mathews report will provide a substantial reduction in taxation. But the eventual test of what a person does pay is what he can see resulting from the payment of that tax. If, under this legislation, the State governments feel that they are unable to cope with the amount available to them under the percentage of personal income tax they have then to accept the burden and the responsibility, if they impose a surtax, of being able to show results from the collection of that additional amount of money. It is so much easier for a taxpayer to observe what is going on at a State level than at a Federal level. 
Let us look at the taxation situation and consider what we have done as a government and what happened under the Labor Government. Certainly there were backlogs in the sewerage programs and in other fields that affected the urban areas, but the expenditure in those areas was at great expense to the rural people. Subsidies that had been in existence for many years and that had kept people on the land were removed. I mention the superphosphate bounty and the fuel equalisation scheme. Those subsidies were removed in order to provide for expenditure on the sewerage backlog program and then the expenditure in that area was on only a discriminatory basis, being on townships and cities with populations over 20 000. Many of the smaller towns and cities with populations under 20 000 could well have been included in those programs. Of course, the sewerage backlog grant was not the great grant that people were led to believe. Certainly a portion of it was, but 70 per cent of it was not. Let us look at the position of the miners. During the 3 years of Labor Government they were taxed as far as coal levies were concerned but were not given any incentive to go ahead with development and expansion. Every person throughout this nation paid additional tax, if only in the form of the inflationary pressures that existed at that time. 
The States could be affected if we do not give them responsibility to incur expenditure in accordance with the priorities they allocate. If one looks at the industries of any State, whether they be rural, mining, primary, secondary or whatever, one will see that they have a very close affinity with the State governments for the provision of the services that they want and in relation to the climate in which they operate. We have already proven that in the mining field. By setting our guidelines and then removing ourselves from the mining situation we have already seen an improvement. This year there has been a growth of 40 per cent in the income from the mining industry. Developments throughout the Commonwealth worth over $1 billion already have the go ahead. Certainly giving this responsibility back to the States has been a great asset in this regard. 
The States will have to be prepared to argue about the percentage of personal tax that would go to them, but the principles of the scheme are most important because how the scheme works will depend on the income of the States and how they can get their own industries moving. How they adequately serve those industries is also a matter of coming to grips with this problem. 
There are still options available to the less populous States in the form of topping up grants and thing like that, but it is important to realise that if they take on the burden of a surcharge it is for them to determine their priorities and the standard of services they intend to give. 
If the States are particularly concerned about the adequacy of funds available to them in any one year it is expected that they might do more themselves to keep their labour costs down and generally resist further increases in money wages. This would assist in the fight against inflation and would make their funds stretch further in real terms. This is important. The further you get from the people the less in value you return to them. Greater supervision on a State basis could affect this. The Commonwealth in its own area has effected a reduction of some 12 000 people in the Public Service during its period of office compared with the States, which have not accepted that responsibility or that challenge but have increased substantially their public service. I do not deny the need for increased government services that has arisen over the last 30 years. Possibly within the last decade these services have increased more than ever. But we must recognise also the need for responsible management in the provision of these services. If the States can provide this responsible management better than the Federal Government can, we should allow them to do it but let them set their own priorities. Possibly in no other program introduced by this Government has there been such a close monitoring of the progressive federalism policy as there has been with the back bench committee. It has been responsible for consulting with the States, offering constructive advice and seeing what can be done. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
What further information can he provide regarding the operations of foreign nationals fishing within 200 miles of Australian territory, since April 1976. 
How many boats are engaged in each area, and what is the scale of their operations. 
How many of the boats are fishing (a) legally and (b) illegally. 
-My concern tonight is to bring to the attention of this House the matter of the production of a steam engine by  Mr Ted  Pritchard. The name of the engine is the Pritchard steam power unit. This engine which has been fitted in a conventional motor car is capable of producing speeds of up to 150 kilometres per hour. It is a water boiler, fired by a petroleum based fuel, kerosine, diesel oil or alcohol. This is not the original, so far as a steamed powered motor car is concerned. In 1902 the Thompson steam powered car in Victoria travelled a distance of some 400 miles, which was a record for distance covered at that time. Unfortunately with no foresight, which is equivalent to our own generation's lack of appreciation of the benefits of steam uses, little was done in technical, research or improving on this type of mobilisation. With such varieties of fuel bases available, this power unit should excite the interest of our engineers and planners, particularly as it is a locally produced unit and also in view of our diminishing reserves of fuel. 
But little attention has been given to its potential. A few years ago  Mr Pritchard  drove this car to Canberra and demonstrated it to several Labor Ministers and parliamentarians. However, the favourable comment on its possibilities did not eventuate in any financial assistance. On 15 July 1975 it was reported that 3 prototypes of the engine and body were being built by the Federal Government at the Bendigo Ordnance Factory. In 1973 the Russians approached  Mr Pritchard  for details of the test run. Development of a steam engine in the United States of America are going beyond the preliminary stage. But out of loyalty to Australia, the inventor has no present desire to go out of Australia to sell or share his invention. Production of this unit may never be achieved. In a letter to a friend,  Mr Pritchard  in reference to an Australian Broadcasting Commission news item on the support for the project by the Australian Sugar Producers Association, said: 
Actually we heard from friends that the resolution of the  ASFA  featured on the ABC news on Friday 1 8 March 1977. 
It was a great boost for us to learn of this- particularly on that day, as that was the last day our company was liquid. We now have no funds at all and unless the Government comes forward with a grant the project will have to cease. 
Other governments are helping national car manufacturers. Recently reported on 13 April 1977 was the French Government's assistance and support to Renault's new car manufacture. Every day we live, we live closer to or we bring our next generation closer to the crunch of the energy crisis. The end is already reliably estimated for our fossil fuels, particularly oil. We have in the Pritchard steam power unit an alternative source of power or fuel which will allow future generations to eke out our known limited reserves. One of the sources of power is alcohol which is derived from the plant sugar cane. It is an alternative by-product from sugar and manufactured from molasses. This is already being manufactured so that there is nothing new in its process of manufacture on a large scale. Certainly production costs are dearer at present but given the limit of time in which our normal source of fuels will be available, that is in 10 or 20 year's time, in comparison this alcohol manufacture could be cheaper particularly when it is estimated that the cost of imported oil will be $70 per tonne. Power alcohol certainly is cleaner, and in an environment now facing heavy pollution it could be the answer to the problems of the exhaust fumes which are spread high and wide by uses of conventional fuels. The engine could, in time, be adapted for use in larger vehicles and tractors for rural industry and would bring all its advantages to a wider variety of users. 

 Mr Pritchard 's faith in his car, which has wide support, is complete. He is losing faith in a nation's government that is not prepared to give his project support, particularly at a time when his own financial resources are finished. The ABC program last weekend demonstrated the need of  Mr Pritchard  and Australia to bring this project successfully to a conclusion. I add my voice tonight to spur our Government to give financial and technical help to this Australian project. This help is required immediately. Whilst I know that the matter is under consideration, I ask that the Minister for Productivity  (Mr MacPhee),  the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  and the Minister for National Resources  (Mr Anthony)  give this matter urgent attention. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. The Minister would have heard that the Queensland Government decided this week to allow the Australian National Line unrestricted access to intrastate trade in competition with the railways. Can the Minister advise what effect this will have on the Australian National Line's decision to withdraw from the Port Alma and Mackay port trade after a trial period? What legislation will be necessary to give effect to this decision? 
-On 2 December 1976 the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  brought to the notice of this House the matter of the illegal activities of Taiwanese in fishing off the coast of Queensland and in other territorial waters of Australia. While this is a problem, not only on the Queensland coast but also in the Gulf of Carpentaria, off the Northern Territory and off the Western Australian coast it particularly affects that portion of the Queensland coast included in the division of Dawson. I often wonder whether our reaction or our defence towards illegal intrusion into our waters would be more rigorous than it is if the illegal intrusion took place on our land mass. I would certainly hope so. However, because the intrusion is on the water the attitude might be gauged as being one of excess caution or perhaps complacency in connection with the total problem of these intrusions right around the coast. 
The destruction of Australia's national assets on the Great Barrier Reef and the plunder of its products with the resultant permanent damage is greater than any destruction perpetrated on the Australian land mass itself. The pirating of millions of clams per year, of our fish and of all living life on the Reef could create in time a desert reef along our shoreline. The known cases of intrusion up to 1975 and the estimate of the damage was given by the honourable member for Griffith in his speech. The unrecorded trespasses are rumoured to number hundreds at any one time during the fishing period. The actual extent of known illegal incursions is recorded in  Hansard  of 21 April. In the 10 months to February 1977 488 Taiwanese boats were identified as being illegally within our waters- 242 in Queensland waters, 40 in Northern Territory waters and 206 in Western Australian waters. 
One cannot blame the more recent nonrecognition of Taiwan in favour of recognition of mainland China as the reason for these intrusions, although I am personally sorry to have seen Taiwan sacrificed in the power moves of years ago. The problem was existing even during the time of recognition. But the current nonrecognition brings with it a complete void or breakdown in any fruitful negotiations between our 2 Governments. This is a ridiculous situation. The Taiwanese boats ply in Australian waters because nations such as Indonesia do not and will not tolerate any foreign intrusion. Gunboat diplomacy is what is practised most effectively as a deterrent to foreign trespassers by such governments. This is why these boats turn to the more complacent and less dangerous attitudes of Australia. The inherent dangers are numerous. I will take one particular example. Many of these vessels fish the Swains Reef which is midway between Mackay and Rockhampton on the Queensland coast. These smaller vessels feed the mother ships which lie out beyond the continental shelf and, therefore, are free from Australian prosecution. The surveillance is completely unsatisfactory. There are too few patrol boats over a vast sea area. Aerial inspection of the Reef is not undertaken by domestic air nights and not carried out by the Air Force or by the other Services. The sighting is made mainly by charter vessels which, with some degree of national responsibility, sacrifice their own time and profit to advise the armed Services and also to provide surveillance. I have been advised that one such vessel spent up to 4 days surveying one boat until a patrol boat arrived to assist in the capture. 
Although the crew are basically peaceful the arrests are not easily made. Again private charter boat owners, because of their knowledge of the waters, have been called on to make such arrests. Some day these Taiwanese may show resistance and one would then wonder in what situation this would place the private owner. The Australian continent is free at this time from foot and mouth disease which would, if introduced to Australia, decimate our herds and flocks. Whilst controls are exercised in so many other ways, little regard is had to what diseases, particularly foot and mouth disease, could be spread by letting these fishermen roam at ease on the Reef and on our shorelines. I am led to believe that they land frequently on island and coast beaches. In the 10 months I have mentioned there were 488 opportunities for this to happen. Already cases have been evident, in some instances of capture, of social diseases being present even after these men have been at sea for months. Surely it is not beyond possibility that foot and mouth disease could be carried similarly within the food products that are certainly on these boats at any one time. 
The sailors and fishermen are a forgotten people as far as Taiwan is concerned. The Government of Taiwan does not in any way hold itself responsible for the lives of the men or the safety of their boats. The price of capture is of no concern to the Taiwanese Government but is borne by the Australian taxpayer in the capture, detention and repatriation of the vessel and its crew, although more recently the Australian Government has not been allowing the vessels to be returned. The fine is not a deterrent. These fishermen possess little money and isolation in a goal is no worse than the cramped conditions on a boat. In fact, in some instances, to them gaol might be a release. There was a case recently of a capture of a boat where there was insufficient evidence to justify the boat being held. By accident, but perhaps more likely deliberately, this boat discharged its bilge water into the harbour. This is evidence of continuing contempt towards Australia, but it is also an example of the continual threat of diseases being spread on the Australian shoreline. Any suggestion to deter this spoiling of our Reef and fishing grounds must bear in mind the ultimate cost to our environment now and in the future, the threat of disease in our livestock industries and the eventual cost to the taxpayer if these intrustions are not stopped now. 
The right of arrest by private citizens and protection to such individuals would give a quicker response to the prevention of further damage that delays now incur. A system of aerial supervision over some of the areas where trespass is now more frequent, by using some of the domestic flights already existing, also would give a quicker response to illegal entry. A quicker and shorter Court hearing to impose a penalty, instead of the weeks of delays that now occur frequently, would reduce greatly the cost to the Australian taxpayer. A decision on the 200 mile sea limit, already made by many nations throughout the world, if made by Australia should be implemented and policed in full. Government negotiations to discuss and try to rectify the problem between the 2 nations would be useful. Failure in this regard would be a reason to exercise a bit more of the gunboat diplomacy practised by some of our neighbours, as was suggested by a stipendiary magistrate in 
Mackay last year. Complete cessation of trade with Taiwan, as recommended by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  could also be a major consideration. 
I bring this matter to the attention of the House, of the Federal Ministers for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  Defence  (Mr Killen)  and Health  (Mr Hunt)  because in the intrusions are the seeds of a potential disaster for the Australian industry, the environment and the Australian citizen. To those individuals who already play a major role in sightings and observations in a private capacity this Government owes a debt of gratitude. More positive Government attitudes towards the problem and towards exercising corrective measures will be seen as an expression of such gratitude and, certainly, of concern. It will also be recognition that the great fishing grounds of Australia do form part of our greater national assets. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Thank you very much. In entering the debate on this income tax legislation I would just like to pick up a few of the comments that have been made by Opposition speakers who have taken part in the debate earlier. I can understand that in relation to some of the legislation that we have already implemented, especially in connection with stock indexation, those honourable members might have a view different from that which we propound. Our legislation dealing with the investment allowance and the present trading stock allowance will result in a total cost of just short of $ 1 billion, which is made up of approximately $500m in connection with the investment allowance for the current year and for the 12 months 1977-78 the stock indexation proposal will cost $360m. Possibly that difference can be found in our basic philosophies. The Liberal and National 
Country parties have a social conscience, and the Labor Party might believe that the money would be better spent in some other social areas. In the free enterprise system we must at all times encourage production to ensure that we are able to retain or to increase the amount of revenue that is available. One might even subscribe to the theory that government is no more than big business. We hear this proposition so much today. Many a big business today has to increase its profit in order to provide future income and, for that time, an enhanced income. So whilst I take that view on board, I would hope that the cost to revenue will be returned more than adequately in increased productivity and increased income. 
The Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill deals mainly with stock indexation. This is the first serious attempt any Australian government has ever made to come to grips with modern techniques of accounting and to try to get the tax law to conform with modern accounting principles. We know that in Australia today, whether we are talking about individuals or businesses, much of the presentation of our financial statements depends on how we apply the tax laws and what deductions we might be able to get from them. There is a vast difference between what might be a normal profit or loss situation from a financial accounting point of view. 
This legislation is only a start. I believe that the greatest barrier to the acceptance by the Australian community of modern accounting principles has been the reluctance of the Taxation Office to recognise certain accounting expenses as being a taxation deduction. With the introduction of this legislation we see the first step taken in this recognition, although certainly it is a small step. The legislation proposes a 50 per cent taxation deduction on trading stock based on an index which will be forthcoming from the Taxation Office, that index being based on the goods component of the consumer price index. So, as I have said, it is only a first step. We have to look at ways and means of achieving uniformity of accounting and taxation principles. We have to look at such things as provision for long service leave, depreciation on buildings, which as far as I am concerned is as much a loss as depreciation on plant, and possibly, later on, depreciation on the inflated price of plant, as was indicated by Mathews in his report. 
The legislation will give a much needed stimulus which will be of assistance to business, small and large alike. We hear so much today about the small businessman who seeks aid and assistance from governments and from other parts of the private enterprise system. I believe that in this legislation we have taken a first step in this area. We recognise many of the difficulties that small business has faced in the economic climate of the last three or four years. Inflation and unemployment are still with us. At least by this legislation we are trying to remove some of the impact of inflation and recognise that inflation is the number one problem of this nation. 
I am glad to be reminded of that. It starts with a very small step, and we have taken the first small step tonight. 
The trading stock indexation is applicable to all businesses. I think that possibly in the minds of some people there was the belief that it applied only to private and public companies. It applies to any business that trades in stock. It would include the categories of sole proprietor, a partnership and a trust, as well as the companies I have mentioned. In addition to this it applies also to livestock. Therefore graziers have an interest in the legislation. In mentioning this point, I hope that the legislation that we are considering tonight will not disfranchise the grazing people and the livestock industry from taking proper advantage of section 36A(2). The honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  also mentioned this point. The following statement is made at page 13 of the explanatory notes: 
It is therefore proposed to replace the present sub-section 36a (2) with a new sub-section 36a (2) which will limit elections under the section to cases where the market value of the stock is greater than the value that would have been taken into account if there had been no disposal. 
I hope that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Viner),  who is at the table, can give an assurance that this part of the legislation will not be in any way to the detriment of graziers and people dealing in livestock. 
I would mention also for the benefit of those who are interested that the legislation applies only to trading stock. Many businesses these days carry stores which they use internally for repairs and maintenance at the end of a financial year. It is my understanding that, because of the definition of trading stock, indexation will not apply to those stores and that people who might have had some hope that it would apply will be disappointed. The legislation seeks to give recognition to the difficulties of small business. I reiterate for the benefit of those honourable members who are interested what has been done within the 18 months that this Government has been in office. Not only wage and salary earners but also every business person and every shareholder in this nation have been able to take advantage of the saving opportunities which personal income tax indexation offers. The investment allowance, which has already been mentioned by some members of the Opposition, again on the theory that perhaps it was a misplaced type of allowance, is a real allowance if business will get behind the theory that they should use it as an opportunity to expand their business, replace plant and even extend into other ventures. If they do that they will be entitled to a deduction to the extent of 40 per cent of their new plant. 
Division 7 now recognises and increases the amount of allowable retention from 50 per cent to 60 per cent and puts businesses in a category which I believe is quite similar to a public company in that the 40 per cent after-tax payment on dividends is roughly equivalent to what the majority of public companies are paying today. So benefit under this legislation provide something in which small businesses and large businesses can participate. I think we should remind ourselves constantly that we have done much in this area. We have added to this tonight by way of this legislation in respect of personal taxation. 
Yes, I think it can. I think we should remind ourselves of that constantly. The cost to revenue, as I have mentioned before, is measured in terms of the manner in which we interpret our tax laws. I think we should ask ourselves time and again: What are our tax laws meant to achieve? On the one hand taxation is a means of spreading income among the people of Australia, taking it from those who can afford to pay and sharing it among those who are less fortunate. I think that is one responsibility that we should impose upon our tax  laws.  But we should not do it in such a way as to spoil the incentive of those people in the producing section to make greater profits and, as such, be greater contributors to our tax revenue through profit. We must remind ourselves of the fact that there is no chance of us getting revenue from a bankrupt business, just as we have less chance of getting tax from an unemployed person. I think this incentive must always be with us when we have regard to our taxation laws. 
The 50 per cent gives recognition to a problem that has existed in an inflationary year. In fact, it is ironical that when our economic situation improves and our policies justify what is being done there will be no need for this legislation because inflation will not be with us. The 50 per cent, although it is not the total possible amount of deduction, puts the ball in the corner of 3 separate types of people. First it indicates that the Government has made a contribution because it lessens the effect of taxation on profits of a business for a year. Secondly, in the case of a private company it means that shareholders also contribute by taking a lesser dividend than they might otherwise have expected because of the retention allowance and the fact that the taxable income is not so great. Thirdly, it places back on business the challenge of and also gives it the right to participate in the correcting of the present situation. It can also contribute as far as the problem of inflation is concerned. We have certainly acknowledged the problem in respect of the 3 groups of people and we are prepared to sit down and tackle it. 
I agree with what was said by the honourable member for Banks in connection with section 36a. I believe that taxation legislation which contains a provision such as section 36a for the benefit of a particular type of person should not deprive this class of person from an ability to use this legislation and to rearrange his affairs in a way that is permitted by the legislation. Yet some people could be deprived or denied the opportunity available to them under this legislation because some other people may abuse the system. Abuse has been prevalent with regard to this section of the Act for the last 12 months. In fact in many ways the people who have promoted this professionally have, I believe, acted unethically because they have based their charges on the premise that so much be paid, as with ordinary costs, but if the plan succeeded and tax was saved against the Taxation Office, the retainer or fee would be a certain percentage of that amount saved. I think it is unethical for any solicitor or accountant to promote this activity. I do not condone at all - 
It is theft from the public purse from the point of view that this section was not introduced to provide this benefit. I do not condone this in any way. As much as I dislike this abuse I dislike just a little more that any government should make legislation retrospective when people have gone ahead with plans with the thought or the knowledge that they were acting at that time on legal grounds. Whether or not they are legal grounds is yet to be determined. I wish the Taxation Office every success in any case it might undertake under section 260 against these people who are abusing the system. 
With regard to the averaging of incomes, again I must pay tribute to the fact that the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  has brought forward a very pertinent point concerning what the legislation fails to achieve. Certainly the limitation of all incomes in the 5-year period to an amount of $ 16,000 adjusts an anomaly that has been in the Act for years, probably since its creation. Unfortunately, again, we do not believe in retrospective legislation so we cannot give the benefit for the four or five years beforehand. While I recognise that anomaly, the big problem is that the ceiling of $16,000, to my knowledge, has not been increased since 1966. 1 believe that the people who produce in the rural industries should have the benefit that inflation has given to that $16,000 ceiling since that date or, better still, a complete removal of the ceiling. I hope that the Government is not turned aside from this aspect of inequity which has existed since inflation took control of the 1966 ceiling. Perhaps sometime in the not too distant future this will be corrected. Every now and again there is a rural industry which has a flash in the pan and which rises to a situation of years of high income. There are two or three such industries at the moment. There are not very many but they are there. I believe they should not be subject to that ceiling. 
I did not want to mention cane farmers but as the honourable member for Banks has done so now, I will say that the cane farmers are living with high costs but with relative prosperity. The other matter dealt with in this Bill is, of course, the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprenticeship Full-time Training Scheme. The Bill proposes that the rebate should not be taxable. If we look at the situation where an employer receives a deduction for the wages paid to the employee, the apprentice, it will be seen that after the deduction his net contribution is less than the wage factor. If we counterset this with the rebate from the Commonwealth for apprenticeship training on a tax free basis, I believe we get closer to equality with regard to what is paid out on the one hand and what is received on the other. Again I would hope that the Government has used the taxation laws as an incentive at this time for employers to create more job opportunities for apprentices. I think there has already been an increase but perhaps the scheme was introduced a little bit too late in the year in that many apprenticeships had been granted and apprentices had been placed at the time this legislation was introduced. If this scheme is sold correctly to the employers I think it is an additional opportunity for employment. Here again, I think that public relations might be used. If it can be sold to employers that their outofpocket expenses would be minimised under this particular clause of the Bill, I think they will create those job opportunities. But let us not forget that at the present time, under the apprenticeship scheme, our trained technical and trade personnel are an aging generation. In 10 years or 20 years time we might well look back on this period of our nationhood and say that that was the time our apprenticeships did not operate. There was no encouragement for them. The economy was in such a position that employment was not offered. In 10 years or 20 years time we will pay the price for our shortsightedness because we will not have people with technical and trade experience in our midst. 
I hope that this might in some way be an encouragement for employment and also for those young people in the community who are, I am led to understand, the majority of the unemployed at the moment so that we can give them job opportunities.  Mr Acting Speaker  - 
He was when I started. I support this Bill. I have commented with regard to the proposed amendment to section 36a and I hope that this trading stock legislation is the first step towards legislation which will give in due time the full credit that is due to business and accounting principles so that they may be promoted side by side. 
I think it is fair that before I speak to the main aspects of this Income Tax (Rates) Amendment Bill I should make some passing reference to the comments of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  Certainly, one of the areas of controversy in this type of legislation has been and always will be what index factors one takes into account- the amount assumed to discount the total revenue for the year and whether that is adequate. Of course, a Bill of this description cannot do that. The bone of contention in this place, among many others, is the Medibank levy. I think it is a bit hypocritical for the honourable member for Adelaide to stand before us and talk about discounting and its various aspects when his Party, when in government, had the opportunity if it so chose to implement legislation in relation to indexation. To talk about a loss of $147m to the taxpayers of Australia is only a guess by anybody. But I ask honourable members to think of the eventual loss if the Australian Labor Party had stayed in power. The taxpayers of Australia would have been paying $947m on inflated income. 
Let us look at the Medibank component. The 3.2 per cent adjustment for the December quarter is, in fact, only a catching up because of the decrease of 2.8 per cent in the September and December 1975 adjustments. I think it is significant that we look at the Medibank component. On the one hand in 1975 we were talking about dropping the consumer price index which was or was not an advantage for the indexation of wages at that time. I ask honourable members to think of the eventual effect which Medibank would have had on the inflation rate to this country from the point of view of funding the national health scheme throughout Australia in an open ended cost arrangement. If this had occurred the cost would still be escalating. I dispute that Medibank has been disbanded. The national Medibank scheme is available for those people who cannot afford to belong to a private health insurance fund. It is there for pensioners who have a minimal income. For all basic purposes the Medibank scheme is still a national scheme available to those who want it. All we did- I believe we did it very successfully- was to ensure that those people who could afford to pay the Medibank payments did so. In spite of the confusion which existed at the time I believe that the changeover in the Medibank pattern has been successfully brought about by this Government. Possibly it has been more successful than some honourable members appreciate. But I do not want to dwell too much on that matter. 
I believe that we should point out the hypocrisy of the assertions of the Australian Labor Party about the decrease in the deductions offered at this time in view of what that Party was prepared to do. In preference to following the report of the Mathews Committee the Labor Party chose to accept the Hayden Budget. The benefit which was expected from that Budget has yet to be proved. I prefer to describe that Budget as being the biggest fraud ever foisted on the Australian public. But let us get back to the Bill because perhaps there are some aspects in it which many people and many honourable members in this place are turning over in their minds. I refer not only to the indexation of taxation but also to the total question of indexation right across the board, as we now see it. In the inflationary period which we have had since 1972 until the present time- of course, the record years being 1973, 1974 and 1975- indexation did not give relief. The Australian Government at that time was able to pick up an additional 80 per cent in personal taxation of a windfall type. I believe that some relief is necessary in order to put some real value in the form of extra money into the pockets of wage and income earners throughout the Commonwealth so that they can maintain their relative position and be able to buy tomorrow what they can afford today. In that respect I believe that tax indexation is a measure which we can and do support. Let us get away from the argument of just how much the index figure should be. The consumer price index is only one index, and I do not think anybody in this Parliament would claim that one particular figure could be supported as the correct one. 
When we talk about a reduction of $800m, we should ask ourselves whether it is enough or too little. No one will ever know because the legislation is sufficiently broad, sufficiently general. It is not intended to be specific. Certainly we would agree that in all these areas the legislation itself is imprecise and the figures are imprecise, but in respect of the general benefit which it is intended to give I do not see any solution in accepting another index or selecting another figure by which it could be reduced. In this context, it should be realised that people on fixed incomes will gain an advantage. They will get some benefit because their indexed rates will increase but the scheduled rates of tax will not rise. Again, perhaps that is the area of greatest need. What really matters in this country today is not the amount of income one earns or the amount of tax one pays but the amount left in the pocket after the whole calculation is done and the whole exercise finished. We need to ensure that the value of the money in people's pockets is the same as it was before. 
The danger of indexation is that it locks a government into a situation which may not be to its liking or advantage in the years ahead. The previous speaker took the liberty of saying that last year the Government published this initiative throughout the length and breadth of this country, but I am prepared to stand here and say that nine out of ten people in the street do not know what tax indexation is. I do not believe that we sold it sufficiently well, and as a result I do not think we will get any more credit for this legislation. It will not be viewed as a great tax reform. It will be regarded as a great reform in its day, but as it is indexed year by year it will become an accepted fact of life for which this Government will receive no credit. 
-Certainly, with a greater majority, I trust. The real danger is that while this or any government is locked into indexation it is prevented from doing other things in areas where reform is vitally necessary, and I will mention a few. The first is the impact of inflation on the small income units which require a minimal living income. I believe that what we require in that area is a year by year adjustment to see what has affected the economy ever the past 12 months. I refer not only to inflation but also to other factors which should be taken into account to see whether relief is required to ensure such people are left with a minimal income. To take one example, we give a pension to the aged and allow them to earn up to $20 a week over and above that figure without affecting the pension. But that puts them into a taxable income bracket, and I think it is most unfair to give on the one hand and to take away on the other. We should put into an agreement a yearly figure which will increase the minimal amount which aged taxpayers have to receive so that the amount they can earn without their pension being affected is increased. Heaven knows, these people find it difficult to make ends meet week by week. 
In the case of middle income families, is tax indexation sufficient to maintain the incentives we expect of them? The middle income people are the silent ones, the people through whom we expect productivity, businesses to expand and to be established. Does tax indexation allow them the incentive to become more productive, to earn more income, when they see at the end of it a large tax loss being taken off the top and the Government being a greater recipient of the benefits of their extra labours than they are themselves? Because of indexation, that is just one area where we could be prevented from giving assistance in the Budget, and it is an area where productivity is desperately needed. 
Another aspect with which I want to deal is that of rent collection. These days many people are required because of their jobs to transfer from one place to another, but in order to provide for their eventual retirement they like to keep one house to which they can return. When they leave that place of residence they rent it out so that they can make it produce income in the meantime. At the other end of the scale, they are likely to be paying rent in the place to which they have been transferred, and that is not a tax deduction. On the one hand they are receiving rent and on the other hand they are paying out rent, but they are not counterbalanced for tax purposes. That is one area where tax reform is necessary, but once again perhaps we might not be able to find the funds immediately or even in the long term. 
I have spoken on quite a number of occasions about the working married mother in the community. I believe that a significant rebate, if it could be offered within the framework of the tax Act, could be an incentive for married mothers to stay at home and look after their children. This would prevent the social disease of latchkey children who have no parents to come home to because both parents are forced out into the community to earn sufficient to bring up the children as they wish. In going out to work, such parents lose touch with their children and deprive them of an essential ingredient in their lives, that is, parental care and attention 24 hours a day. Many people say that they do not believe married women should stay at home. I do not mind seeing married men stay at home to provide parental attention for their children, but again the incentive or rebate has to be great enough to enable them to do it. Those are all additional problems for which we could give some relief, but because of indexation we are locked into the system and cannot provide a solution to the many problems which arise. 
Another aspect recognised by tax indexation relates to zone allowances, allowances for spouses and allowances for dependants. However, because of family allowances children are no longer included in that aspect of indexation. If we are to move into indexation in this field, surely we should also be moving into the indexation of family allowances, although they are not yet 12 months old. Perhaps that is something the Government could look at as a matter of equity. We have deprived the taxpayer of a deduction for children, but we have now indexed zone allowances and other dependants allowances. Perhaps we should also index family allowances for each child so that the value of the money received will remain the same. I believe everybody would agree that indexation of age, invalid and health pensions is absolutely necessary because those people are on fixed incomes and rely heavily on the amount they are given because of their position in life. We would also agree that it is necessary because, if it does nothing else, it takes politics out of pensions. That is a matter which has been fought over for decades in this country, and I hope that we have now gone past the stage where pensions and politics go hand in hand. For that reason I believe that indexation of pensions is necessary. At the same time, why should we index unemployment relief when one of the main problems in this country today is that unemployment relief is so high that there is no incentive for a person who does not wish to work to go out and look for work. The only initiative we could maintain in this area was to peg unemployment relief so that the value in relation to average weekly earnings decreased and did not increase. In the last half year's indexation we had the spectacular decision that unemployment relief would be indexed with the Medibank component, yet Medibank payments do not have to be made by the recipients of unemployment relief. 
Let me get back to wages. The indexation of wages, which has been the catchcry of the ALP and the trade unions for the past 2 years, is something that I believe the average person in the street is looking at very definitely and very hard at the moment. I agree that in normal circumstances an increase in wages which is not backed by productivity is not wholly and solely responsible for the inflation rate but it adds considerably to it, so once a wage is indexed, an amount is automatically added for the next quarter so far as further inflation is concerned. This was particularly the case not so much when the decision was given by the Arbitration Court as when the indication was given by the Government that the Medibank component would be included. I believe that many workers in this country, as well as employers, wondered about the wisdom of that. 
I believe that the whole situation in regard to indexation had to be looked at very closely. If we are logical in this matter, if taxation is indexed and everything else, including wages, is indexed, why do not we index our capital programs? For example, consider a program that it is intended to complete over a period of three or four years and is financed in the initial year by a block grant. Inflation will probably double the cost of that project but the base amount has not been indexed. If we are to look at indexation, let us look at the whole area. You,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  mentioned in this House only a month ago, when speaking on another tax Bill, income averaging for primary producers. Why has not that income been indexed from the year 1966 when it was last moved 1 1 or 12 years ago? That base rate of payment has remained the same. Why did not we index that? If we do not index it, let us increase the ceiling or get rid of it altogether. 
While I can support this Bill and do support it in the present rate of inflation, and while I do not agree with the hypocrisy of members of the Australian Labor Party in saying that the percentage of the index was not right or that so much has been taken off the taxpayer on the other handan amount that Labor have greatly exceeded- as quickly as we can we should get inflation under control and look at all aspects of inflation right across the board so that we can get out of this locked-in position in which we currently find ourselves. We are locked in with wages because while we index wages we do not look at productivity. While we index taxation, we are not allowed necessarily to look at other areas of tax reform that are so vitally and obviously necessary. 
I support this Bill but I feel that I had to make those additional comments to impress upon the Government the need not only to bring inflation under control but also to look at all aspects of the current indexation. For goodness sake, when we start to consider the indexing of anything else, we should have a hard look at it. 
I want to associate myself first of all with the matter that was raised by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  in respect of the investment allowance. This being the last night of the session, the last opportunity we might have to influence, to some extent, Treasury decisions on budgetary matters, I should like to raise one other matter, and that is the future of the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty which, as a result of the last Budget, was decreased from $78 per tonne to $60 per tonne as from the beginning of this year. 
As the House recently debated the phosphate fertiliser bounty legislation I thought it was appropriate that I should draw some comparison. The phosphate fertiliser bounty was marginally increased. The Government I believe quite rightly recognised the necessity for the increased bounty to be given to people on the land to whom the use of fertilisers is absolutely essential. Even within the debate on that legislation I can recall the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  saying that this is only part of a return to the rural industry which suffers heavily in the hands of tariffs. It was interesting to hear the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Morris)  talk about the death knell of the shipbuilding industry. Let me give the House some costs in relation to this industry. The Australian nation subsidises the shipbuilding industry to the extent of $ 1 9,000 per man per year. The nation subsidises waterside workers to the extent of $13,000 per man per year. The manufacturing industry costs the nation $5,000 per man per year. 
The very good honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh).  The rural industry is already suffering, on the estimate of the honourable member for Wakefield to the extent of $2 billion a year. Many people in provincial and capital cities believe that rural industry is heavily subsidised. I refute this claim because most rural industries are self-sufficient. Certainly the Australian Wool Corporation works off loan funds, which are not a subsidy. 
The phosphate bounty itself is a subsidy. I believe that a case can and should be made for nitrogen to be subsidised. 
I should now like to refer to the Industries Assistance Commission report produced some 2 years ago which suggested a decreasing factor of bounty. In that period we have seen a great increase in costs which the rural industry cannot pass on as far as export markets are concerned. We have seen prices for rural products come down to a point where they are almost meeting the cost factor going up. Wheat, for instance, has dropped from $110 to $90 a tonne, sorghum from $80 to $64 a tonne, and export sugar from $300 a tonne to an average of $235 a tonne. If there were a need initially for this type of subsidy on phosphate and nitrogen, it is even greater today. I believe that the Industries Assistance Commission report, being 2 years out of date, is history and we should not act on it. As was pointed out by the honourable member for Darling Downs nitrogen is absolutely necessary to production in some of the main grain and other agricultural crops in Australia as well as the sugar industry, dairying and the fresh fruit industry. All these industries use a yearly application of nitrogen. It has been argued that because wheat or the grain crops and sugar prospered temporarily a reduction in the bounty would more or less affect them only. This is not the case. There are other users throught rural Australia. It is necessary that they receive the bounty in order to keep costs down to the consumer. There are other users who are not faring as well as the wheat growers and sugar growers. 
As I have mentioned, that matter is only relative in any case because the IAC report is some 2 years old. I suggest to the Government that in forming its Budget it recognises the fact that the nitrogen bounty should be retained at the current rate. I fear that any reduction will never be recaptured. If the bounty is wiped out it could mean quite a number of bankruptcies in some rural industries. The alternative will still be a higher price to the consumer as far as the cost of the article is concerned. As rural industries are faced with heavy costs, I suggest to the Government that it look carefully at this matter and retain the bounty at the present figure of $60 per tonne. 
-In speaking to the International Development Association (Further Payment) Bill and the International Fund for Agricultural Development Bill, it is good to know that both the Opposition and the Government are as one in regard to this matter of foreign aid. One of the Bills seeks the replenishment of funds which are now required in connection with the International Development Association. The second Bill seeks the first funding for the International Fund for Agricultural Development. I think that the debate is very pertinent because last night there was an allocation in the Federal Budget for overseas aid amounting to some $426m. There will be debate in the House as to how that money should be used. Even in the course of this debate, one of the members of the Opposition took time to indicate the reaction by certain political people within Australia to foreign aid. One of those people was the Queensland Premier who gave an expresssion of opinion about how aid should be spent and how we might look internally at our own problems. That is fair enough. I am not here to say whether this expression of opinion was correct or incorrect. But it is an expression of opinion from probably the most politically astute politician in Australia today. He was voicing an opinion on behalf of people. This taxpayers' money will be spent within the next 12 months and there will be a commitment in these Bills which will tie the Australian Government into the future. 
The International Fund for Agricultural Development, for instance, is not just a one-year plan. It will be funded over a period of three or four years. Certainly, whilst our commitment is not great under that arrangement our commitment to the International Development Association is rather significant. It is significant because this aid is not of a type that is directed from Australia to one recipient nation. It is a contribution that is part and parcel of many others. For instance, the International Fund for Agricultural Development encompasses the Organisation of 
Petroleum Exporting Countries, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and also a category of Third World powers or part of the developing nations. Interestingly, some countries that receive funds from the International Fund for Agricultural Development give to the International Development Association. So in some ways recipient countries will give through this second fund. 
As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  just mentioned, we should spend more time in looking at the ramifications of these Bills and should not just treat them as a formality. It is imperative that we regard foreign aid as a distribution of some of our excess wealth to those countries that have a lesser capacity to earn- those countries that are still developing. When projects are funded by these various organisations the identity of the Australian contribution is entirely lost. We must make sure, therefore, that what we give is given in the right spirit. I think it is agreed within this House that what we are giving in this transfer of wealth probably is not sufficient. In last year's Budget, I think, I came across a figure for this of less than one-half of one per cent of our gross national product. When we spend money, let us ensure that we spend it in the right way. 
I believe we are trying to achieve many things through our contributions to both these organisations. As has been mentioned, aid and trade go hand in hand. In aid we must have an ultimate view of trade of a consistent nature to the recipient countries or, in reverse, trade that can flow from those recipient countries once the projects reach fruition. There is a recognition of a need within a developing country to handle the type of project that these organisations will fund. We will be one of those nations which will want to fulfil that need through aid. There must be a constant monitoring of the projects undertaken to make sure they achieve their purpose. There is also the aspect of eventual trade opportunities and defence possibilities that these bring with them. Australia, with its large shoreline, vast sea area and small population, must look at reciprocal benefits in defence when going into this type of aid. 
Some projects have been undertaken by Australians in a personal and individual capacity without assistance from any of these organisations. I think we should consider emulating this type of assistance so that Australians and the Australian Government can be given recognition for the part they play. Even within Australia there is little realisation- possibly no realisationof the activities in which this Government is engaged in its foreign aid programs. I think that it is a great tragedy. In fact, it has probably taken this Bill which is before the House for me to gain some realisation and appreciation of what goes on. Perhaps if we circulated a little more widely throughout Australia this booklet on what the International Development Association does it might enable a wider appreciation of the Government's activities in this field. 
Australians are involved in a number of projects at the moment and I shall mention a few of them. A person from the cane industry is in Brazil at the moment showing how to operate a cane harvester. This will be a 2-year project. It goes to show the type of assistance that is required at certain stages of development of an industry. 
It was produced in Queensland by a section of the Toft organisation. I had better not say too much about that. 
It works now. But one of the difficulties is that these machines were being transported to Brazil which did not have any trained operators. The Australian who is over there at the moment is giving recognition to the fact that Australia is prepared to assist the cane industry of Brazil, even though we are vitally dependent upon our own cane industry. I know a company manager has spent some time in the Philippines to advise on mechanisation in the cane fields and bringing up to date milling operations in the manufacturing process. Again, recognition is being given to the source from which this assistance is coming, namely, Australia. In Malaysia a pilot project in beef production is being undertaken to try to give Malaysia a start as far as this product is concerned. It will not be self-sufficient, but this is a start. Malaysia is being assisted in clearing the jungles, planting the improved pastures and transporting from Australia the type of cattle that will suit Malaysian conditions. Also, Malaysians are being trained to handle the cattle industry. For instance, they did not know what a horse was. When the horse was introduced it was almost as baffling to them as the cattle. All these things are part of the project. 
A person from the Mackay area has spent some time with the Food and Agriculture Organisation in Kenya. Because of his direct participation he was able to give recognition to Australia's assistance through that program. The program was to improve the horticultural prospects of Kenya. As a result of his expertise in administration and his personal advice on production over the period of 3 years that he was there Kenya has been able to increase its exports of fruits and greens from some 5000 tonnes a year to 14 000 tonnes a year. In doing that it has established a market in Europe. Produce from Kenya can go to Europe only by air transport. At the same time, the Kenyan Government has been assisted in the dehydration of greens. Production capacity within that nation has been improved from a plant capable of handling 3000 tonnes a year to one handling 36 000 tonnes a year. In between the time this man spent on these projects in Kenya he also assisted the Food and Agriculture Organisation in advising adjoining nations. I was advised that at the same time a project in sheep breeding was taking place with Australian involvement, as well as a project in water drilling in Tanzania. 
I believe it is important that we should insist through these organisations that the long term objectives are achieved and not just short term objectives. If we want short term objectives, this is not the type of assistance that is required. We should be looking to ensure that the benefit to these developing nations falls within the lower income or rural producing groups and that the project does not benefit those people who are already more wealthy than others within those nations. So much is said these days- I believe it to be true- about some of our aid finding its way into the pockets of those people who do not need it; that they are only filling their own pockets at the expense of leaving in poverty those people who are at the lower income level. I think the first criterion of these projects ought to be that the funds are spent to bring lasting benefits to people in the lower income brackets. 
There must always be a potential and a possibility for. an increase in agricultural production. This must be done on a long term basis by training staff, by leaving at the finalisation of the initial project a capacity for the indigenous people to do those things themselves to make sure that the projects carry on. It has been mentioned earlier that the infrastructure for these projects must be available or must be provided. We have heard about uranium for the creation of electricity to meet the energy needs but we have to look also at the other services that are required. For instance, we have to consider transport and whether the people are prepared to accept particular projects. Last but not least we have to look at the marketing of the product- the eventual outcome of the project. The marketing should be constant and trade should be created with that country to ensure an export of the product in excess of domestic need. The national and international safeguards for trade must also be capable of being implemented within the recipient nation and in any trade outside it. Complex systems are not required. Grandiose schemes are the last things we are looking for. We need something practical and reliable which will last and which the locals can handle once the organisations pull out of the system. The International Development Association grants the funds on a generous basis. Most of the projects are funded on a 50-year maturity basis with a 10-year grace period for the redemption of capital and no interest, although a small charge is made for the handling of the funds. In the second project Australia makes a contribution to improve the food products in these places. 
There is questioning in the minds of some Australians, the present taxpayers in this country and those who will be contributing in the future, as to whether these funds are well spent. Certainly, we do not believe that they are being spent within our capacity to pay for them, that is, within one per cent of our gross national product target. There is questioning all the time as to whether assistance overseas is being recognised and the credit we are given for it as against some of the real needs which exist within this country today. One typical example is the 26,000 beef producers throughout Australia who at this moment have a fairly critical situation on their hands. Perhaps some may remain within the industry for only another 6 months. This is the type of questioning which is occurring. That is why it is absolutely necessary to promote these projects to make people aware of what is going on. 
It might be of some benefit to our own industries that some of the aid we give, not necessarily in these projects but in other aid projects, could come from processing some of our own surplus requirements within the rural industry, such as wheat, beef and dairy products. We could even transport our livestock so that Australian industries could receive a fringe benefit as well as assisting in foreign aid programs. We need to monitor constantly our foreign aid programs to make sure they are achieving the purposes they are supposed to achieve and that they are giving the best benefit and the best value for the dollars we spend. Wherever possible Australians should be involved with the projects so that they can lend their expertise, give advice wherever necessary and become physically recognised with the project. 
Within the capacity of these developing countries as soon as they possibly can they should contribute to these programs so that they also have something at stake. Basically the projects we are involved in at the moment are not projects in which the recipient nations can assist to a great extent. But if they had to repay a loan, even on a 50-year basis, that would be a contribution. As soon as we can lift the level of these developing nations to assist themselves in this way I believe we will be on the road to a permanent recognition and continuation of these projects by the developing nations. In support of the Government I have much pleasure in contributing to this debate and supporting the 2 Bills before the House. 
-The Minister for Transport will be aware that development of Norwich Park in Central Queensland by the Utah Development Company has been deferred because of disputes with the Seamen's Union of Australia and the union's refusal to handle Utah's ships into and out of Hay Point. Will the Minister advise whether the Federal Government can intervene in this dispute in order to ensure that this development proceeds, thereby providing job opportunities for some 1,000 persons on construction, development and mining? 
Can the Minister for Overseas Trade say whether commercial negotiations are still proceeding between the Queensland Sugar Board and the Japanese refiners in order to settle the dispute over the long term contract? 
-I rise to speak in this Budget debate to express generally my attitude towards various aspects of that document. I welcome the proposed change in tax rates which is readily identifiable both m the reduction in the number of steps in the scale and in tax payable in those steps. I have said in the past that indexation of personal tax, since it has automatic application, denies the Government the opportunity of making other necessary and worthwhile adjustments in the tax scales. However, in this Budget the Government has managed to break through the indexation fix and to bring in worthwhile changes although it must be noted that these changes will be delayed until 1 February 1978. Irrespective of how the Opposition will attempt to denounce and oppose this initiative, I believe that the taxpayers of Australia will welcome and recognise this change as a major rejuvenation of our taxing system. I hope that it will be a stepping stone to further relief. 
The Opposition has pointed out that the wealthy and the rich will benefit from this change. This presumes, on the part of the Opposition, that the base of the previous tax scale was in itself fair and equitable. This was not the position. It has become unfashionable for the fact to be recognised that the middle income and higher income earners are bearing the greatest proportion of tax in each dollar earned, which goes towards our welfare program and towards the total federal revenue. The new base recognises that pensioners and low income earners should pay no tax. In fact some 225,000 Australian taxpayers could be exempt now from the payment of personal income tax. Surely, as we recognise the equity for low income earners not to pay tax, we should also look for equity at the other end of the scale. We should not be prejudiced and accept a base initially laid in 1975 by a Labor Treasurer, a Treasurer who was part of a socialist government. This is a base that no one should tolerate. The Hayden Budget was one that took massively from primary producers and from the producing end of the economy. The response to the call to be more productive will come more readily from those middle and high income bracket taxpayers who will, and should, benefit most. It is rubbish for the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  to say that this is divisive, that it separates the classes. The honourable member is still as ignorant of the facts now as he was between 1972 and 1975. 
Our economic recovery as a nation depends on the positive response of middle and high income earners so we should not be apologetic about where the benefits are given. At the same time as a benefit is given to the lower income taxpayers, taxpayers on the other end of the scale should also be encouraged. It is rather hypocritical for the Opposition to criticise the tax indexation reduction rate for being set at one-half of the consumer price index increase as at 30 June 1978. I say it is hypocritical because the Labor Party denied the benefits of tax indexation, or in fact indexation of any kind, except for wage indexation which has a built in inflationary mechanism all its own. 
I would like to comment on the averaging provision changes which were announced earlier this week. The retrograde steps taken by the Hayden Budget which stripped some $45m from the rural industries have now been corrected. A degree of equity has been achieved over many years by the ability to adjust the fluctuating incomes of producers, particularly before the Hayden Budget. This point has again been recognised and the principle has been extended by the removal of the ceiling of $16,000 thus allowing full averaging of incomes over all steps of the tax scale. I might add that there has been no change in that ceiling for the last 10 years. The option to return to the average will again allow all producers to participate and not be disadvantaged on a decreasing income as they were in the past. Not only have these alterations allowed the pendulum to swing again in favour of the farmer; they also will provide encouragement for people to earn in a sector where self reliance is absolutely necessary if this nation is to survive, that is, in the rural sector. 
This Budget already has received its share of praise, criticism and comment from various sectors of the community. One sector from which comment has come has been the rural sector. I can agree with the views expressed by the rural sector if I correctly read the bold print in the Budget document. Unfortunately the small print also denies a glimmer of hope for some of the depressed industries. The rural people of Australia were confidently looking to the Federal Government for relief and assistance for many of their ailing industries. They were not looking for handouts, the method adopted in the social welfare area. They were not seeking to abuse the unemployment benefit as some people have done. They were not seeking anything along the lines of the massive commitment of over $400m on foreign aid. They were not seeking anything like the commitment on our national health program where abuses are still evident. What they were seeking was justifiable relief and assistance in order that people could stay on their farms until Australia's rural industries had re-established their markets and had become more viable. They want life to be made more tolerable in the outback. They want television transmission, telephones, reasonable fuel costs, carry on funds for worthwhile programs in the beef industry, to mention lust a few 
These things were not obvious pluses particularly for the beef industry, and were not mentioned in the Budget. It was bad enough that these taxpayers- the real productive worth of Australia- should have had their benefits adulterated by the Hayden Budget. That adulteration was worth some $45m in averaging alone. In addition, it was the rural industries which suffered most from Labor's policies and Labor's neglect of this productive sector. 
I hope that this Government will recognise that urgent help is needed in the beef industry just for it to survive. For some people today is already too late; for others, six months will see the end of their endurance and their capacity to work even without the recognition that has been their lot for the last several years. I hope that proposals for assistance put to the Government will be accepted. I hope that the Government will hear and act upon suggestions made by honourable members for correction of certain anomalies. I pay particular tribute to my colleague, the honourable member for Capricornia  (Mr Carige),  for his magnificent efforts in spearheading support for the beef industry. 
Rural industries in which no stabilisation schemes apply have been the hardest hit by inflation in the 1970s. They have had no markets where prices can be adjusted to absorb overheads. Overheads have increased beyond those experienced in the cities, and again there has been no ability to pass them on. There has been protection for other industries which increase the costs of primary producers. The Industries Assistance Commission has been seen as giving them some hope but they urgently request that it be allowed to research and to present the true facts on the extent of protection provided to other industries but denied to them. We must recognise that Australia's greatest asset lies in its soil. Let us keep this asset alive and productive. Let us not bury the pioneering spirit. 
While speaking about the Budget and on the subject of tax I earnestly recommend to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  that any proposals to clamp down on tax avoidance be spelt out clearly and quickly in order to let the public know just where it stands. While I cannot accept deliberate attempts by taxpayers to avoid their lawful responsibilities, I can accept retrospective legislation less and the unnecessary procedures involved which keep taxpayers in suspense and unable to properly plan their affairs through legitimate machinery purely because they are uncertain of the Government's intentions. I suggest that any plans in this regard be quickly communicated and implemented. Of necessity there is a limitation placed on the Treasurer if the Budget is to achieve its objective of reducing inflation. The needs of the people of this nation will always be in advance of the Government's ability to meet them. Consequently it is the Treasurer's further burden to select those who in his opinion have the greatest need. As a further consequence, many worthy needs will go unfulfilled at this time. I suggest that in that list of unfulfilled needs the Government should keep these things in mind as having top priority: Relief to beneficiaries, following the loss of a near relative, by the abolition of death duties; the needs of people outside the capital and provincial cities who live in uncongenial climates and who face inflated living costs and who are the real decentralisers; these people should be given realistic encouragement by means of an expanded zone allowance; the needs of taxpayers who suffer many anomalies such as paying tax on rent from a residence where the rent paid in a situation of job transfer is not tax deductible; the needs of taxpayers who are selfemployed and who receive no encouragement to superannuate or to insure themselves as employed persons can do; and the need for mothers to have their family allowance indexed to equate payment with the dependency tax deduction forgone by the parent. Equity in all these circumstances demands assistance through further tax changes. There is another matter about which I wish to speak in the last few seconds that I have tonight. I hope to mention it again on the resumption of the Budget debate. It is a matter to which major attention has been paid in the Budget. It concerns the policy enunciated in regard to energy. 
Debate interrupted. 
When I was speaking last Tuesday I said that I would devote some of my speech to aspects of energy within this country. A saying I nave remembered for many years is that it is against the natural law of God that we should waste that which he has given us. The energy situation today within Australia and throughout the world is evidence that we are wasting what has been naturally given to us by our creator. Australia has for many years seen various emphases placed on the development of energy generally either through nationalisation, the private sector, local resources or overseas resources. The former Labor Government would have chosen nationalisation against all other methods. The discussion on the matter of public importance today indicated that that is precisely the nature of Opposition thinking on the energy situation, our resources and many other things in Australia. It is a theme to which I certainly cannot subscribe. 
An energy resource policy has normally been concerned with the type of fuel that Australia has in abundance- coal, uranium and solar energy. Only now does the policy recognise, through the present Budget, the major crisis that confronts Australia in its desperately short reserves of oil. The emphasis that is placed on coal, uranium and solar resources as fuel fails to recognise that these suffer mainly from developing and marketing problems. Oil supply is necessary for the survival of our rural and transport industries and of the people in this Parliament today. We need look only at Canberra itself for ample evidence that the implications of the crisis have as yet not been appreciated by Australians. The consumption of oil for heating instead of the use of electricity; the use of diesel in our railways instead of steam or electrification; the use of private transport mainly carrying solo passengers in preference to community transport are all examples of the contempt with which all Australians, not only Canberrans, treat this critical subject. Out of every 100 cars used on Canberra's roads and streets each morning at, say, 8.30 a.m. only about five would multiple carry. This is possibly the same throughout all the major cities of Australia, yet our public transport conducts its business at substantial losses through lack of patronage. 
There is little appreciation for the fact that in Australia the oil industry is in a crisis situation. Australians must now address themselves to this crisis. The Budget does this through one of the possible alternatives, that is, in its policy to allow Australian crude oil to rise to world parity prices. Stark reality is that the price of petrol will rise over a period by 1 lc per gallon. This is an inevitable consequence of the crisis we now face. The effects will be two-fold. Firstly, it will provide an encouragement to further exploration and development. I believe that, coupled with this, have been the incentives of the 1976-77 Budget through taxation measures and the attitude adopted by this Government only recently towards the North West Shelf development. Some people forget that this encouragement through taxation has already been given within the framework of the previous Budget. The second effect is a drive towards conservation through the higher price to be paid for fuel by the consumer where alternatives in electricity are available more cheaply, and also through a more sensible and sensitive approach to the proper use of all our oil based products. 
I was pleased to note as a further indication of this Government's recognition of the problem, the assistance by the Government to the research and development of the Pritchard steam power unit: Early assistance in the assembly and construction of the engine in- the Commonwealth factory at Bendigo recently produced results in. the delivery of the engine. In this regard I must pay tribute to the previous Labor Government which gave its permission and authority for the production of the three engines necessary. It was the present Government that carried the development forward and produced this particular engine. The Pritchard steam power unit is well recognised for its non-pollutant qualities. One wonders today whether, where we see tremendous expense put on to the motor car manufacturers and eventually passed on to the consumers for devices to prevent pollution, resulting in the lower consumption of fuel per car, we should automatically turn to these alternatives. Within the framework of the Budget some $100,000 have been set aside for further development of the Pritchard steam power unit. 
Only yesterday an ill-informed person wrote in the  Canberra Times  commenting upon that engine. I agree with him in one respect, namely, that it is absolutely necessary that we as a Government and as a people should research this type of alternative. I agree with him in that but he fails to appreciate the situation and the position taken by the Government to grant $100,000 in conjunction with the Victorian Government to further this form of research because this is the way we should be looking. If this engine can use such alternatives as derivatives of sugar cane, the plant cassava or even natural gas- an item which we export in great quantities at the moment but which we do not make use of in this country where we have an oil shortage- I am amazed that we are not getting behind this project more thoroughly. The Granting of the $100,000 is proof that the Government is interested in researching power units such as this that can use alternative power to that produced from oil. More assistance in research is needed if we are to cope with the eventual crunch when it comes. Clearly the crunch will come within our life time. 
The Prime Minister's comments in last week's  Canberra Times  that Australia is taking positive and planned steps to improve its energy technology must be welcomed by all Australians. Even if we are genuine in our efforts, certain freedoms that we have had in the past and the present high standards of living we enjoy will have to be sacrificed to some extent. The estimated rise in the price of petrol will be at a cost to every individual and corporation in Australia. The belt will have to be tightened, and this will be the first notch. It demands that unless we become greater producers of other natural assets we as a Government and as a people will have to transfer financial resources from some of our priority areas- these could well be in the welfare sectors- towards greater costs of the basic fuel research and development of and providing for alternatives. A discipline imposed in the United States of America m the height of its fuel crisis recently to reduce the speed of automobiles on the highways effected a 20 per cent saving in the amount of fuel used. As a by-benefit it also reduced the death toll by a similar 20 per cent. The reality of the crisis is there. Either we face up to the reality of the situation now or we leave a terrible legacy to our children and grandchildren. 
The evidence of the disaster fronting us is all too real. The most developed nation in the world today, the United States of America, earlier this year as a result of a crisis in its energy production and supply could not prevent the deaths of many of its citizens in the coldest snap experienced in that nation in recent times. In this day and age when we can send a vehicle to the moon we have not the resources to guarantee warmth, mobility and life to our people on earth. However, I fail to appreciate why, whilst this problem was firmly recognised and the policy developed, the further and corresponding problem of unequal fuel costs throughout Australia was not grasped with the same determination. The extreme situation of discount fuel in capital cities, actually encouraging waste, has been allowed to continue. The greed of people and industry has never been so obvious as is evidenced by this affront to common sense. 
The other extreme of where fuel is an essential requirement and for which there is no substitute or subsidies is in our rural industries. Since Labor's withdrawal of the petrol price equalisation scheme rationing has been compulsorily forced on people in outback Australia by price differences of some magnitude. At some places in 
Queensland I believe the price is as high as $2 a gallon at the moment compared with the normal price of about 80c a gallon on the eastern seaboard. If ever there was an opportunity to stop capital city extravagances and abuse and to assist rural outback Australia, it was at the same time as announcing a change to world parity prices. We could have examined the discounting situation and the equalisation of costs of fuel, or at least we could have decreased the difference in the country prices as was the case before equalisation was withdrawn by the Labor Government. What existed before should now be reimplemented. It could have been done at little cost to the capital city dwellers if the discount abuse had been corrected at the same time. If city people see any injustice in the fuel equalisation scheme they live in a fool's paradise. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I rise to support the Bills. In this cognate debate I intend to devote most of my attention to the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Amendment Bill. During the course of this debate certain speakers have indicated the extent of the levy, why it was introduced, its importance and what it was intended to do. I enter into the argument by giving a little of the history not only of the levy but also of the more recent coal developments in the central Queensland area in the Bowen Basin. A new technique has been developed, quite different from what has happened in the past. It does not involve underground rnining. It involves the stripping and the open rnining of the coal reserve. Let us go back just two years to when the introduction of the levy was effected in the 1975 Budget by the then Treasurer,  Mr Hayden.  It is interesting to note that at the same time the Medibank scheme was introduced as probably one of the great socialistic platforms of that Government. There is no doubt in my mind that the levy was intended partly to offset the projected cost of the Medibank scheme. Of course we know that the escalation of the cost of that scheme would have put us into hock for many years.. The present Government has altered the system but probably has not taken it far enough. 
The fact is that those measures were introduced at the same time and, irrespective of what is now claimed about controls of reserves and of the resource itself, I believe that this was a platform of the former socialist Government and that the commodity tax, or as I call it, a resources tax on the coal was just meant to offset it. We have heard tonight that ten years ago was the time to act. If we go back ten years we can practically see the commencement of the coal development in the central Queensland area. For over 30 years those reserves have been known to exist. They have been used only once on a very limited scale. There was no Australian capital, no Australian company or no Australian individual interested in outlaying the risk capital to establish the nature and extent of the reserves. It was only the multinational company, Utah Development Co., at which much criticism has been levelled, that was prepared to come in. It was said that, after a hue and cry, Australian equity was allowed. Again there was no Australian equity available when the exploration was commenced. It was only at the development stage when reserves were proven and the markets were known that Australian capital could be sought. 
I am not talking so much about the unions, although there is a problem in that area now. The fact is that the basic Australian investor was not prepared to take the risk at that time. The central Queensland coal fields have been known to exist. The new mining technique which is being used is greatly sought after not only throughout Australia but also throughout the world  today. If we look at Queensland's participation in this project we see that the State has control over the reserves. It has let out those reserves only a bit at a time in comparison to the total extent of them. At all times the State has had control. There was a hue and cry about rail freights but do we hear about that now? The rail freights on some of the later negotiations are as much as $4 to $5 per tonne. The royalties have increased. Yet we are told that it is Utah that is taking the money out of the place. 
Let us look at that statement and let us talk in terms of profit. In the latest report of the company, for 1976, we see that the profit is $l37m. Certainly that is the profit in which there will be a 20 per cent participation by Australians once Norwich Park comes on stream. It is interesting to note the difference between the 1975 and 1976 reports. The sales increased by $185m but the profit increased by only $36m. If we look at the schedules in the report we find that despite a profit of $137m, $258m was left in Australia through direct income taxes, levies, freight and royalties. So who says that Australians are not participating? 
That is not including the salaries and wages of the men on the field and the taxes that they have paid. In an area that probably ran half a dozen head of cattle before, we have assets that comprise two townships with populations of over 7,000, port facilities that could be used in the event of any other expansion in trade, and the rail connections to the hinterland of very productive country. The former honourable member for Dawson indicated that that area, which is now tapped by this railway, has perhaps as great a potential for agriculture as any of the plains in America. That is the result of what Utah has done. Utah has opened up the country. If it had been left to Australian participation that coal would still be buried under the soil and the country would be carrying one head of cattle to 100 acres. That is what Utah has done, yet we do not hear this from the Opposition. 
Honourable members opposite have also neglected to say that, once the levy has been removed progressively, the Australian participation will still be to the extent of 46 per cent of the tax that will be levied on it. So at least it is not a complete loss to revenue if we are to recover 46 per cent of it. I do not believe that this is a monopoly control of our resources, although I agree with the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  that we should be very concerned about future energy supplies within this country and how we fit into the slot of world participation in energy conservation. I agree with that. We have talked of large monopolies or large companies. The type of mining that is done within Queensland at the moment cannot be done by small companies. It is only the vastness of the operation that provides a profitable return. If we think in terms of a profit of $ 1 37m for the capital investment of those fields, I believe that Norwich Park is coming on stream only to keep faith with the Queensland Government and the Australian Government. Taking into account the infrastructure and the rail and port facilities, one would doubt at present operating costs and writing off the asset over the period of the lease whether it would return any profit at all to Utah. So Utah is participating in more ways than one. It is showing faith for the future. 
But let us forget about Utah for the moment. Let us look at the chance of any fresh developments of those mines by companies large or small. The margin of $6 per tonne levy was in many cases the difference per tonne between an operating profit and a loss. There was no encouragement while that levy existed. There was no intention to remove it. There was no faith and no initiative by any other company to take it up. Now I believe that there are other reserves there that will be taken up predominantly by Australian capital. The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd, CSR Ltd and a lot of other companies are interested. I hope that, whatever arrangements they make for equity holding, they can go ahead and mine this coal. We are not talking in terms of reserves of very short lived quantities. We are talking in terms of reserves that have not yet been fully established. We are talking in terms of a commodity that is badly needed overseas and that certainly helps in our export arrangements. For instance, $56 lm was generated just through Utah last year from these coal reserves. 
Of course, we get back to the fact that Utah has proven a success in spite of the initial risk it took with the Labor Government that wanted to have some part of the action. I think it is fair to cite an attitude that prevailed within the Labor Party at that time. It has been suggested that a socialist is an unsuccessful person whose last chance is to get a share of what somebody else has. If ever there was a grasp by the socialist Government it was to get the money from the levy and to generate those additional funds for what was said to be for Australians but which was only to implement the Medibank scheme. A former speaker made a comment about the issues in the 1975 election. I believe that the levy was partly responsible for the result of that election. If it could be applied to coal it could be applied to any other industry that had a success record on the export market, even if only for a time or for a windfall profit. We saw the export levy imposed on beef at a time of great prosperity but it was not taken off by the Labor Government when that prosperity declined. The fear was that the levy could have applied to wheat and sugar. We have already seen the profitability of coal per tonne decrease and there was no suggestion that the commodity tax, or as I call it the resources tax, would have been reduced. 
A previous  speaker  has also referred to the union problem. Certainly there are problems with the Seamen's Union of Australia. I do not think that I can add anything more to what was said before. In respect of the total argument, who is to determine what is a fair equity as far as Australian participation is concerned? What is fair to Australians as far as the tax, the return and the development are concerned? Who is going to do it? I believe that only the multinational companies like Utah and certainly some of the big Australian companies will do it. But they will do it only with the incentive of the removal of this tax. I certainly support the Bill. 
-In rising to speak against the allegation made in this matter of public importance it pleases me that the previous speaker had so little to say that I do not need to spend any time on his arguments; there were none. It surprises me also that after yesterday's debacle by the shadow Treasurer or Opposition spokesman on finance this matter of public importance was not taken off the order of business and another put in its place. Then again, that may be attributable to the usual sloppiness of the Labor Party, even when in opposition. 
There is no doubt that debating this topic must bear some resemblance to an act of hypocrisy on the part of some of the Opposition members. They talk about uncertainty. The two years in which they have been in Opposition certainly have not been a lesson to them. In that time they might have sat down, matured and acted as an opposition in this Parliament. I remind you,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  although I know you need no reminding- that a responsible opposition is a very essential part of any Parliament. But in the past two years we have seen no degree of responsibility on the part of this Opposition. Its members have shown no loyalty to Australia as a nation and no responsibility to the Parliament, to the economy, to the nation or to the people in the past two years in which they have been in Opposition. 
Let me outline the situation which has existed over the past fortnight as far as this type of irresponsibility is concerned. The  Australian  produced a leading article- 'Kamikaze Economics' I think was the heading- which was relevant to this matter. Only this week the  Nation Review  is wondering who will be the alternative leader of the Opposition if the Opposition does not want Gough. Certainly its members do not pay too much attention or credence to what Hayden says. Only this morning a letter to the editor was published in the  Sydney Morning Herald  which certainly must make the nation wonder so far as the spokesman for the Opposition on this subject is concerned. 
One thing I will say for the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  is that in the period in which he has been in Opposition there have been many tides which could be attributed to him if he wanted to claim them. Put into parliamentary language, there are such terms as 'economically irresponsible', 'instant economies', not 'Blind Freddie' but 'Blind Billy'. This letter published in the  Sydney Morning Herald  refers to the 'organ grinder and his monkey'. I believe that all these terms are an indication of what the people of Australia - 
MrBRAITH WAITE-I think he would be the monkey; I do not think he would be the organ grinder. The honourable member for Oxley briskly throws out challenges to debate with the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  yet this letter published in the  Sydney Morning Herald  states: 

 Mr Hayden is not backward in accusing others of lacking the 'courage and conviction' to debate with him on the Australian economy. 
Your readers may be interested to know that in June of this year  Mr Hayden  refused a similar challenge to debate the merits of his 1975 Budget at the first national conference of Labor economists in his home State. 
I presume that refers to Queensland. Many people give Queenslanders a particular reputation. I am happy and proud to be a Queenslander but I am not sure that the honourable member for Oxley is exactly improving the image and the great reputation we have as Queenslanders. Certainly I do not think he is improving the reputation which we are trying to gam in this place. When Opposition members speak of uncertainty- the matter of public importance relates to uncertainty about the economic situation and an election- they speak with a certain degree of experience. If anybody has sown the seeds of uncertainty within the Australian economy and the community it certainly has been the Opposition, both when in government and in the two years since. Let us look at the uncertainty which must be attributed to the Labor Party. For instance, on what will the honourable member for Oxley be an expert next? Who is the present Leader of the Opposition? Who is the spokesman on a particular subject? 
From where will the next challenge come? Certainly there is uncertainty about the Opposition in the minds of the community. 
I am afraid I must go back to the events of 1972 to 1975. It is important that the Australian people remember that the seeds of destruction of the Australian economy and of uncertainty in so many ways were laid in that era. The Acting Treasurer, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson),  has indicated already that the inflation rate when Labor took office was 7 per cent and it ended up at 17 per cent under its leadership. Unemployed numbered 90,000 people when the Opposition took office and 250,000 when it left office. At a time when the people expected that the Labor Party, of all parties, could possibly work with the unions, we saw a record level of industrial disputationsthe greatest number that this nation has ever seen. We saw the uncertainty of three Treasurers, ministerial sackings and the then Government going from one crisis to another. 
Yet in this matter of public importance we are accused of giving an air of uncertainty to certain things. In fact, it was the Government in that period from 1972 to 1975 which skimmed the crest of desirability but never plumbed the depths of practicality and that is what led to the uncertainty which existed at that time. That is a very good expression. Not only were there economic uncertainties at that time, but also in the minds of business people there was uncertainty about investing because of inflation and there was uncertainty about jobs because of the increasing rate of unemployment. One thing that is of particular relevance to our retaining our status in world affairs is the uncertainty in the development of the mining industry. Not one mining development got under way in those three years because of the fear and the uncertainty that the Labor Party inspired in the minds of the electorate. 
Even now we see a continuation of these things. We see a lack of confidence that has been sparked by claims made by the honourable member for Oxley. The honourable member for Oxley is a self-proclaimed genius on the economy- he is an instant expert. But we have the disasters of his period as Treasurer, his period as a Minister in the three years of the Labor Government and his exclamations of the past two years as evidence that irresponsibility and uncertainty can still be attached to him.  His  1975 Budget raised the deficit $1 billion over expectations and the figure was rising. The confidence with which he introduced his new tax scales was nothing but a gigantic fraud perpetrated on the people of Australia. In fact, the only confidence he displayed at that time was the great confidence trick he played on the people with those tax scales. 
Let us not forget Medibank, that great socialistic program which has been pruned but probably needs further pruning. It could not be paid for by the Australian public; it was paid for through the inflation rate because we could not afford to finance it. The deficit reached a level which had not been reached previously. All these things can be attributed to the honourable member for Oxley. I believe that his comments made more recently in 1976 probably made the rate of devaluation 4 or 5 per cent higher than it would have needed to be had he not talked the economy and the people into such a situation. I believe that what he has said today is evidence of the fact that he is still prepared to talk down the economy; that he is still prepared to be the disciple of gloom in this place and to spread the gospel of uncertainty. 
Let us look at the election situation. How many times have I heard challenges from the Opposition for us to go to an election on the uranium issue or on anything? The Australian Council of Trade Unions has led to speculation about an election by calling for a moratorium and laying down a time by which we are to give a definite answer as to whether we will call a referendum on the uranium issue. The referendum concerning simultaneous elections held earlier this year now gives the Prime Minister additional options. These are speculated about, not only by supporters of the Government but also by members of the Opposition and members of the Press. 
I believe that if Australia is to return to a state in which there is no uncertainty and in which we have a certain amount of responsible control we must as a government act responsibly and not go for popular short term measures. To do this we require a national spirit which will not be talked down by the honourable member for Oxley. We require co-operation from the unions and the Opposition. I hope we can achieve this together. 
Can the Prime Minister inform the House whether a request for intervention by the Commonwealth in the Seamen's Union dispute with the Utah company has been received from the Queensland Government? Can the Prime Minister indicate to the House what powers the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Government have to take action to overcome the bans imposed by the Seamen's Union against Utah ships and to ensure that the jobs of thousands of Queensland workers are maintained? 
Tonight in speaking in the adjournment debate I want, firstly, to pay my tribute to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  for the relief measures announced a fortnight ago for the beef industry. In two respects relief will be fairly immediate for the cattlemen in my electorate. For the ones on brigalow blocks Area 3, the moratorium on payments on Commonwealth loans to the Queensland Government will allow them time for reconstruction, particularly when the loans are extended by a further seven years. Then, of course, there is the generation of liquid funds through the speying and disease control measures. This will give cash in hand, of which they have had little over the past three years. 
However, in spite of these measures, there is still another matter that really concerns and distresses me; that is, the interpretation of the guidelines under which unemployment benefits previously had been made available to these settlers who made themselves available for work and for jobs if available. The Department of Social Security recently has withdrawn these benefits from several of the graziers in this area. How many more- perhaps thousandsthroughout Australia may fall victim to this decision? A departmental technicality has been given as the reason that allows a bureaucrat to judge whether a person can or cannot work, or is available for work. Unfortunately, the system allows the judge to be also jury. 
A settler came to my office with only $30 to his name and with a family to provide for. His cattle sale receipts in total were immediately being applied by his bankers against his debt. Consequently he could get nothing in his hand. Denied government relief, what are his prospects; what are the prospects of his family? It appears so easy for some person in a comfortable and highly paid position in Canberra, by the stroke of a pen, to cut off the only sustenance available- to cut off not only sustenance but also hope. These people chose to pioneer and develop the brigalow. They were prepared to do without some things but not prepared to be cut off altogether. I ask: Why should these people be treated as lesser or second class citizens and be refused the assistance available to others who are less willing, less productive and deficient of work ethic? Yet others have available a selection of relief measures that the Department denies these settlers. 
I suggest that the assessors and bureaucrats get off their seats and see the poverty and despair of parents who want only to give the basic needsnothing more- to their family. Have they to starve or die before we provide for real needs? The Department of Social Security is under the pressures reflected by our changing social patterns and behaviour, but there has been no change in the outlook of these settlers. They continue to be the most industrious, the most productive and the most loyal of our citizens. I acknowledge that, with the errors recently found within the Department of Social Security, the recent appointment of  Mr Lanigan  as its new head probably will mean a more conservative approach still. The Myers report, particularly on self-employed benefits, will reinforce that conservatism and present attitudes. I cannot agree with the Myers report in this respect. 
I urgently suggest to the Government that, if unemployment benefits are not to be paid, an alternative form of relief for household support be made available immediately. I have noted that the Minister for Primary Industry in the beef package scheme suggested that household support might be altered to make it available to low income families earning less than the unemployment benefit. I suggest that, in view of the departmental interpretation, this type of assistance be implemented immediately. For this, red tape has to be slashed so that the applications can be processed immediately and payments made. If necessary, officers of the Department should be made available to assist with applications and to make on-the-spot inspections in order to effect immediate transfer from unemployment benefits to household support so as to ensure continuity of payment and security for these people. 
Whilst the value of the properties may be high, the equity frequently is not, because of the burden of loan commitments. Compared to the urban dweller who has a reasonable residence and a car and who has easier and immediate access to relief benefits, the settlers and the selfemployed are infinitely worse off. Let us not burden these people further through lack of sympathy. Let us set guidelines, beat a bureaucrat or two, cut the red tape and give recognition to the great contribution that these settlers are making to Australia's development. 
I rise to speak on the estimates for the AttorneyGeneral's Department to counter some of the arguments that were put forward by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  who preceded me and also to speak on the Australian Legal Aid Office and some aspects of legal aid. First of all, the Queensland Government comes in for quite a deal of criticism, unfairly at the best of times, about some of the legislation that it introduces. I simply wish to rebuff some of the arguments that have been used previously. No doubt the law gives all humans the right to peaceful assembly. I believe that under the law everybody should have the same rights as those people who wish to demonstrate. Obviously the reference made to that aspect of the legislation which deals with the rights of individuals in Queensland and which prevents peaceful assembly is not correct. People can assemble peacefully in the State of Queensland but they should ensure that it is not at the inconvenience of the travelling public. Our roads are meant for motor traffic and not for pedestrians who would like to sprawl themselves all over the roads and thereby hold up the normal activities of the law abiding people. They have the right to assemble, that point was not made previously. 
Mention has been made of the gerrymander in Queensland. Perhaps the learned gentleman who is trying to interject and who has not been to that State does not realise that the basis of the present electoral Act in Queensland was laid by a Labor Government. 
It does not make it right; I will confirm that. The experience of three years of Labor Government would confirm that because Labor does something it does not make it right. I think that the Australian people would indicate that the honourable member is correct in his assertion that what Labor says is not necessarily right. 
I rise on these estimates because I get a little sickened by this continued reference to Queensland. The last census shows that there has been a transfer of population to that northern State from the southern States; so there must be something up there that appeals to those people. It certainly is not a Labor Parliament or a Labor Government. So perhaps it would not be a bad idea for the learned gentleman or others to ponder on that fact that that is the situation. 
Having defended, and I think quite capably, our own Queensland Government, I wish to deal now with the important matter of the Legal Aid Office. We have heard that all that the Labor Government did was not right. I believe that when the Legal Aid Office was established it was viewed with suspicion at the outset not only by the public but also by the legal fraternity. I am happy to say that it has now found acceptance within the Australian community. It fulfils a very real need for those people who do not have access to other legal advice or representation. In Queensland, this program is associated with people who are dedicated to providing high quality legal advice and representation. The legal aid officers throughout Queensland would be a good example of this. Whilst the program was viewed at first with suspicion, this impression has now been corrected. It has the compensating effect of more people requiring those services and that aid. I am not sure whether the number of officers in those branches is sufficient at this stage to do justice to the requirements now made of the service. 
The mobile service which is operated in conjunction with the Legal Aid Office could, I believe, also be expanded, particularly in those States that have vast areas and scattered populations. I do not see why those scattered populations should be denied access to advice which is offered in a provincial or capital city. I know that this matter is under consideration. Certainly in Queensland moves have been made to make sure that these services are extended. Unfortunately it is not always possible to get the number of people required to service properly these areas. The service has started. I hope it will go forward. 
Under the new federalism scheme the Legal Aid Office which is gradually coming under the care or attention of the States has, I believe, a few problems at which we must look very carefully. We must make sure that these services are adopted by the States without the effects and auahty of the service presently being given by te Australian Legal Aid Office being adulterated. I believe this could be a tendency, particularly where legal aid was also offered by the State concerned. Perhaps certain bias and preconceptions could lead to a lessening of the quality of the service. I would not like to see that. I would like the Commonwealth to retain some oversight, at least in the interim, until the proper transfer has been effected. 
It has been suggested that in Queensland the Legal Aid Office should be taken over by the Public Curator Office. I think this would be very dangerous and would not be in the interest of members of the public who would need the service. The Public Curator Office would not only give advice. to those people who need it but cannot get it ordinarily but also provide a service for which the public pays. I believe there could be a real conflict of interest. I hope that as the legal fraternity in Queensland has accepted the proposal the service could be absorbed by the State to make sure that the high quality of service is maintained and continued. I pay tribute to employees of the Australian Legal Aid Office, particularly those in Queensland, who are currently giving this service. 
I believe it is also necessary to mention briefly the Aboriginal Legal Services, although they are not administered by the Attorney-General's Department. There is a thought abroad, not only among the white population but also the coloured population, that the Services in some directions can be a very divisive instrument. They are dividing and not bringing together the various groups in Australia. The suggestion has been offered to me on more than one occasion that perhaps there should be only one legal aid service available to everybody, irrespective of colour, creed, religion or politics. I think the suggestion could be taken into account. It would lessen costs and would make available a more effective service for everybody. 
Could I also suggest that the attitude to marriage celebrants be closely examined by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  These people are not always available to the small townships, areas and communities throughout outback Australia on the same per capita basis as apparently has been the basis of their appointment in the past Certainly the need is as desperate in the outback as it is in other places. For example, one person is allocated to two mining townships which are more than 60 miles apart. This person is not capable of giving the service that is required. I believe that in cases such as this the vast areas and the conditions of appointment should be looked at afresh, with a view to giving the best representation and the best availability of such services to all people throughout outback Australia. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 13 October, 1977: 
1 ) What was the amount of expenditure through his Department on capital works within the Electoral Divisions of Leichhardt, Herbert, Kennedy and Dawson during each of the years 1973-74 to 1976-77, inclusive. 
What was the total expenditure by his Department during the same years. 
It is a pleasure to follow in this debate on the taxation legislation the honourable and irrational member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  who talked about Medibank and budgets of the past. These Bills are significant for quite a few things. They are intended to close loopholes, the tax avoidance that has been practised for some years in some areas, and to implement reduced tax rates. Viewed together, they increase revenue by closing loopholes and reduce taxation in order to provide incentive. Consequently this can be called complementary legislation. Over the past few years we have seen many artificial devices used in private enterprise to avoid paying a just proportion of taxation and I think that this legisation is timely. I believe it was the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  who mentioned that only a proportion of our taxpaying public could take advantage of these loopholes and arrange their taxation affairs in such a way that they paid the minimum tax. The large proportion of taxpayers- salary earners and professional people- do not have this facility available to them. There is an inequity in the tax system because it allows these manipulations to be practised. 
The Government sees this as part of its tax reform program. I think it is most desirable that the Government should press on with this program so that there can be equity through our tax reform systems. By changing the way in which personal income tax is calculated, the Government has gone a long way to restoring incentive to a section of the community which traditionally has been the most creative and productive. The tax changes are an indication of a deep change in government thinking, a change in the philosophy of the balance between the public and private sectors. In effect, the tax changes represent a recognition that individuals are more entitled to the fruits of their own labour than is the State. The changes acknowledge that there are limits to the claims any State can make on the private finance of its citizens and still maintain incentive. 
I would like to deal with aspects of incentives within these taxation Bills before I deal with avoidance procedures. One is the extension of the investment allowance from 1983 to 1985 at the rate of 20 per cent. I believe this will give security to long term investors in capital plant which takes a fair while between the programming stage and the ordering stage before the plant is available for productive or income earning purposes. 
This applies to the sugar area but more particularly to the mining industry. The extension until 1985 will ensure that for plans made now, the plant and equipment will be available at a 20 per cent investment allowance. I think this will be a stimulus to capital acquisitions and also extensions. I might mention also that there is perhaps an area where incentives are required desperately and that is in the accommodation and travel industries. Perhaps the Government might look in its new terms- I am sure it will have them- to an investment allowance of some kind on buildings which are used for productive income earning purposes, particularly in regard to the accommodation industry. With regard to the averaging of incomes within clause 12 of the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) I believe this is the best advantage ever to come to primary producers throughout Australia. It is an advantage they richly deserve and which would have been denied them to a large extent had the original Budget speech been adopted without amendment. I believe there is equity in a primary producer being able to average his income because of its fluctuating nature. Certainly if it was not for the effects of the averaging, primary producers would pay a greater percentage of their income than a normal person without that same fluctuation. 
This, of course, brings up the argument in connection with tariffs, a large proportion of which is borne within the rural industries. I think it should be recognised that, within this averaging of incomes, some of the penalty through tariffs is being returned to primary producers. This is only just and proper. I reiterate that averaging of incomes now represents the best advantage ever given to the rural industry in this regard. We should recognise that it reinstates the losses caused by the Hayden Budget. The honourable member for Prospect talked about the great Hayden Budget. The great Hayden Budget took $40m to $50m from rural producers throughout Australia as a result of the effect of the averaging provisions and the changes brought about by the rebate system. This legislation goes a long way towards reinstating the situation prior to that time but it improves the situation even beyond that because it gives additional benefits that have previously not been allowed or provided for. These are four in number. The primary producer is permitted during this year of income to return to the average that he had previously opted out of. That is one benefit. There is also the fact that there will be no detriment to a rural producer on a falling income when that falling income is below the average income. This, again, was a loss under the old system that will not be suffered under the present system. Also, there is the removal of the ceiling of $16,000. There has been no change in this ceiling since 1966 and rural producers nave been subject to the ravages of inflation, particularly in the Labor years, without amendment to the ceiling. Again, I think the removal of this ceiling is just and equitable. That is particularly so when we realise that the zero tax rate is to be included in the averaging calculations. All this adds up to a $100m benefit for rural industry in one year of operation. I think this allows the income equalisation deposits to be recognised for what they should be. They are stabilisation schemes and not tax reduction deposits. I feel that had these income equalisation deposits been available in the years when the cattle industry was at its height with good markets and prices instead of the drought bonds which were available to it we would not see the lack of liquidity which is prevalent in that industry today.- 1 suggest to any producer in any rural industry who sees himself on top of prices- there are very few of them in Australia today- that he should look at these income equalisation deposits as personal stabilisation plans and take the utmost advantage of them. 
There is one point in regard to the income equalisation deposits I would like to mention. An 80 per cent test is placed upon the income of the primary producers in determining whether they can take advantage of the income equalisation deposits. I suggest that perhaps this test might be applied also to the averaging provisions to ensure that Pitt Street farmers and Collins Street farmers are denied the benefit that should be available only to genuine primary producers. Perhaps this suggestion might be taken into account. In fact,  T  see that abuse could occur in the new provision for the averaging of income equalisation deposits. Perhaps that area should be looked at more carefully. As I mentioned before, this is just one way in which we can assist the rural industry in the recovery of that tremendous tariff cost which it bears every year. 
Mention has been made of amendments to income tax rates. The previous  speaker  in the debate, the honourable member for Prospect, mentioned that the tax base seemed to be rising all the time to the extent that taxpayers in the same tax bracket were being named continually as those who would not pay tax in the future. No Budget placed more low income people into a tax burden situation than did the Hayden Budget. There were no tax indexation provisions in that Budget. I ask the House to bear in mind also that it was a Labor Government that denied tax indexation benefits to the people. What the new tax rates mean, above anything else, is that those taxpayers, including pensioners with minimal income rising above the basic taxable income limit, will now be able to earn up to $3,750 as from 1 February 1978 without that income attracting taxation as has been the case during the last 2 years. This means that such people can receive an income in excess of $70 a week. The tax rates also recognise that such people are able to earn the minimum amount, still receive a full pension and pay no tax. I believe that this in itself has been of great assistance to the pensioners in the community. No doubt the measure will provide a great deal of relief in that quarter. 
I also pay tribute to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. I am sorry to know the speech he delivered tonight is probably the last speech he will deliver on tax Bills. One comment he has always made in connection with indexation is that if we index everything, have we indexed anything? I believe that the reformed income tax rates which we have been able to place before the House indicate that we are free from the tax indexation bind for the first time in two years. We are able to give equity in areas where it is more applicable and in areas where a tax indexation could not give that equity. The new tax scales will allow a person to predetermine his tax liability without the mutlitude of steps which applied previously. They certainly 
S resent an improvement and a big advance,ey are part of our tax reform deal. I believe that they will be well accepted on 1 February 1978, the introduction date. I pay tribute to the attitude of responsibility displayed by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in rebuffing the pressures that have been placed upon him to institute these schemes earlier. Tax reforms and tax reductions must be matched in terms of financial responsibility. I believe that the Treasurer has shown that in this regard - 
-Unfortunately it is another one from Queensland, whose presence we do not particularly like to acknowledge, who talks down the economy. This is the sole province of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden). 
That is your comment I would like to make some comments on the company tax rate. The rate has been increased to 46c in the dollar. Unfortunately this is retrospective to the year ended 30 June 1977. While this is unfortunate possibly because of the way tax commitments fall it is impossible to do anything about it, but it is a pity that the increase is retrospective. I would like to see introduced the rating system that was in the Income Tax Assessment Act some decade ago in connection with private companies being subject to a graduated rate of tax. This would acknowledge the difficulties faced by companies with smaller taxable incomes being subject to a high rate. I believe this would help small businesses particularly if private company tax rates or incomes up to a certain threshold could be reduced. 
Many people have criticised the increase in company tax rates. I think we should look at this in retrospect and we should look at it as it presents itself to us. Some have said that the increases will offset the advantages of indexed stock valuation and the investment allowance. If this is so I think there is some equity in it because I would like to see business accounting principlesthis applies to private companies as well as the public companies- accepted by the authorities in relation to tax deduction claims. Indexed stock valuation was introduced last year at a rate of 50 per cent of the expected consumer price index increase. This is the start of acknowledging accounting principles. What we have to do is to introduce the other 50 per cent; acknowledge the full rate of stock valuation indexation. We should also acknowledge indexation of plant depreciation allowance and it would be a happy day for me in this place to see amendments to the taxation allowance provisions under the Companies Act relating to such matters as holiday pay accrued, long service leave accrued, deferred maintenance accrued and, of course, the depreciation of business buildings. If these things were accepted tax deductions in line with accounting principles it would then be fair enough to say that in order to return the same amount of income company tax should be increased to 50c or 55c in the dollar. At least that would be equitable and it would be preferrable to the present system under which companies and people are denied deductions for actual expenditure. I would like to see the recommendations in the Mathews report further pursued. The accommodation industry and the tourist industry would be helped if they could get some advantage just on depreciation of buildings that are used within the industry. 
The legislation in connection with company proprietaryship and the abuse involving public hospitals as charities would be unnecessary if Division 7 of the Act were removed and the retention allowance extended to the full amount. I believe that if this part were removed from the Income Tax Assessment Act it would not be necessary to close the loophole to prevent the type of abuse that is being practised now. In fact those types of things help only one type of people and they are the professional people in private enterprise who make a living thinking up these schemes and encouraging people to go into them but before long people find that these things are closed in their faces. 
The trust provisions are another loophole. This will be closed under this legislation. I particularly deal with deceased estates. Abuse in this area has been prevalent in the southern States but certainly not in Queensland. We would not do a thing like that there. There is real abuse in this area and I believe that a tax of 60c in the dollar is a fair and reasonable penalty to impose on these trusts. But I believe the tax on certain other trusts should not be retrospective. I know that the Treasury could argue this because it was mentioned briefly in the Budget Speech, but I believe that retrospectivity is unwarranted at any time. If a government is going to bring in legislation it should make the provisions in the legislation applicable at the time the legislation is brought down. Certainly I do not believe that retrospectivity applied in the treatment of some of the trusts. Certain trusts were brought up to the level of 32c in the dollar of income. Of course, the payment of 60c in the dollar on deliberate tax avoidance schemes is justified. 
The health insurance levy was dealt with at great length by the honourable member for Prospect. What he did not say was that the national health scheme introduced by the Labor Party was paid for by every Australian through inflation at the rate of 16 per cent a year. Now, he talks in terms of a 2.5 per cent tax which, in effect, is necessary to bring down die rate of inflation. Nothing fuelled inflation as much as the national health scheme- a scheme which Australians could not afford. This legislation will remove some anomalies in respect of deceased estates. I could not agree more with the honourable member when he asked what effect would paying a Medibank levy have on a deceased person. That is one of the anomalies which has been removed. There are other aspects which have to be looked at. De facto relationships are not recognised within the Income Tax Act for the purposes of dependent deductions and I believe that they should be treated likewise for Medibank purposes. I believe that an anomaly already exists within that Act in respect of the non-recognition of the zone allowance rebate in calculating the amount of taxable income on which the levy is paid. 
On this aspect of the health insurance scheme I support a suggestion which was made, I think last year, by the honourble member for Tangney  (Dr Richardson)  that, while we should maintain a national health scheme for those people within Australia who need it, such as the poor, the pensioners and the like, we can bring responsibility back into our whole national health scheme only by making the patient and the medical practitioner more responsible. The only way I can see this being done is by allowing a taxpayer the benefit of first $ 100 or $200 in every year s medical and hospital expenses and to insure only as a last resort to cover long hospitalisation. 
It is not enough for any government merely to change the rates of tax ana to alter the means by which taxes are collected. There must be an acceptance by the community at large that if we are to have reductions in taxes we must at the same time reduce our expectation of handouts from government. We must appreciate the truth that government has no resources of its own. Whatever it gets and whatever it provides comes from the community. The same community which expects and demands government services also must pay for those services. 
The  DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
What was the amount of coal export levy collected from the Central Queensland coal mines and the amount paid from each mine site during 1975-76 and 1976-77. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
1 ) What was the amount of expenditure through the Department of Education on capital works within the electoral divisions of Leichhardt, Herbert, Kennedy and Dawson during each of the years 1973-74 to 1976-77, inclusive. 
What was the total expenditure by theDepartmen during the same years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science the following question on notice on 1 3 October 1 977. 
1 ) What was the amount of expenditure through the Department of Science on capital works within the electoral divisions of Leichhardt, Herbert, Kennedy and Dawson during each of the years 1973-74 to 1976-77, inclusive. 
What was the total expenditure by the Department during the same years. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
What sums have been made available to the Aboriginal Co-operative Housing Societies in the electoral divisions of Leichhardt, Kennedy, Herbert and Dawson, giving a detailed list of those expenditures, since the formation of the Societies. 
Is the Minister for National Resources aware of the heavy burden of fuel prices which country people carry? Will the Government consider some means of reducing this burden in the light of the continuing rises in costs in rural industry at a time of depressed prices and incomes? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
1 ) What was the amount of expenditure through his Department on capital works within the electoral divisions of Leichhardt, Herbert, Kennedy and Dawson during each of the years 1973-74 to 1976-77, inclusive. 
What was the total expenditure by his Department during the same years. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
What was the amount of expenditure through his Department on capital works within the electoral divisions of Leichhardt, Herbert, Kennedy and Dawson during each of the years 1973-74 to 1976-77 inclusive 
What was the total expenditure by bis Department during the same years. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice on 13 October 1977: 
What was the amount of expenditure through his Department on capital works within the electoral divisions of Leichhardt, Herbert, Kennedy and Dawson during each of the years 1973-74to 1976-77, inclusive. 
What was the total expenditure by his Department during the same years. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
1 ) What was the amount of expenditure through his De- partment on capital works within the Electoral Divisions of Leichhardt Herbert, Kennedy and Dawson during each of the years 1973-74 to 1976-77, inclusive. 
What was the total expenditure by his Department during the same years. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 13 October 1977: 
What was the amount of welfare services provided through the Department of Social Security within the electoral divisions of Leichhardt, Herbert, Kennedy and Dawson during each of the years 1973-74 to 1976-77, inclusive, and what were the categories in which they were paid. 
What was the total Commonwealth expenditure in these categories during the same years. 
The Minister for Primary Industry will be aware that sugar cane producers and millers in northern New South Wales and Queensland are concerned at the delay in the granting of an increase in the domestic price of sugar. The delay denies the industry an estimated $lm a week. Can the Minister advise when an announcement will be made in regard to the increase in price? 
-I rise to support the National Water Resources (Financial Assistance) Bill but certainly not the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition. The Bill is an example of what the federalism policy is all about. The Commonwealth is making a contribution with respect to a certain resource but is leaving the States to set the priorities and to assess how the funds will be spent. Apparently, it has not filtered through to the members of the Opposition that this is the case. Certainly, I want to place on record that I will not be supporting the proposition moved as an amendment by it. This Bill represents a fresh approach to the matter of funding water resources. It provides for a contribution of $200m over a period of five years; but it is not limited to that figure because, if the States make their contributionstheir fair contributions- and if private enterprise and councils also take up the cudgels in certain areas as we expect them to do, the total commitment to water resources over the next five years should be double or even treble the amount that is being set aside. 
I take on board the warning of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis),  that, although a figure of $200m is being set now, five years hence that figure could change dramatically because of inflation. I hope that the Government takes the point that if there is a high inflation rate this amount must be reconsidered in the interim to make sure that the relative values are maintained. As was indicated by the previous  speaker,  Australia is a dry continent. After hearing him discuss the costs of obtaining water resources in South Australia, I suggest to him and to all other honourable members from South Australia that perhaps they ought to transfer the State elsewhere. That might be cheaper than to provide the funds required. Of course, in this debate there will be many parish pump comments. Before 1 finish speaking I hope to make some of my own. 
We must look at the problem of water resources on a national basis. This Bill represents a fresh approach. It is an indication from the Commonwealth that it is prepared to do something- something that has not been done during the last two years. During the three years prior to that it was done through a rather ad hoc arrangement. The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  raised a point in connection with the allegedly trifling amounts that have been contributed by this Government in the last two years. The honourable member forgot that during the last two years this Government was faced with a situation of great stringency brought about by the inflationary climate created by the Labor Government. What this Government was able to do, it did; but certainly it had been left a huge legacy of expenditure by the Labor Government. We have been successful in pulling down the inflation rate; and I think that is justification enough. Let me also say that during the last two years the Government met the commitments of the previous Government. It contributed $Sm towards the construction of the Kinchant Dam. The contribution towards the construction of the Monduran Dam was made pursuant to a commitment made by the Labor Government in which inflationary pressures that it knew would exist were not taken into account. This Government has met those commitments, and it has honoured other programs that were not in Bill form at the time the Labor Government left the government benches. The Proserpine River Trust is an example. 
Water is our greatest asset. If that asset is not used today it is wasted for all time, quite unlike a mineral which can be left in the ground and dug up some time later. Every day that we fail to use our water resources is a day wasted in the development of this country. That is why I like to see the approach made in this Bill. It is something tangible on which perhaps we can hang our hats more certainly. Under clause 3 of the Bill, five aspects of water resources are defined. The first is conservation. The second aspect, that of management of water quality, is very important nationally. The capital cities are built on rivers which have been turned into national sewers. I believe that the management of water quality is a vital element that we should be looking at. It is certainly covered by this Bill. The other aspects are: The distribution and reticulation of water; the drainage and desalination of agricultural land; and flood mitigation. All of those are very worthy objects and they certainly will absorb more than the $200m to be provided by the Commonwealth plus the contributions of the States over the five-year period. 
I draw the attention of the Minister- I am sure that he is already aware of it- to the fact that Australia can no longer afford such blunders as the Ord River Dam. I hope that the programs and projects are assessed properly and that they are given a proper priority. I hope that they will be presented to the Commonwealth in order of priority and properly assessed. As I said, with an amount of $200m available we cannot afford to make another blunder like the Ord River Dam. 
We do not want the extravagances of bigger and better dams unless they are to be constructed in places where advantage can be taken of the infrastructure that already exists. We need to make sure that money is appropriated in order to preserve the assets that we already have. 
The situations in Victoria and New South Wales have been mentioned already. I do not know how many billions of dollars has already been invested in those areas. Certainly some of the money provided under the Bill must be appropriated to make sure that corrective actions are taken in that regard. With all due respect to my friend the honourable member for Grey, the situation in South Australia seems to require attention. Perhaps some money ought to be directed there to maintain a standard for people who have established their living patterns in that area. Those are two aspects at which I think the Government ought to look. My hope is that we can preserve what we have but also provide development opportunities. One example is the Murray River. Another is the Burdekin River scheme in Queensland. That scheme has been mentioned in this Parliament for the last 30 years. The infrastructure is already there. The rivers on the east coast of Australia are, in the main, certainly fast flowing rivers. Flood mitigation is a very necessary and important part of this Bill. 
The federalism policy is very important here because contributions- whether they are made by grant or by loan- are made in the form of financial assistance to the States. The States will always maintain their position as the owners of and the authorities that administer the watercourses and conservation programs. I believe that that is the correct attitude. Let me suggest an order of priority for the funds to be allocated. Those tasks and programs already undertaken but delayed or extended because of the pressures of inflation should be completed first. It is no good if dams are constructed but there is no reticulation or if dams and weirs are only half completed. Let us finish them. I am pleased to see that in this respect the Bill makes an appropriation of $2.5m, $1.5m of which I know will be provided, if not to complete a project, at least to make that project usable. 
I wish to take up a criticism made by a previous  speaker.  The contribution towards the construction of the Monduran Dam is a necessary contribution. It was made not as a result of political pressures but as a result of the pressures from members in the last Parliament representing the electorates that adjoin the dam- Wide Bay and Capricornia. That was the only way in which that money was extracted. I do not believe that it was necessary for any political payment, if it was to be political, to be made, because the situation demanded that it be done. There are other programs. I will mention some in Queensland. Other honourable members have mentioned other projects in Australia. I have already mentioned the Monduran Dam. The Kinchant Dam west of Mackay certainly needs to be completed and it certainly needs an injection of more Commonwealth funds. Another project is the flood mitigation project at Proserpine, where the work will protect an established town and also an industry. More funds are required there to complete the job. The Clare Weir on the Burdekin River is another part of the irrigation plan and the reticulation of the underground water supply. Its completion also suffers because of a lack of finance as a result of inflationary pressures. The Ross River Dam Stage 2, which will make sure that the city of Townsville has its required water supply in the immediate future, certainly needs to be completed. These are priorities in the State of Queensland. They are just jobs to be completed. There would be similar situations thoughout Australia. 
But never let the States forget that they also have an obligation. Their obligation is to match or to better the dollar for dollar contribution from the Commonwealth. We have heard today of the driest State in the dry continent of Australia. I turn my attention now to the wettest State in the continent. I understand that 60 to 65 per cent of the water resources of Australia are in Queensland. These resources are largely untapped and they certainly deserve some priority in funding. The balance of the water resourcesthe 35 to 40 per cent in the rest of Australiahave been managed to the extent of 80 per cent. There is only a 20 per cent gap. I have already indicated that funds should be allocated to maintain the management projects that already exist for that 80 per cent of the resources. I believe that Queensland must have a priority because of the fact that little has been dune in tapping vital resources in vital areas. In fact, no other State could make that claim. In addition, Queensland has shown the greatest potential for decentralisation. It is certainly the most productive of the States, as indicated by our good Premier, and I would not disbelieve him. 
To give an indication of the value, I refer to my own Division of Dawson which produces seven per cent of the national export total and 30 per cent of the State total. So money should be diverted to this area which has a proven record of productivity. As I said before, there is a need for flood mitigation. Many of the rivers in Queensland are short but very swift flowing. Great damage has been done from Cooktown and Cairns in the north of Queensland down through the central coast in this regard. There are many examples of river trusts requiring funds for flood mitigation work. 
This legislation could have been more definite in that an appropriation from the $200m should have been made for work on flood mitigation and flood mitigation alone. Already there is an acceptance throughout Queensland in particular, and I believe probably throughout the rest of Australia, that funds should be made available on the basis of a 40 per cent contribution by the State, 40 per cent by the Commonwealth and 20 per cent by local government. This would give the local people the opportunity to use their funds for the conservation of these vital resources. As I have said, perhaps a priority should have been given to allocating funds from the $200m for flood mitigation work. The money could be used by river trusts and an extra 20 per cent contribution would be made by local government. There is a grave need for flood mitigation work to be undertaken throughout the east coast of Australia. I hope that the States, local government and other bodies which could be interested under the terms of this legislation will not only match the contribution made by the Commonwealth but also perhaps will increase their contribution. Certainly I think we would be fooling ourselves if we thought we could cope with the water situation throughout Australia without the States and others making an increased contribution which in any case would only affect the pressures that already exist. 
I want to mention one project which has been referred to in this House for the last 30 years, and certainly in the Queensland Parliament for just as long. I refer to the Burdekin River project which has already been commenced in a small way. The residents of the area already have contributed funds from their own pockets to establish a scheme which although sufficient for the time being is not sufficient for the future. Proposals concerning the Burdekin scheme have been looked at and investigated for many years. Reports on the proposals have been lying on the shelves of libraries and gathering dust for years. The report of a State-Commonwealth investigation of the scheme, which is the latest and most important work to be carried out, was tabled in the Parliament in June of last year. At the moment the State is reviewing the situation. It has commissioned another survey to find the most viable alternative to the propositions that have been put forward. 
The Burdekin Dam was described by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  during a visit he made to the area last year as the project in Australia which has the most potential to increase the productivity and wealth of our export industries. Because I come from this area I know what he says is true. I only wish that the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman),  who is at the table, had visited the area. If I had known there was to be a change in his portfolio I might have applied pressure in that regard. But he is invited to come up to the area at any time to form the same opinion as the  Deputy  Prime Minister and I hold. 
The Burdekin project has a proven infrastructure. The port of Townsville, a growing city in north Queensland, will need additional water for its population and the industries that will be manufactured around that central port. The smaller towns of Ayr and Home Hill are situated nearby. The area has the necessary road, rail and airways infrastructure to take advantage of what must surely result from a greater Burdekin scheme. If taken on, the larger dam of the Burdekin scheme would hold back 12 times the area of water held in Sydney Harbour. I have been told that possibly this would be the second largest area of water conserved by dams in Australia. The water that would be held back by a dam, whether it be the smaller or the larger dam, could be used profitably not only for the benefit of the people of the Burdekin, the people of Townsville and the people of north Queensland but also of all Australians. The area has a record of being able to produce the goods, whether they be rural products or mineral extracts. These goods, of course, are export earners for the Australian nation as a whole. 
The people of the Burdekin are prepared to participate in the scheme. They have already indicated this by contributing over $lm to a reticulation scheme of their own. These people who know the benefits and the drawbacks of living in north Queensland are prepared to accept any challenge this Government or the State Government can issue to them. They are prepared to make the area even more productive than what it is. I have already produced figures to show that the Dawson electorate is the most productive division in Australia. There is another aspect which lends a little support to the claims of those people who support the Burdekin Dam project. There has been a growing feeling in north Queensland, although certainly not in the whole State of Queensland, which is increasing year by year that the term given to this area should not be 'northern development' but 'northern neglect'. This Government could give an indication of good faith if as its top priority it allocated some funds out of the $200m on a regular basis over 10 years towards the development of the Burdekin scheme. The State Government could sponsor such a project as a north Queensland project. It has so many things in its favour in respect of flood mitigation, power supply and the provision of water for industry. Every aspect of the scheme can be used, and used profitably. I hope that the Minister at the table will jump at the opportunity of supporting the Burdekin scheme proposal that I am sure will come from the Queensland Government. In the meantime he is free to accept my invitation to visit this area. It has been my pleasure to speak to this Bill. I support it to the full and I certainly welcome the Government's initiative in bringing it forward in this form. 
I speak in this adjournment debate tonight to challenge comments which have bordered on the emotional from consumer and food industry groups concerning the increase in the price of domestic sugar currently being sought by the sugar industry. Conveniently for the critics the comments are not based on the facts of the actual situation but rather they belabour the arguments of half-truths and innuendo as has been suggested by honourable members opposite. I wish to place before this House tonight certain facts in regard to this application and also to counter some of the claims made by consumer and food industry groups. 
The last occasion on which an application for an increase was made based on actual costs of production was in 1967. The price set at that time was $ 198 per net titre tonne of sugar from which, after payment of Sugar Board costs for refining, the producer and miller received $ 140 per tonne. Today, after the increases of 1974, 1976 and 1977 which brought the price to $260 per net tonne of sugar, the producer and miller receive only $150 per tonne. This $10 represents an increase over the 10 years of only 7 per cent. In this period the consumer price index has increased by 134 per cent. Most of the increases have been absorbed in the additional costs of refining and freighting the product after it leaves the hands of the producer and the miller. None of the increases sought since 1967 have been based on up to date production costs. The fact is that only modest increases were sought in the facet of excellent export prices to maintain only the net return to producer and miller. 
In spite of this attitude the producers' returns reduced from a figure of $140 in 1967 to a low of $126 in 1975, an actual decrease in that time of $14 per tonne. In the face of this fact I defy the Food Industry Council of Australia or the Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations to sustain the criticism of greed which they have levelled at the sugar industry. The industry has been not only conservative in previous requests for increases but also responsible. When export prices were high it imposed no application of that high export price to flow to the domestic market. 
In recent years the industry has endeavoured in the face of inflation to reduce all possible costs through mechanisation. The consumer has had the benefit of this improved productivity. The industry has been accused of hiding behind the embargo barricade. The fact not mentioned is that many of the industries currently complaining have been able to hide to some extent behind tariff barriers and behind the same embargoes. This price is heavily borne by the rural industries. Also the embargo barricade has given the Commonwealth Government the right to set the domestic price of sugar, which is the only rural product for which the price is so set by the Commonwealth. The fact is that the sugar-using confectionery and soft drink industries, during this period of 10 years when the basic price of the ingredient increased by only 31 per cent, increased the price of their own finished product by 160 per cent compared with a consumer price index increase of 134 per cent. Consumers should therefore ask themselves who has been the least responsible. The answer would be the manufacturers. Consumers should ask themselves who has been receiving the benefit over the past 10 years of an item priced below production costs. The answer is the consumers themselves. 
To substantiate the current increase of 3 1 per cent this Government has requested from the industry current production costs as applicable to the 1977 season. These vary substantially from area to area and are not at this stage readily available for the season just completed. From production costs for the 1976 season, with cash inputs, a reasonable return on investment capital, a moderate return for the labour of some 7,000 producers, I could justify a production cost well in excess of the amount of $23 per tonne to the producer sought by the current application. Once again it is a story of food manufacturers trying to cover up their own inadequacies and inefficiences by blaming a rural industry. In addition, the consumer has not been given the facts by those industries in order to allow him to appreciate the low cost of yet another Australian rural product. I had hoped that the sugar industry would not have to suffer in the same way as other rural  industries  have suffered at the hands of Australian consumers and manufacturers. The dairying, fruit and beef industries are examples at present. While the debate proceeds and no decision is made, the producers and millers are being denied $lm per week for every week of delay. 
-In speaking to this Address-in-Reply I firstly pass on to the Governor-General the congratulations and best wishes of the constituents of Dawson. We did this separately in a telegram on the day of his taking office. I believe that as a recently acquired and fellow Queenslander the Governor-General has all the attributes that will make a great Governor-General. Our best wishes go with him in his task of representing the monarch within this Government. At this time I take the opportunity of expressing to him congratulations and best wishes as I also do to the elected  Speaker  of the House of the Thirty-first Parliament. Following the experience he gained in the Thirtieth Parliament I believe that he will establish himself- he has already done so- as one of the great Speakers of this House. To the 
Deputy Speaker and Chairman of Committees, a fellow Queenslander, go my best wishes in the task that he is undertaking- a task that will be challenging during his time in office. But I feel that he has the competence to handle the job and will do so. 
At this stage I mention a colleague who is not with us in this Parliament but who was with us in the Thirtieth Parliament; namely,  Col Carige  from the Division of Capricornia. I believe that this Thirty-first Parliament is a loser by his absence. For two years he battled in this Parliament with determination not normally seen in a new member, and possibly not seen in old membersa determination to set right many of the ills and problems that beset his constituency, his State and this nation. As I said, this Thirty-first Parliament will be at a loss for his absence. I certainly wish him all the very best and a speedy return to this place, preferably within the next three years. 
I should like to raise some points related to the remarks of the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi).  This will surprise him, but I agree with a lot of what he said, particularly about tax avoidance. I bring this forward in my speech because I think I might have a receptive ear from the honourable member's corner. The challenge that will face this Government within the next 3 years will be to look very closely at the tax avoidance methods that are prevalent. This matter was mentioned by the honourable member for Hawker and I also believe it has been noted by many other honourable members. In many ways the past two years in which we held office were not wasted years, but it is a basic necessity that this Government should come to grips with the taxation problems. We now have a tax indexation system which sets the basis for more equality between low and high income earners. I believe even the honourable member for Hawker will agree with my statement. This system has sought to bring justice to all to the extent that there can be no excuse for people thinking that as a moral right they can avoid what they believe to be an unjust tax. I believe that we can collect as much by closing the loopholes within the next 3 years as we could if we were to raise the tax rate. 
I wish to correct what was said by the honourable member for Hawker in connection with section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act The honourable member said that it was only in more recent years following a High Court interpretation that this section has proved to be a failure. Actually section 260 has been a failure ever since it has been in the Act- and that is some 1 5 years. 
For 20 years. I believe that it has been a failure. But, for goodness sake, all the blame should not be heaped on the previous Liberal-Country Party Government which was in office for 2 years, because the Labor Government also had the same right and opportunity to correct any anomalies when it was in office, from 1972 to 1975. 1 refer not only to section 260 but also to the trust tax laws, company stripping and so on. Now that a standard rate of tax has been introduced, I hope the Government will act promptly to correct the anomalies in the tax legislation and to deal with the tax avoidance procedures that exist. But I add the rider that, whatever we do, we must telegraph our intention to the taxpayers so that we do not have to act retrospectively. Whatever we plan to do should be notified to the public as a change that will operate from a certain date, even if the machinery comes into effect some time later. No way in the world will I countenance retrospectivity in any way in connection with the collection of taxation. I believe that the honourable member for Hawker raised a valid point in suggesting that the Government and the Opposition could look at this aspect and act in concert to make sure that everybody in Australia contributes their lawful and equitable taxation payments to assist in funding the programs that are being undertaken at the moment. 
The honourable member for Hawker may now wish to leave the chamber because I propose to criticise the Opposition for an attitude that has been prevalent in this debate on the motion to adopt the Address-in-Reply. On two election polling days- 13 December 1975 and 10 December 1977- the Australian people have indicated clearly that they wish a free enterprise form of government. On both occasions they have rejected by overwhelming majorities the socialism attitude as a way of life in Australia. The voting in those elections indicates to me that the average Australian would prefer to give of his effort than to receive. This is the theme that I believe the Governor-General captured in his Speech when he said of Australians: 
They know our nation's prospects are limitless, and that by working together Australians can overcome the great challenges of unemployment and inflation and restore our nation 's economy to full vitality. 
The challenge facing not only the Government but also the Opposition is to make sure that we work together to achieve the great development prospects and wealth that this country can provide its people. 
Much has been said about unemployment. Much has been said about the lowering of the real value of wages and matters such as that. This is only part of the whole problem. In the 1970s, Australians have been enjoying a standard of living beyond the means that this nation can afford and, as was mentioned by the GovernorGeneral, the sooner we work together and increase productivity the better it will be, because that is the only way we will overcome the problems which face Australia and make it the great nation that it should be. 
One aspect I wish to comment on has already been referred to earlier this evening in the maiden speech by the honourable member for Herbert,  Mr Gordon  Dean. He delivered a fine address. He mentioned north Australia. I will give a few facts. In this Parliament seven of the 124 members represent approximately 40 per cent of Australia's surface and approximately half of Australia's coastline. Irrespective of what the other 117 members may say, Australia depends on those 7 members to a great extent for its security, its defence, its wealth, its productivity and its decentralisation. I congratulate the honourable member for stating that he is determined to press for a fairer deal for northern Australia. I had placed the Tasmanian representatives on notice that the 30th Parliament was the year of the Tasmanians. The 3 1 st Parliament, I hope, will be the year of the northern Australian representatives. After all, it is just a matter of changing the emphasis from one end of the nation to the other. The Tasmanians have only 5 representatives but we have 7 representatives. 
For the benefit of those people who want to know something about the geography of Australia, the electorate of Phil Lucock is not in northern Australia. I would just like to mention some aspects of the GovernorGeneral 's speech which are relevant to the points I have made. The Government's priorities are: 
To secure the defence of our nation and act as a positive force for world peace. 
The Governor-General went on to say: 
My Government has embarked on a major program to boost exports. 
The Governor-General also said: 
Legislation will be introduced to enable the proclamation of an Australian fishing zone covering all living marine resources out to 200 nautical miles. 
He went on to say: 
My Government is most conscious of the need to meet the challenge of present and future international shortages in energy supplies. 
These references in the Speech have a good deal to do with northern Australia, about which I wish to talk. The energy problem can be overcome by using the resources in northern Australia. The coal mines in the Bowen Basin export approximately 10 million to 12 million tonnes of coal a year. Unfortunately the water resources program was not mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech but already legislation exists in relation to it. At least 40 per cent of Australia's water flows to coastal areas from areas within northern Australia. The 200 mile resources zone around Australia affects not only my electorate with its 400 miles of coastline and the Great Barrier Reef but also the whole of northern Australia including the Gulf of Carpentaria and across to the north-west coast of Western Australia. These matters will influence the development of northen Australia. The myth of northern development of course has long been torpedoed. The people of the north now talk about northern neglect; not northern development. 
In respect of all of these matters I ask the Government to look at the Governor-General 's Speech and to pursue the proposals by using the assets of northern Australia to their utmost so that we can achieve the objectives set out in the Speech. In the period following the proroguing of" the 30th Parliament and the election we saw the threat to our security through northern Australia in the form of Taiwanese boats which put refugees into Darwin and areas on the north coast. We have read also of the importation of drugs coming through the Northern Territory by aeroplane. We know that one has been detected but we do not know how many have not been detected. It is vital not only to our civil and military defence but also to our moral defence that steps be taken to strengthen our northern borders and the coastline which is not far from countries in the north. We must exploit as far as possible the fish resources that no doubt exist in our 200-mile zone. We should not leave this task to other nations as part of some trade-off deal. This is probably the most neglected industry- it is often described as a rural industry- in Australia today. I hope that the challenge presented to us by the declaration of this 200-mile nautical economic zone will inspire Australians to develop the asset that is present in those waters. 
I turn now to other aspects of northern neglect. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  referred to the road system in Western Australia. Apparently the funding for national highways throughout Australia is based on the length of the highways with weight put on the population of a State. As I mentioned earlier, account is not taken of the fact that northern Australia suffers from the worst climatic conditions in Australia and over the course of 12 months the roads there have suffered from the heaviest rainfall in Australia. I hope that the Bureau of Transport Economics and the Federal and State departments of transport will look at this matter with a view to allocating more funds for the roads in the north. 
Not only are those roads important for trade and commerce and their tourism potential but also they have a defence significance. Somebody put up the argument at one stage during the Thirtieth Parliament that there is a very good reason why we do not upgrade and improve our roads in northern Australia. He said that if we did and the enemy landed on the northern borders he would have a free trip down to the south. I do not really think that that is a good argument. I suggest that the reverse argument should be used, that we might be able to get our defence forces on the spot a lot earlier. Those roads are important not only for military reasons but also for the other aspects of security and defence that I mentioned earlier. 
Another thing happened during the Christmas recess. There was one commissioner in the Australian Broadcasting Commission who held himself responsible for the problems faced in regional and rural areas of Australia. After his term of three years was finished his appointment was not reconfirmed. The State and Federal governments are condemned by people because they do not seem to realise that we have problems in northern Australia and in rural areas that people such as the former commissioner have been protecting. I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  to have this matter examined fully, and perhaps to appoint another commissioner to that position to look after the interests of northern Australia. The previous commissioner came from Mackay and the one before that came from Townsville. Now we have none. 
The Minister might also look at the problems associated with bringing television to remote areas- I know that that is already part of the Government's policy- and also with the provision of translators for mining towns. I fail to see how any government can ask mining companies or mining townships to contribute to their own translator installations, particularly when those mining townships provide a tremendous amount of revenue by way of royalties for the Federal and State governments. They provide a tremendous amount in the form of the coal levy tax, which honourable members on this side of the House have indicated many times is an immoral tax. They contribute revenue in the form of taxes, export wealth and in many other ways and yet the people in northern Australia and the people in mining townships throughout the area north of the Tropic of Capricorn - 
Where is Victoria? I was talking about mining townships. If there is one in Victoria in that category I will for the moment agree with the honourable member. Mining townships should not be asked to contribute to their own ABC services. These people, who are the pioneers of Australia, are deprived of many things these days, and now they are being asked to pay for their own translators. I believe that the Government should make those ABC translators available and have them installed as quickly as possible. 
Another matter relating to the seven divisions that I have mentioned is the water resources program of northern Queensland. As I said in a speech last week, that area has a great potential for contributing to the wealth of Australia by the proper use of its water resources for irrigation, domestic and industrial purposes, hydroelectricity and flood mitigation works on the rivers and streams flowing to the coast. These streams challenge the resources of local government and the people in those areas to the extent that I believe that greater funding should be made available for flood mitigation alone. People in the north have been talking about these aspects. They want their views put very forcibly. That will be done by me, the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  and certainly the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson).  We must press for these things in this Parliament. 
Over many years Australia has been faced by changing social patterns. In the remaining years of this decade the Government must face up to those challenges. It must recognise them, implement fresh programs and supply the answers. As the Governor-General said in his Speech, this can be done only by all people working together. The day when governments could supply the needs of the people is a day of the past-the 1950s and the 1940s. What we need is the three levels of government- local, State and Federal- to work together. I believe that this will be achieved eventually under the federalism scheme. Governments also need to work with the people who want to provide the wealth, who want to take up the challenges. I refer to those people who are pioneers in fields such as oil and mineral exploration, rural activities and decentralisation. We have to work together to build a greater Australia. I have much pleasure in supporting the mover and the seconder of this motion. I w ant to place on record my own support for the Governor-General's Speech and also my support for the GovernorGeneral's appointment. 
-I support the Softwood Forestry Agreements Bill 1978. I note that it is different from previous legislation in that it is a maintenance Bill rather than an expansionary Bill. I note the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition. I think we should realise that perhaps the Government may have wanted to do more than it has, but there is a certain restriction on funds. This is a great pity, when one realises that this restriction has been brought about by the results of the Opposition which has moved the amendment. Be that as it may, the Opposition's amendment in its own right could have some merit. I have spoken to people within the industry in this regard and have gone beyond the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and governmental sources. There seems to be a feeling in the industry that there may be a shortage of timber for domestic purposes on the world markets by the year 2002, which is the year referred to by the BAE. I recognise the argument advanced by the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  that perhaps this legislation does not take into account the global problems that could arise in the next 20 to 25 years. Perhaps that is not the Bill's intention. It is a pity that we do not recognise more definitely some of the incentives which are available in other nations but which are not available to the Australian industry. Basically the industry has been left in the hands of private enterprise. 
Much has been said about the environmental issues in regard to the forestry industry in general in Australia. I wish to make some comment on that later on. Looking at the global situation, the BAE submits that softwood plantings should be left in the hands of the States. I believe it is being too optimistic in its view. I believe the States will move only when they have assistance from the Federal Government and private enterprise. The BAE again reports that Australia will be selfsufficient domestically in softwoods, particularly in pine wood, by the year 2002. The BAE does not take into account the situation as it exists globally. For instance, today Australia imports 25 per cent of its forest products. The imports come from Canada, the United States, New Zealand, Indonesia and Malaysia. The annual cost to Australia of these imports is $2 50m. The honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  referred to the fact that we as a nation ought not to try to achieve self-sufficiency but rather we should look to our neighbours with a view to encouraging imports and also trade between us. Perhaps that is what we should do, but I lean more towards the argument that if we have the land and the wherewithal we should use these to the best of our ability and certainly try to fulfill the requirements of the domestic market at least. 
Although the Bill does deal with this aspect, as the honourable member for Fraser said, the lead time in the shortage is between 20 to 25 years. We cannot pick up the shortage in timber in the short term. If there is an oversupply of timber there is no reason why the timber cannot be put in storage in a live state for periods of up to 20, 30 or 40 years. Perhaps that is the aspect at which we should be looking. Environmentally or otherwise I see no difference between a tree planted in a forestry project or natural timber. Perhaps this is the point on which I would disagree with the Opposition. 
The Food and Agriculture Organisation in Rome recently predicted that there would be a world-wide shortfall in wood and wood fibre by the year 2000. Certainly Australia would have the potential to pick up that shortage in supply. I am led to believe that the lead time in the supply of timber market shortfalls makes it imperative that we do something this year, 1978. It takes 15 years- that is, up to 1992- to produce thinnings for pulp. It takes 20 to 25 years to produce logs for sawing and milling- that is to say, up to the period 1998 to 2003. It takes 40 to 45 years for full rotation of a plantation. So this year is a critical year from the point of view of thinnings, sawing and full rotation. As I said, the timber could be left in storage if an oversupply situation arises. 
I believe that consideration should be given now to these aspects. Obviously something cannot be done within the framework of this Bill, but it could be done in separate legislation. We should make available large areas of land, and obviously cleared land where it is available, so that it can be put to this use. It would require a land usage in Australia of only 2 per cent to satisfy the situation in the year 2000. Only 1 per cent of Australia's land mass would be required for pine plantations. So not a great amount of land is involved. 
There is no cheaper alternative to timber from the point of view of the production of paper. Let us examine the construction industry. I think it is reasonable to look at a target of 150,000 houses a year, irrespective of the size of the population. Perhaps the honourable member for Robertson took much umbrage when the population issue was raised. The possibility of the existence of a zero population birth rate is not all that has to be taken into account. Australia's population will increase from natural migration and natural births by the year 2000. So 1 50,000 residences or constructions per year is a reasonable target. 
Wood represents the only renewable source as far as a material is concerned. The alternatives of steel, brick, aluminium and concrete are finite products and they leave vast open quarries in their wake. Anyone who talks about environmental impacts should consider that aspect. The fuels that are required to take this raw product from the quarry and put it into usable shape are again finite fuels- fossils and oils. I feel that when we are talking about an energy crisis and looking to the future we should remember that wood is a renewable source. It should be looked at as such. It is a product that can be changed in many ways and used in many ways. It can be reshaped. That leads me to believe that perhaps we should be paying more attention to forestry than we are at the moment. Perhaps we are just paying lip service to the energy crisis and are not taking the proper and appropriate action that we should be taking at this point of time. 
Wood also has other advantages. Let us examine some of the advantages of wood to Australia today. The planting of these seedlings is labour intensive. It assists in the aspect of decentralisation, which it is obviously necessary to consider because of the number of people who are gravitating to our capital cities. The expansion of this industry will decentralise industry and decentralise people. In looking at the situation now and trying to demonstrate that there is a need for the future we need to look at the problems we face today. I list as the first problem the lack of appreciation of the opportunities that will exist within our timber industry in years to come. Inadequate governmental assistance is being provided, particularly compared with the assistance given overseas. There is very fierce competition from overseas producers which are being very heavily subsidised and which are pouring timber into Australia, thereby acting very competitively against our own industries. 
Yes, it is a dumping situation which is being brought about by the free trade agreement with other countries. The final problem- I list it as a problem- is the attitude of the environmentalists on both sides of politics. 
The Bill is an example of the lack of appreciation of these problems and these opportunities as far as we can demonstrate. I hope that the States and private enterprise will be able to pick up what we are not providing. There is a need for them to take up the slack but, as I said earlier, I feel that I am a being a little too optimistic to expect that to happen. However, I applaud the decisions which are being made at the moment to expand the domestic industry, particularly in the Albury-Wodonga area. I believe a pulp mill is being established there. If we look to that as an example, we may find that we will be able eventually to close the gap in so far as imports are concerned. I hope there will be further expansion in this area. It is fairly relevant. I have been led to believe that the  Deputy  Prime Minister of New Zealand made a particular point of looking at that project. I do not know what was said or what discussions were had, but New Zealand has a pecuniary interest in what might happen in the Australian domestic scene. 
We have examples of the extent of involvement of other governments, particularly the New Zealand Government. New Zealand provides very critical competition to the Australian softwood industry. Of course, it operates under the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. As my colleague the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  said, it allows New Zealand to dump its products on the Australian shore and the Australian people pay the penalty. The Tasman Paper and Pulp Building Co. in its recent annual report produced a review of the years 1975, 1976 and 1977 which demonstrated that the New Zealand company which is involved purely in the timber industry in New Zealand was able to produce a profit in those three years of some $18m-$3.8 in 1975; $9.5m in 1976; and $4.9m in 1977. The remarkable feature of it is that during that time no tax was paid and no provision was made for taxation. That is an example of a government actively pursuing and encouraging the timber industry. It is obviously of assistance. The assistance rendered allows that company to place its product on the Australian market more competitively than our own industry, which lacks the sort of incentive given to its New Zealand counterparts except for the type of agreement about which we are now debating. 
The New Zealand industry has been established longer than Australia's industry. I know that honourable members in this House have talked about when the plantations were started in the South of Australia, but basically New Zealand's history in this industry is that it involved itself earlier than Australia in such plantations and in the production of timber. In the 1930s New Zealand foresters were able to come to Australia and sell their shares to Australians. Many Australians, as a consequence, have vast investments in the New Zealand forestry industry. At the same time, there is no situation similar to that which allowed Australians to invest in Australia. So from 1930 onwards is the lead time that New Zealand has had over the Australian industry. It is now using that to a big advantage. 
The stumpage royalty on pine in 1975 in New Zealand was $3.3 per cubic metre. Although it is not a direct comparison, Australia's current rate of royalty is $5.65 per cubic metre- some $2.3 more. On hoop pine it goes as high as $13.3 1 per cubic metre. Again, most of these royalties are paid to the States. So a very heavy penalty is being paid by our industries to those authorities in comparison with New Zealand. I should like to compare the freight rates across the Tasman with the freight rates up the coast. On a mileage basis the freight rate across the Tasman from Auckland to Brisbane is much lower than the freight rate from Sydney to Cairns. Of course, the Australian National Line comes into this aspect. Again, we have a situation where the Government is not helping but penalising our industry whereas obviously the New Zealand industry is receiving great help from the New Zealand Government. 
I should like to make some other comparisons between the New Zealand industry and our own industry. The competitive wage paid in New 
Zealand is $120 a week and in Australia it is $162 a week. Again, that is a heavy penalty which has to be borne by the Australian industry. The forests are greater in New Zealand and the timber is larger. New Zealand is therefore able to get more output and productivity out of a log than Australia. I should like to summarise the New Zealand advantage over the Australian position. Free trade is accepted within Australia and New Zealand has free access to Australian markets without any import duty. New Zealand has a comprehensive, integrated logging industry which has been established over many years. It has larger trees, deeper stumpage, lower wages and wage-influenced overheads, and government subsidies and allowances. Perhaps we should be looking at the type of competition being faced by the Australian industry and helping it in this regard. 
One of our current problems is the attitude of conservationists to the timber industry. The contention here is that the more we plant now and the more we have surplus in the future the greater the disadvantage to the Australian environment. I do not feel that anybody can really accept this argument. As I mentioned earlier, a tree on a plantation which was previously bare ground must be something of an improvement to the nature or the character of the land. The conservationists also argue that we should cultivate the indigenous species in Australia. If we consider Australian agricultural products, very few are indigenous to Australia Most of them have been imported. Even our grazing and agricultural industries import their species, so that is no argument. Probably the only indigenous agricultural product that we have in Australia is the Queensland nut tree. I merely mention that in passing. In addition, it is not generally realised that the native lands are very poor producers of timber from the point of view of yield per hectare. The man-made forests have a 16-times greater yield than the native forests, and yet the environmentalists argue against the proposition. 
The environmentalists have spent too much time on these issues, which are rather emotional and have little substance and little realism, particularly when it is remembered that we are asking for only one per cent of Australia's land surface to bring us at the end of this century to a proficiency in terms of pines that will enable us to supply the domestic market and to fill shortfalls on the world market. We have the climate and the land. If we can plant the appropriate timber at the appropriate place we can get the productivity from our forests. There are strains of pines that are suitable for South Australia; other strains are suitable for the southern end of coastal Australia; and strains such as the hoop pine are available for the tropical and subtropical areas. Australia has an advantage. We can grow the timber and I believe that we should. 
Realising that there is a high labour content in this industry and that today we face an unemployment problem, perhaps it would be realistic for the Government to look at a high labour content industry such as this and set about providing a product now for the year 2000 by using labour that is surplus to requirements on this type of project. I can see no alternative to timber in the future- timber being the most economic alternative available for paper production. Talks have been held about using by-products from the sugar industry for conversion to cardboard and things like that, but that is not a cheap alternative. Those by-products would not be as cheap as timber to convert to paper. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister would be aware of the great concern that is being expressed in the sugar industries of Queensland and northern New South Wales about the domestic price increase in sugar. Can he tell me when such a decision will be made by Cabinet? 
-I am disappointed with the contribution made to the debate by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I mention that because I hold him in very high regard, as I do the gentleman he talked about, that is, the former honourable member for Dawson, who, during the latter part of his period in Parliament was Minister for Agriculture in the last Labor Government. I must correct some of the statements that have been made. The main one is that there was misrepresentation by the Government of the situation under the International Sugar Agreement. I have in my hands three annual reports for the 1977 season. They come from the Proprietary Sugar Millers Association, the Queensland Cane Growers Association and the Australian Sugar Producers Association. Each of those reports gives a fairly full summary of what is the situation with the International Sugar Agreement. Bearing in mind that these are only annual reports, one can imagine that supplementary reports have been given to the cane growers from time to time. The general realisation by the producer would be that the prices referred to are attainable prices and are not meant to be guaranteed prices as is indicated by the fact that some three months after the commencement of the Agreement the prices still have not stabilised at the figure of $US0.1 1 per lb. I believe I speak for the industry in Queensland and northern New South Wales when I say there has been no misrepresentation in this regard and that the farmers are quite sure of what the situation is. The honourable member for Kingsford-Smith criticised failure to do this and failure to do that. Might I just say as someone who has been associated with the sugar industry for some 20 years that one only has to turn back a producer's mind 12 years to the disastrous years of 1965 and 1966 when there was no international sugar agreement, no long term contracts and sugar was selling on the export market for $24 a tonne. Although the Agreement sets out nothing special it means that it is better for producers to try to sell 2.35 million tonnes on the export market at even 8c a tonne than 2.6 million tonnes for half that price as they did in 1 965-66. 1 agree with the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith that there is no indication in the Agreement that these prices will be attainable in the short term. In fact it is freely mentioned that if these prices are attained by the end of 12 months that will be an indication that the Agreement is working. 
Mention was also made that the industry in Queensland and northern New South Wales is not in a happy situation. I agree with that. The industry at the moment is agonising over many things. It is agonising over the fact that producers have to cut production this year although they were given a warning that this would be necessary in September and October of last year. They had the opportunity voluntarily to cut their crops by using less fertiliser or by doing less work on their cane. Some did and some did not. But there will be agonising while the export price stays low. There will be agonising while the domestic price does not increase in the way they have sought over the last four months. Producers are agonising over the change in the method of determining a peak. 
Mention was also made that 40 per cent of the crop could be left in the ground in Queensland this year. I cannot take that as a realistic figure because even on last year's crop which was almost a record the over-supply situation was not 40 per cent but, based on the total industry, about 20 per cent. I believe that this year's crop will be smaller than it was last year. So it is not absolutely correct to talk in terms of 40 per cent of the crop being left in the ground. 
I have the highest regard for  Dr Rex  Patterson as a man who knew the sugar industry. He was the Minister who negotiated the 1973 renewal of the International Sugar Agreement which was formed in 1968. But this Agreement did not come to fruition. It is perhaps fortunate in the short term for the Australian industry that this happened. A lack of supply on the export market shot prices up and it only needs a million tonnes deficit on the export market to make the difference between a small price and a boom price. 
The mechanisms that were mentioned in connection with long term contracts were not the answer to the over-supply situation to which all countries contributed. Certainly while international sugar agreements will come in very handy for Australia, particularly in regard to the present 2.35 million tonnes quota, they were not the answer to rectify the over-supply situation which we are now facing. Certainly we are looking at the moment at a four months in-store supply of sugar which is about twice as much as we would like to see. Only the mechanisms supplied by the International Sugar Agreement may correct the situation by the end of this year or a little longer. 
Again I speak for the sugar industry. I have spoken to representatives of the industry as recently as this afternoon and none of the major industry organisations finds any complaint in this regard. As a member representing 40 per cent of Australia's sugar growers I regret the fact that the prospects of the industry are not as good as they were 12 months ago. However, producers look to the International Sugar Agreement with some hope. As I have pointed out, no guarantee has been given that the conditions set out in the legislation will be reached in the short term. Therefore I welcome the negotiations. I welcome this Bill which confirms the Agreement that has already been signed. This Agreement is different to the one negotiated in 1968. That Agreement was not renewed in 1973 because the quotas were based on the fact that storage was required. 
The agreement is aimed at establishing a price range between $US0.1 lc and $US0.21c per lb. The quotas are at the expense of the over-supply or the surplus situation which went into No. 2 pool recently. The storage will be at the cost of the Australian industry. But these are sacrifices the Australian industry is prepared to make in order to make sure that the undertakings of the International Sugar Agreement are achieved. 
The world price in January 1974 started at $ 142 per long tonne. But by the end of the year it had risen because of an under-supply situation to $650 per tonne. By 1975 the price was down to $ 1 28 and currently it fluctuates at about $ 100 per tonne. So in this climate it was absolutely essential that something should be done. The Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  has been criticised because the European Economic Community was not included in the Agreement. Again I agree that this must be one of the big question marks and one of the doubts that anyone has about this Agreement. While the EEC is outside of the Agreement, and is the largest producer of sugar in the world with some 10.8 million tonnes in 1976, the situation remains delicate. If anyone can tell me how one tells a Frenchman, a German or someone else to negotiate an agreement he might transmit this information to the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  who is overseas trying to negotiate with that same market at the moment. The Minister for Trade and Resources took a situation and improved upon it because this Agreement was doomed to failure one month before it was reached. Certainly our quota of 2.35 million tonnes was not reached without a heck of a lot of hard negotiation and hard bargaining. Australia receive the second highest quota of any country. Therefore work has been done in the interests of the industry and I am certain the industry appreciates it. 
The Agreement has been successful in that the United States of America has been included. Originally the United States intended to stay outside of the Agreement. If it had done so the Agreement would have been absolutely useless. It is bad enough for the EEC to be outside the Agreement. However, the fact that the United States is in the Agreement is certainly another indication of the hard and successful negotiations that were conducted. There has been talk about a tariff situation as far as America is concerned. I do not believe that has any significance for the International Sugar Agreement and pricing. That is a domestic arrangement as far as America is concerned. We talk of long term contracts. These long term contracts will still be successful even though the International Sugar Agreement is in operation. 
I would again like to bring up the point that if we are negotiating we should do so at a time and in accordance with the circumstances. The long term contracts engaged in during 1 973 and 1 974 resulted in a successful price. But I remind the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith that two of these contracts had already been in the course of re-negotiation. Those negotiations could have collapsed. However, this did not happen because of the swift and good negotiations not only by members of government, both State and Federal as well as the Japanese and Malaysian governments, but also by the industry itself. The International Sugar Agreement is the product not only of hard negotiations of government but also hard negotiations by an industry which has built up a reputation for quality and reliability and this is what the Australian industry stands for at the moment. That is why long term contracts were negotiated and renegotiated at a lesser price and why the International Sugar Agreement stands where it does. 
I mentioned that the International Sugar Agreement will be at the expense of the Australian grower. In 1 975 Australia produced 2.855 million tonnes of sugar. In 1976 that figure increased to 3.296 million tonnes. For the last season- that is 1977- the figure was 3.342 million tonnes. We have to reduce this to 2.8 million tonnes, so there is a sacrifice to be made by the grower, the person in the field, and also by the miller, the producer. It is the lowest figure in any of the last three years. Our quota of 2.35 million tonnes was again the amount required to at least sustain and keep the peaks that were already allocated. I am sure that that quota was negotiated at some expense with a lot of hard toil. 
Storage also is an expense and I wish to give a little of the history of storage. The industry in 1974 voluntarily levied itself to the extent of $50m for storage purposes out of the price it was then receiving on a favourable market. In the following two years the industry put aside another $10m. So the industry has contributed $60m of the current estimate of some $ 1 1 8m that is required for storage facilities. The balance of the money will be provided not by way of grant from the Government but by way of loan and this loan will be repaid in the fullness of time. It is an industry which has looked after itself and therefore deserves the protection that this International Sugar Agreement will give. There has been talk of a pricing mechanism, and in this respect the levy on sales is 0.28c per lb. This is meant to be the amount which will supplement the exporting countries for the cost of storage. I believe that this figure is in the vicinity of $30 per tonne of sugar stored, and it is expected that $20 of this $30 will be sufficient to finance the interest on the loans obtained from the various sources and to pay the producer and miller for the crop that year. The balance of $10 hopefully will cover storage costs. Already the industry has levied itself and is on the loan market, so it is reasonable to expect that the $30 will cover interest charges and the cost of storage. 
These are the penalties and this is the way in which the industry has gone about trying to protect itself. Some $1 18m is required to complete the storage facilities which include the Bundaberg storage terminal, the Lucinda storage terminal which has still to be completed, and the storage terminal at Mackay which has yet to be commenced but which has to be completed in time. This industry in Queensland, as with any rural industry, finds that a restriction on it means a restriction on the community and the people who live in that community which is there basically because of that industry. I have no doubt that the restrictions we have talked about tonight, that is, the shortage of funds, will be reflected through these communities over the next few years until a reasonable price is obtained. 
I take this opportunity to transfer the attention of the House from the International Sugar Agreement to the other problem which is somewhat connected with it, the domestic price. I spoke in the adjournment debate in this House on 1 March 1978 and drew attention to the claims being made by consumer and industry organisation about the greed of the sugar industry in seeking the price of $80 per tonne mentioned by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. I have had correspondence from these organisations in which they frankly admit that the producer and miller are worthy of some consideration. Part of the letter which the Australian Council of Soft Drink Manufacturers wrote to me states: 
Information already published makes it quite evident that the real problem facing growers and millers is not that domestic prices are too low but that refining and distribution costs are too high. 
I put a question mark against that statement. The letter continues: 
It is because of this that payments (per tonne) to growers and millers have risen by only 4.7 percent between 1967 and 1977 . . . 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I ask you to name any industry, manufacturing or rural, in Australia that has coped with such a small percentage increase in the price received for its product and has been able to survive, in spite of the fact that the consumer price index has increased by 134 per cent in those 10 years. The sugar industry has been able to do this because it has turned to mechanisation, because it has funded research facilities and because of the efficiency it has achieved through the cutting of costs and the raising of quality under proper supervision and management of the industry. Certainly the methods which have been used in the past to prune costs and keep on-costs as low as possible cannot be expected to work in the future. These people are prepared to admit that. They do not mention that whilst the income to the sugar industry as a whole has increased by 3 1 per cent and only 4.7 per cent of that has gone to the grower and millers, the industry has incurred cost increases of 164 per cent. I can remember as a child that a two lb loaf of bread and a pound of sugar cost the same. Today one can buy 3 lb of sugar for the price of a loaf of bread of the same weight. So when people talk in terms of an industry being greedy and getting at the public they certainly are not referring to the sugar industry in which these events have occurred over the 30 years that I can remember. 
The third item over which the industry is presently agonising is the domestic price. The industry late last year asked the Government for an increase in the domestic price and its documented case based on certain aspects was placed before the Government. The Government called for additional information on producer and miller costs. The last occasion when these costs were taken into account was 1967. The industry has not sought large increases in the domestic price. It has been content to take lower increases because of the export price. In view of the figures which I can supply for the 1976 season- the costs for that year together with a reasonable increase of, say, 10 per cent in the consumer price index, and taking into account the cost of the farmer's own labour and a lower than normal return on capital investment- the amount of $23 per tonne which the farmer is now seeking is not too much. In fact it is probably a smaller return on investment than anybody in the manufacturing world would normally anticipate. 
At a time when the industry is looking to the International Sugar Agreement for some improvement in the price of sugar, I ask the Government to look carefully at the application which the industry has made in respect of the domestic price. I can substantiate the fairness of the claim. The industry has been subsidising the consumer in Australia certainly in the last 10 years and now when it needs an increase in the domestic price it has sought it. I hope that not only the Government but also consumer groups will recognise that over this period the industry has subsidised the consumer and that organisations such as the Australian Council of Soft Drink Manufacturers and Coca Cola will appreciate that if they had kept their costs in order to the same extent and had mechanised to keep costs within reason, the price of their products would not be so great now. Ironically one of the greatest on-costs in the soft drink and confectionary industries has risen by only 3 1 per cent in 10 years. This is a major cost to these industries. Yet there has been an increase of 164 per cent in the consumer price index. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Is the Minister for Trade and Resources aware of Press criticisms, based on recent inaccurate statements in this House and the Senate, of the new International Sugar Agreement and claims that it will be of no value to the industry? Are those statements and claims correct? 
-It has been commonly acknowledged that two things in life are certain: One is the payment of taxes; the other is death. Certainly it is the Parliament and the government of the day that have a lone hand in contributing towards the first, namely, the taxes. We are often accused of contributing to the second by way of our taxes. I should like to discuss the politics of the main issue in this Bill, which no doubt relates to the Curran scheme and to how politics brought into being this Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill before us today. Certainly what I have to say will not be new because debate on these measures has been running ever since April 7, when these measures were introduced into this Parliament. I think that we, Government and Opposition, should look very closely at this to find out where the politics on this matter lie. 
It has been said that the comments made last August by the then Treasurer and the declaration made by  Mr Crean  in December 1974 were sufficient to claim that there is no retrospectivity provision in this Bill. I cannot agree with that. For that to be so, I believe the flagging of what this Government intended to do should have been made much earlier. Certainly the flag which was waved at that time did not indicate to any member of the public that the Curran scheme would be one of those which would be marked down, although the general impression might have been that that might be so. 
We have heard Labor's philosophy on retrospectivity; it is quite open about it. Labor members would be prepared to make any taxation legislation retrospective to 1 July 1977. Some would prefer to go back further. That in itself is retrospectivity. I do not believe that they can argue against that. Even though this legislation only affects taxation up to June 1978, it does change past events. So the Labor philosophy in this regard is on record. It has been laid down in this debate. The Government's policy on taxation is outlined in various policy statements. It includes equitability between taxpayers; the system should not be abused; and legislation should not be retrospective. I should like to quote what I said on 13 September 1977 during the Budget debate. It outlines my feelings on this matter. I stated: 
While speaking about the Budget and on the subject of tax I earnestly recommend to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  that any proposals to clamp down on tax avoidance be spelt out clearly and quickly in order to let the public know just where it stands. While I cannot accept deliberate attempts by taxpayers to avoid their lawful responsibilities, I can accept retrospective legislation less and the unnecessary procedures involved which keep taxpayers in suspense and unable to properly plan their affairs through legitimate machinery purely because they are uncertain of the Government's intentions. I suggest that any plans in this regard be quickly communicated and implemented. 
I do not consider that advice given in April was a quick communication. I think it could have been given earlier. So, to my mind, this legislation is retrospective. Certainly this Bill has other functions. The quantity of tax which could be avoided has been argued to be from $500m to $2, 000m. These amounts cannot be substantiated, so it is not a factor which should be placed before honourable members in order that they might determine a policy on the matter. I cannot find any substantiation of the figures or that they apply to the Curran scheme alone. I doubt whether officers of the Taxation Office would make a statutory declaration to the effect that those figures represent their estimate of the minimum or maximum avoidance. The departmental rights in this matter should have been carefully examined. For instance, the Curran scheme was originally undertaken by a chap who was a stockbroker and share trader. I suggest that the Taxation Office could win in opposing this scheme before either a board of review or the 
High Court I suggest that a number of the Curran schemes- in fact the majority- would be found to be illegitimate and would be cast aside. That additional technicality was not explored. 
I do not believe that the Crean statement or the Budget statement- the former was not acted upon and the latter was not specific enoughallowed us to say that this legislation should not be retrospective. I mention those points to show my attitude to this legislation. Probably it is very well wrapped up in the comment that was made to me in the form of a letter. I received many letters and telegrams- again I discard about 90 per cent of them- from people with pecuniary interests. But I know that the writer of this letter does not have a pecuniary interest and I feel that I should read portion of this letter into  Hansard  for the record. 
No, it was not from Billy McMahon. The letter states: 
I do not believe that this inertia by the Taxation Department and Government in legislatively preventing such schemes justifies the principle or retrospectivity in any act, particularly one concerning income tax. I understand that the Taxation Department is producing what must be unsubstantiated estimates of the loss to the revenue. Instead of taking responsibility for this loss, they are endeavouring to convince Government that some 'blame' attaches to taxpayers that can be remedied by the introduction of retrospectivity: whereas in fact the blame lies with the Department and the Government permitting for many years, a state of affairs which the High Court publicised. 
In this letter 'Government' refers, of course, not only to this Government but also to the previous Labor Government, As has been indicated already, the Labor Party does argue on retrospectivity. I am happy to say that out of this has come a precedent and precedents are often talked about in connection with this decision. The precedent is that the Treasurer has since flagged at least one other tax avoidance scheme and stated that it would be removed from the date of the advice. I believe that this in itself sets new policy for the Government and the Treasury in making sure that these abuses are stamped out immediately, expeditiously and thoroughly. 
With regard to the moral issues of this legislation, as a former practising public accountant, I can say that I have never advised or agreed to schemes such as these being implemented because they are obvious and blatant and they distort the tax equity between taxpayers. I do not in any way agree with or have sympathy for the people who practise these schemes. In fact, those who as a profession sell and support these schemes for profit are nothing less than parasites. 
Those within the legal and accounting professions must carefully examine their ethics and their consciences in connection with this matter to see whether they are worthy of the profession they assume to represent. It is interesting, if we are to take $50Om as the minimum cost to revenue, to note that this amount is shared by so few throughout the continent yet the massive reorganisation of our tax scales that was undertaken on 1 February 1978 gives an equivalent amount of $500m to be spread over all taxpayers in Australia. I cannot condone that an equal amount, even an estimate, be given to a few whereas it is the many who are forced to share the other cost. 
The Opposition has made some comments in connection with family trusts. Family trusts only blossomed because of the inequitable tax scales imposed upon the taxpaying public during the period of the Labor Government. That is where the real family trust situation came about. Trusts are probably the oldest form of legal identity and in themselves are no new device exploited by the taxpayers. They are an old device. They are legal and I see nothing wrong with them, particularly in view of the fact that this Government has indicated in the past that Division 7 might be waived for private companies so that people may elect to be assessed as partners in a partnership and not necessarily as a private company. When this did not come about perhaps it was a legitimate step then to move into a trust situation which would give that benefit to them as against the disadvantages of a company situation. The honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  claimed also that we represent the Establishment. That is ironic because we are moving most definitely in this regard, although belatedly, and the people who represent these schemes in the community must be regarded as the Establishment. After all, the Labor Government had a similar period of three years in which to move if they had so wanted against the Pitt Street farmers, family trusts and so many other things. 
I do not want to canvass this legislation clause by clause. It is fair enough to say that we are closing the gaps on abuses. Anybody who thinks we can keep ahead of the professional parasites in this regard does not realise that this can never be done. Let us look at the anomalies in this legislation. Division 7 deals with private company taxation and refers to such aspects as taxpayers using the alternative of trusts; the average application to other taxpayers, not just in the rural industries, who have fluctuating incomes; the rents received by a person who, on transfer, is taxed but who does not receive deductibility for rents paid in new residences and who must pay tax on subsidised rentals additional to the tax already paid. There is also the aspect of self-employed superannuation. There are many areas in which equity is yet to be given and I think we ought to be looking at these anomalies as we go along. I can only agree with the honourable member for Banks that perhaps section 260 should be looked at carefully so that we can have an overall mechanism to be able to put a clamp on these devices very quickly or at least to have the threat of that course. Whilst the honourable member discussed the fact that although the old time tax inspectors did not have the confidence of the public - 
I was going to make the point that self-praise is no recommendation because all honourable members realise that the honourable member for Banks was a tax inspector himself. 
I do not want to canvass the arguments I advanced last Friday. Since then quite a few comments have been made for and against the application of retrospectivity. In most cases honourable members have based their arguments on a knowledge of the law with which I am unfamiliar. Strange as it may seem, the same argument has been used to support the application of retrospectivity as has been used against it. I have had discussions about this matter with the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and he knows exactly how I feel. I believe that retrospectivity is a matter of conscience. It is a matter of how each individual views it. I held the view last Septemberthe honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown),  who spoke previously, did not express a view on this matter at the time- that anything which was not clearly spelt out in legislation must surely be open to a retrospective application. That is a view I still hold. 
The matter of the setting of precedent is one that I cannot understand. The Australian Labor Party has indicated that it will have no regard for precedent in this matter. It will introduce retrospective legislation regardless of whether we like it. So no precedent is being set in that regard. I also feel, from what the Treasurer has indicated quite firmly, that this matter is not to be regarded as a precedent. It is an unfortunate circumstance. He has already advised the Parliament and the people that changes will occur when the need for them occurs. I do not want to say any more on this matter other than that the views I held last September are the views I will be expressing in the vote tonight. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. In view of the reports from Vietnam of further boat loads of refugees being anticipated, can the Minister guarantee that Australian immigration procedures and policies will be sufficient to cope with these boat people as the trickle becomes a flood? Secondly, was the matter of these types of refugees taken up with  Mr Mondale,  the VicePresident of the United States of America, at yesterday 's discussions? If so, is the United States of America likely to involve itself in the problem of boat refugees from Vietnam? 
-The matter I raise today is one of growing concern to many Australians. The closer that Australians live to the point of entry to Australia of Vietnamese boat people, as they are described, the greater is the concern of those people. On Tuesday of this week I raised this problem by way of question to ascertain whether the Government's policies and procedures are sufficient to cope with the anticipated escalation in the numbers of these refugees coming to this country by boat. The answer I received reflected an appreciation by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  that there is a problem and that procedures were changing to cope with that problem. 
I question whether these changes will prove sufficient to head off a potentially dangerous situation. The  National Times  this week devoted a full page article to this subject. In July 1977 I warned that the first boat load was only the beginning of a flood of these refugees from Vietnam. Unfortunately the prediction has proved to be only too true. At that time I suggested that we should toughen our attitudes from the outset, recognise a change in the ground rules and update our procedures to cope with the absolute certainty of an increasing quantity of refugees coming to our shores. The numbers will increase because of the initial and basic attitudes that we adopted on that occasion. First, they were accepted. Once a foot is placed on Australian soil it is difficult to have it removed even when there are others who seek to enter this country through the authorised door of normal immigration procedure and should have a higher priority. Secondly, welfare relief offered for a week's subsistence, which amounts to probably ten times more than the average monthly income of people in 
Vietnam, can only be an encouragement and not a disincentive. 
The communication channel back to South East Asia was established by the first arrival of these boat refugees and by sympathetic and emotional Press comment. Probably this was only natural but it was not realistic as the circumstances have since proved. Good news travels fast, particularly to South East Asia. This news was received and welcomed in that area and particularly in Vietnam as evidenced by the ever increasing flow of boat people who are now arriving on our shores. At each port of contact on the way to Australia the boats receive directions and instructions on how to proceed. Singapore and Indonesia do not want them but at the end of the line lies Australia which is known to be favourably disposed towards the refugees. An article from Darwin headed 'More refugees', which appears in today's  Australian Financial Review,  states: 
Vietnamese refugees landed at Melville Island, north of Darwin, yesterday to ask a surprised local policeman the way to Darwin. A police spokesman in Darwin said yesterday that there were two refugee boats anchored off Melville Island. Navy sources said that the boats carried 42 people. 
Perhaps the policeman should have directed these boats and future refugees to a port of entry at either Melbourne, Sydney or Brisbane. This may be the only way in which a real appreciation of the problem can be given to the majority of Australians living in the security of the southern and eastern coastline. Darwin and northern Australia should not be deserted and let bear the burden of this problem alone. Australia security, Australian jobs and to an extent Australian drug risks are as great and as important as health problems in respect of the exotic and other diseases associated with the boat people. In all areas of defence, security, health, immigration, foreign affairs and drug trafficking we should be alert to the dangers and change accordingly. In Mackay on the eastern seaboard we have a first hand witness to poaching by Taiwanese fishermen on our Barrier Reef and the plunder they cause. On the occasion an arrest is effected- and that is not too often- we realise only too well the gaps in our present policies that leave us open as Australians to the dangers that I have mentioned. 
I do not talk out of a lack of sympathy for the genuine refugee. All Australians would have genuine sympathy for refugees who are fleeing in the face of spreading communism and the alternative with which many of them must now be faced. But how do we determine a genuine from a non-genuine refugee? How do we set the guidelines of acceptance or rejection? How do we keep these guidelines fluid? How do we have this concern shared by other nations that are not necessarily affected? The Minister assured the House the other day that co-operation to effect delays was being sought by nations and governments which are on the route taken by the refugees. But can these delays be effected? 
This is not the first time that the Australian Government has had to deal with the problem of refugees. I remind the House of the refugee problem between West Irian, a province of Indonesia, and Papua New Guinea while that country was still a territory of Australia. Many hundreds of Papuan refugees came across the Papua New Guinea border into the West Sepik district and the western district of that country. In the West Sepik refugees were immediately interned in a refugee camp where they were held in quarantine and seclusion from the outside world until their application for temporary residential status was either granted or rejected. Upon rejection they were returned to their own country, although in many cases they were in fact granted temporary residence in Papua New Guinea. In many cases people who came into Papua New Guinea were treated as illegal immigrants and consequently were held under the relevant sections of the Immigration Act until their residential status could be determined. This allowed the Australian and Papua New Guinea governments to screen carefully all entries to ensure that only the desirables were allowed into the country and that exotic diseases were not brought in by the refugees. 
Although there was some criticism of the administration of the Papua New Guinea refugee problem it was extremely successful and I believe that a similar system should be applied to Vietnamese entering Australia. I am sure that such a system would placate a lot of the antiVietnamese public opinion and feeling that is commencing to spread throughout the north of Australia. I submit these comments to the House because I am concerned that this refugee problem can only escalate, just as I was concerned in July of last year when I first raised this matter and predicted the possibility of what has now in fact become the truth. 
There is a feeling of isolation in our north which deepens when evidence becomes available through these incursions on to our shore. Lack of proper defence and a positive attitude towards these refugees is concerning many northern people. Many people who are prevented from bringing to Australia close friends or relatives because of the job aspects of our immigration policy complain bitterly about our open-handed policy towards these Vietnamese refugees. I would imagine that most honourable members have had that comment made to them over the last six months. 
I suggest that Australia establish some offshore base on an island on which all the necessary security and health checks that are required could be conducted before these people arrive in Australia. The refugees on the base could be processed by officers of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs for acceptance or repatriation, depending on the circumstances of each individual. But time must be given for that inspection process to be carried out. Our defence surveillance should be brought to a level to enable the boat people to be intercepted and accompanied to such a base. It would be easier to internationalise the problem from an off-shore base than from an Australian base because once it becomes an Australian base it is a national problem and not an international problem. 
I do not doubt that 20 years hence will see a great change in the characteristics of the typical Australian and that the Vietnamese and South East Asian cultures will play a part in the change that we see reflected at the moment. These people will add their own culture to our way of life. However, for the present, we face a difficult position in which northern Australians have very definite views on this subject. So I ask in this Grievance Debate that the Government treat this matter as a problem, both nationally and internationally, which requires urgent attention. I trust that the Government will give urgent attention to the whole refugee problem, particularly the boat refugee problem. 
Has the Minister for Trade and Resources seen reports that the United States expects to increase exports of high quality beef to Japan by 10,000 tonnes this year? Does that mean that America is to receive special treatment at the expense of Australian beef producers? 
-In speaking to this Bill I do not want to canvass the issues that have already been raised, but I would like to deal with some of the arguments raised by the Opposition. Firstly, I pay tribute to the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  for the work that he has done in connection with federalism as a member of the Government's federal affairs committee. He has moved from State to State and talked with the local government bodies of the nation in connection with the new federalism scheme. He has been a tower of strength behind the scenes in relation to this matter. I believe that a lot of the work that we have in front of us is a tribute to his perseverence in overcoming many of the States' suspicions and to the fact that he was pioneering a new scheme that is being introduced in the form of this Bill. 
I wish to deal with the Opposition's amendment as they appear before us in 5 brackets. I shall do so in an effort to destroy the logic of the arguments that have been put tonight by the Opposition. The Opposition suggests that the real level of payment to the States will be reduced. There is no indication of that; in fact the indication has been since stage 1 of the federalism scheme came in that the real value of payments has actually increased. The suggestion that the States will be forced to introduce a States income tax is absolute hogwash. The Bill itself is only enabling legislation; it does not force a tax upon the States. The suggestion which has been made today and at various times of election that the federalism policy means double taxation is absolute hogwash. As far as I know, the double taxation issue arises in only one area of the Income Tax Assessment Act at the moment, that being the area of company taxation, where there is also a tax on the distribution of dividends. That is what I feel actually is double taxation. There is only one imposition of taxation in this case. It will be for the States to determine how big that taxation will be. It will impose a discipline upon the States; it will impose an efficiency upon the States, which is desperately needed at this time. I feel that the aspect of double taxation should be laid to rest once and for all. In this regard federalism means just the size of the taxation. It is only one form of tax and it depends upon the States as to whether they want to make it higher or lower than what the uniform rate will be as it applies throughout the nation. No force is being applied. It is just enabling taxation. 
The third point raised by the Opposition is that there will be cuts in the employment opportunities offered by the State governments. The last count of which I have heard of the size of the Federal Public Service indicates that since our time in government we have reduced the number of public servants by some 12,000. But the States have not had the same disciplines imposed upon them; they have been still spending freely. At that stage what had been saved in the Federal area had been more than taken up by further employment in State areas. Whilst I do not believe that federalism will mean a cut in State services or in employment, I believe that there could be room for the States to look at aspects of their own Public Services. The final point made by the Opposition is that the standard of service offered at the State level will decline. Again, I believe that this measure will improve the State services. It will not make them inferior in any State. The responsibility will lie with the State as to how it spends its money- not only how it raises it but also how it spends it. I believe that final responsibility is the best discipline to impose in order to achieve efficiency of service. 
I wish to mention some of the points which were raised by the previous  speaker  in this debate, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  I ask the Labor Party whether it believes that a program, once implemented, must go on forever. Should its priorities never change? I refer to the implementation of sewerage programs. Provincial cities throughout this nation with a population of 20,000 or less have been able to move into the area of sewerage and have been able to implement and pay for schemes without any Federal assistance whatsoever. So why should we have a continuing drain on the nation's finances just for one pet scheme? There are schemes which I prefer to see through Australia- programs on roads, programs on water resources- which I believe have a far greater influence on the production of revenue. 
Debate interrupted. 
I believe that there are programs that the nation should be considering in preference to these urbanised programs that are designed for capital cities, and I would put sewerage on that list. 
The program that was implemented by the Labor Government in its time, and the money that has been spent, have brought about an improvement in these areas, let us share some of this wealth around. If we are to do it, let the States themselves determine their priorities, so that the funds that are being allocated at this stage can be spent in that direction. I believe that there will be improved services, that there will be other priorities that the States will adopt, but let it be on their own heads, once they accept a priority, they stand condemned for not perhaps insisting that the priorities be in the proper order, or perhaps according a high priority to a program of lesser importance. For that, let them suffer such blame as there may be. 
The Bill is concerned with Stage II of the federalism plan. Stage I had reached the point where 33.6 per cent of personal taxes had been allocated to the States, with the promise that in 1978-79 that percentage would increase to 39.98. Also, local government has received an allocation of 1.52 per cent. Over the next three years that will be increased to 2 percent. Let us bear in mind that this is not a percentage of the total revenue derived by the Federal Government. It is merely a percentage of personal taxation collections. 
An interesting point comes out of all this. How much in the dollar can the Australian taxpayer afford to pay, and how should that money raised, how should that limit in taxation, be spent between the three levels of government? We have certainly put in the terms of this legislation and also in the terms of stage 1 the percentages that we feel ought to be returned to the States and to local government; but that is only a determination made by a few people. What is the real situation? That is something upon which I often ponder. So I take up tonight the cudgels for local government, which bears the burden of providing so many services. In fact, in the second reading speech the comment is made that of the amount of total public sector outlays in Australia, the Federal Government is responsible for 47 per cent, the States for 46 per cent and local government for 7 per cent. The tax sharing arrangement, the 33.6 per cent given to the States and the 1.S2 per cent given to local government means, I believe, that local government throughout Australia has more than an uphill task in trying to finance the difference between 1.52 per cent and the 7 per cent which represents its outlay. 
I also appreciate that there is not a standard of efficiency that is common to local governments throughout Australia. There is not one local government that one can say is doing its job with a standard of efficiency that can be equally spread throughout Australia. There are efficient local governments, and there are inefficient local governments. More than likely it is the efficient local government that has been denied the benefits of expenditure by the Federal Government on sewerage programs, loan programs and the like; and these have been given to the inefficient. So I make that acknowledgment first. 
The interesting part of this Bill is that we have been able to define in clause 7 ( 1) (a) (i) when a person is a resident for the purposes of the State imposing a surcharge or making a rebate. I often wonder whether the old, outmoded system of taxing land values is appropriate for the occasion for local government. I do not believe that it is, because the determining factor is not how much one can take out of that dollar of income but how much a person can stand over and above bis fair share of tax payments for the payment of rates and the like. There must be another way. There must be a way which gives equity to local government residents rather than taxing them basically on land values. 
The suggestion that we are able to define a resident for the purposes of this State surcharge or rebate makes me wonder whether we could, on a regional or local government basis, also determine a resident so that perhaps there could be a surcharge made for a local government or a rebate given in order that they can tide themselves over this situation in which they are forced to go back onto land owners to collect their taxes. There is a limit. Land rates are the final end of the chain. Everything has been taken off the income dollar before the rates come out- the federal taxation, State surcharge, State licences. It is local government that then gets the last chop of the cherry. There is a definite limit on how much a ratepayer or a taxpayer can stand to give finally to local government. So I suggest that probably we ought to look at this definition of resident to see whether we can get an income tax to fund fully, not just partly, the activities of local government. 
Part of stage one was also the build-up of various State grants commissions. I wonder whether these grants commissions could do more in the spread of the tax dollar from the Federal Government right down the line. For instance, I know that when the grants commissions travel about the States looking at situations on roads, they are probably looking at situations involving sewerage, water and things like that which involve nothing more than a duplication because all they are there for is to distribute only that portion of the money that comes from the Federal Government- the 1.52 per cent. It has been suggested in this Parliament that the State grants commissions, because they know the local areas and the State situations better than the Federal people, might be the bodies appointed to oversight the distribution of road funds, projects such as sewerage and things like that. I just throw that in as a suggestion. It is something that could be looked at to a greater extent. 
I certainly agree with the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges).  He brought up the increase of the allocation from 1.52 to 2 per cent. I believe that local governments throughout Australia would be satisfied if that increment of 48 per cent was made over three Budgets to give them an increment of 0.16 per cent a year. We see the people in Victoria suggesting to the national body of local government that this increase be given in one full sum. Certainly I do not deny that these people require it but I have already mentioned the basis of the efficiency of some local governments as compared with others. I believe that it would be right and proper for this amount to be given in increments and not in one sum. We must also remember that while we are talking about this Bill and sharing taxes that it is not the only government contribution that is made. In some areas I have mentioned roads. Greater priorities could be given to such things because it is communications throughout Australia that will bring in revenue to our coffers more than will the provision of sewerage services in capital cities. 
I fully support the intention of this legislation. It has been mentioned- I do not mind saying it again- that it is a means of removing centralist power from the Federal Government and putting it back in the areas where it belongs, in areas where the States and local people can make their own determinations, set their own priorities and then be held to account for the rectitude of their actions subsequently. This legislation is a protection against centralism of power in Canberra. Heavens knows, between 1972 and 1975 we saw sufficient of that to realise it could not work to the benefit of Australians generally. We have to break down this power into the various areas. Australia is a peculiar country, in this regard and I see no way out of the responsibilities of the three tiers of government. 
I give the Bill my full support. I have no intention of agreeing to any of the proposed amendments. The comments that have been coming from the Opposition in this regard speak more of emotionalism than they do of the reality of the istuation. Stage two of this scheme is the second step on the path to return powers to the States, where they justly belong. 
Is the Minister for Productivity aware that Nomad aircraft are flying daily services between centres in my electorate? Did the Minister recently see an edition of the Australian Broadcasting Commission's television program  A Big Country  devoted entirely to the Nomad aircraft? Is the Minister concerned that the program may have adverse effects on the sale of Nomad in Australia and overseas? 
With budgetary considerations now being matters of immediate interest I wish to present the case for changes in two taxation matters. The first involves the zone allowance under section 79a. Properly used as a taxation incentive, this section has possibly the greatest potential for decentralisation over any other device available to governments. The zone allowance involves people, not companies, not industries not multinationals. It involves people, and this is important because it is the human factor that decentralises, that becomes the pioneer, that has the capacity to take up a challenge and exploit it to its fullest potential, or suffers the reversal of fortunes which is a natural consequence in broadening our industrial and rural and mining horizons. 
At present there is no incentive because little change has been effected in the boundaries of the zones since the section's inception in the value to taxpayers of the zonal rebate or allowance for over a decade. In fact in the latter case it has actually depreciated. If the value and potential of our mineral, rural and labour resources are to be realised, this Government has a duty to encourage people to harness this human potential, to encourage people to get out of our capital cities where over 50 per cent of our population resides and where breed the seeds of complacency. Many times in the past when a major revision such as the one I now contemplate has been suggested, the custodian of the public purse, the Treasury, has annihilated all argument by putting up the constitutional difficulty. To this I say, if the section has survived for this long without challenge, why now beg the question? 
I suggest that, for the coming Budget, a review be properly undertaken of all aspects of the zone allowance. To extend the boundaries or to adjust them to ensure that the communities for which the allowance is intended, are allowed the benefit or encouraged to obtain it. For instance I have in my electorate two mining townships, established only in the 1970s, that are denied the benefit through the fact that the boundary for a zone is just a short ten miles north of the towns. Those living in these towns are denied television, entertainment, and recreational facilities available to those living in cities and communities on the coast. There people have these advantages and receive a zonal rebate as well. They suffer the climate, the terrain and the isolation of mining decentralisation, without a cent of compensation for their sacrifice. On the contrary they now face the penalty of being taxed on their subsidised rentals of the company houses they occupy, whereas they understood that this subsidy would be one of the benefits they would receive. 
The other provision of the Act which is now a penalty is Division 7 relating to additional tax on undistributed private company profits. I draw the attention of honourable members and the Government to the fact that when Division 7 was introduced the situation of the private company was much different from the circumstances of today. For instance, private companies enjoyed a consessional rate of taxation, less than that paid by public companies. Today the tax rebate at 46c in the dollar is exactly the same. The management and shareholders, being younger companies then, had common interests where there was a tendency to retain profits in companies for expansion. Most of the high earning private companies today have divorced shareholding and management. Inflation did not sap the liquidity of private companies 20 years to 30 years ago as it does today and has done through the 1970s where retained profits are essential to finance stocks and debtors and replacement plant all constantly escalating in cost through inflation. 
The supply of outside or banking funding could not have been as tight or rigid 25 years ago as it is today, where private companies in many instances cannot receive the funds they now need to survive. That private companies are not allowed, because of these changes in circumstances, to be treated the same as public companies and have Division 7 removed altogether is an anomaly. After all, 46c in the dollar is the equivalent of a taxable income to an individual of approximately $57,000. At that figure the average tax is 46c in the dollar. The Government is getting more through company taxation than it is from equivalent sole proprietors or partnerships without even taking into account taxation on dividends distributed to shareholders. To help small business, the removal of Division 7 would be more than equitable. To phase it out or to reduce its effect could be well implemented by giving incentives to private companies to develop, expand or employ. The options are limitless. I hope that these two penalty areas will be revised in the course of framing the coming Budget by the Treasury, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and the Government. 
Over the recent parliamentary recess the taxing of rental subsidies received national Press coverage. I do not wish tonight to canvass the justice or otherwise of section 26e of the Income Tax Assessment Act except to say that if income is earned by any taxpayer in Australia, whatever its nature, that income or benefit should naturally be covered by the Act. I wish instead to draw to the attention of this House certain repercussions from the implementation of section 26e of the Act. Income can be put into two categories. The first covers benefits which are often used as a substitute for actual salaries or wages, just as is a fictitious travelling or entertainment allowance. These are normal salaries in a substituted form. The second category covers housing which must be provided by an employer to encourage people to take up employment in an industry, encouragement being needed because of the nature of the industry, the isolation of its location or the unfavourable climate of the location. Put simply, if housing were not provided no person would offer his services and labour. There would be no industries. We could write off most of our rural and mining industries as no amount of salary subject to taxation would substitute for services provided in an effort to normalise living conditions in isolated areas. 
In order to rectify this situation, I firmly believe that in the second category either some exemption should be granted from the implications of section 26 (e) or, alternatively, that a special decentralisation allowance similar to or combined with the zone allowance should be granted as a rebate to compensate not only for the higher cost of living in these areas but also to offset the tax payable on the subsidised rentals. Town people do not appreciate the difficulties and the higher costs suffered and paid by people pioneering in outback Australia. The cost of fuel, freight, food, services, clothing and housing are all greater than in capital and provincial cities. Often people in those areas have no telephone services, no television and suffer further from uncertain standards of transport services. Therefore equity demands that justice be granted in either of the forms I have suggested. 
Out of the present situation arises a further inequity. While some employees have been granted a reprieve from tax while a review of the Income Tax Assessment Act is carried out by the Taxation Office, other employees in other industries are being forced to include subsidised rentals on housing, which are equally available to those currently exempted pending the review, for assessment as income for the 1977-78 year. I mention in particular sugar mill workers and employees who have paid tax consistently for decades but then on a token rental. From 1 July 1977, the values, reassessed by the Taxation Office have increased tenfold. I have even heard of a station manager whose income has been reassessed over the past five years on his subsidised rents on a station in New South Wales. This is discriminatory. It is inequitable. 
I believe this action to be unconstitutional under section 5 1 (ii) of the Australian Constitution. I ask that a full deferment be available to all employees, wherever they are, whatever job they do, until the review has been completed by the Taxation Office. I ask also that the concessions which I previously mentioned be fully evaluated to ensure that pioneering and decentralising industries are not disadvantaged further in comparison with the rest of Australia. Also, if values are to be assessed, I ask particularly that they be applied properly, taking into account all aspects of the rental values in isolated areas which naturally would depreciate more than would be the case in a capital or a provincial city. I know that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has enumerated how such values should be fairly assessed and the conditions which would apply, but the opinion I have formed from what I have seen is that the valuers are not taking these aspects into account to the extent that they should. As a consequence, the values I have seen have been too high in relation to all the circumstances. I ask for justice in this respect also. 
-The Loan Bill which is before us has been properly canvassed, by both Opposition and Government members, as to its purport. I wish only at the moment to refer to some of the comments made by honourable members opposite, especially the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who described the Bill as just another example of the fiddling of the figures. If one looks at the 1 1 Budget Papers one could say of the whole aspect of the Budget that in a way it is a fiddle of the figures. The presentation, although made in a conventional way, is in a very old-fashioned format, so that one can take from it certain figures and make certain arguments; but in terms of the amendment that has been moved, particularly as it concerns unemployment and health payments, there is room for a debate on those aspects alone. 
Also, I would challenge the statement of the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  that deficits have little relationship to repayment, particularly when as he would realise, he has been a casualty of a government that sought to borrow $4 billion for temporary purposes. If any one thing more than another dismissed that Government it was probably that proposal to borrow $4 billion. People realise that a loan has to be repaid. 
In reference to unemployment, I believe that just to come into this House and mention figures and events for political purposes is not good enough. Let us look at our unemployment and try to ascertain what it reflects. I believe that it reflects this generation's inability to cope with modern technology and mechanisation. Until we come to grips with the reason for unemployment, quite apart from the wage hikes that took place at the beginning of this decade, we will get nowhere. What we need to do in respect of unemployment is to turn youngsters and other unemployed persons to useful pursuits. This might involve a close look at our education system. It might involve the compulsory retraining of people between the ages of 17 years and 23 years, just entering the work force, so that they can be educated to a particular purpose. 
I give only one example of the effect of modern technology. The Utah company has quite a lot of abuse directed to it by the Opposition, abuse which I do not believe represents fair criticism. Utah is able to produce its profit and export resources with the aid of a little in excess of 2,000 men. Let us take the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd or the New South Wales underground mines as a comparison and look at the work force they require. Utah provides an example of the way in which we should be trying to cope with the advances of modern technology and mechanisation. It is not just a matter of pump priming, of putting money into the system to pay the unemployed to do meaningless jobs, as was the case with the Regional Employment Development scheme, which was discarded by Labor itself. So let us be frank about unemployment. Let us see the reasons for it, who contributed to it and what we can do about it. It is not good enough for the Opposition to come in here and make just a little bit more political capital out of this aspect. 
It has been indicated that in this year's Budget $80m less is provided than was the case last year. It is my hope that with this Budget, with the reduction in the inflation rate and interest rates, we can put people back into profitable employment. I wish to mention only one aspect of that. If, in certain rural areas, we could get people off unemployment benefits, back into profitable work and in receipt of a better rural income, a saving of $80m might result. 
In respect of health payments also, let us look at the long-term effects. We are back to the situation where the individual can make a choice. He or she will not be compelled or forced to join a health scheme. The indications are that medical research will every 5 years double the knowledge available for the treatment of the individual patient. That in itself represents a cost that must be borne, and must be considered in regard to the future. So whilst we have started in this Budget to do that let us look a little further. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  mentioned the family allowance. People, ill-informed I believe, are complaining about the means testing of that allowance. I would remind everybody that the family allowance was a substitute for a taxation concession, the dependants' concession, which was itself means tested with a ceiling. 
It was not. It was a taxation deduction which was subject to a means test for the individual child. Already we see Opposition members, by interjection, arguing a situation about which they are very ill-informed. That was a subject of which I wished to make brief mention. 
The honourable member for Fremantle says that the thesis that a loan has to be repaid would not gain high marks towards an economic degree. Although that might be true of an economics degree, it does not make sound sense to the taxpayer. Budget statement No. 6 reveals that in this decade, in the space of seven or eight years, the national debt has doubled. Local government authorities in Australia will bear testimony to the fact that debts have to be repaid. They are in the great bind that they are at the moment because their commitment for repayment of principle and interest is so great that there is little left from the annual rates collected with which to do any meaningful work in the current year. The present national debt is some $26.9 billion. This, in itself, is equivalent to one year's revenue. The way in which one uses a deficit is a matter of judgment and tact. Either one uses it in the way the Labor Government did, by printing money and causing the inflation which was so rife in that period, or one commits a future generation to the repayment of not only the loan but also the interest. I am not suggesting that we should not have deficits, but I believe that we should guard against the other extremecreating such a national debt that it cannot, within a normal period, be repaid. Again, whenever we consider the national debt we should ensure that it is compensated for by some national asset that will have a use for generations to come. 
These have been some aspects of the debate that I thought I would like to discuss, so as to turn the arguments of the Opposition back upon it. It has been said that the Bill is a machinery measure, a necessary part of the 1978-79 Budget. I believe in results and feel confident that in the results that will be achieved, if only in the continued reduction of the inflation rate and in the curbing of interest rates, the Budget will be a success. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I address my question to the Treasurer. The Treasurer has advised that a review under section 26E of the Income Tax Assessment Act has been undertaken by the Australian Taxation Office. Will the Treasurer advise whether the interest of those taxpayers who are paying tax on subsidised rentals for the year ended 30 June 1978 will be protected if the review makes major or any variations in the method of applying section 26E? Will he ensure that equity is maintained for those taxpayers with others who have been given a complete reprieve until the review is completed? 
-I must say that it is with some reluctance that I rise to speak on the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill on behalf of the National Country Party and, of course, the Government as this Bill will serve to amend the Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy Act of 1966. Before I proceed, I wish to make some comments with regard to the statements made by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  As far as his remarks about this Bill being contrary to an election platform or policy are concerned, I am unaware of whether that is so. I should imagine that the conservative parties, when in opposition, would have spoken out against the abolition at that time of the bounties for superphosphate and nitrogen, but let us be fair in our criticism. We are trying to debate this measure carefully, much as I am reluctant to debate it at all, and let the honourable member for Corio say exactly what was the Labor Party's position regarding these bounties. I do not need to remind him- I think he would already knowthat the abolition of the superphosphate bounty was a reality and the recommendation on the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty was that it be phased out in accordance with the Industries Assistance Commission's report. Members of the Labor Party, in saying that they oppose this Bill, must do so out of a feeling of being hypocrites to the very bone. 
This is a measure which, in itself, I cannot in my own heart support individually. I do so in the context of it being part of a Budget in which we are endeavouring, as a government, to give benefits to rural industries through reduction of the rate of inflation. 
The honourable member for Melbourne would know a lot about inflation because it was running at a rate of 16 per cent during his Government's term of office. If we can reduce the inflationary impact and if we can reduce the impact of interest rates, we will be doing something constructive not only for rural industry but also for all Australians. I do not need to remind the honourable member for Melbourne what would be the situation now if inflation had continued over the last three years at the rate which his Government set as a norm- 1 6 per cent a year. 
As I have said, it is with reluctance that I speak on this Bill because it marks a further decline in the support, as limited as it is, to rural industry as a whole throughout Australia. This stands in contrast to the mounting and increasing support for our manufacturing and secondary industries and to some sectors of the mining industry. Within the framework of the Budget, which decreases nitrogenous fertiliser support by $20 per tonne, we find support for the motor car industry by a decrease of 12Vi per cent in sales tax. We also find further loans being made to the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd. These examples are mentioned for no other reason than to draw the attention of the House to the declining support for Australia's rural industries. This support is declining at a time when rural industries are facing as great a difficulty or greater difficulties than the more favoured manufacturing industries. Difficulties are being experienced in costs. There are also difficulties as regards inflation and wages, as was the case in the Labor Government's term of office, and difficulties in maintaining levels of export markets and prices on export markets. In most situations these increased costs cannot be passed on to the consumer. So they will not affect the consumer price index. 
I recognise that this legislation is the result of a 1975 IAC report to phase out this subsidy over a period of three years. This was to be done by a reduction from $78.74- not $80, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Corio- to $60 in 1976, $40 in 1977 and $20 in 1978. The payment of this subsidy was to cease as at 31 December 1978. As I mentioned before, if the then Labor Government were still in office it would have accepted that IAC report and by the end of this year the subsidy would have been completely phased out So at least we can congratulate the Government on slowing down this phase-out. But the direction of the alteration is unmistakable and of great concern to those users of fertiliser in rural industries. Too frequently consumers, city dwellers and their parliamentary representatives have the incorrect and distorted impression of what is called the protection of country and rural industries. This is not unreasonable when there are insufficient rural votes to indicate to city dwellers what are the actual facts. Within this House the votes from the rural industries would be about 40 out of 124 altogether. 
The nitrogenous fertiliser bounty involves an expenditure of $ 10m this year. Also, $17m has been provided for underwriting manufactured dairy products and approximately $40m has been provided for the superphosphate bounty. The protection of sugar by the embargo costs the Government nothing, but over the past 10 years this has been a means of bringing to the consumer of Australia a cheaper price for sugar than might otherwise have been the case. The Budget also provides $40m for the beef incentive scheme. Once again, as has been the case since 1974, the consumer benefits in return as regards the price of meat on the table. He pays a price considerably less than the cost of production to the grazier. There would be other minor subsidies and assistance, but in total, divided between the 6 per cent of Australians who maintain the rural industries at full efficiency and high productivity, they pale into insignificance in comparison with the subsidies received by manufacturing and secondary industries. 
I should like to mention the figures cited in  Hansard  in May 1977 regarding the protection afforded to some of these industries. In the case of shipbuilding it was said to amount to $19,000 per man per year. It was said to amount to $13,000 per man per year in the case of waterside workers. The current dispute on the wharves is probably increasing that figure. The protection to the car manufacturing industry was said to amount to $5,000 per man per year. In view of the present sales tax reduction and the increase in duty on imported cars, that figure has yet again increased. The then honourable member for Wakefield,  Mr Kelly,  said that in 1976 secondary industries were protected to the extent of $ 159m by way of direct subsidies and $4 billion by way of indirect subsidies through tariffs. Where are the tariffs that protect Australian rural industry? There are none. But free trade across the Tasman does affect our dairying and forestry industries and quite a few others. The cross that rural industry bears is that, much more than any other sector, it bears the burden of the protection as regards the purchase of motor vehicles, tractors and farm equipment, replacement tools and parts and fuel prices. This is particularly so now for, as inevitable as the fuel price rise is to reach world parity prices, this unavoidable cost will fall harder on the rural producers than on any other sector of our community. 
The decreasing subsidy on nitrogenous fertiliser is a very small return- I mentioned a figure of $ 10m- for the other tariff costs that rural industries bear in greater proportion than the consumer because these costs are normally borne and absorbed and not passed on to the consumer. That has been the history of rural industries in Australia. This in itself recognises that these increased costs and charges influence our CPI not one bit, for the consumer does not pay because the producer absorbs the cost. 
Let there be no mistake: The rural industries welcome the assistance, as meagre as it is, that was originally rendered by this Act but issue the warning that to survive and to provide the cheapest rural products for the tables of Australian domestic users some assistance must be granted in order to allow those industries to be compensated- to get no more than compensation- for the higher costs, the hardships and the difficulties under which they operate in order to protect and to assist manufacturing industries and consumers themselves. Unfortunately it is seldom realised that the great subsidies that city people believe are granted in every rural industry are in fact a very lean and miserable amount . with which to offset the difficulties of rising costs, secondary industry protection and declining prices. Rural industries can absorb no more costs. There is now, in rural industries, no financial fat to carry the producer over the lean periods in the manner that has been traditionally attributed to rural people by city dwellers. 
Rural industries recognise that the Budget is directed to helping and stabilising the on-farm costs by reducing inflation and interest rates. Perhaps some will recognise, in the reduction of this subsidy on nitrogenous fertiliser, the rural industries' contribution as their sacrifice in the national interests yet again to stabilise the economy wrecked by the Labor Government. Some farmers might think this way but the majority will not, particularly in view of the handouts to other less needy sectors. It is important for consumers to realise that this increasing cost and the crude oil levy cost to primary producers will be costs that are absorbed and not passed on. So there will be little increase in the CPI in this area. The flow-on, however, to the CPI in the secondary industries and transport areas, which are also great users of fuels, will be of major consequence. 
More than in any other sector the rural industries have made their contribution in keeping the cost of food products to a minimum and often, possibly in the majority of cases, under the consumer price index increases. I shall give just one example- the sugar industry which is a major user of nitrogenous fertiliser. It uses approximately 30 per cent of the total, although it is not the major user as a previous  speaker  said. Those members who are wheat growers and who have rural seats in wheat growing areas would realise that wheat and the cereal crops use a greater proportion of nitrogenous fertiliser than sugar does. 
That might be so. I am just correcting a mistake that was made. It does not alter the situation. The sugar industry is typical of our rural industries. I think the honourable member will probably agree with me later about the wheat industry. While inflation has added, through the CPI, 134 per cent to prices from 1967 to 1977, the return to sugar cane producers and millers has increased from $140.54 a tonne to $150 a tonne, only a 7 per cent increase in 10 years. This is the sugar that is used on our domestic market. On the export market the price of sugar has dropped from $305 a tonne in 1974 to $152 a tonne today. It is just half of what it was four years ago. This has happened mainly in the time that has elapsed since the 1975 IAC report was presented. What we need now, and we need it desperately if we are to follow the indications of the IAC, is a further updated report to reflect present circumstances. Additional costs of nitrogenous fertilisers and fuel used will this year add approximately $2 a tonne of cane, and this is approximately 10 per cent of the estimated sale price of the product. So, far from being the profitable and wealthy industry that consumers imagine the sugar industry to be, for over 12 months sugar farmers and millers have been living off the profits of previous years- export market profits- and have been selling their product both on the domestic and export markets at prices below cost. But the illusionary reputation of wealth still remains in the minds of many southern people. 
Let us look at the other major user of nitrogen. Of course that is the wheat industry. In the current year it will use 45 per cent of the nitrogenous fertilisers. The fortunes of this industry also have been reversed in the years since the IAC report was published. For instance, in 1973-74 it took 0.83 tonnes of wheat to pay for a tonne of urea. In 1 974-75 it took 0.85 tonnes of wheat to pay for a tonne of urea, and that was when the subsidy was operating in full. In 1975-76, with the reduction in the subsidy of $ 18-odd, it took 1.25 tonnes of wheat to pay for a tonne of urea. In 1976-77 it took 1.65 tonnes of wheat to pay for a tonne of urea, so it almost doubled in four years. With the reduction in the subsidy of $20 a tonne and the increase in the production costs of nitrogen because of the crude oil levy, it will need perhaps two tonnes of wheat to pay for a tonne of urea after the subsidy is further reduced. In 1 973 urea cost $85.20 a tonne and in 1977 it cost $ 16 1 a tonne. 
Nitrogen unfortunately has no substitute and does not build up a bank in the soil if unused. It has to be applied yearly and at a greater rate as land becomes longer used for agricultural purposes. Its cost should be receiving added subsidisation, not less subsidisation. The only form of subsidy to which the sugar industry, and the wheat industry, I believe, have been entitled is now being reduced by this Bill. These are not just isolated instances. For example, the dairying, fruit and beef industries are all subject to the same pressures on costs and the variances of the market. After the manufacturers, the agents and the middle men get their share, they get what is left over as their price for the product. Often it is not a fair price. 
Let us look also at other aspects and difficulties of the rural industries. A business telephone rental in the city is $120 a year. The suggested annual rental for a radio telephone in the outback is $500. The telephone calls are trunkline all the time and are subject to a larger cost and limited time. Yet a Sydney based Labor parliamentarian from this House complained last week when it was suggested that local city calls be surcharged after six minutes of use. I think the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  would probably agree with the sentiments expressed in that regard. In spite of freight subsidies, the price of petrol is higher by far than the discounted price of petrol in Sydney, Melbourne and Hobart. For the primary industries there is no alternative to the mobile fuels and thus there is no escape. It would be more sensible to provide essential rural and primary industries with fuel at discounted prices and to surcharge the cost to domestic users in capital cities where discipline in usage of our dwindling fuel resources is most essential. There is limited access to television in rural areas and they suffer the worst road conditions in this nation. 
Certainly this is not a story of more subsidies; it is one of continuing inequity when compared to the city counterparts of rural producers. When one considers the massive subsidisation afforded to Japanese and New Zealand primary producers, or, if we take the worst example, those producers within the European Economic Community, one wonders how Australian farmers remain in business or remain competitive on foreign markets. It is only the continued improvement in farming techniques, self-help research projects and the sweat that is used to increase productivity that allows primary producers to survive. It is a myth to believe that primary production exists on government assistance. Overseas situations where massive government funds are injected are quite the reverse of Australian practices. 
In this debate I do not wish to widen the gap between city and country people. I would seek to narrow the gap by giving a fair understanding of the life in country Australia and the difficulties that people face there. No doubt there are problems in the city which are unique to the city and which require understanding by country Australians. Our problems can be solved only by a better understanding of the difficulties of others; an understanding by the consumer of what the final price of a product comprises and where the cost of subsidies and tariff protection actually originate. They originate from secondary industries and not from primary industries. 
In conclusion I request that the Government go no further in this reduction of subsidy and that consideration be given to its increase as economic conditions allow. Also I request that the IAC up-date its report to examine farming difficulties in 1978-79 and that we go no further in implementing the out of date 1975 report. Alternatively, I suggest that all manner of protection and assistance afforded to manufacturing, secondary and mining industries be examined and corrected before any further attempt is made to reduce or eliminate the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (8.48)- I think that firstly we should clear up the doubt that the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  has in his mind regarding the statement that the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  made concerning the election promise made by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  to the effect that the National Country Party would continue the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy if it was in government. I just want to read what was stated by the honourable member on 8 May 1974. 1 think that members of the National Country Party would know the date of the election in that year. He said: 
I give an unqualified assurance on behalf of the Country Party that, in government with the Liberal Party, we will restore the bounty on superphosphate and ensure that the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty continues. 
That should relieve the doubt that the honourable member for Dawson has on that matter.  Those of us who remember the debate on the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy that took place in September 1974 will recall how critical members of the Liberal and National Country parties were, not that the Labor Party had retained the full subsidy of $78.74 a tonne but because we had extended it for only another full year. At that time we were told that the Liberal and National Country parties would go full steam ahead and not only maintain the full subsidy but they would increase it for a much longer period so that the man on the land would be able to plan ahead and know what his costs would be. The wheel has turned full circle and we find the Liberal and National Country Parties in government and still going flat out, but in the opposite direction. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in his second reading speech on the Bill informed us that the subsidy would be continued for only another full year but not at the full rate of $78.74 a tonne and not even at the present rate of $60 a tonne, but at the very low rate of $40 a tonne. The Labor Party's policy of maintaining the full subsidy of $78.74 deserved and in fact received the support of all sections of the industry. If the subsidy had maintained the same relativity to the price of nitrogenous fertiliser it would now be $120 a tonne. The price of nitrogenous fertiliser at that time was only $97.20 a tonne, but it is now $159.60 a tonne and still rising. The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  was so keen about the action taken by the Labor Government that in a speech, which is reported in  Hansard  of 76 September 1974, he said: 
It is true that as far as production levels are concerned here is an argument that one type of fertiliser has advantage over another. It is true that if we are having a look at the rise in inflationary pressures in Australia production or the lack of it tends to be a material element. I submit that any type of stimulus to production is a way by which inflationary pressures can be countered. The reason that the Opposition supports this Bill, although I must say that we are disappointed that its provisions will expire on 31 December 197S, is that we believe that this legislation provides a way by which production can be stimulated and, as a result, inflation itself contained. 
I do not think anyone could have put a better argument for the long term continuance of the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy introduced by the Labor Party which, as I have already said, would now be $120 a tonne. Of course, he was right. A stimulus to production is the best way to maintain inflationary pressures. The man on the land will tell you that stimulatory assistance is more necessary today than it was ever before. 
The Labor Party believes that the full nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy is necessary and justified today. But what do the Liberal and National Country parties believe? Do they believe that the profit margin of primary producers has increased since 1974, or are they just hiding behind the Industries Assistance Commission recommendation that was put down in 1975? 
Judging by their attitude to the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy and also to the crippling burdens inflicted by the Budget on primary producers it is hard to gauge just what the Government's attitude is on these matters. 
So that we can better understand these questions I want to examine the reason why the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy was introduced in 1966. Its stated aims were: To reduce the costs in major user industries; to assist the users to compete in export markets; and to encourage nitrogenous fertiliser in newer applications where cost might be a deterrent. The Liberal and National Country parties supported these aims in 1966. They supported them again in 1974, so much so that the honourable member for New England made the statement that was quoted by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  The honourable member for New England was so keen that he gave an unqualified assurance on behalf of the National Country Party that the full level of the subsidy would be maintained. 
Regardless of the change of direction of the National Country Party and the Liberal Party, and regardless of the broken election promise, this decision could not have come at a worse time for primary producers. People in our agricultural sector have a right to claim the full subsidy. They have a right to say that the full subsidy is more necessary today than it was ever before. They make this claim because costs have increased. To ascertain what has happened with prices and margins one can turn to page 93 of the document entitled 'Rural Industry Information Papers, March 1978' which sets out world price movements. The document states: 
Since 1973, there have been large variations in the London Daily Price (LDP) quotation for raw sugar, as indicated by the annual averages set out below. 
The document gives the following figures: In 1973 the annual average London daily price was Stg98 per tonne; in 1974- that is the year that the Labor Party maintained the full subsidy of $78.74- it was Stg301; in 1975-that is the year the IAC brought down its recommendation- it was Stg214; and in 1977 it went down to Stg115. When sugar prices have reached their lowest point the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy has been reduced. No one cay say that under these circumstances the sugar industry does not have the right to protest. This has occurred even before the measures contained in this very vicious Budget in respect of primary industry have had a chance to take effect. Queensland members of the National Country Party can please themselves what attitude they take on the Budget and the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy. 
But I do not think they can cover up much longer by telling half truths about what happened when the Labor Party was in power. The man on the land, who nearly faces ruin, wants to know what the Government is doing today. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder! 
-The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  made a speech during the Grievance Day debate last Thursday on the effects that smoking has on the health of our community. I suggest that this address should be compulsory reading by every Federal and State parliamentarian because it is a most authoritative caution to those people who not only smoke but also promote the habit and the drug. I will not reiterate the arguments of the honourable member but I use his address as a base for my own complaint against those people who would smoke in public places to the inconvenience, annoyance and, to some degree, the health risk of those who are unfortunate enough to share their company or public space at that time. 
I draw the attention of the House to the successful complaint in the Parramatta Court of Petty Sessions last April where the defendant was charged and fined for assault for deliberately blowing smoke in the face of another passenger. Although some would claim that those who smoke in public and share their exhaled smoke with others do so unintentionally, I submit that, whilst they may do so without a realisation of the mischief and inconvenience they cause to others, actually the act is deliberate. There are suggestions that the inhaling of smoke exhaled by others is as great as, if not greater than, the health risk to the smoker. My last three years of travel in public transport, meetings in confined rooms and public receptions confirm this to be the situation. In that regard, I believe that my health is at greater risk now than it was three years ago. Whilst not denying any person the right to smoke and risk the threat of lung cancer, I do deny them any right to thrust their afflictions on to me or on to others. 
In some cities, for instance in Brisbane, smoking in buses is prohibited. In this chamber, by custom, the addicts are denied the opportunity to smoke. We can take refuge in here because smoking is not allowed in the chamber. Similarly, this practice of denial should be expanded and extended to all public transport and to all public places. As a Federal government, we could commence with the airlines. We could either stop it or seat the smokers to the rear of the aircraft and let them smoke between the burners. At present, there is no discipline. By preventing the advertising of cigarettes on television and radio the Federal Government has recognised the danger to human health. It is a natural extension of this policy to prohibit smoking in public places where the Federal Government has control, such as in air transportation or even in our own car transport pool. 
I commend the non-smokers rights movement for trying to mobilise that 70 per cent of Australia's population which does not smoke but which suffers because of the 30 per cent which does. State governments could clean up their Acts and the air if they proceeded to prohibit smoking in taxis, public transport, lifts, public buildings, or confine those who do smoke to special areas where they can share their exhaust with fellow participants. It is disturbing enough as the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  said that as a civilised race we find people of all ages submitting themselves to this drug. My concern is for those more enlightened people who do not smoke and who should not have to bear the afflictions of others who do. 
Is the Minister for Transport aware of the comparison of operating costs per tonne per kilometre travelled between major world airlines and the two Australian airlines as presented in the 19 September issue of the  Bulletin  in an article headed 'Two Airline Policy is strangling efficiency'? The comparison shows operating costs for the Australian airlines at SUS0.78 as compared with the lowest operating costs of SUSO.42.2 for an American airline. Does the Minister believe that these additional costs can all be attributed to the Australian airlines' excellent safety record, or that immediate rationalisation is necessary in the airline industry in rescheduling, administration and staffing and in in-flight service to reduce operating costs so as to make air travel available to more people and to assist Australia's own domestic tourist industry? Also, in view of these unfavourable comparative costs, does the Minister believe that a further increase of 7 1/2 per cent in domestic air fares is warranted? 
-I speak on this Bill with a fairly thorough knowledge of the Great Barrier Reef area. The coastline of my electorate of Dawson is adjacent to some 400 miles of the Reef. As a result I am quite conversant with the area. The Bill which seeks to amend the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act has been adequately described and I do not intend to canvass the personalities that comprise the consultative group or the various authorities that have an input. As I say, this point has been adequately covered by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Roger Johnston),  who spoke for the Government side, and also Opposition speakers. 
This Bill offers one a unique chance to indicate the importance that the Great Barrier Reef plays not only to Queensland but also to the nation of Australia. Without doubt the Reef is one of our national treasures and one of the marvels or wonders of the world. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  described the Reef as a unique coral reef and I would agree with him on that point. The Opposition obviously holds some fears about the appointment of a  chairman  to the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. I would remind the honourable member for Griffith, as well as other members of the Opposition, that the  chairman  should be a person who is given sufficient flexibility both in the nature of his qualifications and in the nature of his appointment to carry out his functions. To hold a person too inflexibly to a standard or too inflexibly to the type of work to be done will not improve the work that is necessary for the protection of the Barrier Reef. I believe that this is a most important consideration. 
As the honourable member says, one has to have the qualifications. I imagine it is likely that all three of the persons who are chosen will have the qualifications that are required. However, I point out that the  chairman  will play an essential part in this operation and as such he must be allowed flexibility to make sure that he is able to guide the group to the proper decisions. I do not think we should lose sight of the fact that the decisions that have to be made must be proper decisions. 
The honourable member for Griffith referred on a number of occasions to the Queensland Premier. Could I say, with all due respect to the honourable member, that possibly somebody else wrote his speech because I am sure that he does not hold those beliefs. There is no evidence of oil drilling. It was a matter of some public interest some five to 10 years ago, but at this time there has been no drilling on the Reef. This is the type of aspect that the group must look at to make sure that the balance of nature is left and so that we can develop and exploit the reef- I do not use the word 'exploit' from the point of view of trying to take everything out of the Reef- in harmony with that natural balance. I refer now to the fishing aspect. Possibly the Reef is the biggest untapped reserve for commercial fishing and, as a result, we have foreign intrusion into these areas which is a danger not only to the defence but also to the security of this country. Yet these people are able to fish, exploit and vandalise the Reef to such an extent that I believe Australians themselves should be more involved, particularly as far as the fishing industry is concerned. We must pay particular attention to oil drilling, fishing, tourist promotion and travel because we must realise that the Whitsunday Passage internationalises the whole of the Great Barrier Reef for the people who go through it. 
The point that I would make that has been mentioned already by the honourable member for Griffith is that, while marine national parks are rather new, they are no different to the national parks that we have on-shore,* and this is where I believe that we must be careful. There are disciplines that have to be imposed in order to preserve the natural balance of nature. I suggest that, if we had a particularly low tide on the Great Barrier Reef which exposed the seabed, we would find more Utter per square metre on that seabed than we would find in any on-shore resort. These are the disciplines that we must keep in balance. The other aspect I would like to mention is the off-shore development of the tourist islands. I have been to most of the major ones because all the major resorts are in the division of Dawson. I believe that the tourist promoters, whether they be large companies or family companies, have sought to build tourist attractions around the natural attractions They have sought to protect these attractions as much as possible and I believe that they have been successful in this endeavour. 
There are other aspects of on-shore development which are just as vital to our tourism in order to take advantage of the potential for international travel and tourism on the Reef.  Mr Iwasaki  has been mentioned in this context. I know that the Opposition spokesman on the environment has been to the area to see exactly what is proposed. It is a pity that those people who speak about on-shore or off-shore development of the Great Barrier Reef do not go there to see exactly what the potential is. The potential of this area is vastly untapped. The shoreline is untapped. As I mentioned before, the Reef itself is untapped as far as fishing is concerned; the whole tourist aspect is untapped. 
What we must do, if we look, for instance, at the Iwasaki project, is make sure that, if Iwasaki commences development because the laws of Queensland and the laws of the Commonwealth are such that he can now start development, that development conforms not only to the laws of local government, the State government and the national government but also to the laws of nature, and that if the development is there it is only to enhance the natural aspects of the area and certainly not to destroy them. Contrary to my colleague's belief- although he comes from 
Queensland, I am not always sure that we should acknowledge it- I have faith in the Queensland Government and I believe that these laws, through the Public Service, the departments and the people concerned, will be observed and that Iwasaki will get no more than any normal Aus.tralian promoter would be allowed 
What I believe we must do, in developing the tourist aspect of the Reef, is ensure that its attractions are made available not only to the people who live in the vicinity but also to all Australians and all international travellers. We are at a stage where we are looking for international trade and tourism and I believe that it is one of the ways in which we can expand so that the Japanese or other tourists who come to Australia will be of benefit not only to Iwasaki at Yeppoon but also because they will travel further within Australia. My own belief is that if Iwasaki develops- I think this aspect is there; the ball is now in his corner- he must make sure that the natural aspect and the lay of the land is preserved. 
The other aspect in connection with the Reef that has come in for criticism, especially from this House, certainly in this decade, has been the lack of security and the fact that Taiwanese fishermen and other foreign intruders are able to get onto the Reef. It is bad enough that they poach and take the fish which would naturally be an Australian product but the vandalism that they inflict on the Reef is greater than any inflicted by the crown of thorns starfish. The vandalism from that particular aspect is greater than any other in the natural environment of the Reef. Over a period nature will balance these natural disadvantages but there is nothing to balance the vandalism that is caused by human intruders. 
I am not canvassing the technicalities of the Bill. They have been well covered. In regard to the qualifications of the  Chairman,  I see nothing wrong with the amendment which has been proposed by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom).  I believe that the task of this group is a very important one, not only from Queensland 's point of view but also from the point of view of all Australians. I suggest to the Minister that, if he wants to enjoy the real beauty of Australia, the place where the sun shines all throughout winter, the reef is the place to go. 
Not to Gosford; that is still in New South Wales. Queensland and the Great Barrier Reef offer a great holiday for a Minister who is hard working and who wants to see these attractions for himself. 
-The estimates set out in terms of costs Australia's immigration policy for the year 1978-79 and the extent of its assistance to ethnic groups. Many comments have been made and many people use this opportunity to support the particular theories they have. I thought I just might add to this without taking the time to rebut or go over other people's arguments. 
It is nearly 200 years since Australia received its first immigrants and because of the nature of our first colonisation, Australia became less of an Aboriginal community and more of a British or European community over those 200 years. Since World War II our population has accelerated and has become more of a European blend because of the immigration policy directed towards getting our skilled workers from that general geographic area. In those 200 years Australia has seen an influx of other ethnic groups. I mention the Chinese who, in the 19th century, joined in our rush for gold as the fields were discovered, explored and exploited. Many of them remain today as first-class business people, as workers, but more importantly, as Australians. Also, the Kanaka slave trade of the late 19th century left within our Australian community, particularly in the north of the nation, the distinctive characteristic of the South Pacific Islander, a person of whom we can be very proud. These are only two of the groups which have lent their cultures to the European culture and absorbed some in return. Their financial cost to the nation for immigration was absolutely nothing, but their financial and cultural contribution to Australia today cannot be calculated. 
These estimates provide an amount of $440,000 to voluntary agencies for assistance to refugees, $8. 58m to the assisted migration program, $17. 17m for migrant and refugee education and nearly $lm by way of grants to Good Neighbour Councils. These appropriations show in human terms our preparedness to accept, to educate and to assimilate migrants, wherever they may come from, and also to take our share of responsibilities for refugees, particularly those from South East Asia. 
The long-term implications of the decisions we now make are important and perhaps exciting. What we now call the average Australian is a mixture, mainly with European origin. Within 50 years the nature of the average Australian must change- and it will change. On my recent visit to Japan, China and Hong Kong, the aspect that interested me most was the density of population in those countries- the number of people living within a limited space. In Japan 110 million people are living on 25 per cent of the land surface. In China 800 million to 900 million people use every scrap of available land. In fact, we saw hills and mountains being denuded in order to terrace for agriculture. In Hong Kong there is limited land available- again with a very large population- and the problem is being increased daily by the influx of refugees from adjoining countries. Incidentally, the white Australia policy is still found in some Japanese educational terminology, and perhaps that could be corrected. 
In comparison with those mass populations and limited land, Australia, with its vast spaces suitable for almost any type of enterprise and its population of a mere 14 million, cannot expect to continue its unique role, particularly when geographically we belong with those densely populated nations. Geographically we are part of that area of the world that has well over one-half of the world's population. I believe that within 50 years our population will reflect changes that are inevitable. It will be a larger population, a population no longer particularly European, a population reflecting a Utile of a lot of other nations, possibly mainly from South East Asia or the Pacific area. As I said, I feel that these changes will envelop us whether we want them to or not. Therefore the policies we adopt, which this appropriation reflects, are important for their eventual long term results. 
Our choice of migrants must reflect people possessed of the work ethic, people who are prepared to adopt our country, to focus on opportunities, and to work to fulfil ambitions born out pf the opportunities they see. It is rather sad to have to say that, but we realise that it is a fact when we look today at the average Australian. The same opportunities are there if we want to exploit them, if indeed we have a work ethic. Multinationals reveal this day after day- coal in the Bowen Basin, tourism on the Barrier Reef, and so on throughout Australia. Multinationals can see the opportunities; we cannot. The experience with the early Chinese immigrants was one of success so far as enterprise was concerned, irrespective of the difficulties of the terrain, the cUmate, or whatever they had to face at that time. In my experience, the Japanese possess a greater productivity- possibly 20 per cent to 25 per cent greater- than the average Australian. These are the people who, because of the inevitability of what I have described earlier, would strengthen the Australian economy and the character of the average Australian. 
Refugees have been described as queue jumpers, and in some ways I agree with that. Whilst I agree with our outlay of funds to assist refugees, we must do it on our basis and not necessarily on someone else's. Our guidelines must be clear, concise and constructive in order to build up our future society in the most orderly fashion. How we accept our 10,000 refugees this year will determine our policy for future years. The honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  has indicated other potential areas from which refugees probably will come. Rhodesia is one area to which we must apply the same rules of compassion as we do to others today or tomorrow. Personally, I believe that if the crisis comes to a head from the Rhodesian quarter those people, black or white, would add something to our Australian character and community. The policies we adopt towards Vietnamese refugees will also have to be applied to other nationalities as other nations adjust their affairs, peacefully or otherwise. 
It is important that migrants be not only accepted but also encouraged to enter the mainstream of Australian life. The educational commitment of $ 1 7m in these estimates is important, but the commitment to assist in assimilation is probably just as important. The decision to cut oneself off from a way of life and to adopt another is a heartbreaking one for the migrants who make it, and in those circumstances assimilation is most important. I have noted also the amount of $720,000 allocated for deportation fares. Whilst I can see no alternative, it does offend me to know that other nationals, who vandalise our national assets such as the Great Barrier Reef and trespass on our fishing grounds, upon capture commence a chain of events for which the Australian taxpayer is called upon to pay- detection, quarantine and repatriation. Our defence, our security, our health, and also the problem of drugs are all areas of concern in this regard. 
The total appropriation of $59m for 1978-79 represents a rather large increase over that for the 1977-78 year. It is comparatively insignificant in terms of cost, perhaps; but it has to be made significant in the value it buys for Australia in the type of migrant or refugee we take this year and in the years to come. The best value migrant is the one who will help to develop a nation that is basically underdeveloped. The best value migrant will expand our culture and enrich our community. 
-I rise to support the Bills which we are now discussing and which are in fact budgetary measures. Before I deal with this legislation and look a little more closely at some of the avoidance measures which it proposes to close, I would like to refer to some of the points made by previous speakers. I agree with the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who is the Opposition's spokesman on this matter, that what we should be looking for more than anything else in our taxation laws is equity. If we are looking for equity I believe that we will have to start to rewrite the whole income tax legislation. I agree with him in that respect. However, perhaps his philosophy as to how to get equity is different from mine. 
I would like to make a few points in respect of what was said by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  The honourable member spoke about trusts. I believe that his comments in this respect were based more on rumour and innuendo than on facts. I also believe that speeches of the kind made by the honourable member only created fears and uncertainties as far as the population is concerned. The honourable member talked in terms of the benefits available to some classes of the community as opposed to others. If we look very closely at the changes in the taxation laws over the last decade we will see that considerable benefits have been provided to the lower income earners. For instance, in 1972 the ceiling for tax exemption was $1,040. Yet in the space of six years the ceiling for exemption has more than trebled to the present rate of $3,893. An individual can now earn $75 per week tax free. The spouse can earn as much again, which means that a combined income of $150 per week tax free can flow into a household. 
Having given those concessions to the lower income earners, when one comes to look at the taxation laws with a veiw to giving the benefit of further taxation decreases obviously those people in the lower income bracket will not be advantaged as much as the people in the higher income brackets. The philosophy of taxation is based on how much incentive a person has to earn income in order to produce the revenue that government- the Labor Government particularly, and this Government proceeds to follow suit- needs to pay for fairly lavish welfare and social programs. In fact, I think it was probably a mistake to delete from the title of the Income Tax Assessment Act the fact that it was also a social contribution Act. I believe that we have to weld together the social aspects of our revenue spending and try to provide some basic comparison in respect of the manner in which we raise that revenue from the other sector of the community. We have to relate the amount of money that is spent on people in the community who are disadvantaged and in need to the amount of income that is collected through taxation. 
The honourable member for Chifley quoted from an article in the  Canberra Times.  He placed a great deal of emphasis on the pay-as-you-earn taxation system. I believe that if the honourable member looked at the figures closely he would find that revenue from the pay-as-you-earn taxation system increased' proportionately more during Labor's term of office than it did in latter years. Of course, this can be attributed to many things. The wage explosion during those years must have increased the collections made under the pay-as-you-earn taxation system. There was no tax indexation to offset the effect of inflation. Worse still, many people in the community during those years sought the security of a salaried job in preference to the uncertainty of private enterprise or businesses that were going bankrupt in great numbers. Probably it would be factual to accept the figures cited by the honourable member. However, we should look at the figures more constructively and place the blame where it should be placed. 
The fact that we are gathering more taxation under the pay-as-you-earn system now is a result of the higher salaries being paid at the cost of less profit in the private enterprise system. Also, without a doubt, this is due to the fact that more employees are earning rather substantial salaries. Therefore, there has been a boost to those payasyouearn taxation collections in that time at the expense, I would suggest, of those people who pay taxation on an annual basis. This can be attributed to the uncertainty of the economic position during the period of the Labor Government. When we are looking at the payasyouearn taxation system, we should never forget that tax paid on the high salaries earned by parliamentarians is collected under the system. Nobody would suggest that the comparison that was drawn by the honourable member for 
Chifley was devoted only to people in receipt of lower incomes. Taxation paid on a tremendous number of higher incomes is being collected through this system. It is possibly a safer system. It is more certain for the Government. It can collect the tax on a weekly basis rather than on an annual basis. They are some of the factors that I thought I would mention. Members of Parliament are not the only people in the community in receipt of high salaries. Many people receive incomes in the vicinity of $300 to $500 a week. We certainly would not call such people poor by any stretch of the imagination. 
I thought that the temptation to mention trusts would have been too great for the honourable member for Chifley to pass up in this debate. Let us be frank about the position: Members of the Opposition have trusts and members of the Government have trusts. They use them for various purposes. But let us look at when the proliferation of the use of trusts and family trusts occurred. It occurred in the years of soaring taxation which was not subject to indexation when the Australian Labor Party was in power. As a practicing accountant at that time, I can certify that these family trusts found their basic origin and their growth in the years when the ordinary individual was being overtaxed. Greater amounts of taxation were being taken from people during those years. In other words, these people thought that they would like to be in partnership with somebody they knew in preference to a partnership with the then Commonwealth Government and paying out a greater share of their profits than should have been the case. The device was initiated then. It was within the power of the then Labor Government to correct any anomalies that it thought were evident at that time. It had plenty of opportunities to do so. But what did honourable members opposite do? They have done nothing except carp and criticise since they have come back here as members of the Opposition. For that reason, they will probably stay members of the Opposition. 
Yes, they did not build up enough trust in their own Government. That is where they went wrong. The family trust or the trust structure is no different from a private company or a public company structure in which the income is spread over a greater area. I believe that the fact that we have not recognised certain alterations which should be made in the companies structure has led to family trusts being created so that these tax concessions can be gained in practically the same way they are gained in companies. I am not saying that there are not abuses under the system; but if we are to look at just one area without looking at the total effect or the theory of taxation we will not get anywhere. We will have a hop-scotch situation. The trust system is possibly one of the older legal devices that have been adopted under common law. As I said, trusts are no different from a private or public company. The Labor Government had an opportunity to do something about trusts when it was in government and it failed to do so. If we are to look at trusts, let us look at the whole of the Income Tax Assessment Act to make sure that the equity we seek and should have is firmly implanted in the theory of trusts and taxation law. 
The legislation we are debating today is designed to close some of the tax avoidance loopholes. Honourable members who have spoken in the debate have mentioned some of these loopholes. I wish to make some remarks in respect of annual pay and long service leave. I hesitate to say that the previous  speaker  in the debate, the honourable member for Chifley, referred to these matters in the same vein that I will. It is a fact that in some commercial transactions, salaries were taken in the form of retirement salaries instead of as immediate income. This is still being done. Instead of taking normal retirement leave or annual leave as the person concerned should have done at the time of earning that leave, this leave was deferred each year, put into the form of retirement pay and then taxed at the rate of 5 per cent. But let us never forget that people who take annual leave, people who take their long service leave in the normal course of employment without terminating employment, have always been taxed on the amount of money they receive. We are dealing with a rather confined area in which certain abuse was occurring. I believe that the Government has recognised that people should not suffer in respect of long service leave provisions by deciding that the rate of tax to be paid on the lump sum shall be only 5 per cent of the sum accrued up to 15 August 1978. Perhaps we could have adopted the same philosophy in respect of annual leave. Lump sum payments for accured annual leave for the 12 months prior to 15 August 1978 could have been assessed in full but leave accrued before 15 August 1977 might have been subjected to the same provisions that apply in respect of long service leave. That is only a suggestion that I make, and possibily too late at that. This was one narrow area of tax avoidance which will be closed. 
I believe that the withdrawal of rebates in respect of overseas dependants occurred because this is another concession area where abuse has occurred. The Government strives to collect taxation under an Act but it may grant an exemption or a concession. Those exemptions or concessions can be subject to abuse. Obviously, this is one area of abuse that has been indicated to the Taxation Office. The narrowing of the provisional tax adjustment from 20 per cent to 10 per cent represents no great penalty. We must realise that it affects only those people whose provisional tax is self-assessed and who have taken advantage of a situation to deliberately underestimate their provisional tax by the 20 per cent margin knowing that they have no fear of retaliation from the Taxation Office. This provision will apply only in the self-assessment provisional tax area. Discretion is still vested with the Commissioner of Taxation for the penalty not to be imposed if he feels there are obvious circumstances that led to miscalculation of the figure submitted initially. Of course, this can happen. 
Some fears and concerns have been expressed in respect of the averaging provisions for primary producers by the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council. I think that the Council should receive fairly direct answers from the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  when he is replying in the debate on this Bill just to alleviate the fears that have been expressed. Adjustments were made to the tax averaging provisions in 1977. The tax averaging system now is the best it has ever been. It provides all the benefits that are due to primary producers who must contend with seasonal fluctuations and other difficulties. I see the tax averaging provision at this stage as fully covering the difficulties of the primary producer. The amendments now being made to the legislation will prevent the abuses by people who are not primary producers but who would want to enjoy the benefits of these provisions at the risk of damaging the tax base of every other taxpayer in Australia. 
The Treasurer has placed before honourable members a list of 10 or more areas of abuse that have been closed in the last 12 months. This makes me realise that, with the Income Tax Assessment Act in its present form, I can only describe the actions of Australians and the Australian nation in respect of tax as very sick. People who are not prepared to carry their proper burden of taxation or their proper share of the liability devise these avoidance schemes. Possibly the most blatant to come before the notice of the Parliament this year was the sales  tax avoidance scheme. A method of options permitted the taxpayer to avoid his share of liability in respect of the sales tax paid on new motor vehicles. I believe that our society in this regard is rather sick. I do not believe that people should be permitted to deliberately get out of their obvious responsibility and liability as set by the law. They should not be allowed to indulge in these methods of avoiding tax. In this regard, I must say something about a profession that has developed in the last few years. I refer to the tax avoidance industry. I can only class it as a parasite on our society. It should not be part of our society. The sooner we get rid of this industry the better. It is one thing to close down the schemes as they come to our attention, but I believe that it would be far better to ask people in private enterprisepeople in private and public practice in the legal and accounting fraternities- to meet with the Treasurer or the Government on a consultative basis not only to make sure that the professional ethics enunciated by their societies and institutes are adhered to but also so that those people can have an input into government to assist in closing the loopholes. They might be able to make some very good suggestions as to how a better equity between taxpayers could be achieved. Whilst I decry the people who involve themselves in tax avoidance programs, the people I detest are those in the tax avoidance industry, and the sooner we do away with them the better. It is my suggestion that we consult with private enterprise to try to form a consultative panel to deal with the problem. 
Much comment has been made about the  Vi  per cent increase in tax rates from 32 per cent to 33V4 per cent, but nothing has been said by the Opposition and little has been said by the Press of Australia by the offsetting influence of the cancellation of the Medibank charge as from 1 November, which on my calculation will amount to about $325 a year. I think it is unfair and deliberately misleading for the Opposition to feature the  Vi  per cent increase without taking into account the offsetting effect of the Medibank levy. In that regard, I believe that the Government has taken a step in the right direction. I say with a certain amount of pride in my own State that we now have a Medibank system which is almost parallel to the one that has been in existence in Queensland for quite a few decades. 
They might copy us in many other directions too. That aspect has not been brought out in this debate and I doubt whether any Opposition speakers will bring it out. I wish to dwell for a moment on the averaging provisions. A letter has been circulated by the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council, and I ask the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  or the Minister who replies to this debate to clarify certain aspects of the proposed changes in the averaging provisions. First of all, I ask him to enunciate what farm income is and what nonfarm income is and what guidelines will be set. For instance, there is some concern about the salary paid to a working partner in a primary production partnership. Is that salary, which is paid out of the profits of the firm, classed as farm income or non-farm income? I know that in the past a precedent has been set in relation to the salary paid by a company, which must be regarded as non-farm income, as is the dividend, but I think that partnerships will want to know whether the salary of a working partner is to be regarded as farm or non-farm income. 
There is also some concern about the  redemnon  of income equalisation deposits, although I believe that as these income equalisation deposits are redeemed they will come back in the form of farm income, even though the interest will not. That is another area that needs some clarification. Another aspect that needs to be clarified relates to farmers who hire or lend out their farm equipment under a contracting arrangement to assist a neighbour. Will that be regarded as farm or non-farm income? If the plant is hired to any other outsiders in any circumstances, how will that income be regarded by the Taxation Office? I believe that the amount of $5,000 which has been set will allow an individual farmer sufficient scope to cover seasonal fluctuations by making investments from time to time. On today's rates, an income of $5,000 would represent an investment of about $50,000. Bearing in mind the aspects of income equalisation deposits, this must be a more attractive proposition for people in the rural industry. In fact, it is a very good alternative which a farmer or grazier could use in relation to averaging or income equalisation deposits. I have no hesitation in saying that an income of $5,000 from outside the basic structure of the farm is a fair one and I believe it has been adopted rightly by the Government in order to stop the abuse relating to the Pitt Street and Collins Street farmers. 
In regard to the taxation legislation, the Government has closed some of the loopholes and will be alert in relation to other loopholes. However, in that regard I want to make one final point about the income tax legislation. It is now almost impossible to interpret the legislation. High Court cases in great numbers are required  to interpret it, and I refer particularly to the Curran scheme, where I believe the interpretation was probably not even a legal one; certainly it was not an accounting interpretation. I believe that it is time the Government got down to producing legislation that is as easily read as our Constitution, which has stood the test of time for over 77 years. We should have legislation which provides for one basic tax rate on income, whether on the basis of capital gains or otherwise, with a ceiling to ensure that a family or an individual is allowed to earn a certain income free of tax. Above all, let us reduce the exemptions and rebates that presently apply because every time the Government creates an exemption or rebate it ensures that a comparable abuse will follow. I suggest to the Government that this type of taxation reform is long overdue. I have much pleasure in supporting the budgetary measures introduced by this legislation. 
Can the Minister for Trade and Resources confirm that the United States House of Representives failed to pass before the adjournment of the present Congress legislation dealing with sugar which would have enabled the United States to participate fully in the International Sugar Agreement? What are the implications of this for the world sugar industry and the International Sugar Agreement? In particular, what are the implications for the Australian sugar industry, which is becoming very concerned about having to accept the disciplines of the Agreement while being denied its projected benefits? 
-The closing remarks of the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  deserve some comment. If this Government were particularly concerned about the effect of the original legislation introduced by the Labor Government in 1974 and wanted no part of it the best way to overcome this concern would be to remove it from the statute book and not to water it down, as the honourable member is suggesting would be the case with the passing of this Bill. I do not believe that the Bill presented in 1974 by the Labor Government was intended to cover all the aspects of consumer protection that people in the electorate thought it might or indeed to meet the expectations of the people at that time. I know that many fears were held by many of our manufacturers, retailers and wholesalers as to what the actual effect of the legislation would be. In the fullness of time the original legislation has had to be amended four times. I do not believe that all these changes have been made in the terms of office of the present Government. 
This Bill is the fifth amendment to the original legislation. This probably indicates that the amendments have been introduced not just because of changing times or in the areas of review mentioned by the Swanson Committee in its report in 1976 but possibly because the impossible is trying to be achieved by this legislation. I cannot conceive of this legislation covering all aspects of consumer protection. In fact, it has its limitations within the ceilings it imposes in its provisions as to who can seek protection under it and who cannot. Many people would have liked to have been afforded protection as consumers in relation to the parts of the legislation amended last year, but this was denied them. I feel that any person who was a member of the Federal Parliament or in the Labor Government in 1974 would not have felt then that the legislation, as innovative as it was then and as necessary as it was to protect consumers within some aspects of the private enterprise or capitalist system, would be the ultimate measure of consumer protection for a nation such as Australia. That brings me to the point that Australia seems to find itself almost in a contradictory situation in that on the one hand fairly massive protection is given to manufacturing industries in order to allow them to survive and on the other we try to implement a law such as this one to give protection to the consumer. It just does not seem to balance up. 
The second reading speech of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  was significant in many ways. It was significant not only for the fact that it introduced amendments to strengthen the principal Act and the rights of consumers in so many other directions but also because of the comment that he made, which I read into  Hansard  again. He said: 
It is the policy of the Government that the Trade Practices Act operate even-handedly and be conducive to the sensible regulation of business activity, fair trading and freedom in Australian trade and commerce. The Government is determined, however, that trade and commerce in this country will not be hindered by over-regulation. 
In fact the type of protection that the Labor Government might have felt was necessary would have been an over-regulation, a discipline too great for the consumers and manufacturers of Australia to bear. I think it is important to realise in regard to this aspect of over-regulation that, apart from the large manufacturers, retailers and importers that this legislation seeks to deal with, there are small businesses which have a vital part to play within the Austraiian community, not only in relation to the economy but also in relation to the aspect of employment, and which we cannot over-regulate. 
Many situations have been referred to in this debate so far. Under the Trade Practices Act it is regarded as collusion for certain industries to rationalise their activities and they are prevented from doing so because of the effects of the Act. Yet rationalisation of Australian industry is absolutely necessary in so many ways. I am not suggesting that the motor vehicle industry is one of them. But surely somewhere along the way some rationalisation will be to the benefit not only of Australia but also ultimately the consumer. After all, we are looking at this legislation as being for consumer protection; yet within its framework and provisions this Act denies the right to do the sensible thing in so many ways, particularly in respect of what I have just mentioned- the merging of firms because of the economy of costs and in many cases to prevent a business closing up completely. Surely it would be in the national interests for some exemption to be given within the framework of this legislation. 
These provisions will be referred to a legislation committee at a later date. They will be canvassed one by one at that time. I believe that the legislation committee will be the proper place for any comment to be made. It is not my intention to state what will be said then. I just say, in connection with some of the remarks of the previous speaker, that the legislation lacks teeth because of the inability of the Government to fund and staff a proper commission. Again, this might be a reflection on the fact that the Act is expecting too much. If that is so, perhaps amendments will be brought forward on a fairly regular basis to try to plug the loopholes or the deficiencies as they arise. 
I come back to the point that Australia might not be ready for the ultimate and total protection which some people want for the consumer. In fact if the legislation gave ultimate and total protection we could regard it only as a socialist piece of legislation. Competition must be within the market place. Competition in the market place means competition for the consumers too. Certainly the Act has been of benefit in regulating many of the inadequacies of the past and the amendments now proposed are aimed at trying to improve it a little further. Realising that the Bill will be referred to a legislation committee, I give the amendments it contains my full support. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife  for  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That this Bill be referred to a legislation committee for report by 14 November 1978. 
-This Committee is examining and discussing the estimates for the Department of Industry and Commerce along with those of quite a few other departments. With regard to the estimates of the Department of Industry and Commerce, I particularly wish to discuss the allocation of funds and the effort and influence given by this Government to the small business sector. Many references have been made in this chamber in relation to small business and its problems. What is first needed, I believe, is a simple and acceptable definition of small business. In conformity with the policies and programs of our conservative parties in the promotion of the private sector and its importance in our total economic plan, a simple definition of small business must be: those enterprises where an individual contributes not only capital but also his or her own personal effort and management. 
These factors are important because the great danger facing small business today comes from its absorption by big business, public companies and public utilities, often because of insufficient capital and managerial capacity. Without personal and private involvement that allows the expansion for fullest usage of the necessary resources of finance and labour, there will be no small business, no competition and less service in the areas for which it presently caters. Costs are a constant problem. Labour costs especially increased out of all proportion to profits earned- in fact, their increase was at the expense of profit- in the 1970s. Relief in respect of labour costs can be achieved in two ways. Firstly, relief can be achieved by the Commonwealth's continual representations before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission against automatic consumer price index increases as in its three years of office. 
It should be an established fact that either the real value of labour has to decrease or productivity has to increase if labour costs are to be afforded by small business. The encouragement of productivity is not an exploitation of labour; it merely involves doing something more simply, more quickly and with more satisfaction. Often productivity can be achieved with less physical exertion. I believe the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  set this out very well in the statement that he made recently. The Commonwealth has given the initiatives in this area. It requires the full support of the States and employer groups in returning wages to a level which is comparable with profit in order to instil incentive and motivation into industry and small business. The second way of achieving relief lies in the negotiation of a seven-day week award in industries that can utilise labour services on a sevenday week basis. Service industries, communications, tourism, accommodation and restaurants would use more labour if the ridiculous penalty rates could be eliminated. I am sure that businesses of the type that I mentioned would respond with a suitable expansion if relief could be offered in this respect. 
There must be recognition in trade unions of the fact that they would have more members as a result of a reduction of penalty rates in the terms of the award. It is my sincere hope that in this one respect reason can prevail to assist a vital recovery in the small and large business sectors. The Commonwealth has shown its preparedness to assist in taxation incentives. The stock indexation valuation adjustment and the investment allowance are two examples of this assistance. The Government should go further and remove the barrier that limits private company liquidity by omitting Division 7 of the Income Tax Assessment Act which provides for the retention allowance. A statement by  Mr John  O 'Brien the manager of Breville, appeared in  Rydge's  of June 1978. The journal quotes  Mr O'Brien  as saying: 
Here we are, an Australian-owned company battling against the multi-nationals. We've got to pay an undistributed profits tax. 
I can't leave money in the business because if I do I have to pay 70 cents in the dollar. If a multi-national doesn't pay a dividend it pays 46 cents in the dollar. 
If we were able to leave money in the business, we'd be able to expand, employ more people, do a better job. 
I think this is reference enough to the necessity to assist in this regard. The acceptance also as taxation deductions of accounting provisions, even at the expense of a rising rate of company tax, will be a further relief. Most importantly, it will be equitable and will provide uniformity between accounting principles and taxation. Grants for research and development this year have increased to $24m within the budgetary allocations. They should be of enormous benefit to industry and commerce, particularly the smaller business that does not have the financial backing for a good practical idea or invention. The allocation of $4.24m to the Australian Tourist Commission, if it is allocated and spent properly, can materially assist small business in an industry which is progressively being taken over and dominated by larger business. This estimate is an increase of $1.4m over the expenditure in the previous year and is a significant acknowledgment by this Government of the need to assist and foster tourism. 
Much is often mentioned about the Commonwealth's role in financing small business. People who mention it often have visions of unlimited funds being allocated to all comers with no need for them to prove viability or provide adequate security. The aspects of viability and security in any accountability must be paramount. We have not been elected custodians of the taxpayers' money just to squander funds on enterprises that neither are viable nor offer security. However, by the judicial use of guarantees to recognised small business lending authorities we can promote those businesses that are or will be viable, or we can offer them some security. In this way the Government can help make a business profitable and progressive. After all, that is what we as a government want- to be a partner through taxation in a profitable business. This means of guaranteeing finance to organisations by lending money to the small business sector is possibly the best way of doing it. This support cannot and should not be given in the form of another government authority drawing finances from consolidated funds at attractive interest rates. 
The Commonwealth Development Bank is an already established authority with a charter to lend to small business, which does not fulfil this extra vital role in financing small business. The Primary Industry Bank of Australia which was especially set up to make money available to primary producers will not bridge this gap in financing the area where there is insufficient security. So a duplication of these institutions will not be successful. I will say a word about trading banks. The article in  Rydge's  states: 
John O'Brien says the company could not have grown as it has without going overseas for money. One of his 'whinges' is the lack of competition among Australian banks. 
We borrow more money unsecured overseas- just on our name and reputation- than we can borrow locally with the total business secured. We have lines of credit in Germany and Hong Kong. We take an exchange risk but the interest rate is half. 
Perhaps the trading banks could look at that probable explanation of  Mr O'Brien.  Small business suffers from the inactivity or lack of support from local government as much as anything else. Perhaps this might indicate a lack of my appreciation of the massive disincentives offered by payroll tax, insurances, rail freights and licensing by State governments. This is not so, because I recognise that States could assist small business materially in many ways by a relaxation of the many penalties or burdens that small business suffers at the hands of State legislators. I acknowledge, however, that in many ways States are more active and possibly do more in the areas of consultancy, financing and the availability of land. Relief from death duties and gift duties in my State of Queensland has helped to keep family enterprises together. In fact, the closer State liaison is with small business, the better will be the recovery in small business. State governments can get on with the more personal aspects of assistance and incentives provided the Federal Government sets a healthy economic and taxation climate in which small business can respond. Over the past several months the aspect of local government authorities' activities in small business has been brought more forcibly to my attention. For instance, the unreasonable standards now set by building bylaws as to wind resistance, fire precautions, parking, provision for roads, kerbing and channelling make development costs far too high for the limited privately financed enterprise or, as an alternative, too dear to rent. 
Town planning for businesses and services to provide a community invariably leads to too many businesses competing for too little, or for a limited market, so no one earns a profit and many go bankrupt. More care should be exercised in laying down the various by-laws and there should be limited acceptance of business approvals, to ensure that businesses do not reach saturation point. Only local governments, by regulating the quota, can exercise this discipline. 
It is no protection or consolation to a consumer to have prices forced up by unnecessarily high building costs and rentals, or to see a business bankrupted by too much competition. Rates, fees, licences and other taxes should be charged bearing in mind their reasonableness and fairness to the businesses that provide the main arteries of community life. 
Lastly, the origin of small business has been one of people seeing an opening for a market, believing that they have the specialist background to fulfil that need, and then proceeding to fulfil it. In this situation there is a margin for the gamble or the chance. No government can legislate against a person taking that chance in business. The persons themselves can keep the gap of chance as narrow as possible. They can provide back-up resources in finance, laws and regulations from within the private enterprise system. If they fail in taking these precautions there is little that anyone can do to prevent an eventual bankruptcy. However unions and local, State and Federal governments can assist in many of the ways that I have mentioned. These estimates allow the Federal Government to assist in an appropriate manner, but recovery and the health of small business depend on the co-operative effort of everyone; the most important effort being that made by the individual himself or herself. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I speak in this adjournment debate tonight to mention the growing disquiet of rural Australia brought about by increasing costs, particularly those associated with fuel. The broad thrust of the Government's policy, commenced last year and completed in the 1978-79 Budget, to bring crude oil prices up to world parity price is one that should raise little objection. This is particularly so in the realisation that if we are to regulate our own and the world's dwindling supplies of oil, a price penalty, not unreasonable on world standards prices, will be the best means to effect a consumer discipline to stretch as far as possible those dwindling resources and supplies. However, there are forces generated within the oil industry in Australia that fly in the face of Government policy. I refer to the discounting policies carried on in the capital cities of Australia that provide petrol for the motorist at a figure as little as 1 8.9c per litre compared with 24c to 25c per litre in my electorate. This runs completely counter to the disciplines of the crude oil levy and is an actual encouragement for the capital city motorist to use excessive petrol and not conserve it, as should be the principle. 
These differences in prices under this discounting policy of the oil companies represent just another penalty paid by the people of rural Australia to subsidise their capital city relations. There is no incentive to transfer to public transport or for the more economic use of the motor vehicle as the levy, intended. Rural industries of Australia which represent 6 per cent of the population use 20 per cent of our fuels. These people not only subsidise the cities; they also pay one-fifth of the levy which is an indirect tax paid to revenue by way of increased costs which, because of competition from other countries, cannot be recouped on the export market, where three-quarters of the product is sold. The rural industries have no alternative fuels to which they can turn. They cannot further economise on fuel use, so the costs direct and indirect, just have to borne. These include freights, the cost of goods and fertiliser costs. These have all increased due to the influence of the levy. This is all happening while the discounting policies lay waste our essential fuels. 
Other honourable members have spoken many times in the House of this problem of discounting. It is time that the State and Federal governments looked realistically at the problem and sought a remedy. This is especially so in view of the Government's policy to raise the crude oil price to world parity prices. One can only assume that the marketing strategy of the oil companies is the result of an excess production capacity for which markets must be not only maintained but also increased with no respect for the future and the needs of the next generation. If this is the situation, an application to the Prices Justification Tribunal for an increase in price to the oil companies is not the answer. Rationalisation of the total refining industry and a searching inquiry into it should provide the real answer. With the evidence obvious in the existence of the discount, a government would have to be blind not to see the deeper implications of the other abuses it creates and the potential for waste it proposes. 
In Brisbane at this time small business people in petrol stations are being squeezed by the oil companies in the petrol discount war. They are being pushed further by higher rentals charged at the same time. These small business people are being pushed towards bankruptcy with a potential loss of employment to Queensland and also to this nation of thousands of service station attendants. I appreciate that an inquiry on this and other aspects of the matter is current. I hope that the results of that inquiry will be made available quickly in order to place any subsidy, if any has to be provided, in the hands of the people who need it most for export purposes and to earn export dollars- that is, the farmers themselves. 
I would like firstly to refer to what has been said by previous speakers. If we take away the political aspects of what has been said on both sides and condense the debate to the five or 10 minutes of effective speech that are have had we find that some real contributions have been made from either side. In debating this Bill, we have the opportunity to look into the future to see what will occur and what we might do at this stage about it. Therefore, I would feel that the contributions that have been made today from both sides of the chamber have been worth while. This is an amendment Bill, a supplementation, to take up the effects of inflation in the two years yet to run in the three-year program that was introduced last year. Expenditure over the next two years will amount to $33m. That in itself is probably not a large amount when spread over the whole of the country. 
This brings up the primary problem, as everybody has indicated, that an insufficient amount seems to be spent on the total road system of Australia. In addition, one wonders whether equity is being given both to the States and the regional areas, in order that they get a fair deal, one against the other. For instance, the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  spoke to a large extent of the urban problems of the capital cities. Could I suggest that problems are to be found not only in urban areas; that regions throughout Australia which contribute greatly to the wealth of this nation must suffer dirt roads and similarly inadequate roads. This is, I believe, another area of concern. 
The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  referred to a decreasing influence in regard to funds spent on roads. He related that, of course, to the three-year program in comparison with the national expenditure, but I know that the funds which are given on a tax-sharing basis to the local governments, amounting to some $170m a year, are to a large extent devoted to road works in provincial cities, capital cities and rural shires. So it is not fair to say that the Commonwealth 's contribution is limited, for instance, in 1978-79 to the amount provided under this amendment Bill. Certainly, other funds which are provided to States and local governments are eventually fed into the road system. 
I believe that the major impact of this Act, with the amendments that it carries with it, is the quota system of allocation to the States, whereby the States must also make minimal contributions. These contributions are supplemented by those of local government. By that means, I believe that at this time we are getting maximum participation and maximum expenditure on roads. After all, if it were not for this discipline, the inadequacy of the funds that people often complain about and will continue to complain about, would be greater. Therefore, I compliment the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  for imposing this discipline on the States and ensuring that they do participate to at least the quota figure. 
Perhaps it is too soon after the remarks of the honourable member for Batman for me to join in congratulating the Minister on the transfer of road funds that has been effected, from urban areas to rural roads, but rural Australia is now receiving a greater percentage, a greater share, of road funds than it did under the previous Act. I congratulate the Minister in that regard. He is taking heed of the requirements of the mining, rural and other manufacturing industries in rural decentralised Australia. One function of a government which collects its revenue by way of taxes is to appropriate for those productive areas a fair share of the national cake. I believe that the Minister has been able to do it in this regard. 
The allocation made under the Act puts the whole onus for national highways on the Commonwealth. When it took over national highways it certainly undertook a mammoth task, one which I am afraid it is nowhere on the way to fulfilling. In this regard I notice that in the current 12 months expenditure upon road construction will be $ 1 64m, upon maintenance $2 8m and upon commerce roads $ 16m, or a total of $208m. I am concerned that in some areas the national highways take the form of four-lane roads which provide quick access to various points; in other areas the national highway is represented only by a pencil line on some map in a planning authority; that the planned roads will not come into existence this year, next year or perhaps in the next decade. It distresses me that we have an excellence of standard for some of our national highways but that in other areas a national highway does not exist. The national highway is the main artery of this nation and feeds the tourist industry, as the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  has said, the mining, rural and manufacturing industries. 
I believe that the level of maintenance of our national highways is falling to such a degree that we just cannot keep up standards; we are letting the nation in for a tremendous expense in future to provide new capital construction. What we have today in the way of slurry seal, for the surfacing of roads to a very high and permanent standard, demands that more money should be put into better maintenance in order to save us in the long term from a massive bill for reconstruction. It is the responsibility of the Commonwealth to ensure that we lift the standards of maintenance. I think all will confess that at the moment our construction and maintenance standards are not those that a nation such as Australia can afford, deserves and requires if it is to be kept in the forefront of international trade. 
State authorities also have their share of responsibility. In fact, when one examines the whole construction field one sees the three areas of responsibility. The Commonwealth has advisedly kept out of the construction field and has worked on the basis of funding the States requirements to the limit of the funds available. 
We are not a constructing authority in that area. The States and the local governments leave a lot to be desired as far as being construction authorities are concerned. It is not possible to look at all of the local governments throughout Australia and say that one standard of construction exists for all shires; far from it. Some have an excellence of standard of construction. Others deserve no funding whatsoever. The States, of course, are our greatest critics in that they do not accept to the extent that they should responsibility for roads other than national highways. 
I have just mentioned that the Commonwealth must be responsible for national highways but the States must also accept their responsibility in this area. I would suggest that the States, instead of coming back to the Commonwealth time and again being critical and asking for further funds and being quite prepared to put the blame for every pothole in the country on the shoulders of the Federal Parliament, might look more closely at their own efficiency. For instance, I do not believe that any State should through its roads authority be a planning authority, a financing authority and a supervisory authority and also carry the responsibility for construction. I believe that is not right and that it is certainly not effective. The same comment possibly applies to some of the local governments. If we insisted that such authorities turned instead towards the employment of private contractors I believe that the money that is now available at Commonwealth, State and local government levels would be better spent. We would have better roads and we would have more roads. I feel that the Commonwealth should insist somewhere along the line that the States do a little bit of their own housekeeping to improve their standards and try to get better value out of the money that they currently receive. Then perhaps as the need arises we can look further into the matter of providing better funding. 
Australia has a unique position of all the nations throughout the world. I do not believe that we could say in relation to any other nation: This is a comparison that we can draw with the Australian situation'. We are a large nation; we are decentralised. Our major industries apart from the manufacturing industries are situated outside the capital cities, outside the areas of greatest population. For this reason it is most important that the funds that we do allocate are allocated on an equity basis. I believe that in light of the funds that are available and bearing in mind its decentralisation, size and smaller population, Queensland possibly gets more than a fair share of the national cake. The people of 
Queensland cannot complain in that regard. As somebody said, it is a great State; it produces a great proportion of the national income. Certainly a large proportion of our exports, which affect our balance of trade so much, comes from that State. That indicates to me that whilst Queensland is possibly fairly well situated under the present Act as far as the allocation of funds is concerned it is essential that any funds be given on a basis of priority to those producing areas. 
We must realise that the road system throughout Australia is our most important link as far as so many matters are concerned. It is important not only for the daily traffic but also for the industrial wealth of the nation and for tourism. I do not feel that our roads at present could be expected to serve any defence purpose whatsoever. Certainly, tanks and other equipment stationed in the south would not be able to negotiate the Bruce Highway beyond Maryborough or Bundaberg. As somebody said, that is also our own protection because anybody landing on the north coast would not be able to use those roads to travel south. But I do not find that to be a very good defence argument. 
The aspect of tourism has been well covered by the honourable member for Herbert. I congratulate him on bringing to the attention of the House the final report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism. He stated that the Committee found that 90 per cent of transportation throughout Australia is done by motor car. But the Committee came to some other vital conclusions also. Paragraph 134 states: 
The Whitsunday Wonderworld Travel Council claimed that a major problem for the area was the condition of the Bruce Highway between Mackay and Rockhampton. The road is the main link between Brisbane and Cairns but year after year it is cut by flood waters. The DoT - 
That is, the Department of Transport:   . . in its 1976-77 Annual Report referred to the construction of a new flood-free link, but the Council expressed concern that such work was not likely to be completed until 1985. 
That is an example of my claim that many of our national roads are just pencil marks on plans for future construction. The Select Committee on Tourism reported very firmly in that respect. 
I wish to pass on some of the other conclusions, which are set out in chapter 16. Paragraph 415 states: 
The long term trend in modal passenger shares of nonurban transport will be a maintenance of the dominance of the private car with an increase in air travel. The private motor vehicle is expected to account for approximately 86 per cent of all trips . . . 
So, again, the emphasis is placed on motor vehicle travel. Paragraph 4 1 6 states: 
Because of the dominance of private car travel the Committee is concerned about the present road conditions and has been informed that there is a need for a massive upgrading of the road network. The Committee has recommended the compilation of a priority list of tourist roads and that additional funds should be made available by Commonwealth, State and Territory Governments to upgrade those roads. 
The report mentions the Stuart Highway, the Bruce Highway and the Alpine Way, each of which in its own way is an artery that feeds the industries- particularly the tourist industry- of Australia. I can only recommend that conclusion drawn by the Committee. It is all very well to make a recommendation, but any such recommendation should be placed firmly in the minds of the people who make the decisions. I realise that the present Act is one to which we are committed until 30 June 1980 but after that there will be a further Act. I think it will require a lot of foresight at this stage to make sure that certain conditions are fulfilled. Recommendations such as these should be taken into account. For instance, how can we put into action in a three-year program a special program for bridge building which becomes essential, and deal with passageway needs that arise from time to time within that three-year period? The same argument applies to the sealing of a section of the highway, which is just a pencil mark on a plan. I believe that additional funds will have to be allocated for these additional projects and special needs, quite apart from the amount of funds that is currently allocated. 
Also, whilst I say that Queensland on a pro rata basis is probably getting more than its fair share, what we will need in the future not just in Queensland but throughout Australia is a greater share. When we come to look at that greater share I believe that there are particular matters that should be taken into account. I mention, for example, the aspect of public transport in preference to the use of the multitude of private cars that we have at the moment. The honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  very accurately covered that subject and I congratulate him on his remarks. We have to look to a lesser number of cars and a transfer to public transport because of the fuel problem that will continue in the future. We have to look at particular conditions, especially climatic conditions. Heat affects the road surfaces and causes them to deteriorate. On top of that, the roads are subject to heavy rainfall. We also have to look at the aspect of sea travel where it runs in competition to road travel. I feel it is farcical that the best highway in Australia is adjacent to our coast in the form of a sea lane, yet because of competitive prices, freight cutting and such things it is not used to the fullest extent. I hope that the sea lanes will be very closely looked at to ensure that this form of travel is regarded as an alternative and cheaper form of transport. This would decrease the reliance on our roads and upon our rail system. All of these aspects- usage of the road, the population it serves and the industry it serves- must be taken into account when we look at the new Act in June or July of 1 980. 
I conclude on what I, in addition to the honourable member for Batman, believe is a very vital point. This matter, is important not only in relation to fuel; we have to look at the whole system of transportation in Australia. We have to look at past decisions. One of the most ridiculous decisions that we have made in the past and which is currently concerning us is that relating to air pollution controls in motor vehicles. They are possibly quite sane in some of the more crowded capital cities, but it is ludicrous to think that we have these devices fitted to our motor vehicles, chewing fuel, a very scarce resource, at a tremendous rate. On the one hand through our energy policy in Australia we are trying to discipline the use of fuel by increasing the price through levy and on the other hand we are encouraging excessive use through the fitting of these devices. I cannot say enough about the way I feel about the discounting of petrol prices in the capital cities- another waste. 
While I give this Bill my full support because it recognises the effects of inflation on the States and local government authorities, I think we should look at the States' housekeeping as far as their efficiencies are concerned, their contributions and the way they work. We should look at the guidelines from 1980 onwards and we should certainly look at those features within our society today which impose an unnecessary burden not only on our fuel resources but also on our roads. We should be looking at the alternatives. On that basis, I certainly give this Bill my full support and I believe that the consideration of this chamber should be directed towards making effective in July 1980 the changes I have suggested. 
-In rising to support this Bill I just reflect on the speeches that have been offered by members of the Opposition. I just wonder whether they really feel what they have been saying. In fact, I think they have been rather hypocritical. The research has been so light that they have had to refer to, of all things, Press clippings which they have repeated time and time again. If they had gone back in time to December 1975 they might have taken a different view of the Press clippings at that stage and they might not have been so willing to flaunt them in this chamber. Either they are being hypocritical in what they are saying or they have just forgotten entirely what the circumstances between 1972 and 1975 brought out. 
The last  speaker,  the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  mentioned that there is an expression of hostility in the rural ranks today. I suggest that he turn back to November 1975 and find out what the real heat of the hostility of the rural section was at that time. Some members of the Opposition have come into the chamber and argued against themselves. One honourable member came in here and said that it would have been his policy that the Rural Bank should not have existed. The last  speaker  was too busy quoting bits and pieces of other people's speeches to catch that. Perhaps it would be in their interests if all members of the Opposition remained in the chamber to find out exactly what the others are saying. There has been no cohesion whatsoever in the argument. The honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  made the suggestion that the Bank should not exist. It certainly did not appear in policy. I cannot recall it being part of any of the Opposition's election policies in 1975 or 1977 that it would give any help whatsover to the rural industry. The Opposition was very keen in the last election to spend $500m or $700m on rebating payroll tax. Perhaps the Opposition might ponder now on how much that would have done for rural industry. 
If we go back two members in the members for the electorate of Riverina, we recall that in 1972 the then honourable member for Riverina,  Mr Grassby,  made an election promise that $500m would be given to the primary industries at a concessional rate of interest of 4 per cent. What eventuated in three years? A lousy $20m through the Commonwealth Development Bank. And at what concession? Absolutely nil. That is the history of the Labor Party in that regard and the history of that former Labor member for Riverina. 
The floor price for wool was explained adequately by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon).  I thank him for being in the chamber to take up that particular point and to discredit the honourable member who made it. If members of the Labor Party want to look at rural Australia, they have come to the party three years too late. Let us look at what the Labor Government did between 1972 and 1975. What happened in respect of concessional rates of interest? It removed the 2 per cent concessional rate given by the Reserve Bank to rural statutory marketing boards. That was a great help! The Labor Government pushed up interest rates from 7 per cent to 12 per cent. What a great concession that was for rural industry. The Labor Government gave the industry runaway costs not only in interest rates but in every other imaginable cost, particularly labour costs. Let us consider the Labor Government's taxation incentives. 
If the honourable member for Parramatta will calm himself for a moment I want to talk about taxation incentives. What taxation incentives did the Labor Government give? It gave absolutely nothing. What did it take away? It took away everything. It removed completely the special depreciation allowance to primary producers under section 57AA of the Income Tax Assessment Act. It discontinued as an allowable deduction under section 75 of that Act expenditure on land clearing and development. The investment allowance was removed in the middle of its period in office. The averaging provisions, which one honourable member opposite has been prepared to acknowledge as a reason for the income equalisation deposits, was absolutely wrecked under Labor. There was no benefit in it. Honourable members opposite talk about assistance but what did Labor do for the beef industry in the two years from January 1974 to December 1 975? 
It ruined it and did absolutely nothing for the beef industry. These are the people who now say that rural Australia is their pet concern. 
I have been able to mention only a few of the steps taken by the Labor Government but there were many more. I am sure that the rural industry of Australia certainly was not impressed with the method of government of the Labor Party in those disastrous years between 1972 and 1975. There has been talk of rural assistance for the beef industry. Some people are talking of loans and concessional interest rates but let us consider what was done for the beef industry. There were no concessional interest rates. There was a grant of about $ 100m for the beef subsidy scheme to help the farmers stay on their feet until they could get the benefit of prices such as obtain today. Market forces are back in operation. The only people who gained during the years of the Labor Government were some of those butchers who were able to get into the market place and get cheap beef. The profits of those butchers certainly were greater than the profits to rural industry generally. I am sure that rural Australia remembers what happened. I am sure that if the people of rural Australia were able to listen to the broadcast of tonight's proceedings they would regard members of the Labor Party as hypocrites for standing here and debating matters- they were not even consistent in their arguments- and conveniently forgetting the ruinous years that they gave to Australia from 1972 to 1975. 
Let us talk about the concessional rates of interest. Is the honourable member ready? 
There are many aspects of rural financing which butchers do not have to face. There are many aspects of rural financing which attract high rates of interest. I need only mention hire purchase. Many people have been forced to use this form of purchase when other forms of finance have not been available to them. 
Yes. There is also the cost of leasing which can involve payments of charges in excess of the 1 8 per cent or 1 9 per cent figure that was mentioned. I am sure that the rental costs would be greater than the repayment costs involved when a person has the opportunity to purchase. In talking about concessional rates of interest over the last 12 months, it has been said that Primary Industry Bank financing would be available for these alternative forms of borrowing. People have been forced on to the open market and have not been able to deal through banks. They have had to go to lenders. All these borrowings will now be available at the reduced percentage suggested. The concessional rate of interest will be available to those people who want to look a little further than their noses. The argument that has been put forward by some members of the Opposition tonight- this view has not been put consistently- is that the Labor Party would not have agreed to a primary industry bank at all. It would have given no assistance whatsoever. 
Concessional interest rates have to be tied in with the type of security offered and the interest payments that were being made previously. The Primary Industry Bank entered the market-place last Monday for the receipt of applications for financial assistance. This is a rather unique situation, not only in Australia but throughout the world. It is unique in that it will offer hope to rural Australia. As rural producers take advantage of it we can adjust the guidelines to encourage people to seek funds to gain security. If the Labor Party believes that this is not a satisfactory alternative for financing rural Australia, I suggest that it is not interested in rural electorates. In my electorate inquiries have been made about the Primary Industry Bank, applications have been lodged and people are waiting for the financing to start. My great fear is that the initial funds to be available will not go nearly as far as rural Australia expects. It can be said that the expectation of rural Australia certainly will be greater than the initial funds available. In this regard it is foolish for the Labor Party to say that rural producers have not been interested. They have been interested. The Bank will provide an alternative form of long-term finance. As I said, this is rather unique in the financial world. Certainly I hope that the guidelines will be changed as we go along. 
History has been created in this regard. Believe me, the history that was created by the Labor Government will not be forgotten by the rural electorates of Australia. We have been talking about Press comments. Members of the Opposition have spent a great deal of time quoting particular comments. It is unfortunate that they did not refer to an editorial that appeared in the  Australian  about four weeks ago. The  Australian  is probably the major national newspaper in Australia. It was prepared to recognise that there would be advantages for rural producers in the Primary Industry Bank. That was just one favourable Press comment. Of course, there have been constant critics in the rural industry and in other industries of this Government, just as the Labor Party has been a constant critic. But how easy it is to be a critic and to put up counter suggestions that have no merit in the sure knowledge that nothing will ever come of such suggestions. It has been suggested, for instance, that the Commonwealth Development Bank should be the vehicle for financing rural producers. But who is to supply the funds and at what rate of interest? No matter what concessional rate of interest was offered by the Commonwealth Development Bank, a taxpayer input would be required. But there was no mention of that aspect by the Opposition. The Opposition merely said that the Development Bank should be allowed the privilege of performing this function. I am not a critic of the Development Bank but we need only look at the recent change of guidelines governing lending to small business. Up to this stage small business has not received any benefit. To come into this House and suggest that a contribution could be made by the Commonwealth Development Bank without giving it the wherewithal, the funds, and determining appropriate conditions serves no purpose. 
Certainly, at the moment trading banks are lending funds to rural industry. However, as a result of this legislation further funds will be released through the Primary Industry Bank. I am afraid that the amount of $60m may be too small for the current year, but the Primary Industry Bank will give a better feeling of security to the people of rural Australia who will know that their debts will not have to be paid as fast as they would have to be paid through the normal trading banks. It may be suggested that the Primary Industry Bank will be a better lender than the trading banks, but that can be suggested only in respect of the amount of money that will be available. The system will still require a guaranteed form of security as good as that presently obtaining. Perhaps that is another matter we might examine. What stifles borrowing in this country today, by both small business and rural industry, is the fact that the security requirements of the Australian banking institutions are so high. Often people who could well service a debt and who would be good borrowers are not afforded the opportunity to borrow. 
Debate interrupted. 
-I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for your ruling. When the debate was interrupted on Thursday night I was speaking about the difficulty in Australia of financing not only rural industry but also small business and the small degree of risk that lenders are prepared to take. I hope that the Primary Industry Bank of Australia might take this aspect into consideration when it is looking at applications for refinancing. Certainly the Primary Industry Bank is just one avenue for supplementing rural finance. Bodies sponsored by State and Federal governments already render assistance to rural industries by way of rural reconstruction, drought loans, Federal legislation to provide grants to beef producers and low interest loans in respect of brigalow areas. 
Some of us had a discussion last Monday with the management and some senior officials of the Primary Industry Bank. We were told that the Primary Industry Bank can be of such service within the rural community that the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia has indicated that it would like to become a participant and that insurance companies and pastoral houses have expressed interest. I hope that in time the trading banks, the Commonwealth Development Bank, the insurance companies and the pastoral houses will as a group take an interest in this lending authority and bring their resources to bear. To assist such a step would go a long way towards solving some of the problems of rural finance. 
It has been indicated that rates of interest of 10 per cent and 12 per cent will be applied by the banks concerned. The interest on money from the Primary Industry Bank to these other lending authorities is at a  Vh  per cent differential. I do not think many people appreciate that the Primary Industry Bank will advance money at  %Vi  per cent. The applying banks will have to take account of the costs of processing and maintaining loans and also making sure that the funds are available on long term finance. That is the way in which the Bank will operate. 
In the remaining five minutes I would like to refer to the situation in New Zealand which I believe will be of interest to honourable members. New Zealand has had 40 years experience in financing rural industries through the Rural Banking and Finance Corporation. In many ways the Corporation is comparable to the Primary Industry Bank of Australia. The Australian bank operates on similar lines. Although the rate of interest to the rural producer is lower in New Zealand it is not as concessional as it might appear in the first instance. New Zealand interest rates traditionally have been below Australian interest rates. However, as I said, the situation in New Zealand is practically the same as that in Australia. I have looked at the balance sheet of the Corporation for the last two years up to 3 1 March 1978. In 1977 the Corporation funded 7,524 applications for a total amount of $ 154m. For the year ended 31 March 1978 it funded 1 1,708 applications for a total of $228m. Anyone who is debating or who has an interest in this Bill will see that the amount to be offered by the Primary Industry Bank in the first 12 months of its operation, taking into consideration the vastness of Australia and our reliance upon a greater number of rural industries, will not go anywhere near the initial amount that will be applied for in the market place. However, I think we must realise that New Zealand started its scheme 40 years ago. We must look at this from the point of view that the Primary Industry Bank will now commence operation and that with the support of every person and every institution in Australia interested in rural industries we will in time- I do not suggest it will take 40 years- be able to reach the stage where we will have enough finance to fund the loans that will be required. There will be disappointment initially but I believe that this objective will be achieved. 
The Rural Banking and Finance Corporation has put some emphasis on the fishing industry which is now even more important because of the 200-mile fishing limit. I believe that our fishing industry could immediately receive loans through the Primary Industry Bank. Some suburban people believe that country areas are being subsidised up to the hilt. I deny such a suggestion. One should look at the situation in New Zealand. Not only do rural producers in that country have the benefit of rural finance but they also can be granted many subsidies in respect of export markets. In fact, I know that one company in New Zealand made a profit of some $1 lm but did not pay one cent in taxation. One can imagine the effect that has on the price of its goods which are flowing into Australia at the moment. Australians, by that comparison, are not over-subsidised. Manufacturing industries in the south of this continent receive a minute amount of protection or subsidisation in comparison with their New Zealand counterparts. Perhaps we can encourage the Government and the States to look further and to assist other areas of rural industry which are in need in the same way as it has assisted rural industry with this legislation. We should have a very close look at the subsidies and the level of protection afforded to southern manufacturing industries so that they can compete with importers. Therefore I refute fully the suggestion that primary industry in this country is being over-subsidised. 
The New Zealand situation is almost selfperpetuating. I believe that last year the New Zealand Government paid out only $6m because of the loan repayments that were received. This is more or less a round robin exercise. If interest rates on loans are to be kept at the present level the Commonwealth must continue to look to its own input and the value of that input. The income equalisation deposits are limited to approximately $30m and what is required from the Commonwealth in the future will not be filled from that source. Therefore the Commonwealth also must look at this aspect of further low cost funds from time to time. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. The Treasurer would be aware that the growing incidence of tax avoidance and the closing of some tax avoidance practices have led to the expansion of the Income Tax Assessment Act to such an extent that it is now almost incomprehensible. The Treasurer also would be aware that the current income tax system lacks equity between taxpayers and acts against the work ethic of Australians. Will the Government, as part of its tax reform program, review the whole principle of the taxation of income with a view to simplifying the Act, discouraging avoidance, granting equity and providing incentives for the earning of income? 
-In rising to support these taxation Bills, I think that often we learn nothing as we go from one amendment to the other. We seem to hear the same diatribe every time from the  speaker  who preceded me. It is a great pity that he resorts to the type of character assassination and vindictive crusade that he has carried through this Parliament. I had hoped that the Federal Parliament would have been more constructive. It is a great pity that many of the constructive suggestions that have come forward in this debate have been ruined by the sort of remarks that have been made. There is a sense of uniformity between the Opposition and the Government on this matter; the Income Tax Assessment Act we have today does demand instant and immediate review. Before I get on to that broader subject, I want to speak on the amendments before us, the main one being an amendment relating to accrued long service leave and annual leave. 
I should like to make it plain, as did the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  that in no sense can this be classed as a tax avoidance measure. It merely seeks to clarify what is still a very muddied stream of understanding. The Flood case, which was once regarded as being the authority in this regard, has been overtaken by the events of Nilsen 's case, and even that, if read by itself, is actually a determination made in connection with one award. No longer can we say with any clarity what is the situation one way or the other with annual leave and long service leave. While the case is on appeal to the High Court, I believe in respect of both parties, the matter will remain in this situation of uncertainty and the final decision will determine the ability of taxpayers to take advantage of a situation some 12 to 18 months in arrears. The amount involved has been estimated by the authorities at some $600m. I am not in a position to say whether that is correct or not, but I recall that on a previous occasion, when it was suggested that we might allow a deduction for taxation purposes of all long service leave accrued to that point, the cost was some $2.5 billion. So in respect of an annual accrual, $600m may be the figure. However, nobody is in a position to say one way or the other. 
It has been said that in some respects this legislation is retrospective. Of course, retrospectivity is a matter that has been tossed around a lot in this Parliament over the last 12 months. I think retrospectivity must be considered in terms of taking from an individual his expectation of what he might normally have regarded as the normal practice. Up to the time of Nilsen 's case there was no expectation in regard to this matter in the minds of taxpayers throughout Australia, in spite of the fact that accountants had been asked to make sure of these provisions and accruals for accounting records. There was no expectation that a taxation deduction was involved, although many would have hoped that that was the case. So the legislation is not retrospective in that sense because it has been dated 1 July 1977. Very few people in the community would have had an expectation of getting such a taxation deduction for the year ended 30 June 1977 and certainly not for 30 June 1 978. As I have said, by the amendment to section 5 1 the legislation puts the situation in its proper perspective, without any reservation. In that regard, it is unfortunate that the Government could not take this opportunity, along with the Asprey Committee's recommendation, to allow these amounts as taxation deductions in the time they are accrued. I believe such a course would assist to some extent the  liquidity  of small business and big business throughout Australia. Unfortunately, the budgetary situation did not allow the Government to make a commencement in this year, although it would have been a great opportunity. However, as all other speakers in this debate have said, I hope that in subsequent years the deduction will be forthcoming. 
Other aspects of the Bill to which reference has been made by previous speakers include current year losses, and I want to pay a little attention to that because it is the subject of criticism. As we have heard, the size of the Act has grown from 90 pages to 600 pages. This is a simple piece of legislation in relation to what it will achieve in terms of cost, but some 42 pages will be added to the existing Act. The provision is very complex because, from my understanding of it, it endeavours to place an accounting interpretation on a division of profits during the year. In a normal commercial sense, this practice has not been available in the past, and this has led to complications. It is just not the fact that the Taxation Commission has not been allowed a discretion. The amendment should have been considered from the point of view of the actual cost to revenue. Having determined that, one should then have looked at the amendment and asked whether it was worth while to do it in this way or whether some concession should be allowed through a taxpayer being able to carry back losses. The current year's loss situation rather staggers me when one compares the length of the legislation and what it is endeavouring to do. 
Dividend stripping and branch profits taxes are amongst the matters that have been mentioned. I want to take up the matter of the branch profits tax because the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  when he opened the debate for the Opposition, mentioned the old annual, the situation of Utah Development Company. I think it is only right and proper that I should read into  Hansard  the situation in relation to Utah. If Utah had not come to Australia vast tracts of land, particularly in inland Queensland, still would not be developed. We would still be running one beast to a thousand acres. Today that area has two thriving townships paid for by Utah Development. In 1977, 56.5 per cent of its gross profit was paid to the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Government in taxes, royalties, payroll tax and so on. I want to make the point that that is not a bad collection by a government that has no other interest, participation or responsibility in this development. It should also be recognised that that S6.S per cent does not include rail freight to the coast which is paid by the company and includes a fairly considerable margin of profit for the Queensland Government. So excluding that, 56.5 per cent of the gross profits as denned by the company goes to the Queensland and Australian governments. Of course, with this branch profits tax there will be an additional margin for the Commonwealth. We should also remember in relation to Utah that, while the Government is not responsible, it is probably the biggest participant as far as dividend sharing of the profits is concerned. At this moment the company is conducting trials at underground collieries which indicates to me that it is encouraging development. It is prepared to tackle the development of the secondary coal seams at a lesser profit just to maintain its faith with its employees, the State of Queensland and the nation of Australia. I just wanted to mention that briefly in the time available to me. 
I return to the remarks made by the honourable member for Chifley. They were the remarks that he normally makes when he discusses tax Bills. I had occasion to make some comments on his remarks during the second reading debate on, I think, the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 1) 1978. Unfortunately, I have to make similar comments again. If the honourable member were to look at the amendments which were announced in the 1 977 Budget he would realise that there is very little advantage to be gained today from setting up a trust for a child under the age of 16 and that there is very little avenue for a zero rating. The penalty rates of 50 per cent to 60 per cent can be applied more to those smaller margins of income than can the normal rates at the other end of the scale. In this regard it is very difficult these days to persuade a lawyer to draw up a trust agreement for a child on the basis that the purpose is to save tax because that no longer is the situation. So I suggest that the honourable member for Chifley reads the fine print of the legislation that was introduced following the 1977 Budget announcement and examine what constructive measures the Government has taken in the trust area. 
One would imagine from the comments that have been made that nothing has been done. That is far from the truth. I think it reflects the vague knowledge that the honourable member for Chifley has of the Act that he makes these allegations in the House all the time. Of course, it is easy to say that if one had the opportunity one would have done certain things. We acted on those opportunities by doing the things I have just recalled. The Labor Party also had the opportunity to do something in regard to trusts in the period that it was in office. That was the period when the greatest proliferation of trusts for tax avoidance purposes occurred in the history of taxation in Australia. I ask the honourable member to look at the situation which applies at the time before he makes allegations in this place against people who have trusts. 
I disagree with his view that it is the responsibility of the Taxation Office to review the Act and update it. It is the responsibility of this Government and this Parliament to do that. I hope that that is something that will be achieved, particularly as I feel that the views of the Opposition and those of the members of the Government are one in this regard. 
I noted on a date block not so many weeks ago the thought that a human being is born with two ears and one mouth and should use them in those proportions. I suggest that politicians, and officers of the Taxation Office, should go into the marketplace, which is where the taxes are collected to get the feelings of the people and to listen to what they have to say about it. The message that I get loud and clear from a normal taxpayer in this country and the ordinary accountant and lawyer is one of utter despair in relation to the Income Tax Assessment Act. For the accountants and the lawyers, the change and complexity of the Act is a continuing feature which makes it almost incomprehensible. For the taxpayer, there is not only this aspect to consider but also the continuing inequity between the situations of one class of taxpayer and another, even though they might enjoy the same level of income. 
I can understand the situation occurring of a taxpayer in this country earning an income identical to that of his neighbour and yet having to pay a larger amount of tax because he is not able to take advantage of schemes which are legal under the Act and which minimise the amount of tax paid by the neighbour. While this situation exists, more and more tax avoidance will occur. More people will be prepared to take the gamble, if they are given the chance, not to record their full income and thereby try to lessen the impact of tax on their lives and their incomes. Anybody can come into this place and say that we can lower the tax rates and that we can stamp out the known tax avoidance areas but that will not change the tendency towards tax avoidance. I can recall the American taxpayers rebelling in exactly the same way about 10 years ago because they felt that they received no thanks for the payment of foreign aid to other nations. The American taxpayer just could not accept that situation any further. That resulted in major tax avoidance in that country. Today in Australia we see the same thing occurring for another reason, namely, that there is no equity between the tax paid by one taxpayer and another. 
On Thursday of last week, I think it was, during a speech in the Adjournment Debate an honourable member made a very valid suggestion which I believe could form the basis of the creation of a little more equity in relation to taxation matters. His suggestion was that a family unit and not the individual should be taxed so that a family in which the husband earns a salary and the wife stays at home has the advantage of spreading that income with his wife and getting the benefit of that, as would apply with the nontaxable ceiling that the neighbours would have if the two of them were at work. I believe that this is a responsible way of achieving equity under the Act. A reduction in taxation rates might help in some way to achieve that equity, but I believe that we have to go back to the start and review the Act, defining 'income' even if it means including capital gains tax, and then minimise the number of exemptions and exceptions to the payment of tax on that amount. 
It is significant that the size of the Income Tax Assessment Act has increased from 90 pages to 600 pages. Since 1901 the Constitution has not changed in size, yet that Constitution can still be understood quite thoroughly by anybody who reads it. I am sure that if we were to return to the situation of having the Income Tax Assessment Act written in plain and clear language we could avoid many of the traps into which we have fallen in relation to that Act. We need to cooperate with the specialists. I feel that, as the right honourable member for Lowe has suggested, an approach to those people who administer the Act in the marketplace would be a good start. At this stage I refer to a question I asked yesterday, which I believe reflects the concern and despair of people outside this place who have to pay tax. My question was in these terms: 
Will the Government, as part of its tax reform program, review the whole principle of the taxation of income with a view to simplifying the Act, discouraging avoidance, granting equity and providing incentives for the earning of income? 
If we do that, I believe that we will be going a long way towards satisfying the requirements of those Australians who are being called upon to finance the running of this nation. The whole tax Act will always be under pressure and probe, particularly while it is in its present form. While the Act grows in volume but lessens in comprehension through the closure of loopholes, the granting of concessions and exemptions and the widening of the gap between accounting principles and taxation procedures, these probes by the taxpayers will become increasingly successful. In this regard government, through the ever increasing incomprehensible Income Tax Assessment Act, will be held further in contempt. That will apply irrespective of whether it is a conservative government or a Labor government. 
The amendments that are before the House quite clearly do not constitute anti-avoidance procedures or legislation but are just aspects that seek to clarify the Act. But in the more general sense I believe that we have to look at the whole aspect of taxation of income in Australia. We have to look at the whole aspect of how this Government collects its revenue in order to ensure that we can rely on the public and the people in the professions to make certain that that money is collected but that an equitable situation is still retained so that the taxpayers are encouraged to go out and earn more. In that way this nation can prosper through the increased collections of taxation. I have much pleasure in supporting these Bills. 
-The Asian Development Fund Bill we are discussing tonight provides the mechanism for Australia's contribution to the 1979-82 program for the Asian Development Bank. The second reading speech of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  has attached to it a table which shows Australia's contribution as being the fourth largest of the nations that are contributing to the Asian Development Fund. Of course, the main contributor is Japan. I feel that that is a recognition by Japan of the part it can play in the Pacific and the Asian nations. During a trip to Japan earlier this year, it was indicated to us that Japan is quickly realising it has a major part to play in the development of the Asian area. No doubt its contribution to the Fund is recognition of that fact. Possibly Japan has felt for a long time that it has not been involved in the normal workings of Asian nations. Its contribution to this Fund, its friendship treaty with China and also the assistance it is rendering in Vietnam indicate that it wants to go further. 
The initial contribution by Australia to this program was $18m. The first replenishment was $30.7m. In this Bill, Australia is now committing itself to a further $96.9m contribution or 5. 14 per cent of the total contribution. This in itself may not appear to be great, but as I mentioned earlier, the amount represents the fourth largest contribution of those nations which contribute to the Asian Development Fund. The contribution is recognition by the Government of Australia's responsibility not only to look inward but also to look at the areas of influence where we can help. The projects of the Asian Development Bank undertaken from past contributions are mentioned in the Bank's annual report for 1977. The types of projects undertaken are those of a selfhelp nature and to improve argiculture and community living. In fact, the variety of programs shows an active involvement in the welfare of the people in the developing nations. 
I want to mention some of the projects that are listed. They include road projects, forestry, agriculture and fishing, the provisioning of sea ports, fertiliser plants, jute factories, flood mitigation and irrigation, drinking water for the communities, transport facilities and industrial research. I understand that the Bank, in making these contributions, monitors the projects very carefully to make sure that the funds are properly applied. There is a difficulty involved in any contribution that Australia makes overseas. When we contribute to South East Asian nations through funds such as the Asian Development Fund the amount contributed loses its identity. It is possible that Australia is not receiving any particular recognition for many of the projects being undertaken in these countries with the assistance of the Asian Development Bank. I think that Australia gets a lot more recognition from those programs which we administer ourselves and for which the funds are delivered by Australia. For example, funds are given directly to Papua New Guinea through the Colombo Plan and recognition is given of our contributions. In this manner, there is less chance of the donation being lost within the mire of a mass contribution. Amounts that have been allocated up to 31 December 1977 which are shown on page 55 indicate that special fund allocation up to that time was $1,166 billion. This money is provided at a rather concessional rate of interest, an on-charge of three-quarters of one per cent to 1 per cent, to cover the maintenance of the account. Also the loans are made over a 40-year period. Therefore, once the amounts are given, although they are recycled, Australia can never expect to see the money back in its revenue. However, that is not the intention. 
The honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  made a point which I want to pick up. He said that the protectionist policies of Australia are detrimental in respect of trade and recognition throughout South East Asian countries. Of course, Australia is not the only protectionist nation. Japan, the greatest contributor to the Asian Development Bank, would be the greatest protectionist nation of its agricultural and secondary industries. I believe that I heard the honourable member for Werriwa correctly when he referred to the subsidies paid to the Australian sugar industry. I would like to correct his statement quite substantially. The subsidy provided at the moment is to the Australian consumer and not to the Australian sugar producer. Whatever else might be said about the embargo, it has acted to discipline and advantage the Australian producer. It has also provided counteracting benefits to the Australian consumer. I hope that I heard the honourable gentleman incorrectly. Perhaps he was referring to some subsidy to the sugar industry in some other nation. If he is referring to the Australian sugar industry, the protection that he claimed to exist is certainly not there. 
There is a great deal of argument as to whether the $525m allocated this year to the Department of Foreign Affairs is giving us value for this money. Without a doubt, our involvement as an island in the South Pacific region is certainly directed to the Asian and Pacific nations. Our involvement is attributed to our geography, the distance of transportation, trade and also, I should mention, defence which I think is particularly important and mutual assistance. In fact, while we were in Japan earlier this year they regarded Japan and Australia as being natural partners. They spoke in terms quite consistently of Australia being natural partners not only with Japan, but also with the whole South East Asian region and South Pacific region. The contributions of foreign aid that we make are certainly directed to this geographic area. The major contribution by the Asian Development Bank is to Bangladesh, Pakistan and countries such as that whereas there were small recipients of amounts of, say, $2m to $3m. 
Not only do these nations get the benefit of those smaller amounts but also their people are also engaged in the commercial market to make sure that their economic needs can be fulfilled from that end. For instance, I mentioned an amount of $3m to Malaysia. I know that at the moment Malaysia is not only borrowing money but also is improving its technology in so many different ways with overseas assistance. The Malaysian beef industry is under the control of Australians who developed a project there five years ago and are now bringing Malaysia into a situation, certainly not of self sufficiency in beef, but at least of being able able to produce better strains of beef. Hopefully this pattern of progress will continue into the future. That is the type of assistance that I feel our foreign aid program should be giving. 
Without a doubt, the main feature that we are talking about in developing nations or in the under-developed nations is the aspect of sufficiency of food. All other aspects such as the standard of living, quality of life, all come back to this basic ingredient of sufficiency of food. I believe that our foreign aid policy allocates funds to the extent of $36m for food aid, but the major thrust of its work is in the contribution of funds which are diverted to these other major users in order to make sure that the nations that are receiving the funds do become self sufficient in the long run. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in introducing this debate made quite a feature of the aspect of land usage or areas that are available to the South East Asian nations and compared them with our own situation. Any funds that are given must be seen to be giving a benefit to the people whom we ultimately want to assist- the peasants and the poorer people of those nations. We would not like to see the money wasted on the way. Small packages of land are a feature of the South East Asian nations. Certainly Japan, which is one of the richest countries in the area and one of the richest countries in the world today, survives on very small acreages. Hence the massive amount of subsidy and protection that is given by its government for land usage, in spite of the smallness of the areas, enables farmers to be probably some of the more well off citizens of Japan. I believe this is a feature of all the nations of that region. 
Certainly in China there is collective use of land. When one considers the number of people in a commune who are able to make a living from the area, certainly the land usage per person would be very small. This is a situation that we have to accept. Let us look at China also from the point of view of our foreign aid. While it is not a recipient of funds from the Asian Development Bank, over the last 12 months it has possibly expanded its philosophies in so many different ways, especially to the extent that it would actively look outside its own nation for assistance and technology, it would welcome trade and it certainly is expanding its programs to obtain credit for the borrowing of money. Perhaps in the future of the Asian Development Bank China might be a recipient of funds also. 
We are hoping to bring the South East Asian countries out of a fairly difficult past in which fairly old fashioned methods were used. Again I can only revert to the case of China but I think the situation would be the same in many of the other nations throughout South East Asia as far as their methods are concerned. First of all, discipline has been applied for the proper use of land, varieties of seeds and artificial fertilisers. It is important that the Asian Development Bank, in making loans, monitors the situation very closely to ensure that the funds that are given are used in such a way that modern technology is available for use by the countries. Our assistance to Indonesia also is most vital as far as this Government is concerned not only in the giving of foreign aid to lift its development but also for defence purposes. An amount of $1 13m has been allocated to Indonesia up to this time. Also as a government we give quite a deal extra through the Colombo Plan. 
It is in projects such as this that I believe Australian technology should be made available if that is at all possible in order to identify Australians with the aid that is being given. In no other way can we identify these funds. If we put them into a pool and distribute them from it that cannot be done. In Indonesia road projects form some of the programs that we are offering. I believe it is important in these respects, if it is at all possible, that Australian technology should be used in that way. Also, the Philippines is a recipient of not only aid from the Bank but also aid in other respects. That brings me to the point that has been made in this debate of how we see that the funds that we allocate through our programs eventually go to the people who deserve and require them. I use the Philippines as one example. I believe that the amount of recognition that Australia gets through its efforts in the road programs there is minimal. Perhaps some other types of projects that are related directly to the people- perhaps a small health program- could be identified so that the people could see the benefits and we could see how the funds were being spent to make sure that they did not go through the bureaucracy and government agencies where the funds are adulterated to a great extent. Only by getting funds directly to the people so that they can see the benefits, will Australia be recognised as the nation that is giving the funds. 
Health programs are most important. That is one type of project at which we should look. It has already been mentioned that the Asian Development Bank should be made accountable for the funds that we make available. As I have said, we require an identification of the funds that are given. After all, it is not the amount of $500m that is allocated to the Department of Foreign Affairs that is the major concern; it is how that amount is recognised by other countries and how it is spent to make sure that the countries derive the benefits that we would want them to derive. What are the benefits? Certainly they are in assisting developing nations but I think we have to look at the question from the point of view of our trade opportunities and certainly our present and future defence. These benefits will come about only if we are identified with the projects. 
It is important also that we have an assessment of the various projects that we undertake to make sure that the aid which we are giving and which is expressed in monetary terms in the Budget is used for the purpose for which we want it to be used. As I mentioned before, other projects may identify us more directly with the people. I believe that a continuing assessment of these projects must be made and, if necessary, changes must be made to put us in a fluid position in order to give the funds as we should. It has been said that in the world of today in which travel between Australia and our near neighbours takes such a short time we are not an island and we cannot afford to isolate ourselves from the pressures of the outside world. Our trade depends on markets being available and the closer they are to us the better. Certainly the markets that have yet to be expanded and explored are those within the Asian region. The recent visit by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  to China would indicate that within that country there is a potential for a great expansion of our trade. 
I believe that Japan and China look to Australia not only as a friend but also as a potential trading partner. They regard Australia as a country with which they can exchange technology mutually so that we can assist one another. Possibly this is what foreign aid is all about. The Bank not only can help in the distribution of these funds to the needy nations but also should be able to assist as a permanent monitor of the development that is necessary and the progress that is being made by underdeveloped nations. I mention here not only industrial progress but also social progress because these funds have to be used to make sure that we lift the nation in total, not just one part at a time to the advantage of the few and to the disadvantage of the many. That is where I believe the Bank can play a very important role. In fact, I believe its greatest responsibility could be not so much in the distribution and management of these funds but, for all intents and purposes, as an agency that monitors the progress of the nations that we are trying to help. 
With these comments I commend the Bill to honourable members as part of our contribution to the more needy nations of the world. This is often a subject of vital contention. I say that because I come from Queensland where the argument is often used that these funds should be used internally and not externally. Those people conveniently forget or do not want to recognise the fact that Australia's survival depends on the rest of the world. Our survival cannot result from inward looking policies. If we are to trade and have strong friendly relationships with other nations, I would suggest that of the nations that I visited earlier this year Japan and China could be of mutual assistance to Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 26 September 1978: 
1 ) What was the total amount of subsidies paid to manufacturing and secondary industries in 1977-78 and what amount has been allocated for 1978-79? 
What are the details of the various subsidies paid during 1977-78 and to be paid during 1978-79? 
What were the amounts paid in 1978-79 apportioned between the States? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 1 9 October 1 978: 
Did the Minister advise earlier this year that various cassettes would be made available to Australian schools. 
If so, (a) when will these cassettes be made available, (b) what is the reason for any delay, (c) why was the announcement made if there was no expectation that applications for the cassettes could be immediately filled and (d) how many applications are held for these cassettes. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 26 September 1978: 
What was the total amount of subsidies paid to rural industries in 1977-78 and what sum has been allocated for 1978-79. 
What are the details of the various subsidies paid during 1 977-78 and to be paid during 1978-79. 
What were the amounts paid in 1977-78 apportioned between the States. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 26 September 1978: 
What was the value of tariff protection, including restrictions through quotas, to Australian manufacturing and secondary industries during 1977-78. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Resources. Early in January this year R. W. Miller Holdings Ltd announced that it was pulling out of the Oaky Creek project and that it was hoping to sell its 20 per cent interest in the venture to Houston Oil and Minerals. Will the Minister advise whether representation has been made to transfer this Australian interest in the project? If so, what is the Government's response to the request? 
It was in the course of the Grievance Day debate in this House on 28 April 1977 that I brought to the notice of the House the dangers to our security threatened by, and the rape of the Great Barrier Reef perpetrated by Tawainese fishermen in their illegal poaching of the Reef. Most people do not realise the threat to the survival of the Reef that these fishermen pose. Clam meat which retails at about $28 per lb in Taiwan means the destruction of about three clams for each lb. These clams have probably taken up to about 100 years to develop to that size before their ruthless and unnecessary destruction. Regeneration cannot make up for this enormous loss and the Reef loses in the clam a natural purifier of its waters. 
The extent of the Taiwanese ravages is that on the vessels apprehended there has been an average catch of about three and half tonnes of clam meat, or about 20,000 clams. These are the ones apprehended. One wonders if those that are not apprehended carry off their full cargo of 10 tonnes to 12 tonnes or a harvest of 70,000 clams representing a living development of some seven million years. 
The recent arrest of these vessels on Swains Reef off the Central Queensland coast highlights not only this gap in our security but many other matters. I mention the more important of these. The first is the slowness in activating the arresting forces. Secondly, there is the lack of suitable service sea craft to come to the area of the action and then the hesitancy of the vessels available to venture into the reefs to make arrests. Thirdly, there is the concern of many people at the inadequacy of the fines and sale price of the vessels as compared with the cost of detection, arrest, detention, provisioning, quarantining, cleaning, harbour dues, legal processes, repatriation of the crews, the destroying of the cargo and many others, which would amount to tens of thousands of Australian dollars. This is at cost to the Australian taxpayer, in addition to the destruction of an Australian national asset. Fourthly, there is the lack of a coastguard surveillance on the Reef to counter quarantine, health and drug risks also involved. Fifthly, there is the loss of income to tourist charters and fishing vessels which are expected, without recognition, to do not only the surveillance but also the monitoring- not to mention the risks to their property or life. Lastly, I mention the lack of immediate channels of complaint with Taiwan due to the closure of diplomatic ties with that nation. 
I have mentioned some of the matters that are of concern to the people in the immediate vicinity, but which should be of concern to every true blooded Australian. The main problem that should be appreciated is that by the time the arrest is made the damage to our Reef is already complete. It is essential, that there should be further deterrents to these trespassers and that our surveillance by suitable craft should be appreciably stepped up. I suggest therefore that a coastguard force divorced from the Services be created with the authority to act under regulations and the laws of the fishery department, the health department and the customs department. I suggest that surveillance in the interim be delegated to private charter vessels. One estimate I have received is that the cost of such surveillance of the whole length of the Barrier Reef would be as little as $500,000 per year on a 12-day cycle surveillance basis. 
I suggest that citizens' arrest be allowed and legislated for to give speedy arrest if necessary by the people on the scene. I suggest that as a deterrent to this poaching, the implications of common law and international law be examined to see whether a vessel so captured can be towed beyond the international shelf and sunk after taking from it the necessary evidence and the crews. This alone would save considerable costs to the Australian taxpayer. I suggest that the penalties be increased to ensure that the costs of the crews repatriation to their own country are adequately covered. I leave this matter with the House and with the Ministers concerned as one of urgent concern requiring immediate action if only to protect our Barrier Reef. 
-In speaking to this Bill, I do not intend to deal to any great extent with the methods of tax abuse which have been mentioned or which will be overcome by this legislation. Suffice it to say that the legislation was flagged by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in 1978. It follows other endeavours by the Government to remove the abuse schemes. This is evidenced by the fact that this Bill is the fifth in a series of Bills introduced during 1978 to amend the Income Tax Assessment Act. This would indicate that much was done in that year. That is not to say there is not more yet to be done. Section 260 was mentioned by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  and other honourable members during this debate. I do not think the interpretation of this section reflects on the current High Court of Australia just because of the personalities involved. It is a known fact that, for the last 15 years, section 260 has had no teeth. It is significant that during those 15 years the Australian Labor Party was in office for three years. I might ask what exactly it did about the matter. 
The solution is not so simple as one might imagine. When the alternative section is formulated we have to make sure that it is something that will stick and the judiciary will take note of it. Certainly, many of the decisions that have been handed down by the High Court are ones that make people in the street and in the accounting profession wonder about the legality of section 260. Curran 's case is one example. I have never seen such a lopsided decision as the one in that case. If that case was presented again on a different basis the result could be quite different. Whilst we have hopes that section 260 will be changed, let us hope that when it is changed it will have the teeth and significance that we want it to have. 
Certainly, as I have mentioned in previous debates on this legislation, the volume of the Act is growing at an alarming rate. It will continue to grow at such a rate while we, as parliamentarians, taxpayers and people in business, do not give any credence to, or shy away from, the discretions given to the Commissioner of Taxation. That might seem contrary to many of the thoughts of other people but I see nothing wrong in discretions, provided those affected may appeal to a board of review and have an inexpensive hearing provided they have further access to the courts. That is an alternative to the great volume of legislation Parliament has been putting through to amend the Income Tax Assessment Act. A discretion here and there is not so bad as some people would suggest. It should always be kept in mind that people should have the right of appeal to a board of review and to the courts. 
The Bill is a substantial one, and it is intended as a deterrent against not only the schemes that have been practised up to now but also those of the future. I note that on one occasion when making an announcement about closing loopholes in the legislation the Treasurer has commented that the date from which the legislation would be effective would be applicable to future schemes which sought to avoid tax in the same way. 
During the grievance debate today and during the present debate, some honourable members have criticised the amount of tax that the Australian taxpayer is paying. I am not saying it is small; I am saying it is substantial. Australian tax rates are not the largest in the world today, but I do not believe that we are tackling the problem from the right end. The problem is not the rate of tax but the growing expenditure on health, welfare and education with which the Government and the country are faced today. We ought to be tackling the problem from the other end by reducing the commitments we have in these areas. 
I emphasise this point by presenting a few statistics to the House. In 1967-68, ten years ago, this Government had a total commitment to health, education and social security and welfare of $ 1,571m. In 1977-78, it had grown to $ 12,543m. It is estimated that figure will grow again during the current year. The expenditure has increased eight times in those 10 years, and yet the tax in that period has increased only 5.6 times, from $2, 177m to $12,129m. So, the rate of taxation is not keeping pace with the amount of expenditure in these welfare areas. In 1967-68 the expenditure on those three items of health, education and welfare represented 72 per cent of personal income tax collections. In 1977-78 it represented 103 per cent of those collections. So whilst I agree with honourable members who come into this chamber and state that the tax rates are a deterrent to earning and productivity, the answer to the problem does not lie in reducing those rates but in reducing those expenditures. 
On reading through the report of the Australian Taxation Office and associating it with social security payments and other such expenditures, I found that in 1978-79, of every dollar that the Commonwealth collects in excise, indirect taxation and other sources of revenue, 42c will be spent on health and welfare and 23c will go to the States and local government. So on Budget day, before we can sneeze, the Government is locked into a situation of having 65c in every dollar collected being committed already to certain expenditures. I invite honourable members who decry the present tax rates to look at the other side of the picture. Certainly we should stop the abuse of the system and we should try to stop the evasion of taxation, but also we should look very carefully at trimming our commitments. There are ways in which that can be done. I invite honourable members who complain about the insufficiency of welfare commitments compared with commitments to other government initiatives to look at the fact that if we do not have a healthy economy, if we do not have incentives for taxpayers to get out and earn money productively, we will have no support for the standard of living which we currently enjoycertainly we will have no income from which to make welfare payments to enable recipients of welfare benefits to continue to enjoy that standard of living. 
I believe that honourable members who extol the theory that lower tax rates would reduce the incidence of evasion of tax do so with their heads stuck firmly in the sand. A generation of tax avoiders was created in the 1970s. It has become fashionable for the average taxpayer to take every advantage, legally or illegally, and to take a chance against detection in his taxation affairs. Whilst the advisers in the tax avoidance industry are a cancer in our society and parasites within our community, they are here to stay. The only way we will be able to cramp their style will be to keep hitting them and hitting them, as we do when attacking a weed with a mower: This way eventually we might get the weed out of the ground; let us hope that we will be able to get rid of the tax avoidance industry that way also. 
There are abuses in the taxation area, but there are also abuses in the social security area. I believe we have to match these abuses. It is unfortunate that today the average Australian will take advantage of the social security system and will take his chances as far as taxation is concerned. Because of this, with a Budget deficit we have an expanding gap, with less taxation revenue being received and higher commitments being undertaken. In speaking prior to me in this debate, the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  mentioned that the Taxation Office would find it impossible to have the revenue that would be required for the necessary number of investigators to carry on a proper tax evasion purge. I believe that this is so and I do not know whether we can correct the situation. 
I certainly feel that in this computer age, when the processing of tax returns is so highly computerised, as is the situation in other areas, such as health, social security, et cetera, what we are fast requiring in this country is an identification number for every taxpayer and every citizen. Some honourable members might say that this could offend aspects of civil liberties and the rights of the individual. Those people who would decry such a system might protect their civil liberties but, in doing so, they certainly allow infringement of the civil liberties of the providers within this community. As surely as night follows day, unless something is done those providers are going to be lost or disillusioned. I believe that an identification number for every Australian, for social security, health and every other area in which he is in contact with the government, is an absolute necessity. Computerisation could carry this through. 
This Bill deals with those aspects of tax avoidance which are totally artificial. The prepayment of rental and of interest is an artificial device. The Treasurer flagged this on 8 June 1978. Through the Treasurer's earlier announcements he has been able to prevent much of this type of avoidance. Within the past nine months announcements have been made concerning trusts, partnerships, overseas incomes and trust stripping schemes. The aspect of tax exempt beneficiaries is one which I believe needed correction. They have been written into family trusts for quite a while. I remind members of the Opposition who talk in terms of trusts being the great means of tax avoidance in this country that if they were to read their 1976 Budget Papers they would realise what massive penalties have been imposed on trust distributions during the term of this Government- penalties which were not imposed when the Opposition has the opportunity to do so during its three years in government. This is what the issue gets back to: Are we as an opposition and a government going to act together to root out these abuses, or are we just going to sit here and every time this legislation is debated make the same type of speeches? I am quite prepared to write the speech of the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  for him because every time this matter is debated his speech is exactly the same. 
I believe that what has been achieved in the area of tax avoidance is to the credit of this Government. We can look forward to see what still needs to be done. There will always be those people within the community with the imagination and the sense of intrigue to try to circumvent the intentions of the legislators, particularly in the tax field. This Government is applying constant pressure to make sure that avoidance schemes are outlawed as soon as they come to its notice. As I said, the Labor Opposition ought to remember that we can work in harness. It ought to remember that it created the tax avoidance industry through its high rates of taxation in the 1970s and it had the opportunity in its three years in government to do something about the problem. 
It has been mentioned that in tackling tax evasion we are tackling the 4 per cent who are able to afford avoidance schemes and to take advantage of them. I do not believe this House should think for a moment that the tax avoidance and evasion industry in Australia is confined to that 4 per cent. I invite any honourable member here to state that in his lifetime of lodging tax returns he has never evaded a single dollar of taxation. If he does claim that, he is probably the only Australian guaranteed a place up above because Australians have developed the habit of doing this. The honourable member for Chifley, who is so free with his advice to other honourable members on the opposite side of the chamber, ought to consider this issue and ought to probe his conscience. There are many ways in which tax avoidance could occur, even with parliamentarians. I will not mention them here although I am tempted to do so. 
What we need to do is to look at evasion in the areas known to us, such as the situation of subcontractors who were once employees working for carpenters and the like. I suggest that at least 50 per cent of earnings made in this way never come to the light of day as far as taxation is concerned. I refer to those fly-by-nighters who come to the cities, build up partnerships overnight, tear them down the next day, then move to somewhere else. I refer to people in cash businesses. I do not know exactly what we can do with those people unless we mark the coins that change hands. I refer also to people who have their hands in the till all the time. It is not easy to get to the bottom of the trouble there. I refer to people who receive second incomes but do not disclose them. I refer to the pensioners who have the advantage of the pension but receive a further income from a part-time or casual job. I refer to the interest received from various investments throughout Australia. Whilst records on interest are computerised and are put into areas where detection could be more likely, I often wonder whether notice is taken of these records. 
Whilst the purpose of this Bill is to close certain avoidance areas, I would like to speak in terms of areas in which tax equity is also involved. I suggest to the Treasurer and to the Government that one particular area in which tax equity does not exist is the area of the spouse rebate. I believe that one of the main causes of income splitting and tax evasion is the fact that in the separation of income between husband and wife or between parents and children the ceiling of $3,893 is enjoyed not by just one person in the family but by many members of the family. I would suggest that, if this Government is genuine in wanting to give equity to the spouse who stays at home and looks after the family and the house while the lone income earner is out working, that spouse should be given greater recompense; and this could be indexed almost to the tax ceiling arrangement. One alternative is for a husband and wife who are now able to enjoy two tax ceilings to be allowed only one tax ceiling and taxed as from zero on the balance of their joint income. That might be one suggestion. It will certainly be a means of generating income where it is not a matter of an expenditure or an allowance. But this proposal has difficulties in that more couples might live in sin but still under the same roof. The other alternative is for the rebate for the dependent spouse to be lifted to a figure equal to the present second ceiling. At the moment that second ceiling is $3,893 which when taxed at 33.5c in the dollar gives $1,304. If we add to that amount the $595 that is already allowed to the spouse for additional expenditure and housekeeping, we get the figure of $1,899. 
I think that $2,000 could be used as a rounded up figure. Just keeping to the mathematics of the matter, I would recommend that either there be no second ceiling for a double income family or that the spouse rebate be lifted to $ 1 ,899. 1 believe that this is equitable. It would be seen by the electorate to be equitable and it would prevent many of the income splitting and tax evasion arrangements which we have at the moment. 
Let us look also at superannuation for the selfemployed. Why is it that parliamentarians, public servants and employees can get the benefit of very good pensions and superannuation arrangements and yet we deny these benefits to selfemployed persons? I feel that the provision of such benefits would be an incentive to these people to keep in employment. This is one of the problems. The self-employed people of the 1970s are the employees of today, which is why pay-as-you-earn taxation receipts are up. The bankruptcy of businesses which Labor caused in 1972 and 1975 and which is continuing as a result of its policies is the reason for this situation. But I believe that those in employment should be given the same benefit of a deduction up to a certain amount against their income. We should also consider the basis of full and true disclosure. I believe that there should be some equity in this regard for a taxpayer who believes that he has fully and truly disclosed his income. There should be some type of ruling which would prevent the Australian Taxation Office, through an audit section, going back too far to consider such matters. 
A solution has not been found to section 26(e) but equity demands that we go back to the old basis of taxing those people who are deliberately avoiding taxation on the value of rented premises. This should not be a penalty for those people in decentralised or country areas. Taxation rebates on rents used to attract people to a job in such areas should not be used as a penalty and full taxation should not apply. Until last year the Australian Taxation Office recognised a token rental, and this was all right. I believe we should go back to that. With regard to the zone allowance, I would like to remind this House that those people who live in the 40 per cent of the continent which is represented in this House by only five per cent of its members require equity to compensate them for the additional costs of freight, sales tax on freight, transport, groceries and so on. If $3,893 is an indication of the amount required to sustain an individual in a capital city, the figure for those who live in rural northern Australia should be at least $6,000 per year which, on the basis of a tax rate of 33te per cent, would yield a minimum allowance of $670 per annum. 
As the officials from the Australian Taxation Office are here, I would like to mention that there is a misconception in the community that the cost of collecting taxation is great. I invite anybody to look at the 1978 report of the Commissioner for Taxation which indicates that the cost of collection was $ 1 63m or 0.94 lc of every $ 1 collected. I believe that the Australian Taxation Office does a great job in spite of the greater burdens that are imposed upon it and the greater responsibilities that it has. It has a great responsibility to protect and to gather revenue for this Government to expend. I give great credit to it. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Treasurer on abandoning the idea of a retail turnover tax because I believe that this would not have served any useful purpose. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I think the House should realise the limitations on the time allowed for debate on the Bills before us, namely, the Poultry Industry Levy Amendment Bill and the Poultry Industry Assistance Amendment Bill. I feel sure that I speak on behalf of my four colleagues from the National Country Party who are here and also on behalf of my colleagues who would have liked to have been here but are otherwise obligated. Certainly I would suggest that the National Country Party, along with other parties represented in this House, would want to see a viable poultry industry and a viable export market. Perhaps that is what the levy is all about. Like so many of our other exports, the export prices for poultry products are not what we would like them to be. This bears analogy with the recent recession that the beef industry went through but from which it is now picking up. The sugar industry recently went through a similar recession in which untied sales on export markets were certainly made at prices below the cost of production. 
The Bills we are debating tonight are the result of a resolution passed by the Australian Agricultural Council, comprising the State Ministers for Agriculture. Therefore, the legislation would have the blessing of all State Ministers. The various State Egg Marketing Boards and the Federal Council of Poultry Farmers Association of Australia would be in support of the legislation. However, I believe, as the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  said, that when we speak of an industry and of that industry's support for legislation we must speak also on behalf of the minority which is not advantaged by that legislation. Certainly that minority in the poultry industry is not advantaged by this legislation. The Bills seek to increase the levy from $ 1 to $2 per hen, the production of which is already fixed by quotas. Of course, depending on how and when this increase is applied, it will have the ability to double the expense of the levy in the hands of each domestic producer. In addition to this, the State egg marketing boards also charge a levy, and most of the egg producers of Australia are encompassed by these boards. The purpose of the levy charged federally, amongst other things, is to avoid the charging of a levy of a different amount by egg marketing boards in the States, which levy is then an incentive for a person on one side of a State border with a high levy to sell across the border in another State. Of course, this is authorised by the Constitution. The figures that are mentioned vary considerably but in the case of only two egg marketing boards is the levy any less than the levy of $1 per hen which the Commonwealth charges at the moment and which works out at about 6c per dozen eggs. The levy, of course, is meant to make up for costs and losses suffered by the boards over and above those losses suffered in respect of their own promotions and so on. It comes about really because of an excess production of eggs which then have to be pulped and sold at a consequent loss on what in the beef market might be called the dirty market. 
It is apparent from various representations that I and the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  have had that every producer is not in favour of this increase in the levy. In fact I would go further than that and say that quite a few of them are not in favour of the present $1 levy per hen, let alone any increase in it. The arrangement agreed to by the State Ministers needs Federal legislation to bind them. We are advised that any dispute between individuals within a State is the responsibility of the particular State Minister. I think that this is a little shortsighted. If we are going to legislate we should take into account the opinions of the persons who are in favour of the levy as well as those who are not in favour of it. 
As I said previously, the levy is to subsidise unprofitable exports to low priced markets and local producers are called upon to pay their share of something to which perhaps they do not contribute because the whole industry is regulated by quotas. As mentioned by the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry),  the amending legislation puts particular emphasis on the Australian Capital Territory because of the difficulty being experienced here whereby, because of quotas, eggs are coming across the State line. I mentioned that there are people who dissent from this increase in the levy. I would say that producers in north Queensland, being outside an egg marketing board area, would be an example of such people. The particular reason that they are not in favour of it is that they are outside an egg marketing board area and produce only for the local market. In spite of their desire to produce more they are restricted by quotas and as a result many other eggs and egg products are coming in from the south. I want to take Mackay as an example. There are approximately four producers in Mackay and they are restricted by quotas. They supply approximately 28 per cent of Mackay 's needs. The balance is supplied from the south. 
Over the period prior to the implementation of quotas some producers went out of production. However, the remaining producers were not given the advantage of getting extra quotas equivalent to those which would have been forfeited by the old producers, although there was certainly a desire to expand and to take up what were then notional quotas. They were not allowed to do so. Whilst acknowledging that quotas are a necessary discipline on the whole industry, local producers feel that it is inequitable that, through quotas, they are denied the opportunity of supplying more of the local needs. They want to do so but they cannot. In fact through the levy they contribute apparently to the losses of boards which import the balance of the need into the area from the south. No doubt those losses cover freight charges of producers who are operating with quotas in excess of those necessary for similar local production. 
Being outside a board's jurisdiction, the local producers arrange for and meet all costs of their production, marketing and promotion on a local basis without any assistance from the present hen levy that they pay, which is now $1 per hen and will go to $2. They do all this at their own expense. The present levy is thus inequitable to those isolated people. Any increase beyond the $ 1 per hen will not only compound the inequity but also reduce them to marginal producers because they will share in an expense which could be doubled within a certain period of time. This fact will be well received in the south because if local producers go out of production, southern producers will be given a promise to supply extra northern markets as producers drop out and quotas to the local areas are lost. Encouragement must be given to local suppliers as this is the only avenue for the supply of top quality eggs to the local market. Consumers must benefit to the extent of the greater percentage produced locally because there is no freight cost to be included and the product is undoubtedly fresher and placed sooner in the consumers' hands. 
The north Queensland producers are not represented on any of the statutory boards. They have only one member on the Queensland Hen Quota Committee and apparently have no political representation to bring their own grievances and concerns to the notice of the authorities, mainly on a State basis. There is now a call for a pro rata reduction in the quotas and such a call will only compound the present inequity and allow a greater percentage access from the southern markets to the local markets. If the hen levy is to provide funds for losses created by egg boards through their own bureaucracies subsidising unprofitable exports and their own inefficiencies, producers outside board areas supplying only local needs should not be asked to contribute to other producers' inefficiencies and particularly board inefficiencies. The promise that State levies be used within States, whilst being preferable to the present national application of the levy, is useless unless written into legislation and unless the levy reimbursement be applicable to all producers and not just to those supplying boards, which is the case at the moment. I understand that any refund of the levy will not be paid to producers outside board areas. I see no evidence of this intention to use State levies within States or to pass any refunds on to all producers being written into the Poultry Industry Levy Amendment Bill. I would hope and recommend to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that this protection be written in to the principal Act. It may extend refunds beyond the statutory boards to all producers. I would suggest that preferably in any legislation that might be amended in the future there be a provision that the producers I represent in the 
Mackay and the Dawson areas and through north Queensland be exempt from the levy because they are outside board control, or that perhaps exemptions be granted from the increase in the levy so that the injustice is not compounded. Whatever viability the industry in north Queensland presently has will be lost by any further imposition. 
I said that I do not speak for the majority of producers. I speak for the producers in my area and particularly those supplying local needs. They are only a minority but they certainly have a right to equity in this regard. I bring these matters to the attention of the Minister and the Department as very real and just complaints. In spite of that I feel that I must support the Bill because its purpose is to regulate a very vital rural industry in Australia. I ask that the matters I have raised be taken up quickly so that they can be adjusted on either a Federal or a State basis. 
-'We will bury you', was, I believe the assertion, the threat, that was made by the Soviet Premier in the sixties in addressing remarks to the American nation. That threat must have been real, as it is now. The record was evident even theft, and the rape of Hungary stands as a monument to the fulfilment of that threat by the Soviet Union in the fifties- a monumental example of interference, invasion and the rape of another nation's independence. Yet the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  entered the chamber today and defended the role of Russia in world affairs, defended similar actions involving interference and intervention in violation of the rights of others- such as the events in Vietnam and Kampuchea- and the support and encouragement of the actions of Cubans in the continent of Africa. I do not appreciate a speech made in this House, which stands for democracy, one that obviously has been prepared in the office of an embassy in Canberra, by a foreign power. Opinions expressed in this House should reflect an Australian attitude. 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 

 The question having been put- 


 Honourable members interjecting. 

Motion (by  Mr Uren)  put: 
That the honourable member be not further heard. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister will be aware that Operation Farmlink, the national program sponsored by farmers and farm bodies to try to bridge the country-city communication gap, gets under way next week. Is the Minister aware that on National Farm SundaySunday, 25 March- thousands of Australian farmers will throw open their farms to town and city people to give them some idea of what life on the farm is like? Does the Minister agree that there is a communication gap between city and country Australians? Does the Government support the principles upon which the Operation Farmlink program is based? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the number of reported intrusions into Australian waters by foreign vessels during the periods (a) 1 July 1977 to 30 June 1978 and (b) 1 July 1978 to date. 
How many of these vessels were arrested. 
What is the average cost to the Government for each vessel arrested in terms of detection, arrest, detention, port dues, legal processes, quarantine, cleaning and repatriation of crews to their own country. 
What is the average total receipt for each vessel captured through fines and sale of vessels. 
How many of the arrests were made (a) by naval craft and ( b) from 'private charter vessels '. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. The Minister would be aware of the voluntary emergency organisation named the Citizen Radio Emergency Service Team. Does the 
Government recognise CREST as the most effective emergency organisation operating on citizen band radio? Will the Government recognise CREST by allocating an emergency channel to that organisation for its use? Can the Government strengthen regulations to allow for the proper policing of that channel if allocated? Will the Government, in recognising CREST, take such necessary steps as would allow CREST to pass on through Telecom messages it received through its emergency channel? 
-The issue raised in this matter of public importance, I believe, has become an emotive one throughout the nation. Some people are genuinely concerned and feel that the protection of the Great Barrier Reef is a matter in relation to which some statement needs to be made; but those people who work on the emotive aspect of the issue bring forward complaints of no substance. Of course, when we are talking about one of our two great national assets it is not hard to get an emotive reaction. The electorate of Dawson is vitally affected by the Barrier Reef because ofthe contribution that tourism now offers to its economy. The reef provides a form of protection for the coastline against the Pacific tidal movements; but, more importantly, as the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  has just mentioned, it is regarded as one of the two national assets that Australia possesses. I believe that the Government should make no move which would disadvantage the natural environment of the reef. It should certainly remain accessible as a great natural and national asset. 
The reef is approximately 1,200 miles long. It consists of a series of reefs which do not form a constant barrier along the whole length of the coast. When we talk in terms of an area 1,200 miles long and stretching 100 miles from the shore we might imagine that, by simple mathematics, 1,200 multiplied by 100 gives the total area of the Great Barrier Reef. That is not the case. The reef consists of a multitude of reefssome small and some large- which form a barrier on the outer continental coast. In the area between the reef and the coast- that is, the off-shore area- one finds the normal types of  situations which one would find anywhere around Australia, namely, sandy bottoms, muddy bottoms, mangroves and all the other environments which exist adjacent to the coast. It is very difficult for the Opposition, when dealing with a subject such as this, to be concise in indicating exactly what it means. In fact, the terms of the matter of public importance lend themselves to a multitude of interpretations. Throughout Australia it is acknowledged as an Australian asset: It is not a Queensland asset, or just an asset of the Dawson electorate. I question whether throughout the world it receives the same recognition and whether it is regarded as part of the world's heritage, as the previous  speaker  suggested. Certainly, that is my opinion from an international point of view. By Australian standards, I believe that we want to see the reef preserved. Neither this Government nor the Queensland Government would do anything to disturb that desire. 
The reef fosters all that is attractive in tourism. But even that advantage has its dangers and potential for danger. The reef offer Australians the opportunity to get out of a city environment and into the natural Australia. That is why the reef is regarded as one of Australia's national assets; it is still in its natural state. Tourism on the islands has been carefully controlled through various leases. Even the most recent development, by Iwasaki, has been subject to a franchise agreement with public debate and debate by this Government and the Queensland Government about the potential of that development and the control that might need to be exercised on  Mr Iwasaki.  Any development in the Great Barrier Reef area has been conditioned to the needs of the natural environment and kept under the control of governments. Heaven forbid that it should be any other way. 
The matter of public importance that we are discussing is concerned with the alleged failure of this Government to give a certain assurance. Later in my speech, I will deal with that assurance. The honourable member for Robertson uses the words 'not permit'. Is such an assurance absolute and irrevocable? I do not believe that we in this generation have the right to put clamps on what future generations may wish to do. All that we can do in our lifetime is to preserve our natural assets so that they may be maintained for future generations. For goodness sake, let us not put hobbles or concrete boots on any industry that, with due reverence for the Reef and what it has to offer, seeks to promote some development opportunity. In this regard, I believe that we should not be speaking in terms of an irrevocable commitment by this Government which would affect the desires of people in the future. 
I turn to the subject of exploration. The Opposition has interpreted 'exploration' to mean more than exploration for oil. I give the Opposition credit for this stand. The Reef could suffer from forms of exploration, quite apart from oil exploration. I refer to mining for limestone. But, with regard to oil exploration, without any great knowledge of what various types and grades of oil would do to sealife or to the Reef itself, is not the suggestion that oil exploration should be stopped a little premature? Might not research and scientific discoveries reveal that the type of oil that might be discovered on the Barrier Reef could be tolerated by and acceptable to marine life? Future developments will indicate what the position is. 
The Opposition places itself in the same quandry with respect to its definition of the word vicinity'. The argument has been put that the word 'vicinity' conveys the meaning of 'near'. What does the word 'vicinity ' mean when we appreciate that the Reef stretches 100 miles from the shore and is not continuous and that other areas are the subject of exploration- I emphasise exploration, not exploitation- in the same way as the oil fields offshore from Great Britain have been explored and are now being exploited to the benefit of the British economy. Is this Government in one fell swoop to deny the opportunity to future generations in a world which is already suffering an energy shortage to investigate the possiblity of seeking oil from the Reef by giving an assurance now that oil exploration on the Great Barrier Reef will not be permitted? 
The disagreement of the Opposition with multinational companies such as the Utah organisation mining coal or being involved in uranium development is already on record. Once again, by its action, the Opposition is seeking to put a halter on development that might occur. I do not believe that we in this generation can seek to fly in the face of what may be the interests of future generations in this respect. Even the most authoritative source on the Great Barrier Reef- I refer to the Great Barrier Marine Park Authority- in its 1977-78 report under the heading 'Topical Issues: Oil and the Great Barrier Reef had this to say: 
The issue of drilling for oil on the Great Barrier Reef received much discussion in the media during 1977-78. The Authority recommended at a meeting in July 1977 that the results of research on the effects of oil on coral reefs should be available before any decision is reached on whether or not to permit exploratory drilling. 
Even the Authority did not dismiss the possibility that eventually drilling would be permitted. The report continues: 
Media discussion on the oil drilling question continued, and on 8 May 1978 two members of the Authority made a strong and unambiguous stand on the issue. In their Press release  Dr J.  T. Baker and  Sir Charles  Barton - 
I believe that  Sir Charles  Barton is the same person who represents the appropriate Queensland authority. He was is a former Co-ordinator General in Queensland. He is a man of some substance. 
Yes, he is a great Queenslander. The report continues:  . . reaffirmed the Authority's view that adequate research needs to be conducted before any decision on oil drilling can be made. This view is in accordance with the view of the  Chairman  of the joint Commonwealth-Queensland Royal Commission's Report into Exploratory and Production Drilling for Petroleum in the area of the Great Barrier Reef. 
Those who were responsible for this most authoritative report were not prepared to write off the possibility that drilling would eventually occur. They have hesitated to step in where the Opposition has come forward. Reading further into the report, we find that the main concern of the Authority lies with the oil tankers that make their trade routes in the Great Barrier Reef through the Whitsunday Passage. I ask: What concern has the Opposition expressed on this aspect to which the Authority has made specific reference? The Opposition might dedicate itself to a consideration of that question. 
The terms of the matter of public importance proposed for discussion by the Opposition reveal that the Opposition is not prepared to be positive in what it has put forward; those terms are ambiguous. The Commonwealth Government already finances the Australian Institute of Marine Science. If a motion embodying the terms proposed for discussion today were ever to be agreed to by this House, our funding of that Institute would be a waste. The Institute has a 24 metre research vessel, the  Lady Basten.  The research work carried on by this vessel includes a study of mangroves, tidal effects and living masses in and around the Great Barrier Reef. I repeat that this work is done by the Institute which we finance. Why should we not wait a little longer until the findings of the Institute 's research are made available? We should realise that the Great Barrier Reef is more than one million years old. I hope that, as generations pass, it will continue to build as it has. Research of the Reef is not an easy or short term project. 
The secrets that it has built up over millions of years will not easily be revealed. 
Exploratory leases have already been issued. Although I have not looked at those leases in detail, I doubt that any of them would cover the area of the Great Barrier Reef or the various reefs themselves. Some of the leases have not been renewed. At the moment, this matter is in limbo. Perhaps that is the way it should be until such time as we know more about the Reef. 
The Opposition has sought a certain assurance from the Government. Already some assurances have been given. I will read some of them to the House. I refer first to the assurance given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 21 February 1979 in an answer to a question asked of him by the honourable member for Robertson about the Great Barrier Reef. The Prime Minister said: 
The Commonwealth's position is unequivocal. There will not be drilling on the Reef. I am informed that technical advice differs as to what might happen in the environment of the Reef but not on the Reef itself. Quite plainly honourable members will understand that if we are talking about the environment of the Reef but not the Reef itself we have to ask the question: Where does it begin; where does it end? Are we talking about one or two kilometres, 20 kilometres or 50 kilometres? 
He went on to say: 
But let me give a complete and unequivocal guarantee that this Government would not allow any drilling or any mining that would do anything to damage the Reef. If there were to be any doubt about that, activity would not take place. 
That is a fairly good guarantee on that point. In a statement that he issued on 16 January,  Senator Webster,  the Minister for Science and the Environment, gave a similar assurance in these terms: 
There is insufficient information presently available to predict what effect oil exploration and production would have on the region around the Great Barrier Reef. 
The Minister for Science and the Environment,  Senator Webster,  said this today, following earlier reports by the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  that there would be no drilling on the Reef itself. 
Those words '. . . on the Reef itself are important The statement goes on: 
The Minister said that the 1972 Commonwealth and Queensland Royal Commissions into drilling on the Reef had firmly recommended this. However, the Commissioners expressed differing views on exploration in waters off the Reef. 
There is clearly a need for research to determine what the possible effects would be of oil drilling in waters off the Reef,' he said. 
That was  Senator Webster's  comment. In relation to the comments of the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony),  on Monday, 26 March, the Cairns  Post-  Cairns is in the division of Leichhardt and adjoins the Great Barrier Reef- reported:  the Commonwealth Government would not allow oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef ... he and the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  expressed in the strongest terms that drilling would not be allowed on the reef. The Government, he said, believed the Great Barrier Reef was an integral part of Australia's heritage and it had the responsibility to see that it was fully protected. 
I believe that that is the attitude not only of this Government but also of the Queensland Government. When the honourable member for Robertson talks in terms of Queenslanders being prepared to mine gold from their grandmothers' teeth, I think that he might reflect on where the wealth of Australia comes from today. It comes from Western Australia and from Queensland. Those States are responsible for a balance of payments and an export market which provide for the welfare and health requirements of southern Australia. 
And New South Wales; sorry about that. If it were not for the mining and the risks those States have been prepared to take to date, Australia's economy would be in a much worse situation. Again, I think it is important for the honourable member to consider carefully the statements made by  Mr Camm.  I know the Minister. I know his dedication to the electorate in which he lives, which happens to be within the division of Dawson.  Mr Camm  is as dedicated to the preservation of the reef in its present form as any other Minister in Australia. 
I ask the honourable member to withdraw that remark. He does not know what he is talking about, and I think the remark should be withdrawn. 
-In the Grievance Debate today I wish to draw the attention of this House and the appropriate Ministers to some of the anomalies in the Income Tax Assessment Act which affect many Australians, particularly people such as those I represent, that is, those in northern and country areas. The first grievance I wish to raise concerns the continuing confusion and frustration that arises from the implementation of section 26E of the Income Tax Assessment Act. This section seeks to assess the value to taxpayers of, among other items, subsidised rentals on accommodation provided by employers. The section is the Taxation Office's weapon to combat the obvious abuses that are perpetrated to obtain an advantage, through employment, otherwise than in cash or in salary. I agree that there is a necessity for this section in the Act. The section has, however, caught other areas of the tax field which are not being abused. 
In the past the section taxed these emoluments in a manner that recognised in a token form the value of such rentals to employees in certain industries. I refer particularly to the rural industry and the sugar mill industry. It also applied to teachers, policemen and others who might be subject to transfer. This practice was not then, and is not now, all inclusive. The employees of many major industries were not assessed even at the token amount. But there has been a change in departmental attitude over the past 18 months. Initially, the value of benefits received by staff working in the sugar industry was reassessed, in some instances at eight times the previous value even though the consumer price index had increased in the same interval by only 130 per cent or 140 per cent. The reassessment was to apply retrospectively to 1 July 1976. However, intervention prevented this latter anomaly from arising. 
In July 1978, following protest meetings by miners, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  agreed to examine the section with a view to removing some of the anomalies evident in the new values and the policy as then implemented. However, the already discriminatory method of assessing some, but not others, was compounded. An abritary decision was made to separate old initiatives and new initiatives. Where applicable, the old initiatives continued to be assessed at the new values. A recent newspaper report mistakenly said that all assessments were being withheld. This is certainly not the situation. I have argued this case with the Ministers and departmental officers and I disagree entirely with their interpretation. If this position remains in force the application of the Act will be the most discriminatory taxing device that exists today in any legislation. I feel it is unconstitutional under section 5 1 (ii) of the Australian Constitution. I have advised my constituents accordingly and, where necessary, I have encouraged them to object for that and other reasons. 
I call on the Government to make a decision on this matter. The Treasurer has indicated that this will be done by the end of June, some 1 1 months after the review was implemented. I urge the Minister to expedite the decision. I suggest that the previous approach of applying a token value should be continued so as to recognise the limited value of this benefit in providing employment in the most difficult climates and terrain of Australia and in particular situations, even though these conditions may not exist in the capital cities. It certainly would assist the decentralisation of Australia's industries. I ask also that justice be done to those paying excess taxation since the year ended 30 June 1978 by making any favourable decision retrospective to 1 July 1977. A comment made to the Taxation Office by one taxpayer working in the sugar industry is worth repeating. He said that he would pay his tax on the values at a time when every other Australian taxpayer who benefits from similar subsidised rentals payed his tax in respect of those values. I think that is a fair attitude to adopt. I would remind those who will make the decision in this matter that justice delayed is justice denied. 
Another matter I want to raise in respect of taxation is the inequity that exists in the Act in respect of one and two income families. The inequity is in the fact that a two-income family can benefit from two zero tax ceilings, which are at present set at $3,893. This additional family ceiling means an advantage to the two-income family, based on a taxation rate of 33*/2c in the dollar, of a rebate of at least $ 1 ,304. Let us compare that with the position of a single income family. That family not only is called upon to live off the lesser income inherent in the one income as compared with the two-income family but also sees a tax advantage of at least $1,304 go to the multiple income family. The present recompense for these real home and family makers is a pittance of a spouse rebate of $595. 
Many references have been made in this House and in the Press to the need for a spouse rebate of between $2,000 and $5,000. I believe that the latter figure is entirely unrealistic. But it has been suggested in some hope that it would reduce the incidence of married women in the work force by attracting such taxpayers back to the home. I would be reluctant to forecast the result if this were achieved. I believe that on the ground of equity alone there should be a further recompense to the single income family of this additional rebate of $1,304. This amount could be given as an additional spouse rebate or paid to the mother in the form of a family allowance. If that is not acceptable, legislation should be prepared to allow once only to a family the zero ceiling tax allowance of $3,893. This would be a positive disincentive to tax avoidance schemes based on income splitting. The first alternative of adding to the rebate for the spouse would mean an outlay of further Commonwealth expenditure; the second alternative of restricting one zero ceiling to each family would mean the collection of more Commonwealth revenue. Nevertheless the alternative is there. I have always welcomed the statements the Treasurer has made to the House on tax avoidance and tax evasion prevention measures. Perhaps as a matter of equity the single income family situation could be added to any review. 
The remaining taxation matter I wish to raise concerns the zone rebate that is allowed to taxpayers in prescribed zones A and B. There has been no movement in this rebate over the last 10 years except the change from an allowance to a rebate. The value of the rebate is not reflected because of the enormous increase in inflation of about 140 per cent over that same period. As a result taxpayers in those zones, whilst getting the same monetary amounts as they did 10 years to 15 years ago, are getting nothing extra in real terms. In addition, the mining and rural development in the isolated areas of Australia in the last decade has taken place in areas outside the benefit zone areas. For instance, in my electorate of Dawson a river divides a rural and mining district some hundreds of miles from the coast. The grazier in this district gets the benefit but the miner does not. There is a need for Treasury officers to look at this section of the legislation when the Budget is being framed to ensure that the boundaries are reassessed and relocated to include all those who live in the areas of Australia where climatic conditions make it difficult to encourage development and where the costs are so much higher because of freight, storage and higher mark-ups as a result of there being fewer consumers. At times I feel that metropolitan dwellers do not appreciate what these extra costs and disadvantages mean. 
One would assume that the zone allowance was intended originally to compensate persons in isolated areas for the additional cost of living outside metropolitan Australia. If this was the reason, I believe a comparison of the costs of living in, say, Moranbah or Dysart, which are in my electorate, with the costs of living in Brisbane would show that it costs at least one-third more to live in my electorate. Perhaps in computing a quarterly CPI adjustment the Australian Bureau of Statistics might take into account the costs in country towns just to establish what is the difference in the cost of essential items. The present zone allowance, where it applies, is inadequate to reflect this difference. Worse still, neither Moranbah nor Dysart are within my zone. The reason given for a no-change situation is that it is doubtful constitutionally. If this is so, why is this provision still in the Act or why can it not be examined or reviewed in order to make it constitutional? 
Finally, I add my plea to those of the rural and essential industries which depend entirely on oilbased fuels for their existence and survival. Whilst agreeing entirely with the Government's policy of pricing all crude oil at the world price, the same Government must appreciate, particularly in respect of our export markets, that this increase will make these industries noncompetitive with overseas primary industries whose fuel costs are subsidised by their governments. The result of the Labor Government's withdrawal of the fuel equalisation policy was severely felt in outback Australia. However, the latest and continuing increase in fuel costs as a result of the crude oil levy will have greater ramifications than that in spite of the reintroduction by this Government of the freight equalisation scheme and the exemption which has existed for many decades of excise on diesel to producers. The same argument applies to aviation gasoline as it does to diesel fuel. The huge cost increases for these products could bankrupt private charter and country aircraft operators and as a result the services they provide could be denied to outback Australia. I call again for diesel fuel to be either exempt or partially exempt from the levy or to be priced on the basis of the cost of Australian produced oil. Perhaps those two alternatives amount to the same thing. It is only on this basis that Australian producers will be able to remain competitive with overseas producers and provide Australia with the extra dollars in export trade on which Australia relies. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I follow an Opposition spokesman- the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)-  in speaking to the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979 and the Income Tax (Mining Withholding) Tax Bill 1 979. Some comments were made by the honourable member for Capricornia that speakers on the Government side would contest. This applies particularly to the comments that were made in connection with the report presented by Shann Turnbull on 27 October 1977. There seemed to be a great silence from the honourable member as far as the second report is concerned, that is, the one presented on 9 June 1978. 1 wish to deal with some of the comments made by the honourable member for Capricornia. I also wish to deal basically with the Bills. 
The Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2) is a little unusual as far as taxing arrangements throughout Australia are concerned in that it seeks to define income in a different form from that normally acceptable within the Australian connotation. It is similar in a reverse way to section 79 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, which involves superannuation funds and which sets the deduction for income tax purposes at a percentage of certain assets, and to section 115, which involves life assurance deductions, and which sets a percentage according to the liabilities of life assurance. The figure for final approval within this Bill works out at 32 per cent of 20 per cent of the amount received in connection with various payments, amounting in all to 6.4c in the dollar for payments made. I believe that the Bill, which encompasses some ten pages, is necessarily lengthy because it departs from the normally accepted practice as far as defining income is concerned. 
The amounts that will be assessed will be the total payments, not the payments less any distributions or expenses, but once assessed it will be a one-up operation. In other words, the amounts of the royalties- whatever they will be- will not be followed down the line and accounted for in a proper income sense as far as normal procedures are concerned. I make the point that there is one deviation from this procedure, that is, that any remuneration or salary paid to an individual, even though it might come from these funds, will be assessable to that individual in the normal course. Yesterday the honourable member for Capricornia made the point that the tax will be collected on a variety of payments, including compensation for various land acquisition and usage as well as royalties, but basically the amounts will go back to royalties more than anything else. 
It is necessary to write into the record for this debate the actual meaning of the words 'mining payments'. It will be seen from this legislation that the majority of them do comprise the royalty aspect. The explanatory memorandum states that mining payments will include, amongst other things: 
a payment made out of the Aboriginals Benefit Trust Account established by section 62 of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 (the "Trust Account'), to the extent that the payment represents money paid into the Trust Account on or after 1 July 1979 under sub-section  (2) or (4) ofs ection 63 of that  Act . . . 
In other words, it applies mainly to royalties. It is important to note that the Legislation that the House is now debating will become operative as from 1 July 1979 and that payments prior to that will not be so caught. The memorandum continues: 
a payment of the kind referred to in subsection ( 1 ) or (2 ) of section 44 of that Act ( broadly, payments made to Aboriginal Land Councils in pursuance of agreements referred to in that section); 
any other payment under the provisions of a law ofthe Commonwealth, a State or a Territory that relates to Aboriginals, or under an agreement made in accordance with such a law where the payment is- 
in consideration of the issuing of a miners right or mining interest in respect of Aboriginal land; 
in consideration of the granting of permission to enter, remain on or do any act on. Aboriginal land in relation to exploration or mining; or 
a payment of royalties in respect of the mining of minerals on Aboriginal land, or of an amount determined by reference to mineral royalties received by the Commonwealth, a Slate or the Northern Territory in respect of mining on Aboriginal land.  (Quorum formed).  If honourable members consider those three items and the provisions to which they refer they will see that the reference is mainly to royalties and not to the other aspects on which the honourable member for Capricornia appeared to place a fair amount of emphasis. The Opposition has moved an amendment that seeks to refer the legislation back for further consideration. I am not sure exactly what is intended by that. The agreements have been made, the negotiations have been held and the reports have been delivered to the Commonwealth. These Bills have resulted from these reports and negotiations. I do not believe that the assessing of the particular payments at 6.4c in the dollar amounts to any great liability or detriment insofar as the total payments, and where these amounts will eventually go, are concerned. 
It has been suggested that in looking at the mining payment situation, and the tax thereon, we should extend this debate by talking in terms of accountability- socially and financially- in connection with the payments and the tax. I am no expert in this area but 1 do not believe I am any less an expert than the honourable member for Capricornia. Surely, if the Act aligns itself with the reports we have been given and the negotiations that have been carried out, it is now time to pass this measure so that it can become functional by 1 July 1979. In many respects the debate has developed in terms of the social consequences this Bill has for Aboriginals and its influence upon whites. Last night it was mentioned that whites would be exploiting the situation- be that as it may. 1 think it would be quite unreasonable to suggest that we can keep the two races apart. 
I believe that all legislation referring to the Northern Territory has attempted to integrate the two societies, not to cause them to drift apart. The responsibility placed on the Aboriginal leaders to administer these funds is very real, particularly when one considers the comments made by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  as to whether the payments will be spent on 'booze or investment'. Evidence has been given to a Select Committee on the effects of drinking alcohol within the coloured community. I do feel that this Government has a responsibility in that regard. The use of funds to pay for high living costs, taxi fares and plane fares cannot be helped, but certainly the alternative to the frittering away and wastage of funds on alcohol is investment. That is certainly a big responsibility on the people who will control the funds before distribution is effected. 
Section 78 of the Act deals with gifts. The proposed alteration is only a formality to indicate a change of a department within the framework of the Act. I would like to deal with the question of gifts in another sense. What I have to say is relevant to the Act because I am speaking about the subject of section 78. At the 1 982 Commonwealth Games to be held in Brisbane there will be a considerable outlay of funds. Some of this outlay will be reimbursed in various ways; for example, by gate takings, sponsorships, television broadcasts, Press coverage and things like that, but I understand from the organisers that they are concerned about the fact that on their figures between $4m to $5m will have to be raised from the public. Whilst 1982 may seem a fair way off at this time, certainly we would not be wasting time in the meantime by closing this gap between the funds available and the funds needed. I suggest that the Government should look realistically at the granting of a tax deduction under section 78, for any contributions from the public for the holding of the 1982 Commonwealth Games. I believe that in doing that the Government would foster sport and athletics in Australia so that Brisbane could be proud of the games it would be holding. 
In conclusion I come back to the social, financial and other consequences that royalties will impose on the coloured community of the Northern Territory. Certain people would like to close overnight the gap between the Aboriginal and European races in Australia, which has been created over thousands of years by the two races living apart. My only comment is that this cannot be done overnight, it cannot be done quickly and it cannot be done without quite a number of mistakes being made. I believe that many mistakes have been made in the past and that it would be more realistic if these same people who are now critical put their weight behind the integration of the two races, using the facts of the past, and not into an attempt to achieve what they would like to see happen in the short term. In debating these Bills we should bear in mind that while we seek to assess taxation and give some sense of responsibility to the recipients of these funds, we should do this in such a way that the overall framework of integration can be best carried out. I support the two Bills in their entirety and certainly will not be supporting the Opposition's amendment. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Those people cannot be counted. The honourable member knows that very well.  (Quorum formed). 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. As the report on the inquiry into the sugar industry was tabled some six weeks ago and as the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement in respect of Queensland has to be re-negotiated within the next six weeks, by the end of June, can he advise what progress has been made by the negotiation committee on the conditions of the new agreement, particularly on the price fixing formula for the domestic sugar price? If there are any problems with the negotiations, will he advise what are the problem areas? Is agreement on any of the difficulties capable of being reached by 30 June? 
Debates on Supply Bills give honourable members the opportunity to speak on the economy and to make some input to Budget considerations by the Government. I think it is helpful to the House to reflect on the recommendations in the report of the House of Representatives  Standing Committee on Expenditure entitled the Parliament and Public Expenditure'. The report made two relevant recommendations. The first recommendation was to the effect that the report be debated in the House in the 1979 autumn sittings. That debate has not yet taken place and it is doubtful whether it will take place. The fourth recommendation is that a time be set aside early in the autumn sittings of the House for debate on expenditure patterns and priorities.  (Quorum formed). 
I am obliged to the Opposition for calling for a quorum. Not many members of the Opposition have come into the chamber. This is unfortunate because this is a debate from which they could learn a few things. For those honourable members who are here let us start with the basic economic lessons. These debates on Supply Bills provide the opportunity for private members to put forward those proportions which they feel could contribute to Budget considerations. I think this is important for the elected representatives not only on the Government side but also on the Opposition side. So far what we have heard from Opposition members might be described as economics of convenience. The policies which they have espoused to this stage have been put forward in the realisation that Opposition members will never have to wait around to see whether they prove to be feasible. For instance, the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  spoke about the proposed purchase of two Boeings for the VIP fleet but he omitted to say what a Labor government would do about it. There was no need for him to do so because on its past performance Labor would not be in office for a long time. The same thing applies in respect of some of the policies which were outlined by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr 
Hurford), who last night opened for the Opposition in this debate. It is plain that the policies espoused by the Opposition as Budget inputsand this applies to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  particularly- will not be put to the test because they know very well that they will never be called upon to account for what they have said. Their promises are just words in the wind. 
In a debate of this type there is an opportunity for me on behalf of my electorate to mention some of the things that I feel my constituents would regard as important. I speak on behalf of an electorate which has a fair productivity. I think the electorate of Dawson could be considered to be one of the most productive in the Commonwealth. 
Seven per cent of the nation's exports come from my electorate. I do not know whether any other electorate in Australia can match that performance. I think that my constituents would expect their elected representative to make some input to Budget considerations. We in the north of Queensland or Queenslanders generally, are often accused of being conservative. I like to think that we are more realistic than possibily some people from the other States. In this atmosphere of realism I get the very distinct impression that the average person in the electorate of Dawson or anywhere else in Queensland would say that taxes are too high. That is fair comment. People have been saying that for a long time. I think it is fair to say that perhaps Commonwealth expenditure also is at an exceedingly high level. The third item that people often complain about is that there are too many people avoiding their tax responsibilities. It is in respect of these three areas that I want to discuss the Budget. 
First of all, I will deal with the claim that taxes are too high. Before I became a member of parliament I was a public accountant and I know that the cry of taxes being too high goes back to the 1 950s. It is not a new complaint by taxpayers. It is just that today we see more Press reports and hear comment on high taxes than on any other subject. It does not follow that taxes today should be compared with taxes applied in earlier years. 
For many years Australian taxpayers have been hit rather hard because of inflation and this has pushed them into higher tax brackets. This had cut their earnings and boosted the tax flow to Canberra. The Australian Labor Party knows a fair bit about that. That situation was not acceptable to the coalition Government. So within months of gaining office the present Government acted decisively by introducing tax indexation. Incomes were automatically protected against tax increases caused by inflation. This Government introduced what has been described as the most significant tax reform in Australian history. Yet when the Labor Party was in power it had the opportunity to index taxation but it did not opt for it. This Government has cut the tax rates and introduced a new and simplified three-tier tax scale. Now, for the first time in 10 years, the personal income tax collected by a Federal Government will fall in real terms. The Government's tax reforms have made sure that taxpayers today pay less than they would be paying had the Labor Party remained in office. Even allowing for the impact of the 1.5 per cent surcharge, taxpayers are still paying considerably less tax then they would be paying had the so-called Hayden tax scales still applied. I think we could have expected that. 
The facts are quite clear. I give as an example a taxpayer with a spouse and dependant child and with a average weekly earnings of $220. Under the 1975 Budget tax scales of the then Treasurer,  Mr Hayden,  in January of that year the taxpayer would have been paying $49.85 per week tax. Under this Government he will be paying $40.85 per week tax on the same wage, and that includes the tax surcharge. The taxpayer on average weekly earnings is $9 a week better off because of this Government's tax reforms. 
Despite what has been said by the Opposition, the Government's tax reforms benefit taxpayers at all levels of income, low and high. A non levy taxpayer with dependent spouse, earning $100 a week was paying $7.85 tax per week in January 1976. Now the same taxpayer on $100 per week pays no tax. The same taxpayer, earning $150 per week in January 1 976, was paying $25.60 per week in tax. Now he pays $ 1 6.30 per week. That taxpayer who might have been earning $300 in January 1976 was paying $91.70 in tax. Now he pays only $68.95. The significance of this Government's tax policies and economic strategy is highlighted by these comparisons and by remembering the tax grab made during the high inflation period of the last Federal Labor Government. In 1972-73, the Labor Government collected $4,089 billion in income tax from all Australians. In 1974-75 the Labor tax grab rose to $7,714 billion. This represents an 89 per cent increase in taxation collected by the previous Government in two years, or 44 per cent in real terms. Yet the Opposition talks glibly about tax increases without realising the implications of its own schemes. Unfortunately, members of the Press take this to heart and highlight what they consider to be the relevant Press comments of the day or the emotional issues, without looking at the facts. The amount of tax paid by the average taxpayer throughout Australia has been considerably reduced. The figures prove it applies to all levels. 
I am not saying that the tax base is too low or it is considered to be at a reasonable level, but I think we must look at what happened in the past and at our present position. The only way we can increase revenue to the Commonwealth now is by an improvement in economic growth that will automically gather momentum and mean more income at the same rates to the coffers of the Treasury, or by increasing taxation. I do not think anybody would deny they would be the only two avenues open to the Government. 
The second aspect is that of expenditure. It has been too high. I believe there is room for consideration in any debate on a potential budget- as the Expenditure Committee foresaw- to talk in terms of the expenditure of the Commonwealth. Unfortunately, in the past we have been in a situation of agreeing to Parkinson's law where the Government sets its expenditure then tries to collect income to cover it by raising taxes. Unfortunately, that is an unhealthy situation, particularly where the input is from the public servants and the bureaucracy and not from the elected members. I think the average citizen recognises and realises that there could be less expenditure. Unfortunately the hopes and aspirations of the people out in the field, whilst they see there should be less, are such that they always want more. Recently, the Treasurer said- it was reported in the  Bulletin  of this week- that higher expenditure can be met only with higher taxation; there is no alternative to it 
This Parliament is not the Santa Claus as far as the welfare and health systems of Australia are concerned. We have no money of our own to give. Parliament is the custodian of the money that the Government collects. So there is a very close relationship between taxation on the one hand and welfare on the other hand. In the last few years the Government has been put into a straight jacket situation due to the welfare schemes put forward by the Labor Government at a time when the expectations of the people to receive more were very readily grasped. It is all very well to introduce a program and to get credit for it, but it is Dickens' own job to take that program away from the people when there has been an expectation for its continuation. The years from 1972 to 1975 give an ample demonstration of that situation. There is also tax indexation, pension indexation and a form of indexation which the States and local governments will expect to receive from any year's collections. The last form of indexation is that of wages. 
I can remember a former Labor Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  saying on many occasions in this House: If you index everything, have you indexed anything?' I am inclined to agree with that. When one looks at those four types of indexation, one sees the tremendous pressure they bring to bear on any Government before it is able to plan and proceed with its own budgetary figures. I have extracted figures for four programs as far as the expectations for 1978-79 Budget were concerned. The Government expected to receive in taxation from every source, direct and indirect, $23,769m to which was added interest, rent, et cetera. Then there was the expected expenditure of $28,869m. Let us break that down to the basic dollar collected and spent by the Commonwealth. On education the Government spent 10.5c of that dollar. That disregards the fact that the States are the primary custodians of our children 's education throughout the nation. The figure for health is 12.3c in the dollar. Again, the States have responsibility for health. With social security the figure rises to 33.7c in the dollar. The States and Territories receive 27.6c in the dollar. Adding those four expendable items- there are no items of an asset nature that would accumulate for future generations- the total is 84.1c in the dollar. As I said, State and local government receives 27.6c in the dollar; yet they are the ones who continually ask for more. 
Under our federalism system we were giving additional funds to the States. I can prove that by using certain figures, which I can substantiate, for my own State of Queensland, where between 1975-76, the last year in which the Labor Government had an input into the Budget, and the 1977-78 year the income from the Commonwealth to the Queensland State Treasury increased by 36.6 per cent. The State 's other revenue from tax increased by only 27.4 per cent. These funds are going to the States and to local government but not with the responsibility that they demand. Under our federalism policy the amount given to the States and local government in 1975-76 was $4,436m. In 1 978-79 the amount reached $6,557m, an increase of $2, 122m or a total increase of 47.8 1 per cent. 
My contribution to a Budget debate would be this: Perhaps we should look at the federalism policy and implement it properly. We should ask the States, in return for the extra finance that they have received, which is quite considerable, to take over the responsibility for many of the areas in which there is duplication. I have mentioned education and health. I add transport, particularly roads. There is no recognition by any State that these funds have been increased. Yet the kickbacks as far as the Commonwealth are concerned have been massive whenever the States want to get out of their own budgetary situation. The Public Service figures amply show that in the three years we have been in government our figures have increased by 2,000 between 1975 and 1978. These are figures I obtained from the Library. Yet in every State the increases have been rather massive. While the Commonwealth has been called upon to act responsibly, the States have not. I suggest we could start on the long term project under the federalism scheme of transferring the actual services that are supplied jointly at present back to the States because they have the funds to do it. Education, health, transport, housing and similar matters could be looked at realistically. 
It has been said that in a situation like the one I have just espoused, one has to bite the bullet. The political realities of biting bullets in these days of three-year terms is that governments are left with gaps in their teeth. This could well have political ramifications. If the gaps are so severe, a government that tries to act responsibly might not get popular support at the next election. It is unfortunate that any government has to make promises to the electorate under the constraint of a three-year term. It is not the master of its own destiny. If the Press were to put that point to the nation, rather than the devious policies of the Opposition in relation to employment and other matters perhaps those policies would be found wanting. If this realisation got through to the people, any government could act more responsibly by looking at things realistically as they came along. If we looked at it honestly, we could tell the people that if they want the services that they have had in the past the results will be greater deficits, greater inflation, the printing of more money and the raising of more loans which our grandchildren will have to pay for without any services being provided. Finally, the result would be higher taxation. As some people are fond of saying, unless we bite the bullet, under the constraints of a three-year term governments of any persuasion are going to go further into the morass. 
The last point I wish to make is that too many people are avoiding their proper responsibilities. This morning during Question Time Labor members were challenged to present their record on tax avoidance measures. Of course, they have no such record. During Labor's three-year term of office tax avoidance increased considerably. As far as this Government's record is concerned, we have gone so far and we can go a lot further, not so much in relation to tax minimisation but in relation to blatant tax avoidance and tax evasion schemes. I believe that tax minimisation on such things as trusts and slit income should be examined so that we could legislate more effectively to provide equity to all Australian families and taxpayers. I know that the Treasurer has constantly brought before this House measures to stop blatant tax avoidance as such schemes have come to his notice. Thus the Commonwealth has available to it many millions of dollars that would otherwise have been lost by it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Can the Minister for Trade and Resources indicate the response there has been from the business community to the Export Now' campaign since it was launched in February this year? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. In view of the many representations, will he consider the issue of a commemorative stamp by the Australian Postal Commission to recognise the value of Apex clubs to Australia over the past 50 years in enriching its communities, servicing industries and providing leaders to this nation? 
Does the Minister for Primary Industry know of the incidence of the screw worm fly in Papua New Guinea, Malaysia and other South East Asian countries? Does the Minister realise the potential threat that this fly poses to the Australian cattle and sheep industries? In view of the estimated losses to these industries should the screw worm fly enter this country, could the Minister advise what steps are being taken to prevent its effect within Australia? 
These legislative measures that we are debating tonight involving our Australian Security Intelligence Organisation should be received and debated with two predominant and priority considerations. Those are, firstly, to what extent does this nation require the services of such an organisation and, secondly, to what extent do our responsibilities as a national government demand that we protect and secure the rights of the citizens of Australia? No one can deny the existence of subversive elements within our own Austraiian society. Their existence was highlighted by that extreme act of the bombing at the Hilton Hotel in Sydney last year. The bombing created a feeling of great indignation and disgust within the community. The citizens in the street would not appreciate the great depths of subversive elements which, like icebergs, generally remain submerged and out of the view of the general public. Other instances throughout the world such as the assassination of  Mr Neave,  a member of the British Parliament, in the Westminster Palace grounds and the death of Lord Mountbatten more recently in Ireland give us in Australia no reason for complacency in this matter. 
To protect the rights of those people who call themselves Australians and who in the majority are law-abiding citizens, there must be some form of security organisation even if the socalled rights- the civil rights- of those few subversive elements have to be denied them. If telephone tapping and intelligence gathering are to be regarded as denying civil rights to those few, it must be remembered once again that in our society it is only the guilty who have to worry about being denied their liberties which normal and good living Australians will retain and enjoy. For instance, who is to be protected- the drug pusher and the pedlar or the intended victim? Do we allow the creation of an addict with the resultant anguish of a parent? Of course we as parliamentarians are here to protect the innocent, not to encourage vice by a lack of action. 
I and the party I represent, the National Country Party, have no doubt that an organisation such as the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation is necessary. Every democracy services and preserves that democracy by providing security organisations such as the Central Intelligence Agency in the United States of America and other similar organisations in developed nations. I have read through the legislation not only because I was to enter into this debate but also because of the many comments from no doubt well meaning and concerned people regarding the legislation. 
The legislation is clear in its intent and it has built into it many checks and balances which arc designed to prevent abuse of any power under the legislation. For instance, clause 7 of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill sets out the terms and conditions for the appointment of the Director-General. Appointments are made on the approval of the Governor-General, the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition and they will have in mind the overall good of the Organisation and also the Australian people. Clause 9 provides a sunset clause on the appointment of a Director-General and termination can be made at an earlier date by the Governor-General in certain situations. The use of the special powers under Division 2 of the legislation referring to and defining the examination, listening device, premises and record, requires references to the Minister. Revocation of a warrant can also be made by the Minister and the grounds on which a search warrant can be issued are fairly clearly set out within Division 2. 
Surely, even beyond all of these powers the government of the day, whichever political philosophy it has, must have the final control or veto if such circumstances arise in the administration or functioning of the security services that require them to be amended, altered, deleted or perhaps even to terminate the legislation at any time. I believe that this is the ultimate control that this Parliament has over the affairs of any organisation and surely this is the greatest safeguard of all. The balance within the Bill between having some government control but yet retaining the independence of the Organisation from outside, and particularly from political influence, is extremely important and it is also exceptionally delicate. We need no more episodes such as Attorney-General Murphy's raid on the ASIO headquarters which took place in the Labor Government years. The Organisation has to be independent of that type of political influence. The Labor Party's tied vote in the 197 1 Launceston Conference on a motion to reject ASIO shows the necessity for independence. 
That was exactly the motion. Certainly, such a raid reveals the necessity for ASIO's independence. However, ASIO has to be responsible. The ASIO Bill introduced into the Senate in March of this year has been carefully debated in that House and amended in certain respects as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  has said. 185 pages of  Hansard  reporting on the debate in the Senate indicate the awareness of the importance and delicacy of the Bill and the necessity for a non-party political approach to the subject in the interests not only of ASIO but also the Australian community. The approach should be one of national importance, not parochial in nature. 
Australians of today are a vastly different mix from what they were before the Second World War. The post-war immigration program means that the average Australian today has an ethnic origin of groups and nations all over the world and not the predominant British group as he formerly did. That means two things. Firstly, because of today's population mix we as a nation have closer ties with all these other countries. All these countries do not have the same political or democratic outlook that we have as a nation. The standards and culture vary greatly among these nations. Consequently, there is an increasing need for a more efficient and independent security organisation to weld these people into our society and to protect them. Secondly, this new Austraiian population deserves protection and these people should have the same rights and should be encouraged to express their aspirations as all Australians do without fear of recrimination from outside influences. We have to be able to protect their rights and guarantee to secure them against previous allegiances, as we should for all Australians against the challenges of the few who would want to interfere with and disrupt our way of life. 
What is the degree of civil liberties each of us must sacrifice to insure against the intrusion of the few who would want to subvert? In other democratic nations- or supposedly democratic nations- the degree of sacrifice is far greater than phone tap or search warrant powers. It comprises identification cards, fingerprints, photographs and on-the-spot arrest. None of these is contemplated within our present ASIO Bill although I am firmly of the belief that all Australians should be possessed of some form of identification or social security number, as is the situation in the United States, in order to prevent the abuses under our Government's welfare and national health programs, but that is not related to the security of our country. 
It is hope arising above expectations to expect Australia irrespective of its political leadership or democratic consequences to remain aloof from world affairs, the consequences of world trade and our own defence requirements throughout the world. Two hundred years ago we were separated by nine months sailing from the centre of the commercial world. Today, we are within three hours flying time from South East Asia- a new commercial centre- or 12 hours from Europe, and only one second away by telephone or television transmission from anywhere round the world. Our security must be updated to meet the present conditions. It must also be able to work with the special branch squads in the various States. It must have the utmost cooperation with other intelligence agencies and be free, as has been mentioned in this House, from political influence. We should hope that the type of political influence that we witnessed in South Australia will not arise in this Organisation. 
In spite of the necessity for an effective security and intelligence organisation working in conjunction with State authorities and international organisations, I can appreciate the fears of some, particularly in comparing the activities of our own Organisation with the activities of security organisations in communist and totalitarian countries. If there is an argument it is whether the legislation strikes a reasonable balance between the maintenance of national security and the protection of personal privacy and individual rights. The powers that the legislation gives ASIO for the tapping of telephones and intercepting mail are not, in themselves, great causes for concern. Distasteful as the powers may be, there is a strong case to be made for their inclusion in the legislation if the nation is to keep up its guard against espionage, sabotage, subversion and terrorism. The problem is how to devise a method of control that does not undermine the effectiveness of the powers and at the same time ensures that they will not be abused. The question is the degree to which people believe that ASIO will be made accountable for its actions. In its present form, as amended by the Senate, does the Bill carry this through? Is its accountability sufficient? 
As I mentioned previously, the Bill provides accountability to the Minister, the Prime Minister and also the Leader of the Opposition but, in some instances, if it appears that security may be breached the reports may not be as full a record of the activities of ASIO as some people would want or expect in order to form the accounting judgments that may be necessary. For example, the number of warrants issued for telephone taps and mail interceptions need not be supplied although, at the time, they require the Minister's approval. The absence of this information may lessen the value of a report that is made. No one doubts the integrity and sincerity of the present Director-General,  Mr Justice  Woodward, but some powers of his office which the Minister cannot override may require some final check or audit. 
An independent judicial review has been suggested. Perhaps its reappointment within the same time span of seven years, as is suggested for a review of the Director-General, would facilitate such a review, and an alteration to the Act if the review proved that that was warranted. However, I come back to the final power of the government at any time to amend, add to, delete from or suspend the Act to correct any actions inconsistent with the spirit of the legislation now before us. In this regard perhaps clause 89 regarding the termination of employment of officers should be read to assume that that action at any time is a term or condition of employment. On the other hand, a government of the day, irrespective of its political persuasion, can by action or inaction frustrate the functioning of a department, an authority, or a commission. Whilst I have read the Bill with the lack of specialised knowledge that a lawyer would have, I feel that the appropriation of funds and staff ceilings protects the continuance and functioning of ASIO free from that frustration. However, I would like the Minister's comments and assurances on these points as well as confirmation of the final power of the Parliament to be accounted to through changes in the legislation at any time if necessary. 
I close in congratulating the Royal Commission under  Mr Justice  Hope for its deliberations and findings, the governments which initiated the inquiry and accepted the Commission's reports, and those who have, in the public interest, examined the implications and voiced their fears and concerns. This is a process designed to ensure that public examination is made before the final legislation is enacted by the Parliament. It is in the interests of the people of Australia that this Parliament serves. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Humphreys)  adjourned. 
The Minister for National Development would be aware of the trend in other countries, particularly the United States of America, towards the production of ethanol fuel on the farm for that farm's use. Because of an interest in Australia in the production of similar on-farm fuel, particularly in the sugar industry, would the Minister recommend to the Government the exemption from excise duties of farm produced fuel in order to encourage its production by decreasing its cost? 
-I want to take this opportunity to speak because I think that the statement is of considerable importance. 
I intend only to make some relevant comments because this matter concerns part of my electorate. The Great Barrier Reef adjoins my electorate. I want to say how thankful I am that the Government has acted in this regard in consultation with the Queensland Government. It is a matter of great concern to the residents of the area of the Capricorn coast, as well as the fishing people and the people in the tourist resorts. I agree with the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen),  when he says that it is an asset that should be preserved. One way of preserving it is to make sure that from now on we set the standards and lay down the principles. I believe that it is the function of this consultative committee not only to make the declaration but also to insist on the disciplines that should go with it later on. What is important in this regard is the proper development of the tourist industry, the protection of the reef from the Taiwanese poachers and also the proper policing of the 200-mile limit. From the point of view of the electors of Dawson and of north Queensland this is a start that we ought to encourage as far as further development and protection of the reef is concerned. It has my full support. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I want to speak on a matter of grave importance to the cattle and sheep industries, particularly in northern Australia. Recently I asked a question of the former Minister for Primary Industry concerning a very important subject, that is, the screw worm fly. The answer indicated that at that time the Government and the departments of the Commonwealth were aware of the potential threat that this fly poses to the Australian sheep and cattle industries. Over the recent recess period I visited Malaysia where my brother manages a pioneer cattle industry on a property south of Kuala Lumpur. While he was satisfied with the success of the breeders of droughtmaster strain acquired from central Queensland, the growth of tropical pastures and the co-operation in Malaysia from our own Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation officers working in that country, the main concern is the incidence of certain diseases and the influence of the screw worm fly. 
Over a period of four months from the beginning of this year, records on this property show that one-third of the herd of some 3,000 head were affected by this fly. The control of this worm is effected only by personal husbandry involving a very heavy labour component and frequent treatment. Fortunately, with the low cost of labour, this treatment can be effected. The warning is that there exists no natural control over this screw worm fly. The fly itself is already as close to Australia as Papua New Guinea. If it spreads to Australia it would devastate the beef cattle industry and the sheep industry in central and northern Queensland and the Northern Territory. The estimated economical losses to the beef and sheep industries have been put at between $65m and $ 1 55m annually. 
I want to refer to the Australian Meat Research Committee report which was handed out today for the year ended 30 June 1979. It brings to attention the particular problems faced in relation to this screw worm fly. The report states: 
The estimates from New Guinea are that 30 per cent of all calves are lost from this type of strike. The calving cow also offers prime targets, and the wounds of ticks and buffalo flies would probably also be suitable sites. 
The threat to Australia increases year by year as the cattle population in New Guniea and the Torres Strait islands grows, and as the traffic in people, cattle, dogs and pigs, which can also be struck, increases. 
From what we know of the fly's habits it is likely that it could permanently colonize most of the wetter parts of Queensland and the Northern Territory, and possible that it could extend through much of New South Wales and even Victoria in favourable summers. 
The low cost labour personally to provide the frequent treatment necessary to control the screw worm and the research into the control of the spread of the fly are not available in Australia although the United States has apparently developed a sterile insect which on release has enabled very significant control of this fly. In researching this problem I found that in Australia a great amount of work has already been done particularly by the Australian Bureau of Animal Health through a committee chaired by  Mr W.  A. Geering. The commitee has issued a report entitled 'Screw Worm Fly' which sets out the possible prevention and eradication policies for Australia, which makes some 27 recommendations and which has given priority classification to each. It is not an easy matter to alert a country to a danger when there exists no immediate evidence of that danger, although it exists all around us. This applies particularly to the screw worm fly. This then is the difficulty facing the committee which brought forward the report and the Bureau: To have the recommendations recognised by Federal and State governments and the industries concerned will involve outlays of funds and further research that is absolutely necessary if the intrusion of this insect and the resulting parasite are to be kept out of Australia. 
The high priorities contained in the recommendations include: The establishment of a Torres Strait quarantine council; the effective control of all owned cattle in the Torres Strait; the urgent evaluation of the technique of the sterile insect release method by the CSIRO; construction of a factory in Port Moresby capable of producing SO million sterile screw worm flies per week when research and development of the sterile method are complete; training in the identification of the screw worm fly and their larvae by specialists; assistance by veterinarians in the CSIRO research program in Port Moresby; the development of a buffer zone in the northern Cape York region. The economic consequences can be reduced if preparatory steps are taken by governments, research organisations and the industries in advance of an invasion. While there is no immediate reason for panic the reality of the threat of the screw worm fly requires an awareness and an alertness. There is an awareness within the Bureau of Animal Health. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Giles)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The Minister for Finance will be aware of the announcement by the Treasurer in June in connection with proposed alterations to section 26E of the Income Tax Assessment Act regarding subsidised housing rentals. Can the Minister advise when the proposed amending legislation will be brought before the House? Is he aware that the Taxation Office is not issuing assessments on incomes of taxpayers involved in the sugar milling industry for the year ended 30 June 1979 for the reason that it is awaiting the amending legislation? Will the Minister act by issuing instructions to the Taxation Office to hasten the legislation and to proceed to issue those assessments for the year ended 30 June 1 979? 
-This amending Bill allows the Commonwealth to maintain the real value of funds to be made available for State road programs under the original Act of 1977. The maintenance of this real value involved an additional $33m in1978-79 and the $38m further appropriated in this Act. The total for the three years of the States Grants (Roads) Act has been $475m in 1977-78; $508m in 1978-79; and in 1979-80 it will be $546m. This increase in1 979-80 represents a 7.5 per cent increase on last year's grant and will be the final adjustment before the Act terminates on 30 June 1980. With the last expenditures under the present Act the Commonwealth must now look at the three-year program for the three years to 30 June 1983. To this end the Bureau of Transport Economics has already presented its assessment of the Australian road system. This was presented in May of this year and incorporated three reports. Some people have suggested a separation at a ministerial level of the different functions of transport. Our future transport requirements are such that I believe it is vital that transport decisions be made from one portfolio. 
The future will require greater rationalisation between rail, road, sea and air modes of transport and will not require these to be separated. 
In all areas, particularly those of rail and road, the needs are so great, the economies so necessary, and fuel prices are so real, that rationalisation is absolutely necessary. In spite of the fears expressed a few years ago that an absorption of the Bureau of Roads into the Bureau of Transport Economics would lead to a biased assessment of need, there has been an excellent assessment made of the current road situation by the Bureau of Transport Economics. An acceptance of this assessment, particularly by my own State of Queensland and local government authorities, reflects its impartiality and thereby its worth. Road needs in the future will be determined by three main items. Firstly, the availability of fuels, influencing road speeds, which I notice is part of the amendment by the Opposition; secondly, the weights carried on the road surfaces as we presently have them; and, thirdly, rationalisation to effect the best economic use of funds for roads. 
There is certainly a close relationship between road speeds and fuel consumption. Some surprising facts have come to light from experiences in the United States of America where the road speeds have been reduced to 55 miles per hour. I refer to some of them. The United States is saving about four million gallons of petrol a day, or about 1.5 billion gallons each year, by this reduction in speed limits. By driving at 55 miles an hour US motorists are saving about $900m a year. Most cars can get about 20 per cent more miles per gallon at 55 miles an hour than at 70 miles an hour. 
That refers to straight economies. But look at the other benefits of reduced road accidents and injury. The probability of a fatality in a crash roughly doubles with a speed increase from 45 miles an hour to 60 miles an hour and doubles again at 70 miles an hour. The lower speed of 55 miles an hour has reduced by about 50 per cent total fatalaties and injuries. This has resulted in a saving of 4,500 lives a year. The American Medical Association stated that paralysing spinal cord injuries have been reduced by 60 per cent because of this slackening of speed. That is why I bring in the argument that we have to look at this aspect also. 
If fuel consumption is affected by maximum road speeds, as it has been in America, road surfaces of the future must be suitable to speeds of, say, 55 miles an hour and not necessarily speeds of 60, 80 or 100 miles an hour. The onus is currently on the States, and the States must bear this onus more responsibly, to determine the weights to be carried on road surfaces, particularly where alternative rail and sea transport are available. Too often we see our already substandard road surfaces destroyed by prime movers and trailers, particularly in unfavourable climatic conditions such as when the roads are water saturated or cooking in summer heats. Examples of inadequate road surfacing in major development and mining areas are clearly in evidence in my area of central Queensland, where roads are deteriorating at a great rate under excessive weights and unfavourable climatic conditions. States must set standards of weights complementary to road surfaces now in existence. We must project present road assessments into the future to ensure that these aspects and other changing conditions are planned for and to ensure that whatever our financial ability is there is no duplication and the best value is given for the funds spent, small as they might be. 
I wish to bring to the attention of the House the road situation in my State of Queensland, particularly the national highways there. Others have already commented on the Marlborough to St Lawrence section. In 1974 when the Commonwealth, under the Labor Government, assumed responsibility for national highways perhaps few States in Australia had greater need for improvements in their national highways than Queensland. This was because of its vast decentralisation program. Figures produced for me by the Parliamentary Library show that the length of declared national highways in Queensland is 3,922 kilometres. In the other eastern States, New South Wales has 1,335 kilometres and Victoria 690 kilometres. 
As far as roads are concerned, yes. That figure of 3,922 kilometres is about three times greater than the figure for New South Wales and about six times greater than the figure for Victoria. I also understand that national highways in Queensland were in a worse situation when they were taken over. In fact Queensland must be the only State on the eastern seaboard that boasts a section of national highway which is only a dirt track. The road from St Lawrence to Marlborough on Highway No. 1 stands as evidence of this although work and plans are urgently going ahead to rectify the situation. 
Expenditure on national highways in the current year under this amending Bill is of interest in view of the statistics I have just given. The total amount spent on construction of national highways is $1 75,77 1,000-$67,474,000 in New South Wales, $29,886,000 in Victoria and $34,484,000 in Queensland. Maintenance of national highways has received a total appropriation of $29,886,000, with $9,081,000 for New South Wales, $3,449,000 for Victoria and $9,310,000 for Queensland. The total appropriation for commerce roads is $17,823,000, with $4,598,000 for New South Wales, $5,977,000 for Victoria and $3,219,000 for Queensland. Total expenditure in these areas is $223,480,000, with $81,153,000 going to New South Wales, $39,312,000 to Victoria and $47,013,000 to Queensland. These figures reflect a greater weighting to population than to needs. The maintenance figure for Queensland is the only appropriation greater than those of the other more populous States and possibly reflects the lack of capital works on Queensland national highways, which indicates a greater deterioration of its surfaces and a need for more maintenance. 
The length of highway in Queensland in comparison with other States would automatically require this extra appropriation at all levels. Recently I did my own assessment on the section of Highway No. 1 between Townsville and Mackay. On 397 kilometres of highway my assessment was as follows: There were 28 kilometres in the course of reconstruction, 54 kilometres which required reconstruction, 98 kilometres which required major maintenance and 2 1 7 kilometres had a fair surface requiring minimum maintenance. The other sections of the highway in my electorate reveal a worse position, particularly the section between Mackay and Rockhampton, which includes the infamous section from St Lawrence to Marlborough. The recommendation of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism confirms that this highway needs upgrading to cope with the tourist potential of the north. 
The point of my comments in regard to Queensland is borne out in the 1979 assessment by the Bureau of Transport Economics, particularly table 6.19 on page 153 of part 1 of the assessment. The table does not argue for grants in excess of those given between 1974-75 and 1978-79; it merely shows the distribution among the States of funds available. It shows that funds available at 1971-72 prices, if appropriated on an economically efficient road expenditure basis, would have given Queensland $2 13m more of the $2,125m available from 1974-75 to 1978-79. But the actual funds given to Queensland were $4 10m instead of $62 3m. All other States benefited from Queensland's loss. This is evidenced in that table. There are many qualifications to the figures shown in this table which discount to some extent the recommendations or the findings that were made. But it is important that that assessment places emphasis on needs more than on population. It does not argue for more expenditure; it purely assesses the funds made available and how they should have been distributed compared with how they were distributed- basically on a per capita basis. 
In any Bill of this kind it is essential that any weighting in the distribution of funds be in favour of needs and value of industries and exports and less in favour of population, or indeed there should be no weighting at all in that regard. The maintenance of roads, the need gradually escalating with the inability to reconstruct, needs to have a greater emphasis and we need to take into account once again the length, the use of the roads by heavy traffic and the extreme climatic conditions experienced in the areas involved. The arguments I have just put forward support the figures in table 6.19. If greater funds in real terms are to be allocated in the Bill Queensland would of course expect its share. Whilst the States argued successfully in 1976 for the absorption of the previous beef roads into the category of rural arterial roads, the experience of the three years since has been that the same impetus has not been given to these roads as formerly but that there has been an actual transfer of funds previously allocated towards the old rural arterials with a lessening of support from the States. I believe that the category should be re-introduced to ensure completion of these very necessary arterials through country Australia and to make sure that funds are not diverted to other roads. 
Any new road grants Act must be seen as an opportunity to get greater State and local government involvement. All governments and local authorities have an ability to contribute to what are in fact their own road systems. But in the past some have shown a reluctance to contribute to the same extent as others. Let me refer to some research figures on roads expenditure for the year 1975-76 for the three eastern seaboard States- New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland. In New South Wales and Victoria the Commonwealth's contribution was the lowest. In New South Wales the State's contribution was the highest and local government's contribution was the second largest. In Victoria expenditure by the State Government was lower than local government expenditure. But in my own State of Queensland the largest contribution was made by the Commonwealth Government and the local government contribution was higher than the State 's contribution. 
A member of the Opposition complained about the amount that goes to the States and local government authorities, but the new federalism policy has not resulted in a greater input of finance at the State and local government levels. Obviously under the federalism policy the States have a greater ability to finance State and local government services and roads play a part in providing the most important of these services, namely transport and communications. 
I am fair dinkum about that. I would say that in the country- the area that the Labor Party is not interested inimproved roads represent the greatest service that we can provide for our people. I am most definite about that. 
In this debate a good deal of comment has been made by other speakers about improving the conditions of our roads. I referred earlier to the section of the northern highway between St Lawrence and Marlborough and I believe that my comment was justified. In support of my observation that the States should do more in this regard I point out that, following representations, the responsible Queensland Minister promised an additional $5m a year for a speedy completion of this section to bitumen standard. So far as north Queenslanders are concerned, this commitment is not only welcomed but also is absolutely necessary. Although the Labor Party takes credit for its declaration in 1 974 of this section of road as part of the national highway system, an enormous amount of planning, finance and work was required to bring that declaration, which did not cost Labor anything, to reality. Honourable members should bear in mind difficulties such as bridging many coastal streams and getting the work under way from a standing start in an area so isolated from major community centres. 
Whilst I do not argue for the establishment of a federal roads construction authority, as did the Whitlam Labor Government, I do feel that the 
Commonwealth should have some say in the expenditure of funds. I have argued for a more efficient expenditure of funds so that we will get more mileage for the same expenditure. While private road construction contractors are going out of business for want of contracts, too much of the taxpayers' funds seem to be spent by State Government authorities. If the State authorities are to plan, supervise and finance capital works they should not also be the constructing authority. Better economy, better roads and speedier construction would result from a separation of the construction work from the other duties of State authorities. 
Opposition members have commented on the wonderful piece of legislation that Labor introduced in 1974. 1 will comment on that to indicate what the Labor Party would do for rural Australia. In respect of the total grants divided between the States, there was actually a decrease from the first year of the scheme, 1 974, to the last year commencing 1 July 1976. The decrease amounted to about $9m but was at a time when inflation was running at 15 per cent to 17 per cent. The main point I want to bring to the attention of the House is the extent to which the Labor Party was prepared to reduce expenditure on the development of rural arterial roads. Labor Party supporters have talked about commercial roads and other roads. The Labor Party's legislation provided for an allocation in the year commencing 1 July 1974 - 
It is in the book. 
I am talking about rural arterial roads. An amount of $40m was allocated in 1974 it was reduced to $3 lm for the year commencing 1 July 1976. In respect of the construction and maintenance of rural roadsthese are the roads used by people out in the country who do not get the best of service- the allocation dropped from $59.7m in the year commencing 1 July 1 974 to $46.9m in the year commencing 1 July 1976. There was a reduction of $13rn at a time when the rate of inflation was between 15 per cent and 17 per cent. That is the record of the Labor Party on road grants. 
The Opposition has moved an amendment in respect of the amount of fuel tax and excise income distributed for road construction and maintenance. It is an accepted fact, as was pointed out at Question Time yesterday, that the 
Labor Party also agrees that there is no connection between the amount of excise received from motorists and the amount of expenditure on capital road works or maintenance. The members of the Labor Party should take that into account when they vote on their amendment. I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. I have raised those other points for the information of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  so that when a new Bill is being formulated they can be borne in mind. 
Before I commence my speech I welcome you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to your present position. I am sure that you will grace the position and that you will ensure that fairness is extended all round. The speech which has just been made by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  goes to show that sometimes a good speech is made without the  speaker  being worried about the realism of the case; not that I am saying that it was a good speech, but certainly there was a lack of fact in it and it was short of being realistic. 
I hope they are listening. I want to deal with some of the aspects that have been mentioned and to refresh the memory of the honourable member for Parramatta regarding what happened from 1972 to 1975. He mentioned the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty phase-out. I must say that at this stage we still have a nitrogenous fertiliser bounty which will continue in operation through to 1 98 1 . 
But let us be realistic. There have been two reports from the Industries Assistance Commission on the phosphate bounty. One of these reports was adopted by the Labor Government. Does the honourable member for Parramatta really suggest that we are to believe that the Labor Party would not have accepted in full the IAC report which recommended a phasing out of the bounty within the time suggested? It is typical of members of the Opposition to criticise us for altering our policies from time to time when their party has no policies in connection with the same matter. 
I mentioned the matter of tax indexation. Tax indexation is not yet part of the policy of the Labor Party. The Opposition has no alternative to our policy but it will criticise day in and day out any adjustment we might make to out policy. The indexation of pensions has not been adopted by the Labor Party but it suggests that it has the unqualified right to criticise any alterations we might make to our policy. The Labor Party disputed the introduction of family allowances at the time they were brought in. But now it is the most constant critic wanting change to family allowances. Yet family allowances are not part of its policy. 
Those who might have listened to the broadcast of the speech by the honourable member for Parramatta who preceded me in the debate will realise that the Labor Party has no policy on these matters. It is the easiest thing for Opposition members to spout in this House because they never have to face the realities of what they are saying. They know that they are not being entirely honest in their argument in this regard. 1 admit that last year when I spoke on this matter I said that 1 supported the proposal with a lot of reluctance. This year I am saying that I am supporting it without any enthusiasm, but it means the same thing. 
I speak in this debate for one reason: Whilst the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy is continuing, I urge the Government to look at the situation and to get another IAC report on the matter which bears in mind the current circumstances. Perhaps then it could continue with the bounty or increase it. The value of this grant to our export income, in terms of the worth in the industries that use it, is not of great consequence. The cost to the Commonwealth in 1978-79 was $ 10.4m and the cost in 1979-80, taking into account this reduction, is estimated at $7.5m. The previous  speaker  has not done his homework. He suggested that its value was a pittance of $3m. Although I am suggesting that it is a pittance, the figure is $7.5m. Perhaps the honourable member might have done his homework better. 
However, it is the principle involved which concerns me. An IAC report given when the user industries were in a better financial position is now being implemented when those same industries are under considerable pressure because of costs and export world prices. The phosphate bounty which was removed under a similar recommendation was reintroduced mainly because of the depressed state of those user industries. I think that members of the Opposition must realise and take into account the fact that it was the Labor Government of 1972-75 that removed that bounty. It is necessary and possibly essential that a fresh report be called for from the IAC which examines the current position and not that which existed in 1974. In relation to the phosphate bounty, perhaps the Government should act without such a report. I suggest and certainly urge that that be done. 
The IAC recommendation was to phase out the bounty as follows: It was to be reduced to $60 in 1976, $40 in 1977, $20 in 1978, and eliminated by 31 December 1978. I think it should be placed on record once again that we still have a nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. I believe that it is up to us to do everything we can to maintain it and to increase it. In actual fact the phase out has been on a greater time scale- this is probably interesting to the honourable member who interjected; it is to be phased out by 3 1 December 1 979- than was at first envisaged. No doubt the Labor Party would have adopted the first time scale. A year after the date on which the IAC recommended the elimination of the bounty, it is still $40 per tonne. For the year ending 3 1 December 1 980 it will be $20 per tonne. 
Apart from the normal business cost increases since 1974, it is interesting to examine the increase in the cost of fertilisers with a nitrogenous content from February 1974 to September 1979, the period since the IAC report was released. I have asked the Opposition to agree to that particular table being incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197910114_88_14.jpg"></graphic>

This schedule shows increase in the basic cost of nitrogenous fertilisers in that period. The cost of the urea component increased by 128 per cent, the aqua ammonia component by 2 1 1 per cent and the ammonia nitrate component by 105 per cent. These increases reflect not only the decreasing subsidy but also the impact of the crude oil price increases and the effect of crude oil levies imposed under the world parity pricing arrangements. At the time some of the major industries using the fertiliser were not protected by price increases for their products on the domestic market. 
The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown),  mentioned the sugar industry. It is one that I particularly wish to mention and it is one with which I am particularly conversant. The sugar industry in Queensland during the 1977-78 year used 136,000 tonnes of nitrogenous fertiliser compared with a total State usage of 1 83,000 tonnes. 
This represents 74 per cent of total State use at a time when there was little movement in the domestic price of sugar and a substantial reduction in the world price of sugar. The comment has been made that the fertiliser is necessary for this industry. The industry is a big user and will continue to be a big user. I believe the industry users would have no complaint about this phase-out of the subsidy if, in fact, they were protected against the massive protection given to southern manufacturing industries in the more populous areas- Sydney and Melbourne. They are not, however, and much of the cost increases in farm production and plant results from that southern protection. If it is fair to one, it should also be fair to others, particularly where those others, such as our rural industries, contribute so much to our favourable overseas balances and compete with overseas products that are subsidised up to the eyebrows, particularly products from such places as the European Economic Community. 
It was estimated that only a few years ago this protection meant $19,000 per man per year in the shipbuilding industry, $13,000 per man per year on the waterfront and $5,000 per man per year in the motor car industry. Who has to pay for this protection? I suggest that it is mainly the rural industries. The charge often made against rural industries is that they are highly subsidised. This misconception was added to by the honourable member for Parramatta when he said that the rural industries are always after subsidies. I think that we ought to have a look at the situation. If it were true, I think it would be only small compensation for what they have to bear in order to protect other Australian manufacturers, inefficient as they are. But it is not true. Where are these massive subsidies they talk about? In the current year the support to rural industries comprised the phosphate bounty of $40m, the nitrogenous bounty of $7. 5m, rural reconstruction of $ 19.2m- most of this in the form of returnable loans- $0.4m for the beef industry incentive, apple and pear price support of $5.05m, wool promotion research of $22. lm, wheat industry subsidy of $6. 5m, price support for dairy products of $19.5m, agricultural research of $4.78m, and beef inspection fees of $5. 3m. I may have missed a few- 
But that goes back to the industry. 
Of course it does. I may have missed a few but these roughly amount to $130m. The embargo supported by the Commonwealth for the sugar industry costs nothing. All these pale into insignificance in comparison with the estimated $4 billion protection offered to southern manufacturers by way of tariff protection. This cost is borne by the consumer, many of them in rural areas. The charges and anomalies faced by country people do not reflect any subsidy. For instance, radio telephones attract an annual rental of $500 a year as an alternative to paying a capital contribution of some thousands of dollars. Certainly, this is an improvement on having no telephone but there is no alternative within the pricing structure. Certainly it is not a subsidy by comparison with a normal business telephone rental of $120 a year. We must view this against the additional freight cost or, worse still, additional sales tax on freight reflected in the cost of these articles. Again there is certainly no subsidisation. 
I urge the Government to call for a fresh Industries Assistance Commission report on the effect of the subsidy in the light of today's situation- not the 1974 situation- taking into account the protection that is offered to other sectors of the Australian industry. On these remarks and with that recommendation I conclude my speech. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (9.46)-The Opposition is opposed to this Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Amendment Bill because we believe that the amendments are injurious to the long-term and short-term viability of our primary industries. We wish to point out to the House the inconsistency of the Government members in supporting this Bill. I believe that it is an inconsistency that cannot be allowed to be brushed aside simply with the few words of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  in his second reading speech. Nor can we allow it to be brushed aside by the vicious and unparliamentary attack by honourable members opposite in trying to drown out the important information that the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  wanted to put before this House. We cannot allow that to happen if our parliamentary system is to survive. Honourable members have heard how Government supporters have tried to justify this reduction in the subsidy. I would like to remind the House of what the Minister said in his short second reading speech. The Minister said: 
The reduction in the rate of subsidy during1980 is in accordance with an earlier Government decision, announced in the1 976-77 Budget Speech, that the subsidy on nitrogenous fertilisers would be phased out. This decision followed the Government's consideration of a report by the Industries Assistance Commission on5 September1 975. In that report the Commission recommended that the subsidy should be progressively reduced and cease on 31 December1978. However, the Government decided to review the scheme on an annual basis and set an appropriate rate of subsidy taking into account the outlook for the user industries and the need to maintain budgetary restraint over public expenditure. 
If the nitrogenous fertiliser problem started with the 1976-77 Budget, perhaps there would be grounds for the Minister's remarks. But that is not the case. We cannot allow the inconsistency of the Government to be brushed aside without looking back to the start of this problem. We have to go back further than the 1976-77 Budget to see what promises were made by the Government in this matter. Both of my colleagues who have spoken in the debate have pointed out just what the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  had to say and I think it is worth repeating. He said: 
I can give an unqualified assurance on behalf of the National Country Party, that in government with the Liberals, we will restore the bounty on superphosphate and ensure that the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Bounty continues. 
What is the Government assuring us of today? It is assuring us of the opposite, that is, that the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty will not survive and will not continue. That is plain to everyone. I want to point out that at no time did the Labor Party deny the subsidy to those in need of it. The former member for Grayndler,  Mr Daly,  speaking in September 1 974, said: 
No one has mentioned that it is not exactly a small amount that is involved in respect of this matter. The subsidy cost $13,573,101 in 1973-74 and is expected to cost another $13m in 1974-75. In view of the fact that the expenditure figures are no doubt of interest to honourable members I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the official returns to the Parliament of the payments during the period I July 1973 to 30 June 1974 under the Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy Act 1966-1973. It shows in detail the payments which have been made. It may be of interest to honourable members. 
I point out to the House some of the countries that received this subsidy. This information justified the action of the Labor Party in referring the matter of the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty to the Industries Assistance Commission. It was not intended as an attack upon the Department of Primary Industry. It was for purposes of examination. Honourable members will see the figures in this table that I have. The Austral-Pacific Fertilisers Ltd, Gibson Island, Brisbane, Queensland, received $5,954,994.24 from the subsidy in one year. If we go down the list, we see Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd, Whyalla, South Australia, received $252,896.84. The Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd is also mentioned. If the Minister does not want me to read any further, I ask that I be granted leave to incorporate this document in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197910114_90_15.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="116131197910114_90_16.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="116131197910114_90_15.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="116131197910114_90_16.jpg"></graphic>

It is true that as far as production levels are concerned, there is an argument that one type of fertiliser has advantage over another. 
Now, he is pointing out to honourable members opposite who keep harping about superphosphate, that one fertiliser has an advantage over another. He continued: 
. Australia's production or the lack of it tends to be a material element. 
The full impact of the action by this Government to remove this last phase of the nitrogenous fertiliser- its value has now been whittled to a miserable $5m from the Labor Government's payment of $ 13m- can only be gauged by balancing it against the additional burdens that the last two restrictive budgets of the Fraser Government have brought about. In the whole field of taxation, the concessions which were previously provided to give stimulus to production, and to try to offset the pendulum type variations in seasons and markets, have all been whittled away. Not only has this Government taken away half of the remaining subsidy of the nitrogenous fertiliser, but also has it imposed cruel levies on people living in the country areas, such as the cruel and crippling progressive fuel tax and the taxing of the scholarship allowance which remained static for the last two years. These are all cruel blows. 
I have a letter from the  President  of the Isolated Children's Parents Association, in which he complains that the grant, which was equal to 60 per cent of hostel charges in 1965, has been whittled away to only 30 per cent of the hostel charges. I have another letter from a country member from the electorate of Griffith in regard to post graduate awards. He says that the awards have remained static in spite of the talk by this Government about indexation. But there has been another added imposition. Let me read what he wrote: 
Firstly, the value of my allowance has been static for two years, over those two years inflation has taken a severe toll of its purchasing power. For example, you must be aware of how rapidly rents have risen in the past two years, especially in inner-Sydney where I live while at University. My wife and myself share a small 3-bedroom house with two other people- the only way we can afford rent. 
Secondly, the decision to tax my award has meant that, in absolute terms, I received an award payment of $155.43, whereas last year I received $161.10. 
So it goes on. People living in the country continue to complain about this Government's action. I ask people living in country areas to remember what Government members said when they were in Opposition in regard to this nitrogenous fertiliser. We remember what the right honourable member for New England said. Subsidies provide a way by which production can be stimulated, and as a result inflation itself is contained. I say to honourable members opposite that these words were true in1974 and they are just as true today. Unfortunately they do not seem to realise this. Stimulus is needed for production just as much today as it was needed in 1974. Inflation is just as big a problem. Additionally, what honourable members opposite do not like to admit is that we have also the cruel unemployment levels of which his Government ought to be ashamed.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you have been a man of the land and you would know that plants get their food requirement from the soil. Most of our soil is deficient in the important element of nitrogen. I impress upon the House- and I am not running down the Australian pastures when I say this-that world authorities tell us that nitrogen is probably the most widespread nutrient deficiency in world agriculture. Because of the world food shortages, we have a duty not only to ensure productivity by the continuation of the nitrogenous fertiliser but also to look at other methods of improving production. 
I am concerned about wheat growers in my electorate as well as other primary producers. With presently rising fuel costs and the carryover of wheat stocks the outlook for wheat is not as promising as some people try to make out. The Iranian conflict has increased the price of crude oil and this Government has compounded the problem by making duty on oil production a growth tax. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics expects the world stock level of wheat to rise in 1979 to a new record level of 86 million tonnes- 21 per cent of world production. This may give the developing countries a chance to buy badly needed food, but it must eventually affect the price that the Australian grower receives for his wheat because we export 80 per cent of our crop and our returns are susceptible to international prices. I remind the House that if the European Economic Community dumped large quantities of wheat at subsidised prices and the United States and Canada reacted to maintain their shares of the market, our wheat prices could drop substantially. 
To show honourable members opposite that I am always helping this Government I say that it can be appreciated that the Cabinet accepted the BAE's concept of a minimum delivery price of $75 a tonne for wheat. Regardless of this, the growers and the Government should consider input costs and the possible world price movements before completely committing themselves to wheat production, particularly on marginal soils that are suffering from nitrogen deficiency. I ask the Government to have another look at this subsidy to see whether a worthwhile subsidy for our primary producers can be re-introduced. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 3- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Rate of subsidy). 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) What was the number of reported intrusions into Australian waters by foreign vessels during the periods (a) 1 July 1977 to 30 June 1 978 and (b) 1 July 1978 to date. 
) How many of these vessels were arrested. 
What is the average cost to the Government for each vessel arrested in terms of detection, arrest, detention, port dues, legal processes, quarantine, cleaning and repatriation of crews to their own country. 
What is the average total receipt for each vessel captured through fines and sale of vessels. 
5 ) How many of the arrests were made ( a ) by naval craft and (b) from 'private charter vessels '. 
The Minister for Trade and Resources would be aware of the Australian sugar industry's interest in the finalisation of the International Sugar Agreement. Can the Minister advise the position as to the Congress of the United States of America voting to ratify that Agreement? 
Is the Minister for Trade and Resources aware of the symposium on world coal prospects held in Poland last month by the United Nations? Can he tell the House what future that symposium has opened up for Australia's steaming coal industry? 
I support the Sugar Agreement Bill. I have no argument with the Opposition which recognises the need for the Bill as does the Government. We also agree that the legislation climaxes or finalises negotiations which have been going on for some two years and which I believe mean not only a solution but also justice for the Australian sugar industry. In debating this matter members of the Opposition have in effect said that they agree with the proposition but they have tried to introduce other elements which I thought were less than fair. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  seemed to speak about everything but the sugar industry, although his electorate comprises some of the sugar industry areas of Queensland. It has been said that the sugar industry is a managed industry. Members of the Opposition feel that it represents an ideal situation for a communist system. I rebut these suggestions directly. I also rebut the idea that the sugar industry is controlled by that family of 60 sitting on boards throughout Australia. 
In the milling and manufacturing areas, 13 cooperatives are engaged in the industry in Queensland. The private and public companies are limited to four or five. The cane farmers, who number some 15,000 workers or some 6,500 families adhere to the free enterprise philosophy. It is for this reason that the industry has been successful. It has maintained itself over many troughs in the past. It has also helped itself during the highs by investing the profits from its produce in bulk terminals. As a previous speaker said, the industry has been responsible for its own infrastructure and it has had no need to be subsidised or to receive grants from any government. 
I come back to the basic point that the industry is getting justice. We have heard a lot about the consumer. The honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  has said that over a period of some 30 years the consumer has subsidised the grower in terms of time. He did not quantify the subsidy in terms of value. Over the last 10 years it has been indicated that whilst the subsidy in time might have been evident in some years, in terms of value, this has not been the case. It is almost a situation of balance between where the money has gone in one year and where it has come back in others. But the basic fact is that from 1967 until 1977 there has been an increase to the raw sugar producer, that is the miller and the grower, of some $9 per tonne of raw sugar. In 1 967 the return was $140.54. In 1977 the return from the domestic price was $149.90 which is an increase of some $9. That was at a time when the consumer price ind'ex increased by some 132 per cent. The manufacturers, for whom the Australian Labor Party apparently have an ear, were able to increase their prices by some 162 per cent. 
I think the debate has been used by the Opposition to highlight some points, particularly in regard to world oil pricing parity. I do not know how the previous  speaker  actually brought this matter into his speech. But the Opposition has not set out its alternative policy. It has no alternative policy on the pricing of fuel which is a very scarce commodity in this country. Opposition members have not mentioned it. In connection with the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty they have not mentioned that the Labor Party removed the superphosphate bounty in the years when it was in control. Had the Industries Assistance Commission report come out a little earlier I have a feeling that the Government at that time- the Labor Government- would have also adopted its recommendations. Let us look at the statements that have been made. At least the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty is still in existence. I grant that it is a smaller amount. The proposition that has been advanced by the leaders of our Party and by the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  when he was the Minister for Primary Industry was that we would maintain it, albeit in smaller capacity. But at least it still gives us a foot in the door in regard to increases in the bounty. That matter has never been mentioned. 
Also it has been suggested that we have a policy on overseas marketing. The policy of the sugar industry is that CSR Ltd should be in very close liaison with the Queensland Government, the Sugar Board and the growers themselves and it has marketed our sugar rather successfully. I give credit to my predecessor in the seat of Dawson. He did a lot in connection with the long term sugar contracts. It was an amalgamation of the work of CSR, the governments, the growers, and the industry organisations that was able to bring those contracts about. I do not want to canvass the aspects of the Sugar Agreement in too much depth except to say that this Bill ratifies the Agreement that was entered into and became effective on 1 October 1979. It is to run for a term of five years with adjustments from time to time at 30 June of each year as set out in the formula. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  has indicated that there is an escape clause in this Bill. If for any reason the two governments can agree that the formula will not keep pace with increased costs-not  the 
CPI- they can make adjustments. I appreciate the fact that there are inputs into those cash costs that are quite likely to increase at a faster rate than the 70 per cent of the CPI applied to the cash costs. The movements in the fertiliser bounty since 1974 to 1979 shown an increase in urea from $87.20 a tonne in February 1974 to $207.80 a tonne in September 1979. It is to be expected that some of that increase has already taken place within the industry since the commission has brought down its decision and the Government has acted on it. I would hope that if these increases occur not only in the fertiliser field but also in the fuel field- the cost of plant and equipment seems to have a habit of increasing at a faster rate than the CPI- the governments can turn back and recognise that perhaps the CPI is not a fair indication of an increase and that the two governments ought to look a little deeper. 
However, whilst the farmers might have regarded the IAC review as a nuisance at the time, that document stands today as a testimony of the efficiency and the productivity of the Australian sugar industry under the free enterprise system and not under the system of nationalisation that has been indicated by the Opposition. This document will be a textbook for future applications. It will also be an indication to the consumers of Australia that no stone has been left unturned to try to get that efficiency into the industry. It is the consumer who has benefited by this efficiency. This was indicated by the price increases I mentioned. The price of raw sugar was $140.54 per tonne in 1967. The price of refined sugar was $198 and it has increased to $370 today. That is an increase of less than 100 per cent as compared with the CPI which would have gone up by 150 per cent. The manufacturers such as Coca Cola applied^ a lot of pressure upon the Tribunal, the industry and the Government to reduce this increase as rauch as it could but the manufacturers' increases have been well over 160 per cent and 170 per cent oyer the same period.  S&amp;  the people in the, growing and the milling sections of the industry nave not benefited. It has been the consumer. 
I also suggest that whilst the industry is fairly well disciplined in Queensland, comments have been made in relation to the Western Australian situation, cane growing op the Ord River and to the Tasmanian situation with sugar beet. It has been properly demonstrated that in a normal market situation the industry in those States would be a very high cost industry from the point of view of establishing it and running it- those  m?s  being further away from markets- and also it would have a high cost infrastructure. Perhaps the governments of Western Australia or Tasmania would care to subsidise those industries, as the European Economic Community subsidises its sugar industry. But this type of competition from Queensland cannot be stopped. It has been proved in Queensland and northern New South Wales that the operating costs have been kept to a minimum and the consumer is the one who has benefited. 
I take exception to some of the comments that have been made in Queensland as recently as last week by the State Leader of the Australian Labor Party. He took a most pessimistic attitude and said that the Sugar Agreement for adjusting the domestic price was not designed to assist the grower, that the ISA has not worked and that prices have not returned to a stable situation. I will take these points in their turn. The implementation of the domestic price formula, as late as it is, at least recognises today's cost of production and I believe gives a fair return. It also recognises that the sugar industry helps other industries such as the fruit industry in Victoria and New South Wales. The formula may be inadequate in some instances but at the end of the five-year duration of the Agreement, perhaps it can be looked at again. At least it is something that is now before us as part of the Agreement. 
The Labor Party wanted to delay the IAC report on the industry by calling for a draft report. The industry itself overrode this suggestion and said that it wanted a final report. I believe that that saved a lot of time. The world price rise from about  stg90- that is the figure mentioned by the honourable member for Capricornia- to the present stg160 is, I believe, not the result of what he described as some world currency marketing, but the fact that the disciplines of the ISA have improved the position to that extent. An article in the  Australian Financial Review  yesterday indicated that there will be a shortfall of some 3 million tonnes of sugar throughout the sugar producing nations. This is what has led to the recovery in the price. Australian growers last year left some 450,000 tonnes of sugar in the field, but the disciplines of the ISA have now brought about a recovery. The ISA has been a necessary discipline. It has not been a waste of time. Had it not been for the Agreement the price of f stg90 per tonne might have still applied. 
There are many things that I would like to say about the sugar industry. The Sugar Agreement is just one facet. I am very happy that the Agreement has come to fruition, although it has been delayed. I am happy that the Australian Government, the Queensland Government and the Australian consumer recognise that growers should receive a fair price for their product. We are talking about $353 per tonne bulk. I understand that a couple of centuries ago Britain was importing sugar for thousands of pounds sterling per tonne. That was its cost at the time. We are getting a cheap product. Sugar is not, as one member of the Opposition once said, a third rate food and a first class poison. The sugar industry is an efficient industry. Sugar is not poisonous. If anybody wants to indulge himself in eating sugar he will be a lot better off if he follows the 'Life. Be in it 'program. 
